
                               1 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday

Lost in translation: £17m of taxpayers' money for EU interpreters who are not
needed

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 585 words


Millions of pounds of taxpayers' money are being wasted every year on EU
interpreters who turn up for meetings only to find they are not needed. A report
on the EU's annual interpretation budget to be published next week found 16%, or
£17m, was wasted on staff who find themselves kicking their heels.

The greatest offenders are MEPs who demand an interpreter for a committee
meeting which they then miss. A European parliament interpreter costs £1,000 a
day.

Alex Stubb, a Finnish MEP who wrote the report, said: "A lot of money is wasted.
My report should serve as a wake-up call for MEPs who just request an
interpreter as a point of principle and then don't show up. They are a small
minority, but the rest of us could be more careful.

"I have tried to raise awareness of the costs of interpreters. We think of them
as people in boxes who simply utter what someone else says. But they cost euros
1,500 a day in the European parliament and euros 1,000 for the other EU
institutions."

Mr Stubb believes MEPs should take the lead in cutbacks because their monthly
trek to Strasbourg inflates the cost of interpreters.

"The Strasbourg sessions mean there are the costs of travel, hotels and the
daily allowance. But we MEPs could also improve our planning. Everyone wants to
have meetings on Tuesdays and Wednesdays; a lot of MEPs could be more lenient in
their requests for interpreters."

The vast interpretation machinery for the EU's main institutions - the
parliament, commission, the council, the economic and social committee and the
committee of the regions - swallows up 1% of the EU's budget. In 2003, the year
for which the latest figures are available, the budget stood at £109m.

Costs have soared since the "big bang" enlargement of 2004, when the number of
member states grew from 15 to 25 and the number of working languages almost
doubled from 11 to 20. Interpretation for a full-day meeting in the parliament,
which cost £25,000 before enlargement, now costs £59,000. Three interpreters are
needed for each booth, which means the parliament cannot function unless 60
interpreters are on duty every day.

The interpretation service is dwarfed by the translation service, which employs
2,000 people who translate EU documents into every working language. This has to
be done by law, although the full service has been suspended for the past two
years because the EU has not been able to hire enough Maltese translators after
the tiny Mediterranean island joined in 2004.

The EU's translation and interpretation operation, which costs around £450m a
year, is the world's largest. It outstrips the UN, which has a mere six
languages.

Mr Stubb was forced to water down an earlier version of the report which
suggested some languages might not be used in some meetings if MEPs can speak
more than one language. He now says MEPs should have the right to speak in their
mother tongue at all times, but they should try to be more efficient.

A fluent English speaker, Mr Stubb said: "Language is (about) communication and
not identity. But for many MEPs it is a question of identity and culture.
Therefore we have to be very sensitive."

Eurosceptics have seized on the report. Jeffrey Titford, of the UK Independence
party, said: "This report shows the EU parliament and other institutions are
likely to remain an expensive cacophony of tongues for the foreseeable future.
The vast amount of money paid for interpretation is symbolic of how the whole
European project . . . is an impossible dream."

guardian.co.uk/eu >

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: The wheels on the bus: It is a nightmare getting a buggy about
on public transport. But help comes from the strangest places

BYLINE: Cayte Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 601 words


Women with small children have a hell of a time on public transport. Fellow
passengers have toddler-like tantrums when asked to make way for pushchairs or
release a Victor Meldrew-sized tut when a child starts to howl. More than
two-thirds of women surveyed in a poll for Transport 2000 and Mother & Baby
magazine felt that their crying baby annoyed other passengers, 72% thought that
public transport was difficult to use, and 60% found bus drivers unhelpful.

The moaners are probably the same people who grumble about the falling birthrate
(no one wants dwindling future generations, because who will pay taxes to fund
those paltry state pensions?) and are equally miffed that more women remain
childless as a lifestyle choice. But is that any surprise?

Once you've got over the pregnancy (that's a laugh on the tube - you've got less
chance of getting a seat than a Ukip candidate), your single friends disappear
faster than a CSA dad. And when you finally descend on your local caff with your
newfound NCT chums with enough buggies, pureed carrot and babies to fill the
Albert Hall, you're about as welcome as an Asbo working lunch. Women with babies
and toddlers are not welcome in the mainstream. We inhabit an underworld like
hoodies, except our haunt isn't the bus shelter, it's toy libraries and play
groups.

Public transport is definitely where small children are enfants terribles . One
mother with small children in Southport complains that local buses make no
provision for pushchairs, and drivers insist she folds hers (with baby tucked
under her arm) before she boards. Another in Lyme Regis says the spaces for
pushchairs are always full. Dorset has one of the highest teenage pregnancy
rates in the country, and those under-18 mums beat her to them every time.

But perhaps there is light at the end of the tunnel. London - so often berated
as the capital of crap transport - seems to be positively generous in
comparison. Determined to take my son to see the riches of London by tube, I
have only ever been left unaided at the bottom of a staircase once.

I've been genuinely surprised by the people who even notice us. Blinged-up
teenagers mumble or jerk their heads towards the buggy and grab the base of my
trusty Greco before I can ruin their cool with a gushing thanks. Often I see
these boys later, lazing along the platform in a 50 Cent stroll, as I try to fit
the two images together.

Twentysomething women and old Muslim men clothed in traditional white rush to
help. And once three women, dressed in sparkling wedding-guest saris, helped me
down the stairs at Euston station, even though I couldn't understand their
language and they couldn't understand mine.

Which brings me to a depressing truth. I have never been offered help from a
white middle-class man. Struggling down the stairs at Manor Park station, one
sailed passed me. No, actually he hesitated long enough to shoot me a look of
disgust. Oh, and I did incur the wrath of a female ticket inspector who looked
at me as if I were asking her to trot to the shops and buy me a bottle of
Calpol.

But even in London, buses are still a nightmare. One friend recently decided to
do the ethical thing and leave the gas-guzzler in the drive. She gamely trotted
the children to the bus-stop - but arrived at the school gates traumatised, as
much by the crush of travelling as by the rudeness, jostling and selfishness of
fellow passengers. The next day, the car keys were out again. She might be
contributing to a scarier future for her children, but she's hoping it will be
less traumatic than her day on public transport.

cayte.w@virgin.net

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday

No one cares about victims

BYLINE: Andrew Porter, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 355  words


Law boss admits criminals come first

THE head of the nation's prosecution service has slammed the legal establishment
- for putting criminals before victims.

In a withering attack, Ken Macdonald claimed the public felt no one takes care
of people who suffer crime.

Mr Macdonald, below, said: "The perception that no one looks out for them and
it's only defendants whose rights are taken seriously is not wildly wrong."

He accused "well-educated lawyers" of patronising "vulnerable victims of crime"
- and said some criminal lawyers still believe only defendants' rights matter.

The Director of Public Prosecutions added "liberal commentators" should
acknowledge the "service given to victims and witnesses has traditionally been
appalling".

His attack adds huge weight to The Sun's campaign for a Charter for Justice and
an end to lenient sentences.

New figures show 80 per cent of people think the justice system is fair to the
accused, but only 36 per cent believe it helps the victim.

Pittance

PM Tony Blair and Home Secretary John Reid are under pressure to "rebalance" the
system after several high-profile cases Baby rapist Alan Webster, 40, was
initially caged for a minimum of six years before it was upped to eight -still
considered too soft for such a depraved crime.

And Craig Sweeney, 24, was locked up for life in June for kidnapping and
indecently assaulting a three-year-old girl -but could be out in five years.

Victims' families get a pittance compared to the hand-outs lavished on
criminals.

The wife of murdered Special Branch cop Stephen Oake, 40, got just £ 13,000, but
his killer Kamel Bourgass received £ 1million in legal aid.

Mr Blair is expected to outline new measures to rebalance the system -and Mr
Macdonald's comments will give him ammunition.

But UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said of the DPP's intervention: "In the last couple
of months we have had the Prime Minister, the Home Secretary and the Attorney
General, not to mention the Lord Chancellor, all spouting pious words about
'putting the victim at the heart of the criminal justice system'.

"But the reality is that no one seems to give a damn."

a.porter@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            August 28, 2006, Monday

The powerful party of the unaligned is falling for David Cameron's charm

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 945 words


PLATO DID NOT much like democracy: he would have detested opinion polls. One of
the best known passages in The Republic gives his view of democratic opinion:
"Suppose a man was in charge of a large and powerful animal, and made a study of
its moods and wants: he would learn when to approach and handle it, when and why
it was especially savage or gentle, what the different noises it made meant, and
what tone of voice to use to soothe or annoy it."

Plato preferred the rule of "philosopher kings" to that of democracy.
Philosopher kings are in short supply nowadays, and have been since the early
presidents of the United States. However, we do need to understand the moods of
the large animal: democratic politicians have to be able to handle it.

Last week there were two polls published on current political opinion. An ICM
poll in The Guardian gave the Conservatives 40 per cent, Labour 31 and the
Liberal Democrats 22. The second, a YouGov poll published in The Daily Telegraph
on Friday gave the Conservatives 38 per cent, Labour 31 and the Lib Dems 18.

These polls are remarkable close together, though the two polls use different
methods and had different numbers of respondents. The most noticeable difference
between them is that the ICM poll showed a swing of 2.5 per cent from Labour to
the Conservatives in the previous month, whereas the YouGov swing was only 1 per
cent. ICM suggests that Labour's rate of decline may have accelerated in August.

Yet these differences are still inside normal statistical error. The two polls
confirm each other. Incidentally both polls have a good record of accuracy.

At the last general election, both ICM and YouGov underestimated the Tory vote
by 1 per cent: ICM over estimated the Labour vote by 2 per cent and YouGov by 1
per cent. That is pretty good forecasting.

It is difficult to translate poll results into likely gains or losses of seats,
particularly as the next general election could be postponed until June 2010:
there will almost certainly be a different Labour leader by then. However, the
YouGov poll gave a regional breakdown, which showed that the Conservatives are
gaining support where they need it most. In Scotland, where there are few
marginals, the swing to the Conservatives since the 2005 election is only 3 per
cent. In London, where there are numerous marginals, it is 9 per cent. London is
always volatile, and sometimes ahead of the rest of the country. Labour is in
deep trouble in London.

These two polls suggest that Labour would need a big recovery, on the scale of a
5 per cent swing back, to retain its overall majority at the next election. On
these polls, the Conservatives would probably be the largest party and might
have a small overall majority. Since the last election the large animal seems to
have been changing its mind. It snarls angrily at Labour; it purrs contentedly
for the Tories. However, it remains both formidable and changeable.

Further clues to the animal's mood are given by a third opinion poll, taken by
ICM and published in The Sunday Times yesterday. This shows that men would
prefer Gordon Brown to David Cameron as prime minister by 42 to 36 per cent, but
women would prefer Mr Cameron to Mr Brown by 40 to 34. This is in line with
YouGov which shows a 2 per cent swing to the Conservatives since the last
election among men, but a 6 per cent swing among women.

In recent elections, partly because of the appeal of Tony Blair, the
Conservatives lost their advantage among women voters; they have now regained
it. Mr Cameron is a good looking young man, as Mr Blair was in 1997. This is
politically significant, as it was in the careers of David Owen or Anthony Eden.
His appeal to women gave Mr Blair the edge over Mr Brown; it may do the same for
Mr Cameron.

The Sunday Times poll also gave interesting figures on party loyalties. Non
party voters are now by far the largest group. Voters without a party commitment
amount to 40 per cent, another 10 per cent support small parties, including
Nationalists, the Greens and UKIP. Those who have loyalties to the three main
parties split 24 per cent Labour, 17 per cent Conservative and only 9 per cent
Lib Dem. The old politics, which was decided by the solid blocks of party
loyalists, belongs to the past.

Again one can see the importance of the Cameron factor. Just as he is the leader
who is the most attractive to women, he is also the most attractive to
independents. Whereas Labour currently converts the 24 per cent of voters who
are Labour loyalists into 21 per cent of current support, Cameron converts the
17 per cent who are Conservative loyalists into ICM's estimate of 40 per cent
current support. That suggests that Cameron is beating Labour among independent
voters by an exceptionally wide margin, and is also beating the Lib Dems.

The parallel with Mr Blair in 1997 is again obvious. He won women voters and
voters without a party allegiance for new Labour. Mr Cameron is winning the same
groups for the Conservatives. He is not doing it by policy, but by personal
appeal, image and his non-partisan approach. Independents are, almost by
definition, non-partisan voters. Women are less partisan than men: they do not
identify their politics with competitive sport, let alone war.

Mr Cameron is the non-party leader of his party: he identifies best with non
party voters, who are, paradoxically, the largest party. He has to take account
of traditional Conservatives, but most of them are delighted to be ahead in the
polls. At the moment, the powerful beast bellows with anger when its old Labour
keeper offers it scraps of food, but likes to have its tummy tickled by that
nice young keeper David Cameron.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 21 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The diary

BYLINE: by Iain Dale

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 821 words


Good to know that the Dunkirk spirit is alive and well among British Airways air
hostesses, or flight attendants as we must now cal them. On the day of the
latest airport terror alerts a group of Al-Jazeera journalists landed at
Heathrow on their way to the States. Their outbound flight unsurprisingly
experienced a lengthy delay, but it wasn't until they were airborne that they
discovered the reason. It was nothing to do with the terror alerts at al.
Apparently, some BA trolley dolies objected to being asked to take their
stockings off as part of a security check, and they duly downed tools, if that's
an appropriate expression. Quite how they were eventually coaxed out of their
stockings is best left to tasteless speculation.

Meanwhile, it appears that BAA is taking drastic action to improve the speed of
their security checks at Heathrow. According to a friend of mine who flew to Los
Angeles last week, Duty Free shop staff are being given one hour's training and
drafted in to search passengers' bags. They're none too happy about it and
openly admit they haven't got a clue what they're doing. Still, it doesn't beat
my experience at ITN last week when I was told by their security guard to search
my own bag, as due to health and safety legislation he wasn't allowed to put his
hand in the bag himself. Just as well, as I had brought my pet piranha along for
the ride.

There was a mild sense of panic at Talk Sport last week when George Galoway
hadn't shown up to present his Sunday night show, but with minutes to spare he
ran into the studio hopelessly out of breath and almost unable to speak. It
transpired that his open-top, red sports car had caught fire on Battersea Bridge
and with time running out our intrepid hero had to leg it to Talk Sport's
Waterloo studios, leaving his passion wagon smouldering on the roadside. Rumours
that members of Mossad were spotted in a getaway launch on the Thames heading
towards Putney were said to be wide of the mark. I think.

As the Ukip leadership race draws to its conclusion, at least two of the
leadership candidates appear to be indulging in a bit of mutual back-scratching.
Former Tunbridge Wells Tory chairman David Campbell-Bannerman and MEP Nigel
Farage are the two favourites to succeed to the charismally challenged Roger
Knapman, but I hear that Farage has proposed Campbell-Bannerman for membership
of the exclusive East India Club. Farage's Brussels colleague Godfrey Bloom is
his seconder. It's either an illustration of the gentlemanly nature of Ukip
leadership contests, or a hostile takeover of the East India Club. If I were
them I'd be thinking about a blackball.

The news that two of the finest heads of hair in journalism are to take over
ITV's Sunday political show has opened up a new career opportunity for ITN
newscaster Alastair Stewart. As Andrea Catherwood moves from Mark Austin's
deputy on the News at When to join Andrew Rawnsley on the Sunday sofa, Stewart
has been promoted to replace her in the No 2 slot on the ITV late-night news
show. It's quite a coup for Stewart who was convicted three years ago of a
drink-driving offence and lost his high-profile job as presenter of ITV's
Police, Camera, Action. And earlier this year he was ousted as chief anchor of
the ITV News Channel when it shut down.

There is much talk that Andrew Rawnsley will now be forced to give up his Sunday
night presenter slot on 'The Westminster Hour'. However, a decision on
Rawnsley's future is unlikely to be taken immediately, if only because the
programme's editor, Terry Dignan, is on holiday, as is his boss James
Stephenson, as is his boss Rick Bailey. BBC insiders think it is a particularly
odd move by Rawnsley as 'The Westminster Hour' has an audience double the size
of the old Dimbleby programme, and anyone who's anyone in the political world
listens to it. But Rawnsley's friends say he was never happier than when he was
presenting Channel 4's 'A Week in Politics' with the much-missed Vincent Hanna.
This was the programme which gave Martha Kearney her break in political
broadcasting and it would be deeply ironic if Rawnsley's defection to ITV opened
up 'The Westminster Hour' for Martha Kearney to take over. Stranger things have
happened.

Filming is about to start on a new BBC2 drama series caled Party Animals, which
appears to be a sort of House of Commons meets This Life. The main characters
are a group of twentysomething parliamentary researchers whose lives revolve
around sex, drugs and politics. So it's quite true to life then. The script
writers have been inundated by phone calls and emails from party apparatchiks
detailing their liaisons and sniffing escapades within the Palace of
Westminster. Sadly, most of the real-life experiences are too unbelievable to be
in the script. Mark Twain's remark about truth being stranger than fiction has
never been more apposite.

Iain Dale's Diary can be read daily at iaindale.blogspot.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andrea Catherwood is to join Andrew Rawnsley on ITV's Sunday sofa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blair set to cave in on migrants veto

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 892  words


BRITAIN was hit by a double blow over immigration and crime yesterday.

Tony Blair is considering scrapping Britain's veto over European crime and
immigration policy.

And the Government admits this country is powerless to stop the expected influx
of 350,000 Romanians and Bulgarians next year.

EU chiefs are to make a fresh bid to force Britain to scrap the veto over law
and order at a summit next month.

They will call on the Prime Minister to give up Britain's right of national veto
over home affairs in return for closer co-operation on border controls and
tackling serious crime.

A Downing Street source said Mr Blair was "keeping his options open".

The latest bid to revive a key plank of the controversial EU constitution comes
as a senior Downing Street source admitted that the UK is powerless to prevent a
further flood of eastern Europeans to our shores when Romania and Bulgaria join
the EU in January.

The source told the Sunday Express said that the flood could not be prevented
even if we impose strict "transitional arrangements" to block entry to migrant
workers, similar to those imposed by most of the EU on Poland and the Czechs in
2004.

These controls, the source said, were a "farce" which left the door wide open.

And he warned that Romanians and Bulgarians would be able to enter Britain
freely on January 1, regardless of any controls, as they would be entitled to
travel throughout the EU and to use tourist visas to stay here for three months
while working illegally.

The revelation comes as the Home Secretary John Reid prepares to meet his fellow
EU ministers next month to discuss ending the national veto on all areas of home
affairs policy, including immigration, crime-fighting, the criminal justice
system and border controls.

The proposals to end the national veto was a key plank of the controversial EU
constitutional treaty aimed at promoting greater "cooperation" between member
states on home affairs policy.

But only 16 months after the constitution was rejected in referendums by French
and Dutch voters, ministers will meet in Finland next month to discuss ending
the veto.

A spokeswoman for the Finnish interior ministry, which is hosting the three-day
summit in Tampere starting on September 20, confirmed it was on the agenda.

She said: "The veto is a major topic for the last day of the meeting. This is
about how we make decisions concerning justice and home affairs.

"There will be some questions about ending the veto, as having majority
decisions will make it easier to take decisions concerning justice and home
affairs because no one country will have a final say."

Ministers will again be asked to discuss the removal of the veto at a formal
summit in Brussels scheduled for October.

Mr Blair has repeatedly declined to offer a firm promise that he will not scrap
Britain's veto on home affairs policy, instead pointing to the fact that Britain
has the right to opt out of any policy decision with which it disagrees.

But critics warned that, if other EU countries go ahead with moves towards
closer integration on home affairs policy, European law would take precedence
over UK law even if the UK uses its opt-out.

A senior Government source defended the Prime Minister's position, saying: "It
is on the agenda but it's sensible to keep your options open.

"This won't go away after this meeting. It will come back again and again. Even
if it did happen, we can always use our opt-out."

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barosso has made no secret of his
ambition to have justice and home affairs policy decided by "qualified majority
voting", a system of voting which gives greater weight to larger countries'
votes but would see an end to any individual nation's right to veto any new
proposals.

At present most areas of EU law involving home affairs must be agreed by all 25
governments before any proposals can go ahead.

The end of national vetoes would give EU institutions considerable power over
who is jailed for which crimes and under what conditions.

They would include such sensitive issues as collection of evidence, extradition,
prison sentences and financial penalties, including cross-border police
cooperation, hot pursuit across frontiers and information exchange to tackle
trafficking, terrorism and organised crime.

MEP Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party in Brussels, warned
that the loss of the veto was an attempt to bring the constitution in through
the back door.

He said scrapping the veto would end 800 years of Britain's independent
judiciary as once any decision is incorporated into European law, it would take
precedence over UK law even if the UK uses it optout.

Mr Farage added: "If the UK Government surrenders our veto on justice and home
affairs, it will be an end to all the freedoms that we've enjoyed for 800
years."

Shadow Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "Nobody has produced any evidence
that removing the veto would make Britain's borders safer and more secure.

"That is a job for the British Government but it is a job which they have so far
failed to do.

"Ministers need to make it clear that they won't be giving up the veto in this
area.

"Co-operation between European police forces is essential but in the end the
responsibility for keeping Britain's borders safe is the British Government's.

"We should absolutely not give up the veto in this area."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THEIR WAY: Nothing can stop the flood of east Europeans into Britain
as these Romanians know as they queue up for their visas in Bucharest

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            August 26, 2006 Saturday

Opposition becalmed as Labour languishes

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Politics; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 954 words


LABOUR languishes but the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats are still failing
to thrive, according to YouGov's latest monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph.

YouGov can find no trace of either the sharp drop in support for Labour or the
surge in Liberal Democrat support identified by an opinion poll published in the
Guardian this week. Whereas the Guardian's poll suggests that a veritable
political hurricane is blowing, YouGov can detect only the lightest of summer
breezes.

YouGov's findings suggest that the Conservatives have the support of 38 per cent
of voters - the same as last month - and that the Liberal Democrats have the
support of 18 per cent - also the same. Only two changes emerge from YouGov's
data: a two-point drop in Labour support since late July, suggesting that
backing for the Labour Party has fallen to its lowest level for three years, and
a two-point increase in support for the various minor parties.

In line with the results of local and European elections, YouGov consistently
finds a larger proportion of voters than in the past turning their backs on all
three of the main political parties. At the moment 13 per cent of YouGov's
respondents say that at any early general election they would vote BNP, Green,
Ukip or for one of the nationalist parties or some other small party.

YouGov's findings seem more plausible than the Guardian's. Nothing has happened
during the past few weeks to account for the alleged surge in Liberal Democrat
support and YouGov's sample is substantially larger than the Guardian's.

It is also the case that, because YouGov typically elicits the views of
approximately twice as many voters as the other polls, its findings are less
subject to random sampling fluctuations. Month by month, YouGov's findings tend
to be less dramatic than the other polls'. Largely for that reason, they are
probably more reliable.

They certainly show that Labour is struggling and that, although the
Conservatives are still not far ahead, they are successfully maintaining their
lead. They have been ahead by at least five percentage points since May and are
now ahead by seven.

For most of the past decade, the Labour Party's greatest single asset has been
the Tory Party. People despised the Conservatives more than they loved Labour.
Now the reverse seems to be true. People do not love the Conservatives - hence
their standing at only 38 per cent - but their view of the Blair Government is
becoming ever more jaundiced.

The proportion of YouGov's respondents who approve of the Blair Government's
record to date has again fallen to an all-time low.

It currently stands at a paltry 22 per cent. Almost three times that proportion,
64 per cent, including one in six of Labour's own diminished band of supporters,
disapprove of the Government's performance.

Additional reassurance for the Tories - though only on a modest scale - comes in
response to three further YouGov questions. As the figures in the chart show, 43
per cent of voters now say that, if forced to choose, they would prefer after
the next election to see a Tory government under David Cameron in power rather
than a Labour government under Gordon Brown. Only 36 per cent opt for a
Brown-led administration.

As the figures in the chart also show, Mr Cameron continues to enjoy a small
lead over Mr Blair as the person who would make the best prime minister, and the
Tories continue to enjoy a small lead over Labour as the party that would best
manage the country's economy.

Concerns about the economy probably contribute to people's growing unease with
the present Government. The feel-good factor - the difference between the
proportion thinking their household's financial position will improve over the
coming 12 months and the proportion thinking it will worsen - now stands at
minus 24 per cent, a decline of six points since last month.

Since the May 2005 general election the feel-good factor has mostly been no more
propitious than it was in the days of John Major's administration.

New findings suggest that a modest swing in the Conservatives' favour has taken
place all across the country. YouGov on behalf of The Daily Telegraph merged all
of its political surveys conducted over the past six months - yielding a total
of 13,395 interviews - in order to paint a demographic picture of voters'
changing preferences.

The results, set out in the chart, show that Labour's and the Liberal Democrats'
position has declined and the Conservatives' has improved in every substantial
section of the electorate. Most of the differences among different groups are
small and can easily be accounted for. For example, many of the well-off and
white-collar workers are simply drifting back to their traditional Tory home.

However, two figures stand out. The swing in the Conservatives' favour is much
larger among women than among men. And the Conservatives are doing especially
well - and Labour and the Liberal Democrats especially badly - in the Greater
London area. The pro-Conservative swing among women accounts in large part for
the Tories' current lead over Labour.

The female-friendly Mr Cameron probably accounts for a considerable proportion
of the Tories' newly recovered advantage among women together with his
insistence on edging the party back towards the political Centre.

Women used to agree with Theresa May that the Tories were the "nasty'' party. It
seems they do so no longer.

Londoners are clearly even more fed up with the Labour Government than voters
elsewhere and readier to switch directly to the Tories. The Conservatives did
well in London in 2005, making eight of their 32 Britain-wide gains there. They
could do even better next time.

Anthony King is the professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday

Obituary of Lord Deramore Old Harrovian peer whose writing efforts culminated in
the publication of an erotic novel when he was 85

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 852 words


THE 6th LORD DERAMORE, who died on Sunday aged 95, was an example of that breed
of mildly eccentric hereditary peer whose presence for generations embellished,
informed and entertained the "unreformed'' House of Lords.

Deramore was a man of diverse talents and enthusiams. As a young man he won the
1½ litre class in the Paris to Nice Trail in an HRG open sports car, and he held
a cycling record of 149 miles in one day - from York to Cambridge.

He became an architect, and was a stalwart of the Conservative Party in north
Yorkshire (he briefly abandoned the Tories for the UK Independence Party in the
1990s) and an assiduous writer of letters to editors, his favourite topic being
the evils of bureaucracy, both the Brussels and the home-grown varieties. He was
also a keen and reasonably proficient amateur watercolourist.

Deramore's chief claim to fame, however, or at least so far as the press was
concerned, was as a writer of erotic fiction. Sadly, much of his work remains
unpublished - he was engagingly frank about his ever-growing pile of rejection
slips. But success finally came in 1997 when, aged 85, he published his first
novel. Illustrated on the cover with one of the author's own watercolours, of a
naked girl with a teddy bear, Still Waters concerns a young woman who is seduced
by a female friend. After the friend is killed in a motor accident, she falls in
love with a divorced man, but cannot have sex with him because she suffers from
a rare clinical condition called vaginismus.

According to the author's account, the book concerned "a not very attractive
girl who has a bad complex about a small bosom''. His inspiration for the more
eye-popping gynaecological details came from a newspaper article on an
embarrassing medical condition, and his motivation was altruistic: "I wanted to
show how there is hope for a woman, even if she is not very attractive.''

Eyebrows were raised over some of the book's raunchier passages - "within a
minute Diana's naked body was warm beside her and her arms around her... The
proximity of the lithe body against her own and Diana's tender kisses stirred in
her primitive instincts long dormant... ''.

While Deramore admitted that parts of the book were explicit (but not, he added
carefully, autobiographical), he denied that it was vulgar - "At least, I hope
it's not.'' Asked why he had written such a novel at his age, he replied: "I'm
old, so there's not a lot else I can do.''

Richard Arthur de Yarburgh-Bateson was born on April 9 1911, the younger son of
the 4th Lord Deramore. The barony was created in 1885 for Sir Thomas Bateson,
2nd Bt, who had been MP for Londonderry, then Devizes, and had served for a few
years as a junior minister in the Treasury.

Arthur was brought up at the family home, Heslington Hall, in Yorkshire, and
educated at Harrow and St John's College, Cambridge. Graduating during the
Depression, he went on to study for a diploma at the Architectural Association
School of Architecture, then went into private practice as a chartered architect
in London and Buckinghamshire and later Yorkshire. During the war he served as a
pilot in the RAF, flying in a bomber squadron carrying out low-level
reconnaissance missions over the Mediterranean.

Returning to his architectural practice after the war, he also developed a wide
range of other interests, taking a correspondence course in short story-writing
from the London School of Journalism and a watercolour course in Suffolk.

He succeeded to the Deramore titles on the death of his elder brother, the 5th
Lord Deramore, in 1964.

His early literary endeavours met with little success. "I did have a nice letter
from the editor of Annabel,'' he recalled in 1975, "and I've got a story called
Why I Never Married with Men Only at the moment.'' He had had one article
published in the Country Gentleman's Association magazine "called Back to the
Bog (Wheel) - about bicycles''.

His confidence received a tremendous boost the same year when he won a Daily
Telegraph Mystery Story competition (prize: pounds 300 and a trip to the Canary
Islands for two). His first success, after 46 rejections, was a short story
called A Touch of Bird Lime. A mystery based on the eternal love triangle mixed
with a dash of espionage, it featured a heady mixture of sex and class:
"Afterwards as they lay together, Peter caressed her slender flank and murmured
'you're like a lovely sinuous kitten.' Sheila ran her fingers through his black
hair and ached with love for him. 'Your dinner party was a tremendous success,'
he said... ''.

Deramore designed and built himself a house, a comfortable rather than stately
pile, at Aislaby, near Pickering, to replace Heslington Hall, which had been
sold with its estate in the early 1960s; the hall is now part of York
University.

When the Labour government under Tony Blair "reformed'' the House of Lords,
Deramore lost his seat, but he continued to contribute to public debate, urging
the Tories to move in a Eurosceptic direction through the columns of the
national newspapers.

Lord Deramore married, in 1948, Janet Ware, who survives him with their
daughter.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday

Watchdog tells parties: come clean on funding: 'Only full disclosure' will
restore public confidence: Tories singled out for criticism over loans

BYLINE: David Hencke and Will Woodward

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words


Political parties are failing in their duty to restore public confidence in
their fundraising, the elections watchdog warned yesterday. In a stinging rebuke
to the three main parties - which are trading blows over funding - the Electoral
Commission protested at the late disclosure on donations and loans and told them
to put their house in order.

"Full disclosure of both donations and loans is vital to address public concern
about the transparency of political party funding," said Peter Wardle, the
commission's chief executive. "The fact that the main parties seem to be
struggling with the level of disclosure we have called for on a voluntary basis
suggests they are ill-prepared to comply with the new laws that parliament has
put in place."

All parties will be required to declare all loans from September 11 under the
Electoral Administration Act. In figures declared voluntarily by the parties and
released yesterday by the commission, Labour revealed loans totally more than
£28m, the Tories more than £2.8m, and the Liberal Democrats £584,239.

The majority of the Labour party's total of £28m was received before the latest
accounting period of April to June, it said. The Tories'£2.8m had been received
just during the second quarter of 2006, the commission said.

Labour has been reeling since details of secret loans from millionaire backers
arranged by Lord Levy emerged in March. Tony Blair appointed Sir Hayden Phillips
to make recommendations for the reform of public funding.

The commission reserved special criticism for the Tories yesterday for not
publishing full details of loans from rich backers. They were not required to do
so under the law but the commission said it was "disappointing". The party is
known to have borrowed to buy the freehold of its old headquarters in Smith
Square, from a Bermuda-based trust.

The Tories were responsible for the lion's share of £309,639 in donations that
were undisclosed by the main political parties and came to light in their annual
accounts.

This included £216,933 to Conservative party associations, £9,500 to Labour,
£27,543 to the UK Independence party, and £1,200 to the Greens. This was "not
acceptable", the commission said.

The commission's chairman, Sam Younger, told The World at One on Radio 4: "I
don't think there is any evidence any of the main parties is being dishonest, or
anybody is. The voluntary code we put out was precisely that, voluntary.

"What we are frustrated by is that there are cases where parties are still
reporting donations late and not in the period to which they apply. And really
we don't think that's good enough five years into the regime - in this case it's
particularly the Conservative party, but other parties are not immune from it."

Lord Rennard, chief executive of the Liberal Democrats, said: "Public confidence
in politics is likely to suffer further unless all political parties are open
and transparent."

Labour's general secretary, Peter Watt, said the figures showed only part of the
Conservative position on loans. But a Tory spokeswoman insisted that in March
the Conservatives had published a complete list of their current lenders and
that this latest list was simply an update. The current cumulative total of the
party's loans was £15.9m, she said.

Yesterday it emerged that Labour owed its creditors £28m, while managing to
raise just £3m from April to June last year. The Tories said Labour was now
relying on the unions for 74% of its money, compared with 60% in late 2005.

The donation figures show that from April to June this year, the Conservatives
received £5.9m, Labour £3.4m, and the Lib Dems £783,000.

Leader comment, page 32 guardian.co.uk/politics >

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           August 24, 2006, Thursday

Tory party under fire for failing to declare £ 36m loans

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words


EFFORTS to restore faith in politics took another battering yesterday as the
elections watchdog accused the Tories of breaching a deal to declare all loans
from wealthy supporters.

The Conservatives abided by part of the code by listing loans taken out since
the general election period, but refused to give details of similar arrangements
made before that time.

From next month it will be unlawful not to submit such information to the
Electoral Commission, although the Conservatives said that they previously
released details of their current lenders and would abide by the new law once it
applied.

In the three months to June, the Tories declared that they had taken out two
bank loans totalling £ 2.8 million. But they made no mention of almost £ 16
million in outstanding loans to donors, plus a similar amount owed to banks. Nor
did they mention the £ 4.5 million borrowed from Conservative associations and £
200,000 from the Association of Conservative Clubs.

A party spokesman said that details of all "outstanding loans" had been
published, but five months ago it announced that it had repaid £ 5 million to
lenders who refused to be identified, some of whom were not registered to vote
in Britain and therefore were unable to make conventional donations.

Labour took out no new loans in the period, but rescheduled debts owed to
several of the party's millionaire backers who have kept the party afloat over
recent months, allowing them to be repaid over longer periods.

These included a £ 1.5 million loan from Chai Patel, two loans together worth £
2.75 million from Sir David Garrard and £ 1 million lent by Sir Barry Townsley.
The three were at the centre of the "cash for peerages" row when the House of
Lords Appointments Commission blocked their nominations for peerages.

Another loan, for £ 2 million, from Lord Sainsbury of Turville, the Science
Minister, was also rescheduled.

But figures for donations illustrate the difficulty that Labour has had in
raising money since police began an investigation into links between political
honours and donations.

Donations from private individuals slumped in the second quarter, forcing the
party to rely even more on funding from trade unions.

The Conservatives said that almost three quarters of Labour's funding now came
from unions, compared with 60 per cent in the same period last year.

The party is consulting staff on budget cuts of 20 per cent to address its
funding shortage. Labour has, however, been able to repay bank loans of £ 6
million, thanks to the sale of its former headquarters in Old Queen Street,
Westminster.

David Cameron's leadership continued to encourage high volumes of donations from
individual Tory donors, who gave a total of £ 4.7 million.

The figures also showed how much the Liberal Democrats rely on state funding,
which accounted for £ 456,300 of the money received by Sir Menzies Campbell over
the past three months, compared with £ 326,500 from private donations.

The Electoral Commission criticised the Conservatives for not providing full
details of all its outstanding loans, despite a voluntary agreement with all the
main parties under which they would declare both existing and new loans before
this becomes a legal requirement on September 11.

It suggested further that the Tories and Labour should have declared loans made
to their local or regional parties. Of the main parties, only the Liberal
Democrats did so, listing just over £ 100,000 loans to constituency
organisations.

Peter Wardle, the commission's chief executive, said: "The fact that the main
parties seem to be struggling with the level of disclosure we have called for on
a voluntary basis suggests that they are ill- prepared to comply with the new
laws that Parliament has put in place. We will do all we can to ensure the
parties understand the new requirements, but they need to take them seriously to
restore public confidence."

The Electoral Commission was drawn into a further row with several small parties
that it accused of failing to declare loans. But the Scottish Nationalist Party,
Plaid Cymru, and the Scottish Socialist Party said that they had declared all
loans. The UK Independence Party said that it had failed to declare one loan of
£ 10,000 because of an oversight arising from staff changes.

WHO DECLARED WHAT AND WHEN

CONSERVATIVES

Private donations Apr-June:

£ 4,733,403.85

State funding Apr-June:

£ 1,148,270.16

Late declarations of Jan-Mar:

216,933

Loans declared to national party Apr-June:

£ 2,800,000 (from banks)

£ 12,000 (from individuals)

Outstanding loans received before Apr: Not listed*

Declared loans to regional and local parties: Not listed

LABOUR

Private donations Apr-June: £ 3,462,009

State funding Apr-June: none

Late declarations of donations: pounds 9,500

Loans declared to national party Apr-Jun: None

Outstanding loans received before Apr:

pounds 13,500,000 (from banks)**

pounds 14,700,694 (from individuals)

Declared loans to regional and local parties: Not listed

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Private donations Apr-June:

£ 326,469.26

State funding Apr-June:

pounds 456,312

Late declarations of Jan-Mar pounds 54,464

Loans declared to national party Apr-June: none

Outstanding loans received before Apr: £ 475,000

Declared loans to regional and local parties: pounds 109,239

PLAID CYMRU

Private donations Apr-June: pounds 22,500

State funding Apr-Jun: pounds 15,177

Loans:pounds 113,535 mortgage on HQ

Loans of any type: Not listed

SCOTTISH SOCIALIST PARTY

Private donations Apr-June: pounds 33,898

State funding Apr-Jun: pounds 15,235

Loans of any type: Not listed

UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

Private donations Apr-June: £ 37,953

State funding Apr-Jun: None

Late declarations of Jan-Mar: pounds 27,543

Loans of any type: Not listed

SCOTTISH NATIONAL PARTY

Private donations Apr-June: £ 70,902

State funding Apr-Jun: pounds 67,891

Loans of any type: Not listed

Source: Electoral Commission

* In March the Conservatives admitted they had loans of £ 16 million from a bank
to buy the freehold of 32 Smith Square; £ 16 million from individuals and
companies; £ 4.5 million from Conservative associations; and £ 200,000 from the
Association of Conservative Clubs

** £ 6 million in bank loans have since been repaid after the sale of the former
HQ in Old Queen St

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 21 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                August 23, 2006

Main parties criticised for funding secrecy

LENGTH: 1147 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Labour party and the Conservatives were rebuked by the Electoral
Commission for the 'unacceptable' and 'disappointing' reporting of their
donations and loans today, as new figures show how indebted the big two parties
are to the banks.


The Labour party and the Conservatives were rebuked by the Electoral Commission
for the "unacceptable" and "disappointing" reporting of their donations and
loans today, as new figures show how indebted the big two parties are to the
banks.

Accounts from the major parties show that Labour declared 11.5m in bank loans
during the period April to June this year, with the Tories borrowing 2.8m.

But the Electoral Commission, an independent watchdog, criticised both parties
for "not acceptable" late reporting of donations, and said it was
"disappointing" that the Tories had not reported all their controversial loans.

Parties have until September 11 to declare all the individual loans, which were
the focus of "loans-for-peerages" claims earlier this year.

A police investigation into whether those loans were in return for honours is to
report back this autumn.

Today's accounts appear to show for the first time when some of the loans from
wealthy individuals must be repaid. One to Labour, from Dr Chai Patel, for 1.5m,
was due to have been paid back by August 7, 2006.

Others are repayable later this year, next year, or in one case, a 1m loan from
Andrew Rosenfeld, in February 2009.

The Labour party has declared all its loans, albeit belatedly, pushing their
total loans to 28m for the three-month period.

The Tories have not yet declared all their borrowing, prompting Labour to query
the "transparency" of the new regime under David Cameron.

In total, the three main parties reported loans of more than 31.5m. Labour
declared 28,200,693.85, the Tories 2,812,000 and the Lib Dems 584,239.08.

This morning the Electoral Commission's chief executive, Peter Wardle, said:
"Full disclosure of both donations and loans is vital to address public concern
about the transparency of political party funding.

"The fact that the main parties seem to be struggling with the level of
disclosure we have called for on a voluntary basis suggests that they are
ill-prepared to comply with the new laws that parliament has put in place.

"We will do all we can to ensure the parties understand the new requirements,
but they need to take them seriously to restore public confidence." Loans have
been included on a voluntary basis after the Electoral Commission approached the
parties earlier this year.

However, their inclusion will be mandatory from September 11 under the Electoral
Administration Act 2006.

Today's publication covers the period from April to June this year.

A spokesman said: "The commission is disappointed that, despite public
commitments, not all parties have made sufficient efforts to provide details of
loans made to their accounting units, and in some cases to their national
headquarters.

"Given this situation, it is clear that all parties will need to make immediate
efforts if they are to be in a position to comply with the requirement in the
Electoral Administration Act to report loans on the same basis as donations from
September."

The commission has also published details of donations totalling more than
309,000 which political parties had previously failed to declare.

The commission chairman, Sam Younger, said: "I don't think there is any evidence
any of the main parties is being dishonest or anybody is. The voluntary code we
put out was precisely that - voluntary."

He said he was "disappointed" some of the smaller parties had chosen not to
declare loans made to them.

But he also criticised the Conservatives over the late reporting of some
donations - mainly from local Conservative associations.

Mr Younger said: "What we are frustrated by is that there are cases where
parties are still reporting donations late and not in the period to which they
apply.

"And really we don't think that's good enough five years into the regime.

"In this case it's particularly the Conservative party but other parties are not
immune from it."

Regular quarterly figures for the second quarter of 2006 showed 10.7m had been
donated to 16 parties between April 1 and June 30.

Labour received 3.4m, the Tories 5.9m and the Lib Dems 783,000.

Another 309,639 was declared for 2005 which should have been registered with the
Electoral Commission by the end of February.

They included 216,933 to Conservative party associations, 9,500 to Labour,
27,543 to the UK Independence party and 1,200 to the Greens.

These donations only came to light when they were spotted in parties' annual
accounts. The Electoral Commission said there were more to come.

"Some parties have also told the commission that there are further donations
which should have been reported but which do not appear in today's figure," it
said.

The commission has given the parties until September 30 to report these further
donations.

The commission added: "While the vast majority of donations are reported on
time, the commission believes that late reporting of donations is not
acceptable.

"We will continue to highlight the instances where donations are reported late
and we expect the parties to improve their reporting systems."

The Labour party general secretary, Peter Watt, said the Tories had failed to
reveal the full extent of their loans.

"The Labour party has declared all its current loans as will be required by
legislation which will come into force this September.

"It appears that the Tories have only declared loans taken out in the last
quarter. In addition to this they still have not declared who their overseas
lender was.

"If the Labour party was to declare in the same way as the Conservatives, we
would have had no loans to declare for this quarter.

"However, if the Conservative party was to report in the same way as the Labour
party, it appears they would be declaring loans totalling more than 39m."

He added: "Labour has always and continues to lead the way in the transparency
of party funding."

The Tories claimed the proportion of Labour's funding to come from the unions
had risen from 60% in the second quarter of 2005 to 74% in the same period this
year.

Party chairman Francis Maude said: "Labour is now almost entirely dependent on
the unions for funding. In return, they're getting pet policies and bungs with
taxpayers' money. This sort of cronyism undermines our entire democratic
process.

"That's why we put forward proposals earlier this year to clean up politics,
including a cap on political donations, whether from an individual, a company,
or any other institution, including a trade union. It should come as no surprise
that Labour has already rejected them out of hand."

The Lib Dem chief executive, Lord Rennard, said: "Public confidence in politics
is likely to suffer further unless all political parties are open and
transparent.

"It is a matter of deep regret that the Conservatives have only decided to
report loans made to them since April 1.

"They should immediately file a report to the Electoral Commission, ensuring
that all their outstanding loans are a matter of public record."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               12 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Why should voters foot the bill for West Wing wannabes?

BYLINE: Daniel Hannan

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1081 words


It's all Aaron Sorkin's fault. It was his brilliant episodes of The West Wing,
often written in cocaine-fuelled spurts just hours before they aired, that gave
Britain's political parties ideas above their station. Until then, we politicos
were accustomed to being portrayed as vain and petty. From Jim Hacker in Yes,
Minister to Hugh Abbot in The Thick of It, British MPs were presented as small
men, obsessed with their own advancement.

The West Wing introduced viewers to the rather startling notion that their
elected representatives might, in fact, be patriots. Not surprisingly, we
politicians lapped it up. We loved the clever plotting, the pace, the rapid-fire
Jewish wit (which came equally from the Gentile characters). As Janet Daley
wrote here the other day, even Right-wingers were addicted to the series: for
all its Leftist bias, it generally allowed conservative arguments to be
advanced, often with more eloquence than we get from real-life Tory politicians.

If Conservatives enjoyed the programme, Labour professionals wanted to live in
it. They dreamt of the opulent backdrops, fantasised about the huge
secretariats, drooled over the thought that even middle-ranking officials could
wield such vast powers. Then they looked around at their drab party headquarters
and they said to themselves: "This will not do!'' Hence the swanky new offices
on Victoria Street. Hence the engorged party payroll, which now costs pounds
12.8 million a year in staff and pensions. Hence Labour's financial crisis. And
hence the near inevitability that you will be asked to fund the shortfall. All
because, as a Labour insider told this newspaper yesterday: "They thought they
were in The West Wing. ''

At least no one can accuse Labour of hypocrisy. The party has run itself in much
the same way that it has governed Britain: hiring people until the money runs
out, and then going to the taxpayer for more. It is natural enough, I suppose,
that the big-government faction should favour the nationalisation of party
funding. The odd thing is that the other parties are also going along with the
idea.

Part of the explanation has to do with straightforward self-interest. Asking
politicians whether there should be state funding for parties is like asking
farmers whether there should be state funding for agriculture: they may have a
good deal of expertise, but they are not disinterested.

This is especially so when, as at present, they have uneasy consciences. The
more we learn about the recent soliciting of loans, the more it looks as if all
three parties have broken the rules. They understandably fear an electoral
backlash. At the very least, they know that it will be harder to solicit
donations in future. So why not get rid of the whole distasteful business of
fundraising and replace it with a transparent system of government subsidy?

There are four answers. First, public subvention is not a cure for, but a cause
of, political corruption. When people know that there is a pot of gold waiting
to be claimed, they arrange their affairs around qualifying for it.

Look at the countries where parties are most dependent on the taxpayer: France,
where more than 1,000 elected officials have been convicted of offences under
party funding rules; Germany, where Helmut Kohl's government fell after a party
financing scandal involving briefcases full of banknotes; Italy, where nearly
half of all MPs are or have been under police investigation.

Ah, you say, but what about America, where politicians are so dependent on
private money that they have become vessels of big business? Actually, this is
less and less true. The fastest-growing source of political contributions in
America is the internet, where most donations come in units of $50 or less. This
phenomenon allows outsiders with interesting things to say - Howard Dean, for
example - to take on their party bigwigs.

Which brings us to the second objection. Politicians are already seen as remote
and arrogant. How much worse would that problem be if they were able to compel
money from their constituents by law, instead of having to ask politely? Again,
look at Europe, where lavish subsidies have created a para-state career
structure. A graduate can move seamlessly from his party apparatus to
ministerial office without ever working in the real world. Unsurprisingly,
having spent his career swimming in the ocean of taxpayers' money, he is rarely
a tax-cutter by the time he comes to power.

Point three: state funding allows existing parties to form a cartel against
newcomers. Or, to put it another way, it shields them from the consequences of
their unpopularity, because there is nowhere else to go. At the same time, once
the government begins to pay for parties, it starts to tell them what to
believe. In Belgium, there are moves to deny funding to the Flemish separatists
on the ground that they threaten the unity of the state. In Holland, a court has
ruled that a Christian party should forfeit its financial entitlement because it
does not believe in sex equality. In the EU, trans-national parties are required
to accept "the values of the European Union''.

But perhaps the best rebuttal of the case is the obvious one: what bloody cheek.
Caught breaking their own rules, the political parties demand that the rest of
the country should pay them with sufficient generosity to remove them from
further temptation.

The solution? Parties should spend less. The past three general elections have
been, by some measure, the most expensive ever. Yet turnout keeps falling and,
of those who do cast their ballots, unprecedented numbers are eschewing the
three main parties. Which raises an interesting question.

Might it be the very slickness of the big campaigns that is driving voters
towards the Blaenau Gwent independents, UKIP, Save Kidderminster Hospital and
the other low-budget candidates?

The record for money spent per voter is held by the pro-euro movement in
Sweden's 2003 referendum, which I happened to observe. The result? A 20-point
lead was reversed, precisely because voters recoiled from the extravagance of
the "Yes'' campaign.

Go back to those West Wing characters, pedi-conferencing through the White House
corridors. Watch closely and you will see a political system that forces modesty
on its principals. Behind every quip and wisecrack is a recognition that the
voter is the boss. You can't imagine Alastair Campbell talking like that, can
you? As the Americans say, go figure.

Daniel Hannan is a Tory ME

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Who-dung-it?

BYLINE: Gary Meneely

LENGTH: 364  words


PD has slurry slung at home after kicking up stink over horse owners

A POLITICIAN who kicked up a stink about people in his area keeping horses in
their gardens has had his home sprayed with MANURE.

Horrified Progressive Democrat Paddy Hynes called the gardai after horse dung
was splattered all over his windows, doors and driveway.

Paddy caused outrage by blasting unruly residents for letting horses run amok in
gardens near his home in Weston, Limerick.

And now gardai have launched a probe after his house was targeted by slurry
thugs on Saturday. Last night a source told the Irish Sun: "Paddy's home was
covered in horse manure and bags of waste were heaped on his driveway.

"Unsurprisingly, Mr Hynes and his

family are extremely shaken by the attack."

And the insider added: "Paddy has made no secret of his campaign to get horses
out of back gardens.

"His strong views have disgracefully made him a target - these thugs will stoop
to ANY level."

Gardai are taking the attack seriously. A source revealed: "It has obviously
been a well planned attack. Whoever did this bears a strong grudge.

"We understand that his views had annoyed local animal lovers.

"The row over horses is our top line of inquiry. We will catch those
responsible."

Splattered

Paddy is not the first politician to be rocked by a manure attack.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Robert Kilroy-Silk had a bucket of slurry poured
over him - 20 minutes before he was due on live radio.

He was attacked as he stepped out of his chauffeur-driven Jaguar in

Manchester in 2004. His face, hair, dark blue suit, shirt, tie and shoes were
splattered with the brown muck. The car was also covered.

Kilroy-Silk had to borrow fresh clothes before appearing on BBC Radio 4's Any
Questions?

He told listeners the attacker had shouted: "In the name of Islam!"

Former TV host Kilroy-Silk had

earlier outraged Muslim leaders by branding Arabs "suicide bombers, limb
amputators, women repressors".

He later stepped down as host of BBC1's Kilroy.

When asked about the latest dung attack last night, Paddy Hynes said: "It was
bad but it's in the hands of the Gardai now."

A Garda spokeswoman confirmed: "We are investigating an attack on Mr Hynes's
house."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                August 20, 2006

Cameron can relax: UKIP is still stuck in the doldrums

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

LENGTH: 812 words


WHEN David Cameron is accused of alienating traditional Conservative voters with
his tree-planting, hoodie-hugging and Israel-bashing, he has an easy riposte.
Where are all these frustrated souls going to go? Defect to the high-taxing
Liberal Democrats? Sign up to Gordon Brown's progressive consensus? For as long
as Cameron has his membership cornered they will have no choice. And this is why
the UK Independence party (UKIP) leadership contest is so potentially important.

Britain seldom does well at producing political parties outside the mainstream,
and UKIP has had a pretty miserable time. But it sprang to life two years ago
when it claimed 16% of the vote in the European Parliament elections -forcing
the Lib Dems into fourth place. The question for the Tories is whether UKIP
could manage this trick again. It is not psephologically impossible. The British
electorate is increasingly fed up with its three big parties. The protest vote
is there for the taking.

But it needs leadership. UKIP's surge came when Robert Kilroy-Silk, a former BBC
chatshow host, became its figurehead (if not its leader) and proved himself a
skilled populist. He portrayed UKIP as a rebel army and started something which
caused the Tories deep panic. When he left, the party's profile sank as quickly
as it has risen and at the last general election its voting share returned to a
derisory 2.2%.

Last April, Cameron betrayed more concern than he perhaps intended when he
denounced UKIP as "a bunch of fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists" - which
does not say much for the judgment of the 2.65m who voted UKIP in 2004.
Importantly, he expressed disdain for the UKIP message on immigration - which
was as much of its message as Euroscepticism during that campaign. For the
Cameronians, this is beyond the pale.

This marks out political terrain which mainstream parties see as too downmarket
to cultivate. Polls show that the C2DE voters - the ones who tend to live in
housing estates where immigration has made the sharpest impact - are deeply
concerned. A full 50% of these voters say they "strongly agree" that "Britain is
losing its own culture" and 76% consider Britain "already overcrowded". The
pro-immigration camp (including this columnist) may argue such people are wrong.
But they have a vote. And no party in Westminster seems to want it.

The UKIP leadership contest shows that it is highly unlikely to revive itself.
One of the four contenders is David Noakes, whose mottos are that the "EU is a
police state" and that UKIP should "tell the truth". He boasts his family tree
can be traced back to the 1066 Norman invasion. "Apparently before that we were
Vikings," he says on his website. "Well, no one's perfect."

It's a fair bet that this comment is designed to strike a contrast from the
Welsh-born Richard Suchorzewski, another contender, whose pitch is to take UKIP
"from an anti-EU party into a full pro-British party". His supporters emphasise
he is a Christian and imply out that his family life stands up to scrutiny more
than the favourite, Nigel Farage, who recently denied newspaper claims of
extra-marital adventure.

The main challenger is David Campbell-Bannerman, a former chairman of the Bow
Group, a Eurosceptic think tank, and great-great-great-grandson of Sir Henry
Campbell-Bannerman, former Prime Minister. His pitch seems to be little more
than a plea for deputy leadership under Farage, whom he expects to win. Insofar
as it is possible to gauge opinion among the 16,000 UKIP members, then Farage, a
founding UKIP member and former Tory MP, is likely to pull through when the vote
is decided on 12 September. But he will be leading from Brussels, by remote
control.

For Tories, it's a huge relief. Political loyalty in Britain has never been
thinner, and a UKIP which had a populist leader and strong centre-right message
may have struck a strong contrast to Cameron. The next UK general election may
well be decided by just 250,000 votes - so it matters hugely if the Tories are
about to face a right-wing rival party. Blair was able to move so far from
Labour's roots because he faced no real contest from a socialist rival and his
frustrated party members had nowhere else to go. If UKIP remain in obscurity,
Cameron will have the same licence to roam.

But a wild card will still hangs over British politics. There are 17m who did
not vote in last year's election - showing a dealignment, rather than a
realignment. They could turn to anyone who manages to strike a message which
resonates. The risk is that this leaves space for a genuinely racist party, as
exists in Austria and The Netherlands.

The space could be filled by a new party, or scores of local, single-issue
parties - a "carnival of the animals", as one Downing Street strategist calls
it. But the Conservatives, for now, can relax: UKIP are showing little sign of
threatening anyone.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CROSS BENCHER;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 69  words


THE deadline for returning ballots to elect a new UKIP leader fast approaches
with MEP Nigel Farage still in front - and he's certainly not wasting any time
cosying up to rivals. At a recent hustings, fellow contender David Noakes told
party members that if he won, he would want Farage to stay on as head of UKIP's
MEPs in Brussels. At this, Farage said: "If David is elected, I will move
permanently to Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We'll welcome rapists and killers as well

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 531  words


FEARS of a second wave of mass immigration from Eastern Europe were raised last
night amid renewed concerns that Britain has no powers to close its borders -
even to convicted criminals.

Bulgaria and Romania are due to join the European Union on 1 January 2007 and
migrants are expected to flood in. But critics blasted plans to allow them
similar employment and benefit rights to the hundreds of thousands of Poles and
Czechs who have arrived since their countries joined the EU two years ago.

A decision on the rights of access must be made before the end of this year,
with the European Council considering whether to defer it for a year.

Britain was the only country to offer an open-door policy in 2004, which
resulted in the arrival of 600,000 Poles and Czechs.

But leading immigration think-tank MigrationWatch UK predicts an additional
300,000 Romanians and Bulgarians could come here from next year, adding to the
345,000 who are already living here.

The open-door policy was criticised when it emerged UK officials would not even
be allowed, under human rights laws, to refuse entry to the new immigrants with
criminal records - including murderers, rapists and child sex offenders. Nor,
under the EU directive, could they be deported if they committed a serious crime
while in Britain.

Under current Government plans, Romanians and Bulgarians would not have to
register until they had been here for three months. Once registered, they would
be entitled to welfare benefits after just a year's work. They could also bring
a husband, wife, or even unmarried partners to join them, as well as children
and parents - all of whom would also be able to claim welfare benefits.

If couples split or divorce, under European law dependents cannot be deported
even if they are unable to support themselves and will be able to claim welfare
benefits.

All Romanian and Bulgarian immigrants would be entitled to "permanent residence"
after five years in Britain, with many in full-time employment able to claim
such status even earlier.

A year after obtaining permanent residence, they can apply for UK citizenship,
allowing them to vote in elections.

Nigel Farage, Euro MP for the UK Independence Party, said: "From the very
beginning we opposed this ridiculous idea of open-door immigration policy and
removal of embarkation controls. How can a country possibly keep count of who is
coming into Britain if we aren't allowed to check? UKIP estimated hundreds of
thousands of migrant workers would come to this country, and we have been proved
right.

"This massive migration is having a negative effect on the lives of ordinary
British people who for years have been told by this government immigration was
not out of control, " he added. l "The accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the
European Union could see around 300,000 more enter and we strongly urge Tony
Blair to veto their accession to the EU.

"Of course, this is only a short-term solution.

Longer term, we must regain control of our borders and our immigration and
asylum policy. The dependents of these workers could mean upwards of a million
extra people in this country - putting enormous pressure on the transport
network and housing."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday

P.S. AND EVEN (DAME) POLLY HAS SEEN THE LIGHT. . .

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 212 words


AS U-turns go, it is the political equivalent of Saul's conversion on the road
to Damascus.

Guardian columnist Polly Toynbee, the grande dame of the Left, has joined
criticism of the Government's open-door immigration policy after years of
railing against those who dared raise the issue.

Appearing on the BBC's Newsnight programme, she said waves of immigrants were
depressing the wages of the low-paid and called on the Government to rethink its
approach.

Only last May, Miss Toynbee attacked the Tory Party for creating 'sulphurous
clouds of fear' on immigration.

In 2003, she savaged the ' asylum mania' of Rightwing newspapers.

But she admitted on Newsnight: 'The whole world is talking about immigration.
It's a difficult problem it's not going to go away.' Also on the programme was
Nigel Farage, of the United Kingdom Independence Party. He said last night: 'The
thought of Miss Toynbee agreeing with me makes me feel like fainting, but the
more people that come round on this issue the better.

'You don't have to be racist to be deeply concerned about current levels of
immigration.' Tory MP Philip Davies said: 'If even Polly Toynbee thinks
immigration is out of control, we really must be in a desperate situation.'

Miss Toynbee was unavailable for comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLLY TOYNBEE: CONCERN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 21 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

The dishonesty of this spurious debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 786 words


Just where will New Labour's cross-dressing end? Barely a year after the former
Tory leader, Michael Howard, was universally traduced for making too much of
immigration during the last general election, John Reid (just four days short
off completing his first 100 days in office as Home Secretary) made a speech
yesterday, the tone of which had something of the night about its delivery.

It is hard to imagine David Davis, the Tory party's spokesman, being allowed by
David Cameron to make such a speech. But what Dr Reid was up to was, however,
difficult to discern. Was he simply trying to reinforce his reputation as a
toughie by merely addressing the issue without actuallyproposing any solution,
or are there actually policy changes in the offing?

For beneath the tough talk he appeared to be making the case for no more than a
debate. "Mass migration and the management of immigration is now the greatest
challenge facing all European governments. We have to get away from the notion
that anyone who wants to talk about this issue is somehow a racist. They are
not. They are intelligent, ordinary people who are interested in the future of
their own country, and incidentally they are people who come from all ethnic
backgrounds, all different religions and all social areas of our life". Cue both
Ukip and the BNP - although probably not the Cameron Tories.

Labour has been shocked by the extent to which, against expectations, migration
- especially from Poland since that country's accession - has run into hundreds
of thousands rather than the estimated 15,000 forecast when the EU was enlarged
in May 2004.

Dr Reid is also presumably reacting to pressure from local authorities, many of
which are Labour controlled, who claim they are unable to cope with the
additional burdens placed upon their education and housing budgets. Much has
been made of suggestions that authorities such as Slough will have to increase
their council taxes by 6 per cent to fund the additional burdens mass migration
is allegedly placing on their services.

But until the Government also initiates a debate on population, (posed by Dr
Tony Wright at last month's meeting of the Commons liaison committee of select
committee chairmen with the Prime Minister) and also reopens debate on its
attitude to further EU enlargement the Home Secretary is wasting his breath. Dr
Wright inquired whether the Government had an optimum population size for the
UK. The question fazed Mr Blair but it is the only question worth asking in the
context of arriving at the "correct" level of immigration. It was the 18th
century economist Thomas Malthus, in his essay on population in 1798, who first
proposed that the country's population needed to be limited. Malthus was
initially proved wrong because he failed to understand that a growing population
was capable of increasing overall production well beyond subsistence. But maybe
a latter-day Malthus would consider that there are limits to finite resources

- land, housing, power, and transport - that will be the ultimate determinant of
immigration.

There is growing anecdotal evidence that wage rates in the building trade and
service sectors in the South-east are being driven down at atime when housing
and other costs are increasing. Labour voters are feeling the pinch most as they
are forced to accept lower wages to remain competitive. Ironically, it is the
middle classes who are the unwitting beneficiaries of mass migration as the cost
of employing Polish nannies, builders and London restaurant workers falls

- in some cases to below the legal minimum wage.

Dr Reid is probably gearing up for Bulgarian and Romanian EU accession next year
which will further increase the pressures. His short-term answer maybe to join
other EU nations in refusing to allow free movement of these countries' peoples
to the UK during the transition period. But this will merely delay the crisis by
a few years.

If his speech yesterday is to have any meaning, he will have to recommend that
the UK should veto these countries' application. Empty words, unless followed by
the logic of his apparent concerns, will mean that Ukip will be the principal
beneficiary of his speech. If Dr Reid regards mass migration as a threat then it
comes principally from the EU. Ultimately, therefore, withdrawal from Europe is
the only logical solution. But this is the part of Dr Reid's proposed debate
which the Government cannot allow. Dr Reid can do nothing about mass migration
unless he sets out a population policy and proposes withdrawal from the EU.
Neither of these will happen - which is why his speech was so dishonest.

There was something of the night about the tone of John Reid's speech yesterday

mrbrown@talktalk.net

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 21 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 August 6, 2006

Special report: Drug baron's fall to a lonely bedsit: Clifford Norris has never
spoken publicly about the case in which his son was a prime suspect - the
Stephen Lawrence murder. Now he breaks his silence on allegations of police
corruption and tells of his own rapid descent from the gangland elite to jail
and a life on benefits

BYLINE: Mark Townsend, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2307 words


No one stopped to stare at the diminutive figure shuffling along Upper Denmark
Road last week. Clifford Norris, one of the most notorious gangsters in Britain,
now lives in a pokey bedsit in one of the rougher parts of Ashford, Kent, and no
longer warrants a second look.

A slim, almost fragile man of no more than 5ft 7in, it is hard to believe this
was the ruthless criminal that masterminded a multimillion-£ drugs empire of
such corruptive influence that it was said he could bend the very tenets of
justice itself.

The reputation of Norris remains undimmed by time: a man of intrigue
mythologised for an unerring knack of disappearing into thin air whenever the
heat was on. Until now, he has never spoken to the media.

Last week, however, the 47-year-old gave The Observer a first account of his
rapid rise and even steeper fall from drugs baron to a member of the unemployed.
He also answered fresh allegations that he corrupted the investiga tion into
Britain's most notorious racist murder, that of black teenager Stephen Lawrence.

'There was a time when I had it all - the flash house, the cars, the business,'
he said. 'Things grew pretty quickly, but they went quickly too.'

At the age of 30 Norris controlled much of south London's drugs trade, lording
it over rivals with a mock-Tudor home and fast cars as he presided over scores
of criminal associates. Little remains of his materialistic, moneyed past.
Norris now lives in a mud-coloured hostel on a jobseeker's allowance of £ 56.20
a week. Housing benefit pays for a single room above a DIY store.

Norris has nothing. There is no woman in his life and visits from friends and
family are notable only for their rarity. The ambling figure in Upper Denmark
Street is proof, perhaps, that crime does not pay. Norris admits he made
mistakes, that his drugs empire was 'out of control'. Crucially, too, he also
reveals that police corruption did exist in south London during the period
Stephen was murdered, allegedly with the involvement of his eldest son, David,
who remains a prime suspect in the case.

Norris will spend today drinking tea and watching television alone in his small
room. As he does every day. At some point he may choose to break the routine by
popping out to the Wheatsheaf off-licence - six cans of Stella Artois for £ 6.49
- and sipping them on the bench opposite Ashford's branch of the UK Independence
Party. Luxury for Norris these days extends to a game of pool inside The
Locomotive pub. Tomorrow he'll contemplate the same routine. Just as he did
yesterday. Those that know him suggest his behaviour betrays a man who remains
'institutionalised' from a seven-year stretch in jail.

Most people had forgotten about Norris when he was finally released from
Maidstone prison in January 2001 after serving his sentence for intent to supply
drugs and possessing a submachine-gun. Norris gravitated to nearby Ashford and
effectively disappeared. Rumours gradually surfaced that the former criminal had
reunited with his former associates; somewhere, somehow, Norris was back pulling
the strings.

The truth turns out to be more prosaic. Clifford attempted to integrate himself
into society, securing work as the supervisor of an Ashford cleaning firm until
he was made redundant earlier this year. 'I'm still finding my feet. Little by
little I'm getting there, and right now I'm looking for work, but it can be
difficult because of who I am.'

Norris will spend this week waiting for the results of two job applications;
both menial part-time positions. Anything will do, he says. 'It's tough starting
out again. To some people you'll always be the lowest of the low.'

There was a time when people did whatever he asked. Towards the end of the
Eighties, Norris presided over a nexus of south-east London criminals, a number
of whom were connected to the 1983 Brinks Mat gold bullion robbery. Some, like
Kenneth Noye, now in prison for a road-rage murder, were regarded as having
links with corrupt police officers, allegations that would prompt the cur rent
head of Scotland Yard, Sir Ian Blair, to launch one of the force's largest
corruption inquiries shortly after Stephen's death.

How deep the tentacles of Norris and his associates stretched into the ranks of
the Metropolitan Police remains unclear, but almost overnight the mastermind
would find his power base crumbling. By the time of his release, he had been
abandoned by even his most trusted lieutenants.

'All my businesses, all my contacts, all my business associates had fallen flat.
That was that, it was all gone.' Norris, whose silvery hair and browning teeth
suggest a man older than his years, learnt not to mourn the passing of his
criminal empire. 'It was not that exciting, to be honest, having to look over
your shoulder can wear you down,' he said, before looking towards the outline of
Ashford's gleaming international rail station, the fast track to mainland Europe
where Norris once negotiated his huge cannabis deals. The other direction would
take Norris back to the streets of Deptford and then Eltham in south-east
London, where a plaque near a bus stop on Well Hall Road marks the spot where
Stephen was murdered one spring night in 1993.

Norris, like his son, has struggled to distance himself from a case that has
become one of the defining incidents of Nineties Britain. Ten days ago
allegations emerged that the investigation into the 18-year-old A-level
student's murder was deliberately botched because an officer investigating the
murder was on Norris's payroll. It was a well-versed concern. The 'Norris
factor' emerges at key points in Sir William Macpherson's 1999 report into the
murder of Lawrence. Macpherson's report deemed Norris an 'evil influence' whose
'very damaging' role prevented witnesses from coming forward.

Claims that he 'fixed' an earlier trial in which his son David was acquitted of
a stabbing are also noted in the report. His influence may have extended
further. The one key witness that did come forward, Duwayne Brooks, was assigned
a police escort during the private prosecution of three Lawrence suspects at the
Old Bailey in 1996. That escort, Detective Sergeant David Coles, was well-known
to Norris. Surveillance officers recorded the detective meeting the criminal at
least three times at the Tiger's Head pub in Chislehurst, Kent. Packages were
recorded being exchanged. Coles has explained that he was grooming Norris as an
informant.

Recently a former corrupt policeman turned informant, Neil Putnam, alleged that
Det Sgt John Davidson, at the heart of the bungled Scotland Yard investigation,
deliberately sabotaged the murder hunt after allegedly receiving money from
Norris. Davidson denies the claims.

Norris claims he did not have a corrupt relationship with Coles, never met
Davidson, and that the first he knew of Putnam was when he heard details of the
latest allegations against him, broadcast in a BBC documentary.

'I never became involved with underhand dealings or giving money to coppers.
Never did I give the police any money or a retainer to get them on the payroll.
I don't know any bent coppers.' Norris admits, however, that he was aware of
corruption between officers and other criminals in the period around Stephen's
murder, although he is not in the business of naming names.

'I was not involved, but there was corruption going on with police and other
heavier gangs,' he said. By the time his son was implicated in Stephen's murder,
Norris's power base in south-east London was so extensive that he felt he could
operate almost with impunity. 'We were doing so well,' he said, 'there was never
any reason for me to give money to the police.'

Born in 1958 in St Alfeges Hospital, Greenwich, and raised in nearby Deptford,
Norris had a reputation as a violent tearaway by the time he was a teenager. Yet
along with his elder brother, Alexander, Norris seemed destined for little more
than a career as a small-time crook. The emergence of the drugs trade changed
everything. Suddenly every petty villain could enter the big time.

Norris first came to the attention of the police when he was 25, after officers
found a safety deposit box belonging to him stuffed with £ 17,000. Norris denied
all knowledge, but it was clear acquiring cash was no problem. By the age of 27
the man from a south London working-class family was practically a millionaire.
In 1987 police records named Norris as being involved in 'high-level drug
activity'. And in the following spring, he and his wife, Teresa 'Tracey' Norris,
procured a £ 600,000 mock-Tudor property at 7 Berryfield Close in Chislehurst -
a private cul-de-sac with electronic gates and wrought-iron gates.

His rapid accumulation of wealth would not have gone unnoticed. Several years
earlier the couple had scrimped together to buy a modest home for £ 43,000.
Norris's thirst for fast cars blossomed in tandem with his wealth. He remembers
buying a Porsche 911 with white leather trim from a Billingshurst dealer, using
cash stuffed in a plastic carrier bag. 'You could get this and that; cars, a
decent house, the lot. It was a good lifestyle,' he said.

By this stage, though, his criminal network had almost assumed a life of its
own. Norris was losing control. 'You'd meet people who were unemployed, people
with criminal records, unethical people, and it just grows from there. The
illegal businesses just kept on getting bigger and bigger.'

His network of contacts continued to widen, links were strengthened with
underworld figures such as Noye. 'I was never into that [violence], there were
much heavier people around than myself, much more serious operators.'

Norris believes that the drug entrepreneurs of the Eighties were so successful
they created a demand that has not subsided since. 'Over the years business just
sort of blew up, but when it popped it never really came down [to what it was
before].'

Norris was among the first criminals to create a network of dealers across
Europe. Throughout 1987 and 1988 he was working extensively with Dutch
suppliers. Customs covertly photographed him in Geneva. Flush with the riches he
was making, Norris had got slack. On 21 June, 1988, customs officials
intercepted a quarter of a tonne of cannabis in Barking and arrested criminal
associates of Norris. Less than 12 months later a 24-year-old man was shot in
the chest outside a Deptford pub. Norris's elder brother was arrested in
connection with the shooting and sentenced to nine years for cannabis smuggling.

Aware that the net was closing, Norris went on the run. Teresa would unwittingly
betray him in August 1994 when police followed her to a holiday cottage in East
Sussex. Inside, next to a set of golf clubs, officers found a silenced Ingram
submachine-gun. After five years in hiding, they had found their man. Norris was
sentenced to nine and a half years for drugs and firearm offences.

'I got arrested over money, to be honest. It was fair game, there was never any
complaints from me. I just served my sentence.' Yet questions soon arose. How
did a professional gangster manage to evade detection for so long? Speculation
grew that Norris did, in fact, have officers on the payroll. He will always deny
it.

Memories of the six-bedroom Chislehurst home seem almost surreal these days.
Norris now inhabits a sparse single room, barely 10ft by 10ft. Those who knew
Norris in prison describe a contemplative character who completed several NVQs
while there, but who has struggled to adjust to life outside. One former inmate
told The Observer : 'Cliff's room is tiny and laid out like a prison cell. The
toilet roll, bed and television are exactly where you'd find it inside. He's
proper institutionalised.'

It was during his seven years in jail that Norris lost everything. Customs
ordered him to hand over £ 386,000 in drugs profits and later seized 7
Berryfield Close, claiming that the property was bought with the proceeds of
crime. Teresa also left him. They have not spoken since he settled in Ashford.
'But it was amicable, we always got on. I suppose we just drifted apart,' he
said.

Rarely does he hear from his son David. 'He's always having to change his mobile
phone because of the stick he gets over the Lawrence case. He dreamt of becoming
a plumber, but he lost his apprenticeship and then got sacked from two jobs over
the case. It's been very difficult for him to get employment.

'But I have always thought he was innocent, otherwise he would have been
convicted, wouldn't he?' Accusations that his family are racist are rejected
with a firm shake of the head. He has no explanation as to why in 2002 David
swerved a car at a black off-duty police officer and called him 'nigger' close
to where Stephen was murdered.

The police, meanwhile, are pursuing more than 60 potential new leads following
the BBC documentary, including, possibly, fresh witnesses to the murder of
Stephen that could yet implicate Norris's son. Norris, though, claims he just
longs for a quiet life and the hope that one of Ashford's 4,550 employers grants
him another chance. 'I just want to get on, find a job and live normally.
Everyone deserves a chance, don't they?'

Career in crime

1958 Born in Greenwich.

1976 Wife Teresa gives birth to David, one of the Stephen Lawrence suspects.

1981 Norris and family move into £ 43,000 home in New Cross, south-east London.

1988 Family move to mansion in Chislehurst worth £ 600,000.

1993 David appears in court over alleged knife attack. A month later he becomes
suspect in murder of Stephen Lawrence.

1994 Norris arrested over firearm and drugs charges. Sentenced to
nine-and-a-half years in jail. Serves seven years.

1999Sir William Macpherson names Norris as 'evil influence' on Lawrence murder
inquiry.

2002 Eldest son David jailed for racism after swerving car at a black man.

2006 Norris accused of corrupting officers in Lawrence murder inquiry.


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             August 4, 2006 Friday

Call a halt to immigration

SECTION: THE BIG ISSUE; DEAR SUN; LETTER

LENGTH: 482  words


BRITAIN'S schools, hospitals and housing are facing meltdown amid a huge surge
in immigration. A Home Office report warns of an angry backlash as newcomers are
given council houses and NHS beds, while forcing wages down. Readers have called
for tighter immigration controls.

£ 30 Letter: WE have one million unemployed, the NHS on its knees, even our
water table levels at an all-time low.

It is time the Government stopped immigration altogether. In 1900 Britain's
population was 38million. It is now 60million. There has to come a point when we
say: "No more."

MARIE STEWART. Leeds

SURPRISE, surprise. Immigration is placing our public services under intolerable
strain. But will we draw the line?

Oh no. Fat-cat lawyers will queue to oppose any attempts to set limits and our
stupid judges will back them 100 per cent.

The rest of us will pay the price.

LESLEY EVANS. Pelsall, West Midlands

A LARGE number of Brits have been saying there is a problem for years but have
been accused of being racist.

An estimated 7.2million increase in population by 2036, largely due to
immigration? That in itself I find shocking.

I wonder what the figure would be if it included the thousands of illegal
immigrants who flock here every year?

SARAH BLAKE. Potters Bar, Herts

CONTROLLED immigration would keep our country on a steady keel but we need
somebody with backbone to make it happen. The Government is at risk of
alienating its own people.

ROBERT THORPE. Pickering, North Yorks

WE are encouraging shirkers, not workers to come to Britain. Our whole
immigration policy is a shambles that will destroy our economy. The rest of
Europe has seen the dangers and put quotas on immigration. Our politicians
couldn't see further than cheap labour. Now we will pay the penalty.

LISA BRUTON. Birmingham

THE warning that there are likely to be 140,000 Romanian and Bulgarian
immigrants heading here should send alarm bells ringing in Westminster.

Can't someone tell them social services are already on their knees?

RICHARD LYON. Sheffield

MR BLAIR is a naive egotist if he thinks unlimited immigration is a solution.

Perhaps he thinks a country in the throes of sectarian and ethnic civil war is a
suitable legacy for his ignorance.

KEVIN WALSH. Leicester

BOTH the Tories and Liberal Democrats are silent in opposition, while UKIP and
the BNP lack leadership.

Surely there has to be a political party with a charismatic leader and ideas
that will win votes and represent the public's views, before HMS UK sinks with
the weight of overcrowding?

STEVE KENT. Gamston, Notts

THE vast majority of British people simply do not want mass immigration and if
Blair has not got the guts to sort this mess out, he should step aside and let
in someone who has.

DAVID VEITCH. Newcastle upon Tyne

WHY don't we quit the EU and go back to owning our own country, thus removing
from millions the automatic right to enter.

KAREN OVERSBY. Haslemere, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 21 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 2, 2006 Wednesday

Teach pupils the 'benefits' of the EU, says Hoon

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 480 words


CHILDREN could be forced to learn about the supposed 'benefits' of the European
Union under Government plans revealed yesterday.

Europe Minister Geoff Hoon said he was concerned that youngsters were
indifferent to the EU because they were not being taught about efforts in
Brussels to promote free trade or cheap travel.

He has written to Alan Johnson, the Education Secretary, asking for lessons on
the EU to be included in the National Curriculum.

The idea prompted protests at Westminster last night. Both The Tories and the
anti-EU United Kingdom Independence Party said it would amount to foisting EU
propaganda on impressionable youngsters.

The National Union of Teachers also said it contradicted Chancellor Gordon
Brown's proposal to teach 'Britishness'.

Only days ago it emerged that the curriculum could be changed so that all
reference to Britain is dropped.

But Mr Hoon insisted: 'We have got to make what goes on in Europe come alive.

'It is about trying to explain what it does and what it means in terms of
practical consequences. I certainly think that should be part of the National
Curriculum. I have no doubt there should be an element in there that explains
what the EU is and how it works.' Guidance for teachers already states that the
structure of the EU can be taught in classes on citizenship.

But Mr Hoon wants a revised curriculum, currently under consideration, to
require all children to learn about its benefits. The Foreign-Office has added
details on Britain in the EU to its website and these should form the basis of
classroom materials, said Mr Hoon.

The Conservatives said they would resist any teaching resources that look like
propaganda.

Europe spokesman Graham Brady said: 'It would be welcome if genuinely objective
information about the EU was available.

'But that information must be clearly objective and must not be a kind of gloss
attempting to promote a particular view of Europe.' UKIP's leader in Brussels,
Nigel Farage, said: 'I would be happy for the impact of the EU to be taught to
children the billions of pounds of British taxpayers' money wasted but I doubt
this is what the Government will teach.' The NUT claimed there was no room in
the timetable for extra EU lessons.

A spokesman added: 'Geoff Hoon wants to add to the content of the National
Curriculum but nobody ever seems to take anything away.

Gordon Brown talked recently about the teaching of Britishness.

There are so many conflicting demands.' The European Commission has already
opened a 'Europe Direct' centre in Plymouth, calling it a 'one-stop shop' where
the public can get information about the EU's activities.

More of the centres, which are part of an EU campaign to fight growing
Euroscepticism among European citizens, are intended to provide information to
the British public about issues such as EU treaties, European policies,
legislation and how to apply for grants.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GEOFF HOON: 'WE HAVE TO MAKE WHAT GOES ON IN EUROPE COME ALIVE'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
