
                               1 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday

If the Tories really were Tory, they'd lead by 16 points, not six

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1275 words


To read the intelligent press in the past few weeks, you might get the
impression that the Conservative Party is on its way to power. It apparently had
a stunning victory in the local elections, has transformed its image by
selecting a group of bright young people (most of them women, and much higher
than the national quota also from ethnic minorities) as potential candidates,
and has surged six points ahead of Labour in our own YouGov poll. Newspapers are
starting to run articles about how David Cameron (for he is now the Tory party,
the rest of them not really meriting a mention) has just turned a corner.

For a party with no policies, and which given Labour's meltdown ought more
fairly to have been 16 points ahead in the polls (a lead that would still put it
way behind where Labour was in about 1995, as the Major government limped to its
death), this is quite an achievement. I rather fear, for the sake of the likely
authors, that we may only be weeks away from the sort of tree-squandering
articles with which we became familiar when Margaret Thatcher started to look
rocky a year or so before the 1987 election, about how the emerging leader of
the opposition would spend his first hundred days in power. Steady on, chaps.

It appears the Cameron strategy (if it can be dignified with such a term) is
roughly as follows. Labour is making the most enormous Horlicks of governing.
Let us just stand back and watch it do so. Three, or perhaps even four, years
from an election, we need no policies, not even broad strokes of the brush. With
the Lib Dems also in trouble, having chosen an utterly inept leader, we can rely
on votes coming from them. Their threat to us in our southern heartland will
diminish. If we upset Right-wing MPs or, much further down the food chain,
journalists, we can turn that to our advantage by using such outrage to
illustrate to the public how we have "changed''. Above all, by arranging a
continuous stream of images of our new leader with young and attractive people,
and with his tie off wherever possible, we shall conclusively prove our fitness
to govern.

Sadly, it's not as easy as that. If you seek evidence of the immaturity of the
party's current approach, and of its detachment from what it fails to recognise
as reality, just look at the only serious initiative it has mounted so far: the
so-called A-list of potential candidates. It was only to be expected that this
crass exercise in positive discrimination would upset traditionally minded
Conservatives. The party glibly laughed off assaults for including, for example,
a man whose only apparent qualification for public life was to have acted in
Coronation Street. It even brushed aside threats of legal action from
constituency parties that resented their historic autonomy being compromised in
this way - though it swiftly told the late Eric Forth's association in Bromley
and Chislehurst that the A-list wouldn't apply there.

What it has found harder to dismiss is the fact that many seats for which
A-listers were told to apply have received few applications. Bernard Jenkin, the
party vice-chairman who was handed this poisoned chalice after the leadership
election, has been forced to admit that the net may now have to be cast more
widely. I must say that, if even Dave's own hand-picked shock troops are so
reluctant to join battle, it doesn't augur frightfully well for the rest of the
party.

It is time that, on this and various other fronts, the Conservative Party took a
reality check, and stopped bragging in briefings to political hacks about how
wonderfully things are going. For a start, the local election results were not
by a long chalk so wonderful as under the leadership of William Hague, and look
what happened to him. About 40 per cent of a very small turnout in a section of
the country (for many places did not have elections) decided to vote
Conservative. A vast majority decided, if they had a decision to make, either to
vote for someone else or not to vote at all. Excitement on that front seems,
therefore, rather premature.

The idea, too, that the Conservatives just need to sit back and wait for their
opponents to finish imploding is also fanciful. By the next election, Gordon
Brown will probably be prime minister, and Labour will enjoy a recovery (however
modest) in the public's esteem when he is. The Lib Dems have proved their
ruthlessness in removing a leader deemed not up to it, and I wouldn't bet on
their not doing precisely the same again. A six-point lead over a shattered,
in-fighting Labour Party at this stage does not appear much of an insurance
policy against either of those potential blows, but I may be wrong.

There are further difficulties. Where the Conservatives are at level pegging
with Labour on individual policies - such as health and education - it is
because their policies are identical to Labour's. Tory strategists may for all I
know be brilliant, but they haven't worked out that this does not exactly
provide compelling reasons to vote Conservative instead of Labour.

So far, irritation has been kept below the surface, but the present Conservative
lead, like the admiration for the party's flashy and shallow leader, is built on
perilously shaky foundations. The Cornerstone group, which however much the
modernisers might disparage it speaks for a fifth of Mr Cameron's parliamentary
party, warned him yesterday about the absurdity of the A-list. It is becoming
increasingly angry, too, about his conspicuous failure to deliver on his promise
to remove his party's MEPs from the EPP grouping in Brussels, to which there
appears to be no impediment other than the prospective rage of old Europhiles of
his acquaintance such as Ken Clarke and Lord Heseltine.

But above all, while no one expects specific policies, there are not even
general statements of purpose that might recruit people to the cause. It took
the shambles in the Home Office to squeeze out even the slightest note of
disapproval about illegal immigration, something the public is deeply anxious
about. Conservative MPs are concerned about the failure of the party to engage
in the matter of Labour's pensions disaster. Almost all of the running on the
disgrace of the continuation of John Prescott in salaried office is being made
by Labour MPs.

Above all, the Conservatives seem happy to tolerate a general state of economic
management that will, at some point, run our country into the ground. A survey
last weekend showed that only three of 12 British regions had a lower public
spend than ex-eastern bloc countries such as Poland and the Czech Republic, and
that much of Britain is, therefore, being Sovietised in its dependence on the
state. The Conservatives are silent on this, and the presumption that they wish
to maintain this scandalous waste of public money and entail the consequent
economic decline can only damage them.

Perhaps Mr Cameron's most harmful assumption is this: that, in the end, the Tory
public, and the supposedly Tory press, will have nowhere else to go, so he can
muddle along in the middle and end up in Downing Street. If the Conservative
Party were any longer Tory, he might have a point - but it isn't. I am alarmed
by the number of readers who write to me to say they have voted, or will vote,
BNP. The entirely respectable UKIP now stands at four per cent in the polls, and
almost all its support is precious votes taken from the Conservatives. Above
all, the abstention party goes from strength to strength. Mr Cameron wilfully
does nothing to counter these forces, except occasionally to insult them.
However unlikely it may now seem, he and his party will live to regret that.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              May 29, 2006 Monday

BYLINE: RICHARD KAY

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 74 words


JOAN COLLINS broke hearts in the UK Independence Party and cheered the
Conservatives on the eve of the last General Election when she publicly
announced that her patronage of UKIP did not mean she would actually vote for
the party. But now Miss Collins, 73 last week, reveals she is no fan of David
Cameron, saying she would prefer to have former leader William Hague back in
charge.

The actress's verdict on Dave? 'He has a face like a pudding.'

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 26, 2006 Friday

Tories six points ahead as scandals rock Blair

BYLINE: George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 663 words


THE Conservatives are experiencing their most sustained electoral recovery for
more than 14 years as public confidence in the competence of Tony Blair's
government plummets, according to a YouGov poll published in The Daily Telegraph
today.

After a string of Government blunders and scandals culminating in near meltdown
at the Home Office this week, the Tories have opened a six-point lead over
Labour - their largest advantage since before John Major's win in the 1992
general election.

The poll shows Mr Blair's government limping into a 10-day Whitsun Commons
recess with 67 per cent of voters believing it gives the impression of being "a
floundering regime''.

The recovery in Tory fortunes after three bruising election defeats at the hands
of Mr Blair is reinforced by signs that under David Cameron the party is
catching up or even overtaking Labour on its home ground policy issues, such as
pensions, education and the health service.

The poll will increase the pressure on Sir Menzies Campbell, the embattled
Liberal Democrat leader, who is significantly less popular than his predecessor,
Charles Kennedy, who was forced out by his MPs after admitting a drink problem.

Only eight per cent of the public would like to see Sir Menzies as prime
minister - the lowest ever rating for any Lib Dem leader. He will relaunch his
leadership with a speech today intended to show his party would not be "soft''
on crime.

YouGov is the latest in a series of opinion polls to show the Tories opening a
clear lead - ranging from four to eight points - since Labour's drubbing in the
English local elections at the beginning of this month.

It puts the Conservatives on 38 per cent (up five points since April), Labour on
32 per cent (down three) and the Liberal Democrats 16 per cent (down one). All
three main parties will be worried by the 14 per cent picked up by minority
parties, including the far-Right British National Party, the UK Independence
Party and the Greens.

The poll will increase the concern of Labour MPs that Mr Blair, who broke
records for popularity when he won power in 1997, is rapidly becoming an
electoral liability only a year after delivering a third election victory.

It is likely to increase pressure for him to stand down next year and fulfil his
promise to give Gordon Brown "ample'' time to improve the party's fortunes in
the run-up to the next election.

Only 26 per cent of voters are still satisfied with Mr Blair, his lowest rating
in any regular monthly survey. Mr Cameron is now only one point behind him when
voters are asked who would make the best Prime Minister.

The poll comes after almost six months of unremittingly bad headlines for the
Government. Its reputation for honesty has been badly damaged by the "cash for
peerages'' row, which is still being investigated by Scotland Yard and could
result in more arrests, and the sex scandal that reduced John Prescott, the
Deputy Prime Minister, to a figure of ridicule.

Labour's overall reputation for competence has been damaged by the cash crisis
in the NHS and the chaos in the Home Office.

However, the Conservatives are beginning to regain their reputation for economic
competence. Labour's lead on "the economy overall'' has fallen from 22 points a
year ago to only two points now.

Conservatives are narrowly ahead on education, pensions and transport and are
only narrowly behind on the NHS and housing.

The Tories' poll rating is still short of the 40 per cent needed to win power at
the next election. But the recovery is a significant fillip for Mr Cameron less
than six months into his leadership, and is likely to silence Right-wing critics
who have accused him of backing away from traditional Tory policies.

The "Cameron effect'' has boosted the party's revenues. Figures published
yesterday showed that in the first three months of this year, the Tories
received pounds 8.9 million in donations, while Labour received pounds 3
million, mostly from trade unions.

Con 38% +5

Lab 32% -3

LibDem 16% -1

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 26, 2006 Friday

Analysis Blair starts to lose his grip as Cameron wins a vote of trust

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1135 words


THE bad news for Labour is that the Conservatives are now well ahead. The even
worse news is that the Tories are now catching up or even overtaking Labour in
policy fields such as pensions, education and the health service that the Labour
Party has traditionally called its own. David Cameron's strategy for his party
appears to be working.

The bad news for Labour is bad enough. The Conservatives on 38 per cent are now
six points clear of Labour - the Tories' largest lead over Labour since before
John Major's victory in the 1992 general election. Labour on 32 per cent has
fallen by three points since this time last month. The Liberal Democrats, down
one point since April on 16 per cent, continue to languish.

Indeed, the minor parties as a group show signs of catching up with the Liberal
Democrats. Fourteen per cent of voters - roughly double the usual proportion -
now say they would vote for a minor party other than one of the big three. The
Greens currently have the support of three per cent of voters and Ukip four per
cent. The BNP, deprived of publicity, has fallen from seven per cent last month
to four per cent now.

On every one of YouGov's monthly indicators, Labour is tracking downwards. Only
26 per cent of voters are still satisfied with Tony Blair - his lowest-ever
rating in any regular monthly survey - and a mere 28 per cent still think he
would make a better prime minister than either of the other two main party
leaders.

Mr Cameron is rapidly closing in on Mr Blair. More people than in any other
months since he took over, 27 per cent, now think Mr Cameron would make the best
prime minister. The gap between them is one percentage point.

Sadly for the Liberal Democrats, Sir Menzies Campbell continues to trail badly.
Only eight per cent of YouGov's sample would like to see him in Downing Street -
the lowest recorded for any Lib Dem leader since the Liberal Democrats
effectively replaced the old Liberal-SDP Alliance in 1990.

As for the Government as a whole, its already low reputation has fallen still
further. The number approving of its overall record, 25 per cent, is at an
all-time low, down a further two points since late April. The Government's
ratings are starting to descend towards those endured by the Major and Thatcher
administrations in their declining days.

A large majority of voters seem to think Mr Blair and his colleagues have lost
control of events. Two thirds of YouGov's respondents, 67 per cent, say the
Government "gives the impression of being a floundering regime'' compared with
only 17 per cent who think the Government still appears to have "a clear sense
of direction''. All this could in theory be put down to passing dissatisfaction
with the Government's current performance - a sort of early-developing "mid-term
blues''. However, far more serious from Labour's point of view are the findings
in YouGov's survey suggesting that Labour is no longer the preferred party in a
variety of issues where Labour was once wholly dominant.

On the eve of the general election a year ago YouGov asked voters which party
they thought could best handle each of a battery of 18 "problems facing the
country''. YouGov repeated the same question this week and the responses are -
or should be - deeply disturbing from Labour's point of view.

A year ago Labour led the Conservatives on no fewer than 14 of the 18 issues,
with the two parties tied on a 15th. The Conservatives at that time led on only
three: immigration, law and order and council tax. Now Labour leads on only nine
of the 18 with the Tories ahead on the other nine. As the figures in the chart
show, the largest swings to the Conservatives have been on issues relating to
the economy. Labour still leads on every economic question but by narrower
margins.

The Tories remain ahead on immigration, law and order and council tax and have
added taxation in general, terrorism, the environment and global warming,
education, pensions and transport. The Liberal Democrats lead both major parties
only on the environment and global warming.

But perhaps the most striking figures in the chart are those relating to the
Labour Party's traditional welfare-state issues.

As the figures show, the Conservatives are now narrowly ahead on education,
pensions and transport and are only narrowly behind on the NHS and housing.

All that said, the figures in the right-hand column of the chart headed "best
party to handle'' should give politicians of all parties pause. YouGov asked
people which party could handle each of the 18 issues but gave respondents the
option of replying "none of them'' or "don't know''. The right-hand column
reports the percentages of respondents who replied in each case either "no
party'' or "don't know'' and the size of the proportions set out in the column
provides a depressing indicator of the number of voters - millions of them - who
believe that the three main parties are failing to offer credible alternatives
or are not offering them alternatives at all.

The proportion saying "no party'' or "don't know'' never falls significantly
below a third. Those who content themselves with replying "don't know'' probably
include large numbers of people who suspect that in the end no major party can
deliver.

As must be evident, far fewer voters than in the past are bewitched by any one
party. Far more are bothered and bewildered by the whole lot. Labour is clearly
in trouble but so is Britain's whole political class.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

Headlines chart Labour's decline

Kelly let sex offenders work in schools

Jan 12: Ruth Kelly, Education Secretary, under pressure after revelation that 10
adults on the sex offenders' register are working in schools.

Prescott apology

Jan 13: minister in charge of council tax apologises for failing to pay pounds
6,000 tax on grace-and-favour flat in Admiralty House.

Missing MPs and rebels leave Blair humiliated over religious hate Bill

Feb 2: Government is hit by a double defeat over the Racial and Religious Hatred
Bill.

Jowell's job on line over mortgage link to 'bribe'

Feb 28: Tessa Jowell under pressure to resign over husband's' mortgage deals.

Wards closed and staff cut as NHS cash crisis bites

March 9: Redundancies as deficit in the NHS said to have risen to pounds 800
million.

The 12 who bankrolled Blair

March 21: Labour forced to name 12 businessmen in "peerages for cash'' uproar.

Hunt for 900 dangerous criminals freed in error

April 26: 1,000 foreign criminals freed without being considered for
deportation.

Bewitched, bothered, bewildered

April 27: Deputy Prime Minister admits affair with diary secretary, Health
Secretary jeered by nurses; Home Secretary under pressure to quit over foreign
prisoners scandal.

Blair punished at the polls

May 5: Labour loses almost 200 council seats in local elections.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday

Maude bars 'mincing metrosexuals'

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 471 words


FRANCIS Maude, the Conservative chairman, sought to defuse the row over his
elite list of would-be MPs yesterday by vowing not to impose "mincing
metrosexuals'' on "gritty northern'' seats.

His intervention came as dissatisfaction grew over the A-list of candidates,
with another constituency association - Pendle, Lancs - breaking cover to
protest.

There are also rumours - denied by his aides - that even David Cameron is uneasy
about some candidates picked by a special selection panel and eligible for
selection in 35 target seats.

At the weekend, Tory HQ appeared to climb down over the selection of a
replacement for Eric Forth, the MP for Bromley and Chislehurst, who died last
week.

The party is expected to push for an early by-election to prevent the Liberal
Democrats or the UK Independence Party from building up a head of steam.
Officials indicated that the A-list would not apply as it was a by-election and
that they would consider local candidates who were not on the priority list,
which is more than 50 per cent female.

However, the drive to get more women to become MPs is central to Mr Cameron's
plans to modernise the party and take it into government.

In an interview for Tory Radio, Mr Maude - fast becoming a hate figure for some
traditional members - came out fighting. He admitted there was bound to be "a
certain amount of resistance and reaction'' to the A-list. But he hit out at
"ridiculous caricatures'' now being put around about the priority list.

"A lot of it is just fantasy country - the idea that what we're actually trying
to do is insert mincing metrosexuals into gritty northern marginal seats is
complete rubbish,'' said the MP for Horsham.

He urged rejected A-list applicants not to give in, saying they had not been
"cast into outer darkness'' as the list would be topped up after the summer.

He also offered an olive branch by way of saying: "If an association wants to
interview an outstanding local candidate who is not on the priority list, then
they can ask us and we'll generally be accommodating to that.''

But the suggestion that parties can include only one extra local candidate may
fail to placate Tory associations.

Tonia Barton, the chairman of the association in Pendle, said that as a woman,
she found the perceived positive discrimination on the priority list "deeply
insulting''.

Jonathan Scott, the executive director of Conservative Vision, a think-tank
dedicated to the party's revival in the North, said Mr Maude's choice of words
was "inappropriate'' but he presumed they were not intentionally so.

"Gender, ethnic background or sexuality are not important in a candidate,'' he
said.

He called for a bar on "southern pin-striped'' Conservatives being parachuted
into northern seats and added that when it came to Mr Cameron "the jury up here
is still out''.

bcarlin@telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 23, 2006, Tuesday

Animal extremists can no longer hide behind a web of secrecy

BYLINE: Dan Tench

SECTION: FEATURES; Law; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 724 words


An order that protected Harry Potter is now safeguarding shareholders, says Dan
Tench

WHEN animal rights activists recently wrote anonymously to shareholders of
GlaxoSmithKline threatening to post their details on the internet if they did
not disinvest in the company, they must have thought that they could make their
threats with little risk of legal action being taken against them. However, the
court order obtained by the drugs company has made the approach look
considerably more risky.

The order means that if the activists were to repeat or carry out the threat,
they would be in contempt of court and potentially face a large fine or even
imprisonment.

When seeking the order, Glaxo faced two difficulties. First, the identities of
those sending the letters were unknown so it was not clear against whom it could
take the action. However, in recent years, the law has developed to assist
parties seeking to take legal action where an obvious illegality has taken place
but the person perpetrating the act cannot be determined.

When in 2003 a few copies of J. K. Rowling's blockbuster, Harry Potter and the
Order of the Phoenix, were stolen before publication, she was able to obtain an
injunction against "person or persons unknown" -being those people who stole the
copies -restraining them from disseminating the book's contents. She secured a
similar order two years later when prepublication copies of Harry Potter and the
Half-Blood Prince were also stolen. Glaxo used the same technique in its case to
obtain an order against the people who sent the letter to shareholders.

The second difficulty was that all the letters were threatening to do was to
take information that was publicly available from the shareholders' register of
the company and place it on the internet. What infringement of the shareholders'
privacy or other rights could be said to have taken place when the information
was already in the public domain?

Traditionally, any such action might have been difficult. The principal
protection would have been the law of confidence but the information concerning
the shareholders can hardly be said to be confidential since it was already
publicly available. However, in recent years there has been the development of a
privacy law distinct from that of confidence. In a privacy case, just because
the information is publicly available in some form does not mean that it is not
a breach of privacy to make it available to a much wider audience.

Last year, a children's care home obtained an injunction preventing a local
newspaper disclosing details of the addresses of its homes as part of a campaign
the paper was running against them. This was even though the addresses were
freely available from the Land Registry. In the Glaxo case, the additional
circulation of the information coupled with the intimidation inherent in the
letters were sufficient for the court to grant the order.

The activists may nonetheless feel reasonably safe since they have still not
been identified and could carry out their threat. However, this may be
hazardous. If the shareholders details were to appear on the net, the company
could obtain court orders requiring the internet service providers to disclose
details of those who posted the information. This can be a time-consuming
process, often requiring several orders against different companies as the
postings are traced back through a chain of e-mail accounts and computers. But
with careful work, the identity of the poster can sometimes be found. In March,
a woman who anonymously posted a false sexual accusations against a UKIP
parliamentary candidate on a internet chat site was ordered to pay £ 10,000 in
libel damages when her identity was discovered in this way.

The readiness of judges generally to protect scientists from animal rights
protesters will be further tested with the application being made by Oxford
University for a court order to extend the exclusion area for protesters around
the university's laboratories to four square miles and otherwise to restrict
demonstrations. It seems that in law the net is closing in on the protesters and
particularly on those who seek to act or threaten anonymously. However fervent
the activists' belief in their cause, their ability to advance this covertly may
now be extremely limited.

The author is a media partner at Olswang

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 22, 2006 Monday

Tory HQ shake-up and A-list row cast shadow over Maude

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 459 words


DAVID Cameron has ordered a shake-up of Conservative headquarters amid rumours
that he is unhappy with the performance of Francis Maude, the party chairman,
and his handling of the "A-list'' of would-be Tory MPs.

Steve Hilton, one of the Tory leader's closest aides, is to be transferred from
Mr Cameron's Commons office to become head of communications at party
headquarters, The Daily Telegraph has learned.

The move, along with confirmation that Mr Cameron will spend more time at Tory
HQ in central London, is being seized on by grassroots campaigners as proof that
the leader is unhappy with Mr Maude.

One member of the Shadow Cabinet said last night: "Maude has not got many
allies.''

According to party insiders, Mr Cameron feels that candidates on the "A-list'' -
supposedly private but published on the conservativehome.com website - do not
come up to the high standards he had hoped for. Friends of Mr Maude denied that
there was a rift and emphasised that neither he, nor the party leader, had been
directly involved in the priority list selection, which was carried out by a
separate panel.

Yesterday, there were fresh signs of unease from Tory constituency associations
over the list of around 100 candidates selected by headquarters to stand in the
most winnable seats at the next general election. Just over half the candidates
are women and about 10 per cent are from ethnic minorities.

The Daily Telegraph understands that party officials from Finchley and Golders
Green - one of the 35 associations supposed to pick a candidate from the
"A-list'' by the end of July - will meet Bernard Jenkin, the party's deputy
chairman, to demand a longer timetable.

One association officer privately urged party headquarters to stop treating
local Tory workers "like Army conscripts''.

And in a further sign that the leadership is backing away from potential clashes
with local parties, the Bromley and Chislehurst association has been told that
it does not need to choose from the list for a replacement for Eric Forth, who
died last week.

While technically a by-election gives Tory HQ even more power to impose a
prospective MP, Mr Cameron's spokesman indicated that good local candidates
would be put forward alongside names from the "A-list''.

One local Tory MP said last night: "The last thing we want a war with the local
association.''

Mr Forth, an arch-Eurosceptic MP, had a majority of 13,342 over Labour at the
last election.

There are private Tory fears that, given Mr Forth's stridently anti-European
Union views, the UK Independence Party may be the most dangerous challenger.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader in the European Parliament, said last night that he
himself was "seriously thinking'' of standing in what was a "must-do''
by-election for his party.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              May 22, 2006 Monday

'Flying' supercar kills wannabe MP

BYLINE: John Scott

LENGTH: 277  words


THIS was the shocking scene after a supercar shot out of control "at 90mph" and
landed ON TOP of another motor -killing its innocent driver.

The Subaru Impreza flew though the air after clipping a kerb when a teenager
behind the wheel lost control while speeding through a city suburb.

Onlookers said it hit a Mercedes before crushing ex-Parliamentary candidate
Richard Adams' VW Golf as he sat in traffic. Some feared the sporty Subaru could
have been going three times the 30mph limit.

Dad-of-one Richard was a 34-year-old chartered accountant who stood for the UK
Independence Party in the 2001 election. He had left his office to have lunch
with wife Susan and one-year-old son Blake.

One witness said: "He never had a chance." Youths from inside the P-reg Subaru
saloon were reportedly grabbed by passers-by and other motorists while trying to
flee the scene in Nechells, Birmingham.

Kevin Martins, 27, who works nearby, said: "I heard the Subaru before I saw it -
it was way over the speed limit. A moment later I heard a big bang and the
squeal of brakes. The Subaru hit the central reservation and flew into the air
like an aeroplane. It hit a Mercedes first and then landed with full force on
the Golf. It was incredibly upsetting."

Grief-stricken Susan said at the Solihull home she shared with Richard, right:
"Words can't describe how I feel. He was a wonderful man, husband and dad." The
Subaru was not thought to be stolen.

Four youths, two of 16, one of 15 and a 19-year-old were quizzed on suspicion of
causing death by dangerous driving. Three were freed pending inquiries. The
19-year-old was still helping with the police probe into Friday's accident.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday

New Labour looks like an ancient ruin

BYLINE: JOHN MACLEOD

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1092 words


NEW Labour, mused Jon Cruddas only last year, is 'a brilliant political movement
whose primary objective is to reproduce itself to achieve this it must dominate
the politics of middle England.

'The Government,' he continued, 'is not a coalition of traditions and interests
who initiate policy and debate; rather, it is a power elite whose modus operandi
is the retention of power.' You've probably never heard of Jon Cruddas, an
immensely able man who once held a senior post in Downing Street.

He became MP for Dagenham, Essex, in 2001 and, as he came to grips with the
lives and fears of his constituents, grew increasingly alarmed by the outworking
of New Labour in practical governance.

According to Cruddas, the 'originality of New Labour' is its construction of
policy: not from core principles, or any fixed values, but with the aid of
polling, focus-groups and so on entirely ordering our affairs by 'the
preferences and prejudices of the swing voter in the swing seat'.

Hence, New Labour policy this decade past has been fashioned solely for the
purpose of winning elections. In Britain, that's down to a remarkably small
group of voters in perhaps 100 marginal constituencies.

'The Project', driven as it is by its obsession with the swing vote in marginal
seats, has alienated more and more traditional Labour voters. They don't want
city academies, or foundation hospitals, or lower carbon dioxide emissions. They
want council houses, clean streets, action on petty crime and a serious
crackdown on immigration.

And, just two weeks ago, as Cruddas watched helplessly, thousands in Barking and
Dagenham, scunnered beyond endurance by the mounting irrelevance of New Labour
to their lives and needs, turned out to vote for the British National Party.

THE BNP is not, in the long term, a serious threat to our political order.

All lunaticfringe parties tend to be punished once they start actually to win
elections and Joe Public can see how ludicrous its personalities are.

In the last three years, we have already seen the implosion of UKIP not to
mention the travails of the Scottish Socialist Party and the unholy huddle of
new BNP councillors will swiftly be put down as yet another assemblage of the
malignant, the inept and the inane.

The BNP breakthrough in particular, benighted corners of Greater London really
indicates not a surge in the far Right but, rather, the disintegration of New
Labour.

It is bad enough to lose swing voters but the loss (in droves) of the sort of
Labour voter who turned out for Attlee marks the beginning of the end.

It is still more troubling for ambitious members of the Government because there
is mounting evidence that a change at the top will make very little difference.

Even in Scotland, Gordon Brown does not seem to command the regard he once
enjoyed as attested in the late Dunfermline by-election and polls suggest that,
if anything, the increasingly assured David Cameron would do even better against
the lugubrious Chancellor than what remains of bright-eyed Bambi Blair.

Scottish disaffection with New Labour has, if anything, set in earlier and gone
still further than the mass of England's shires. Anti-Labour tactical voting has
been evident for years.

And there is now something approaching panic as we nudge into the final year of
this Scottish parliament. In 2003, only 36 per cent of Scots who bothered to
vote supported Labour in the constituency ballot. All evidence suggests barely
30 per cent would vote Labour if an election were held tomorrow.

There is a real prospect, then, of a Holyrood defeat for Labour next spring of a
new Executive by some weird and wonderful coalition. And, even if McConnell and
chums survive, it could be at the head of a party whose claim to meaningful
national support rings distinctly hollow.

Labour's most marginal Holyrood seats include Dumfries, Dundee West, Aberdeen
Central and the Western Isles leaving the real prospect, next year, of there
being not a single Labour constituency MSP from the Borders, the Highlands or
anywhere beyond the Central Belt.

Consider also that we shall be re-electing our local authorities by proportional
representation inevitably with the loss of many Labour councillors and we could
be on the brink of a new era in Scottish politics, ending half a century of
rotten-burgh People's Party patronage.

Such a Scottish disaster would do little for the Chancellor's standing in
Westminster.

Nor would his imminent promotion to No 10 grant sufficient honeymoon to make
much of a difference. Gordon Brown must pray that he accedes, perhaps, next
spring and that any Holyrood casualties can be blamed on Jack McConnell.

BROWN has another problem besides. No one disputes his ability he is twice the
man Blair is or his stature.

He is one of the great Chancellors of history, to say nothing of a man genuinely
fired by the best ideals and thinking of the Labour movement.

But he is simply not liked. If Alastair Campbell, famously, did not do God,
Brown cannot do charm. When he tries and he has tried darned hard of late to do
the warm, be-sweatered smile thing, one doesn't think of allconquering charisma.

Yet that is the least of Gordon Brown's worries. For all the drama of the last
three weeks, there is no imminent prospect of Tony Blair's fall and, by Labour
rules, there is no quick, lethal mechanism for getting rid of him.

The Prime Minister is a busted flush. He is gruesomely unpopular. He cuts an
increasingly forlorn, ludicrous figure. His rhetoric is more and more tinny.

He has been PM far too long and is irretrievably damned by the biggest mistake
of his tenure hauling us into war against a nation that hadn't attacked us and
was no threat to any beyond its borders on the pretext of weapons of mass
destruction it didn't actually have.

But Tony Blair seems capable yet of hanging about for another year as Labour's
credibility and local power bases crumble away, bequeathing his successor so
much political rubble.

New Labour has been sustained for so long thanks to a large level of luck.

It has for the most part enjoyed the support of fawning, uncritical media large
chunks of the Press; the tacit soft-Left ideals that drive so many in the BBC
and the woeful failure of the Tories to mount serious opposition.

That day has gone. Brown, and the few surviving colleagues of fixed principle
and firm ideal, must watch helplessly as it all disintegrates like the last act
of an opera with the scenery falling down and voters flee from the shell of
their former hero still standing, still spouting the clichEs of an empty
politics.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday

Feature - We beat them once, we can do it again;
There's no need to hit the panic button over the BNP, argues David Renton - the
'70s show us how to fight a resurgence of fascism

BYLINE: David Renton

LENGTH: 770 words


The worst news to emerge from this month's local elections was the high vote
gained by the British National Party. Some 33 BNP councillors were elected,
bringing the party's total to 48.

This story swamped the better news of gains for the Greens, with 20 new
councillors and 91 in total, Respect (15 and 16), the Socialist Party (two and
seven) and other left votes elsewhere.

Both the BBC and ITV made the news of BNP gains in Barking their second lead
story, after the Cabinet reshuffle. The media announced a BNP breakthrough and
that, unfortunately, is the message that most people will have heard.

The BNP is often described in the press as a "far-right" party. The problem with
this phrase is that it mixes the BNP up with parties like UKIP or Robert
Kilroy-Silk's Veritas. All may, indeed, appeal to similar voters at election
time, but the structure and history of the BNP are very different.

You couldn't imagine UKIP proudly showing off its private army of bodyguards, as
the BNP internet TV channel did after Nick Griffin's acquittal on incitement
charges earlier this year.

Nor could you imagine Veritas urging its members to blockade the Commission for
Racial Equality and the National Union of Journalists, as the BNP did in 2004.
Nor, indeed, has either UKIP or Veritas provided a home to arsonists, bombers
and other criminals, as the BNP did to London nail-bomber David Copeland.

The BNP is a fascist party, founded by former members of the National Front and
led currently by Nick Griffin, a previous NF leader.

One irony in the election results is that the BNP gains, outside Barking and
Dagenham, were relatively modest. In the north-east, the BNP vote in Gateshead
fell by around half compared to 2004. Its vote in Sunderland was around a third
less than in 2004. In Bradford and Calderdale, the BNP actually lost
councillors.

Of the 33 new BNP councillors, 12 were elected in Barking. Margaret Hodge's
remark before the election that eight in 10 white voters in her constituency
were likely to vote BNP proved especially destructive.

Other MPs had warned beforehand of the BNP threat and used that danger to turn
out the anti-fascist vote. The problem with the way in which Hodge spoke was
that she almost seemed reconciled to the idea of BNP gains. She didn't attack
the BNP. She talked up that party's chances. She gave the impression that she
was comfortable with a high BNP vote.

Yet, in the aftermath of the elections, all is not lost. For the last five
years, one of the difficulties that we've had in the anti-fascist movement has
been the geographical unevenness of fascism and anti-fascism. The BNP vote was
highest in the north, but anti-fascists had their strongest organisation in
London.

The BNP was always "somewhere else." We were in cities, they were in small
towns. If you lived in a BNP target area, then it was obvious that something
nasty and sinister was at work.

If you didn't live in such an area, though, it was relatively easy to imagine
that nothing was going on.

But the BNP seats are now more concentrated than previously - and located closer
to the areas of anti-fascist strength. There is a chance, then, for anti-racists
and anti-fascists to go on the offensive, to take up arguments about what the
BNP stands for and to win back ground.

We've been here before. In the 1970s, the NF had two elected councillors and, in
1976 and 1977, it won levels of support in elections in Leicester, Birmingham,
Bournemouth and Ilford that were very similar to the BNP votes seen in the
recent elections.

In response to the rise of the NF, an enormous protest coalition was launched.
The movement took in factory workers, women, artists, musicians, students.

There were great anti-racist carnivals in London, Manchester, Leeds and all over
Britain. People organised against the threat and, on the terraces and in the
estates, they won an argument that racism was wrong and fascism should be
stopped.

Having gained electoral momentum, the NF then lost it. In each of the preceding
three elections, the NF vote had risen, but, in 1979, it fell dramatically. Only
in the last five years has the BNP begun to recover from that reverse.

We need to learn from this experience that parties like the BNP have suffered
reverses in the past. So long as you make the campaign vibrant, dynamic and
colourful, anti-fascism will work.

- David Renton is the author of When We Touched The Sky, a new history of the
Anti-Nazi League 1977-1981. The book is normally available at £13.95, but
Morning Star readers can obtain copies for £11 including postage from New
Clarion Press, 5 Church Row, Gretton, Cheltenham GL54 5HG.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Reply: Letters and emails: Right price to roam

BYLINE: Godfrey Bloom MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 176 words


The proposals by IT commissioner Reding to end the telecoms industry "punishing"
travellers may not be as friendly as The EC would like it to appear (EC attack
on roaming fees, May 15). Industry representatives agreed that forced roaming
charges could not only affect the quality of service, particularly in countries
with only a small telecoms industry - it is estimated prices will double in
Malta - but could make roaming an additional package which customers would have
to subscribe to separately. And operators would not be compelled to provide a
service which costs them money. While the jet-set Euro elite may be happy at
having cheaper calls while conducting their business, the costs will be felt by
those at home. T-Mobile has said that "regulation roaming prices would be
detrimental to the European mobile industry and consequently to the European
consumer". As an MEP it will cut my own bills significantly. However, surely my
job is not to add more feathers to my already comfortable nest.

Godfrey Bloom MEP

Ukip, Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 15, 2006 Monday

Reply: Letters and emails: A responsibility to represent, respect and reform

BYLINE: Malcolm Clark

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 172 words


* A week after local elections, the voters of Barking and Dagenham have every
reason to feel doubly failed by an elec toral system that could not deliver the
council they actually voted for. Twice as many people voted for the
Conservatives or Ukip as voted for the BNP in the borough. Yet these voters are
virtually unrepresented on the council, which has one Tory and no Ukip
councillors - compared with 11 BNP councillors.

The current electoral system rewards the BNP's highly localised support compared
with parties with larger or more widespread support. The outcome skews the
wishes of the electorate and has far-reaching consequences for the management
and priorities of the council. It should be the Conservatives, not the BNP, who
form the main opposition to Labour in the council chambers.

In the interests not just of its traditional voters but also of anti-racist
efforts nationwide, the government should consider all mechanisms for changing
this dynamic, including electoral reform.

Malcolm Clark

Coordinator, Make Votes Count

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday

Human Rights Act will be the ruin of Britain

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 1285 words


So Afghan hijackers are allowed to stay in Britain and criminals from overseas
get out of prison early to reoffend? Surely it's time to deport all foreign
nationals who contravene our laws. Too much emphasis is placed on the Human
Rights Act.

Those of us who worked in government offices when that law was passed could see
quite clearly what the consequences would be.

What a pity the Government couldn't see it too.

Doreen Robshaw Carrington, Nottingham . . . Self-made stateless immigrants who
have destroyed their identity paperwork, preventing us returning them to their
homeland, should be taken to an uninhabited British island and supplied with the
bare essentials for a year.

This would not include TVs, medical treatment, refrigerators or net curtains.
How many would soon remember where they came from and prefer to go home?

P. Harvey Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol MPs are just in it for the money Why are we
so concerned about a Member of Parliament who seduces his secretary?

We should be more concerned about getting rid of the whole lot. There is not one
MP who would give the nation a thought if it wasn't for the money we pay them.

J. Bott East Goscote, Leicester . . . The Tory Party appears to have abandoned
any notion of opposing the Government. Their days are numbered, while the
Liberal Democrats are even worse.

If a new political party arose like a phoenix from the ashes of the burnt-out
Tory Party and adopted some of the BNP and UKIP proposals, minus the racist
elements and policies, they would surely command huge support from the
disenfranchised and beaten-down people of this country. In addition, an
effective opposition would hopefully restore some sanity to the Labour Party.

Richard Reeves Bromley, Kent What's secret about this ballot?

On polling day, I noticed that when you enter the polling station the officials
look at your card or ask who you are and cross you off the register. That's
fine.

Then as they hand you your ballot paper from a book, they write your number on
the stub left in the book.

There cannot be more than 500 people who vote at my polling station, so how hard
would it be for

The Powers That Be to find out who voted for a party they did not approve of?

People may be afraid to vote the way they really want to.

Linda Rodrigues Brentwood, Essex Wrong platform for rail information When I
recently telephoned National Rail Enquiries, I was put through to India. I asked
about trains from Nottingham via Derby to be told there was no such service. I
wanted a train that would get me to Exeter by noon the Indian gentleman said I
should leave at 2pm.

I don't blame him, I blame the people who placed such an important service as
rail enquiries overseas.

Colin Bower Nottingham No wonder NHS is cash-strapped I was in hospital for five
days for a hip operation. I took in my medication of three inhalers, two
nebulisers and six lots of tablets enough for a week.

The day after my operation a pharmacist took them all away and replaced them. I
asked what had happened to them and was told they had been disposed of. What a

waste of money. I support the NHS and the care I received was excellent, but why
waste all this money replacing perfectly good medication?

Phil Boden Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire . . . Four years ago I had an
eightmonth stay in our hospital's local cardio ward. There was no manager, just
a sister heading a very happy team, who did all they could to make me content
too.

This year I returned to find the sister replaced by a ward manager and all the
happy feeling that was there before had gone.

Staff had no time for anything but the necessities, and I begged to be
discharged after five days.

Barbara Rafferty Redcar, North Yorkshire Take organs unless people opt out The
answer to the problem of lack of organ donors is that organs should be taken
from anyone who dies unless those people carry a card or make their wishes known
that they want to 'opt out' of such a scheme.

Sandra Perkins Harrogate, North Yorkshire Young soccer fans gave me respect I
took the last train from Bradford to Leeds after a night at the theatre and,
being the wrong side of 60 and female, was concerned about the young male
football fans on the same train. But I did not need to be. All went well and as
we came close to my stop and I attempted my exit, they were polite and friendly.

I know we have a problem with today's youth but really it is all about respect
for us and them.

Jill Allison Crossgates, Leeds

LETTER OF THE WEEK

Driving to work through the glorious spring countryside in Essex the other day,
I was thinking life isn't bad really. Nearing 60, I am still employed by an
understanding company that gives me light duties after a lifetime of heavy work.
The brilliant NHS has saved me after three heart attacks.

My Ros still stands by me as a true, loyal, loving friend after 30 years, my
disabled son Jimmy is the bravest chap I know and my daughter Chloe has just
made me a grandad for the first time.

Life knocks the stuffing out of us and we do like to moan and blame others for
our ills, but when the day is done and you sit in your garden watching the
sleepy old sun drifting down behind next door's apple tree, you appreciate all
that God has enriched your life with.

From now on every day will be counted and be very special indeed. I bet if you
think about it, you are a lucky so-and-so too.

Trevor Murdin Leigh-on-Sea, Essex

IT HAPPENED TO ME

I'm 27 and back at Mum's with Pounds 11,000 student debt Many people will
sympathise with Frances Embleton, who last week told why she disappeared in
Australia because she could not face returning to her debts in Britain.

Graduate debt is a real issue. I am a graduate and a teacher and have an Pounds
11,000 debt. I and many of my friends were pushed hard through school with the
promise of a career that would bring happiness and money. But the reality
frequently fails to live up to expectations.

I love my job but I am 27 and have had to move back in with my mum to save
money. You have to be earning a lot of money to be rid of debt quickly.

The Government bangs on about trying to get everyone into higher education. But
is this really so important? At the same time, young mothers are criticised, but
many that I know are very fulfilled by their choice.

We all need to reconsider our values and think about whether by pursuing
happiness through academic success we are creating a nation of disillusioned,
disappointed people. If we all placed more value in just enjoying today, our
families and one another, the country would be a happier, more contented,
debt-free place.

Laura Driesen Crawley, Sussex

Has anything like this week's news happened to you? Write and tell us

BULLET POINTS

Motorists who moan that fines are imposed only to raise money should recognise
how much accidents and environmental damage caused by motor vehicles cost us
all. This far outweighs the revenue recovered from errant drivers.

Doug Meredith Manchester As I walked behind a man talking on his mobile, I soon
learned his name, where he lived, all about his family and who was going on
holiday and when.

In this age of identity theft, people cause themselves problems. Just as well I
wasn't a crook.

C. Robinson Bourne, Lincolnshire Why do we pay almost double for prescribed pet
medicine compared with our French and Belgian neighbours? It's a greed tax that
especially affects OAPs.

David Kane Deal, Kent One family's tax credit is another family's tax debit.

Patrick Carroll Lowestoft, Suffolk With the World Cup less than a month away,
the England squad would do well to remember the old proverb 'Those who do not
learn from history are destined to repeat it' and get down to some intensive
penalty training.

Mike Phelps Yeovil, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 14, 2006

Invasion by Poles hits 'lazy' Britain

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo and Ed Habershon

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 855 words


Migration of 350,000 is biggest for centuries

THE Poles have arrived in Britain in such numbers that they now constitute the
largest wave of immigration for at least 300 years, according to experts.

The influx, estimated at more than 350,000 in the past two years, follows the
European Union's decision to allow Poland and other former Soviet bloc countries
to join in 2004.

Home Office figures show 204,895 Poles had signed up to work in Britain by the
end of last year, but experts agree the true figure for those living here is
likely to be far higher since many do not have to register.

While most large EU countries blocked citizens of the new member states from
migrating in search of work until 2009, Britain opened its doors.

Other east European nationalities are also arriving in large numbers, such as
Slovaks (36,355 in the official figures) and Lithuanians (44,715), but Poland,
with 39m inhabitants and nearly 20% unemployment, is dominating the Slavic
migration.

David Coleman, professor of demography at Oxford University, estimated the
influx at "hundreds of thousands". He said: "From one country in a very short
space of time, it must be the largest influx we have ever seen."

The scale has dwarfed pre-2004 forecasts -the Home Office predicted a net influx
of some 13,000 from the whole region.

The stereotype of Pawel the plumber is well established, but Poles are now
filling vacancies in jobs from banker to doctor, driver and factory worker. An
estimated 80% are under 34. They have a reputation for working hard at manual
jobs for relatively low wages, despite good qualifications.

Coleman believes the only comparable migration was that of French Protestants,
known as Huguenots, after the revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685 ended
their right to practise their faith at home.

An estimated 50,000 fled to Britain in the 17th century, adding about 1% to the
country's 5m population. The current Polish intake, although far greater in
numbers, is a lower proportion.

Professor John Salt, of the migration research unit at University College
London, agrees with Coleman's view. "What we are seeing now ... is something
unprecedented," he said.

The Poles' reputation is such that when Antony Worrall Thompson, the celebrity
chef, criticised them last week for not having a sufficient grasp of English or
waiting skills, he faced an outcry, forcing him partially to recant. "Polish
people work incredibly hard," he said.

Even Roger Knapman, leader of the anti-EU UK Independence party, is using Poles
to restore his country house.

Agnieszka Wajszczuk, 29, a waitress at Panteli's restaurant in Canterbury, came
to Britain because of the lack of jobs at home. "I hope to stay here for 10
years, maybe more, and perhaps even go to university here," she said.

Wajszczuk, who grew up and went to university in eastern Poland, added: "My
brother is 26 and works in the same factory as my father but he may come to
England next week."

Vasilakis Panteli, 61, her employer, is delighted with Polish workers. "I find
them very reliable, very hard-working, very polite and respectful. They enjoy
their work. They're all working to assist their families, sending money back
home," he said.

The sentiment is shared by Fiona Lucas, 36, area director for Barclays Bank in
Ealing, west London. The bank is recruiting Poles to serve the area's burgeoning
Polish business sector and expatriates.

"They are really ambitious and focused," she said.

One recruit is Lucasz Skalecki, 27. "I think I'll be here when I retire," he
said.

"I don't understand cricket or rugby -20 people running around killing
themselves -but I feel comfortable in England."

Mike Edwards, owner of the Atlas Driving Agency in Cheshire, said he employed
Poles because he could not find British people to do the jobs. "I get criticism
because Poles are allegedly taking English jobs, but there would not be a market
for them if we could find people to work in this country," he said.

According to figures from the TUC, about half the registered east Europeans work
in services, with another 28% in farming and the food industry and 10% in care
homes and other services. Separate figures from the Home Office show significant
numbers in business.

Others, however, do not have to register if they are self-employed in jobs such
as decorating and plumbing. Nor are departures tracked, so accurate official
figures for net immigration are unavailable.

The Poles have spread far beyond the biggest cities. There are concentrations in
Luton, Southampton, Inverness and Northern Ireland, for example. Crewe in
Cheshire, with a population of around 45,000, is now home to about 3,000 Poles,
The number of Poles easily surpasses other post-war immigrant groups. "The
Indians are getting on for a million, the Pakistanis several hundred thousand
and the West Indians about 500,000. But that includes roughly half born in
Britain and they arrived over much longer periods of time," said Coleman.

The government is assessing the impact of the migrants on Britain before
deciding whether to open the doors to Romania and Bulgaria when they join the
EU, probably next year.

Editorial, page 18

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 14, 2006

Spit and Polish

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 104 words


SPIT AND POLISH: It is prescient that the revelations of UKIP leader Roger
Knapman using Polish workers to renovate his house (News, last week) should come
in the week of Europe day (May 9).

Even the most ardent Eurosceptic can find benefits of being in the European
Union. In recent weeks the EU has planned to bring down the cost of mobile
phones (lowering roaming costs), cut deaths on Europe's roads (the eCall
system), made sunbathing safer (ensuring suncreams are clearly labelled), and is
working towards a better future for football on the continent (Independent
European Football Review). -Richard Corbett MEP, Leeds.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron thinks Brown is easier to beat

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 846 words


Who is Theo Walcott's grandfather? "A Tory councillor,'' said the Cameroon MP.
"Even footballers are Tories now; we'll have Coleen next.'' The Notting Hill
Quiz on Monday night in aid of deprived local youngsters was packed with tieless
Tories. They were hopeless on the sports questions, but could list all the prime
ministers of the last century and were up to speed on carbon emissions.

As Tony Blair sweated it out in front of his MPs, talking about giving Gordon
Brown "ample, adequate, sufficient, appropriate time'' to take over, the Tories
were eating organic coronation chicken and arguing over Edward VI's successor.
Where five years ago they would have been embarrassed to admit they were Tories,
now they don't care that they are blue anoraks. Nor do they mind that they
aren't making the headlines. This time a week ago, the shadow cabinet was so
nervous about the local election results that it didn't want a post-election
party. It knew that, if the results weren't good, Tory newspapers and
backbenchers would be clamouring for them to veer right over a glacier. The
husky trip to Norway would become their Kinnock moment. The traditionalists
wouldn't put up with many more instructions from the party chairmen telling them
to pee on their compost.

But as the team met at David Cameron's house over porridge last Friday morning,
it knew that its approach had been vindicated. While Labour was sharpening its
knives, Mr Cameron's opponents were quietly putting their swords back in their
scabbards. An opinion poll for this newspaper today puts the Tories six points
ahead of Labour. More importantly, it shows that voters don't think that Mr
Brown would do any better than Mr Blair.

The Chancellor would actually be an easier opponent. This year alone, he has
presided over the NHS debacle, the squandering of huge amounts to private
finance initiatives, the inheritance tax muddle and the second disastrous round
of tax credits. He will inherit a jaded electorate: Jamie Oliver best summed it
up at the Baftas when he said he was sick of hearing "the same bloody excuse''
from ministers.

But Mr Blair still makes the Cameroons nervous. The Tracey Temple diaries may
have disclosed that the Prime Minister wears hairspray and doesn't iron his
shirt sleeves, but he is an impressive operator. His aides can still laugh off
demands for a timetable. "6am have a piece of toast, 7am shave, 9am take
Cabinet, 10am resign. Do they really think we're going to do that?'' asked a
Downing Street insider. But once he has gone, the Tories are increasingly
confident that they can take on Mr Brown.

They have temporarily seen off the threat from the Liberal Democrats, who had
disappointing local election results. Voters don't seem impressed by their
old-fashioned leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, even after he appealed to their
sensibilities by admitting that he had suffered a "tear-stained'' face over the
loss of his Jaguar. Roger Knapman, the leader of UKIP, has embarrassed his party
by taking on Polish builders for his house in Devon, despite having been deeply
opposed to new EU citizens working in Britain.

The Sun is now putting odds on Mr Cameron winning the next general election. No
wonder the Tories are excited. Today they announce their shortlist of
candidates; more than half will be women and 10 per cent from ethnic minorities.
Next they plan to take on reform of the Lords and Mr Blair's cash-for-peerages
cronies, unconcerned by the furore that this will cause their Tory Lordships.
They are also busy wooing rural England. The party treasurer, Lord Marland, has
just bought Hunter wellies, making it clear that the party didn't forget its
muddy brown roots when it discovered its green sprouts.

This summer, in "phase three'', they are going to concentrate on the family,
work and the community. Mr Cameron already goes down well with female voters,
and southern middle-class families who worry about getting the work/life balance
right. But he needs to avoid getting stuck in the Sloane-zone of the Home
Counties. The shadow cabinet will have to reach out to the north, to white-van
man and the 53 per cent of those who still label themselves working-class, even
if they own a football club. The Top Gear lads and Alan Sugar lasses still
aren't sure. They don't trust the pottering around in Noddy cars (there weren't
many Priuses in Middlesbrough, where I stayed last weekend). They do worry about
taxes and immigration.

There is no point in the Tories trying to play the immigration card again: it
puts off sensitive metropolitan southerners more than it galvanises
traditionalists. The tax issue is different. Northerners and southerners,
private and public sector, men and women, increasingly realise that chucking
money indiscriminately at the NHS and education hasn't worked. The Tory
commission into simpler taxes announces its findings early this summer. This is
the Tories' chance to show that there is an alternative to Mr Brown's vision.

The local elections have brought Mr Cameron time; whether he becomes prime
minister depends on how he uses it.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday

Leading article: Europe Day: Few flags and little cheer

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 425 words


Very few people in Britain will have noticed, but yesterday was Europe Day, the
annual commemoration of Robert Schuman's 1950 proposal for an organisation that
over time became today's EU. Brussels takes the day off work to the strains of
Beethoven's Ninth, and the brainchild of the then French foreign minister is
marked by festive public events in all 25 member states. Britain's were modestly
confined to a reception in the City of London and a reading at a Picadilly
bookshop: these were pleasant enough for the usual Europhile suspects who turned
up, but negligible contributions to the Sisyphean task of making the EU more
familiar, never mind more attractive, for the majority of apathetic, hostile and
ignorant Brits.

The adjectives are based on hard evidence: Eurobarometer, the European
commission's polling arm, found in its latest survey that just one third of
Britons thought the EU "a good thing". For once the UK wasn't at the very bottom
of the class: Austrians and Latvians have an even lower opinion. Another 33% of
Brits thought membership "neither good nor bad"; for 25% it was a "bad thing";
9% didn't know.

These findings owe much to the failures of our notionally pro-European
politicians. Labour entered office with great hopes for changing minds at home
and abroad, and failed on both fronts. The day the survey was released there was
brief excitement when Geoff Hoon left Downing Street to announce that he had
been reshuffled into the post of secretary of state for Europe: that would have
been the first time such a cabinet-level job had existed. Moments later it
turned out he was returning to the same junior ministerial post he first
occupied nine years ago. Wishful thinking or misunderstanding, the effect was
the same. Much of the media has peddled a pantomime version of European
integration, shrilly reporting straight bananas and bent bureaucrats, and
distorting the complexities of the failed constitution in the "annus horribilis"
of 2005 while failing to explain what membership is for and all it has achieved.
The most extensive recent coverage of the European parliament came when the
buffoons of Ukip arrived in Strasbourg to take up their seats as MEPs.

None of this is to argue that the EU's many ills are Britain's fault. France's
failure to come to terms with an expanded union it no longer dominates is a
bigger factor than our semi-detached status. Evidence of disconnect and disarray
can be seen from the Arctic Circle to the Mediterranean this Europe Day: a sad
conclusion as we remember a remarkable idea.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                               May 8, 2006 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ANTI-MIGRANT LEADER HIRES POLE BUILDERS

BYLINE: by JULIAN GAVAGHAN

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 350 words


A LEADING anti-immigration politician is hiring cheap Polish builders to restore
his mansion.

Roger Knapman, a Member of the European Parliament and leader of the UK
Independence Party, has admitted using them for the last 11 months.

Mr Knapman, whose party voted against eastern European countries joining the EU,
said: "They have a very good work ethic and work so much harder than anyone over
here."

The revelation comes after a UKIP warning that enlarging the EU would lead to a
"flood of migrants" which would be "bad for Britain".

The party's 2005 manifesto said the rate of immigration should be stemmed,
claiming: "The Labour Government's untenable excuse is that we need large
numbers of immigrant workers."

But despite his party's policies, the MEP told how a team of Polish builders
spend six days a week restoring his plush, listed mansion in Coryton, west
Devon.

And, after finishing their 10-hour shifts, the three labourers, who are believed
to be paid about GBP 50 a day - half what Brits would earn - sleep in the attic.

Mr Knapman, 62, said: "Many workers here just aren't skilled enough to do the
work involved in renovating an old property.

"These men work 10 hours a day, six days a week. It's a 60-hour week, but they
want to do it."

Mr Knapman hired the Polish workers through his son William, whose company,
Bildar, specialises in bringing foreign labour to Britain.

He explained: "He will bring over some Polish workers according to what you
need. They won't let you down.

"You know they are not going to go off to another job as they are there
specifically for you."

After quoting GBP 4,000 for two men labouring six weeks, William Knapman said:
"I think it's anywhere between 20% and 50% cheaper doing it this way."

When challenged about the Poles, Roger Knapman said that there was "no
contradiction" between what he was doing and his party's policies.

Meanwhile, more than 200 eastern European immigrants have been bussed back home
at taxpayers' expense after failing to find jobs.

But because these men and women have every right to be in Britain, they can
return as soon as they want.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOMEWORK: Mr Knapman's listed house where the Polish builders spend 60
hours a week on restoration work
POLE POSITION: East Europeans being bussed to work

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 8, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Anti-immigrant UKIP leader hires Polish builders

BYLINE: By Matthew Beard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 568 words


As leader of the anti-immigration UK Independence Party, Roger Knapman has
railed against eastward expansion of the European Union and opposed the use of
imported labour.

However, political doctrine appears to have given way to the need for thrifty
home improvement' Mr Knapman has hired cheap Polish builders to do up his
country mansion, it was revealed yesterday.

Mr Knapman, an MEP and the TTKTP's leader since 2002, recruited the workers
through his son, whose company specialises in bringing foreign labour to
Britain.

The men have been at Mr Knapman's grade-II listed home in the village of
Cory-ton, west Devon, for 11 months. They sleep dormitory-style in the attic.

The company run by Mr Knapman's son claims that the imported labour costs up to
50 per cent less than British workers would. Mr Knapman, speaking to
anundercoverreporter from The Sunday Times, praised the men as "they work so
much harder".

Such enthusiasm for foreign workers may surprise some UKIP supporters. The party
was the only British group in the European parliament to vote against allowing
east European states into the EU. UKIP has warned that enlarging the EU would
lead to a "flood of migrants" that would be bad for Britain. Its 2005 manifesto
said "the numbers of those permitted to enter legally has been rising sharply...
The Labour Government's untenable excuse is that we need large numbers of
immigrant workers."

Mr Knapman, a former Conservative MP, is also an outspoken supporter of buying
British and is proud of owning two Rover cars.

Of the Poles, he said to the undercover reporter: "They have a very good work
ethic and work so much harder than anyone over here. You know that they are not
going to go off and do another job as they are there specifically for you. Many
of the workers here just aren't skilled enough to do the work involved in
renovating an old property. These men work 10 hours a day, six days a week. It's
a 60-hour week but they want to do it."

He said he could help arrange teams of eastern Europeans to do renovations and
building through a company run by his son, William, who had supplied the men
working on his Devon property.

"He will bring over some Polish workers according to what you need and they
won't let you down. There are two or three different teams and whom you get
depends on what job you need doing." William Knapman runs Billdar, a
Polish-registered company that hires eastern Europeans to work in Britain. The
workers, whom he describes as being "like an army of ants", are paid pounds 50
per day - half the cost of a British builder. He told the undercover reporter
that he used mostly Polish workers and quoted pounds 4,000 for two men working
for six weeks, including the company's fee.

Mr Knapman Snr could not be contacted yesterday, but he told The Sunday Times
there was "no contradiction" between what he was doing and the objectives of the
party.

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE28

In his own words

'There is a limit to the number of people we can take in on a small island: it's
just a numbers game'

Launching UKIP's general election manifesto, Mr Knapman said that the party's
case was simple: 'We want our country back'

On the signing of the 2004 EU constitution in Rome: 'Successive Labour and
Conservative governments have signed away British rights to the EU for many
years now, but none has gone so far as this: signing away the right of the
British people to self-government'

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Roger Knapman had his mansion in Coryton, west Devon, renovated by
Polish workmen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 8, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

The hypocritical party;
UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 426 words


David Cameron came in for some flak when he described the UK Independence Party
as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" last month. But, in retrospect,
perhaps the Conservative Party leader's fault was that he did not go far enough.
He could have comfortably added "hypocrites" to that list.

It has been revealed that Roger Knapman, the leader of UKIP, is using Polish
builders to renovate his grand house in Devon. There is, one might think,
nothing particularly strange about that. Central and eastern European labourers
have become a common feature of life in Britain since European Union enlargement
two years ago gave them the right to work here. "Polish plumbers" have become a
kind of shorthand to refer to the efficient parts of the London service economy.
But Mr Knapman is the last person one would have expected to have taken
advantage of this new resource of labour.

UKIP were the only British group in the European Parliament to vote against
allowing central and eastern European states, such as Poland, into the EU Mr
Knapman's party was also deeply opposed to the right of any new entrant citizens
to work in the UK, claiming there was no demand for imported labour. We should
not forget either that UKIP tapped into some nasty xenophobic instincts in its
general election manifesto by raising the spectre of "floods of migrants" coming
into Britain.

Mr Knapman cannot even claim that he is simply taking advantage of a cheap
resource that - in the best of all worlds - would not be available to him. It
turns out that his son has set up a company that specialises in bringing foreign
labour to Britain - and Knapman senior has been drumming up business for it.

Sadly, the UKIP leader is by no means alone in accepting the benefits of the EU
while refusing to recognise why they exist. A survey by the European Commission
reveals that fewer than half of Europeans believes membership is a good thing
for their country. Disenchantment with the EU is alarmingly widespread.

Perhaps this is not altogether surprising given the present state of European
politics. The EU constitution, which would create a more streamlined voting
system, is on ice. The governments in Paris, Rome and Berlin are more concerned
with domestic difficulties than the European project. Our own Government has
neglected Europe too.

Thankfully, workers like Mr Knapman's Polish builders are keeping the show on
the road from an economic perspective. But what a pity that so many of us are
too blind - or dishonest - to recognise publicly the contribution such people
make.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                  May 7, 2006

Cameron FM: not heard up north

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

LENGTH: 846 words


AS political assassinations were taking place in 10 Downing Street on Friday,
something just as significant was happening in a grim concrete-lined street half
a mile away. Above a branch of Starbucks, Tories were celebrating.

It is a long time since anyone in what is still known as Conservative Campaign
Headquarters has had genuine cause to cheer ñ unless they are deposing an
unpopular leader or winning a bet on how badly they will do during elections.

Last Thursday, Labour should have suffered far worse. It finished back to where
it was in the 2004 council elections, a position from which it made a full
recovery. But what gives Cameron cheer is not the size, but the direction of the
political current.

Labour lost 319 councillors and the Conservatives won 317 ñ it was an almost
perfect correlation. The LibDems were ahead by only two seats. LibDem leader Sir
Menzies Campbell spoke about consolidation, which is political code for zero
progress.

When the party had no leader, it won the stunning by-election victory in
Dunfermline & West Fife. Now, when hes in charge, its luck has evaporated. After
years of trying, the Conservatives have finally found a way to profit from
Labours misfortune.

They have done so by copying LibDem tactics and policies. Since Cameron took
over, he has decided that his best path back to power is by apeing the LibDem
appeal and appealing to upmarket voters who found the Conservatives too vulgar.

Every change Cameron has introduced to the party has made it more resemble the
LibDems. Blue and yellow together make green, and this is exactly the colour
Cameron has been painting his party in recent weeks.

His primary task is not Opposition but rebranding. He wants to drive home a new
image for the Conservatives and that means doing as many stunts as he can to get
the message across that the party has changed. Its not just the visits to
glaciers or getting into bed with Sir Bob Geldof. It is the LibDem-style
interfering ñ as witnessed by the bizarre document published at its spring
conference in Manchester telling people to catch the bus when you can and only
boil as much water as they need.

Many Conservatives are in the party because they believe the public to be smart
enough not to need such patronising advice from politicians. Much of what
Cameron says appals many Tories, who mutter that he is lobotomising, not saving,
the party.

Their concerns have been backed up by recent polls showing hardly any Cameron
factor ñ and suggesting the LibDems were hoovering up Labour votes, just as they
did in last years general election. The stage was set for a Cameron disaster.

Yet things went exactly according to Camerons plan. His message chimes with
eco-conscious Londoners and the Tories have now become the top party in the
capital.

Now for the bad news. The message Cameron is broadcasting was only picked up on
a certain metropolitan frequency, places like Hammersmith & Fulham which they
won in the general election anyway.

Newcastle, Manchester, Gateshead remain bastions where the Tories are utterly
unrepresented. The risk is that the Cameronian message has the same reach as
Londons Capital FM: you cant get it up north.

It is unclear how prepared the Conservatives are to engage with, or even
understand, the concerns of the more deprived British cities. Francis Maude,
party chairman, said last week he has never met anyone who is not concerned with
the environment.

But consider those in sink housing estates afflicted by the most horrific
violent crime (which has quadruped under Labour) worried about getting home
safely and hoping their children learn more than drug use at school. Recycling
San Pellegrino bottles is pretty far down their list of priorities. And they are
disaffected with a Labour Party they (rightly) believe has deserted them. The
rush for upmarket votes, from all parties, leaves them orphaned.

The British National Party (BNP) had no democratic place in Britain when the
Tories left power, but doubled the size of its foothold last week. When the BNP
won a ward in Tower Hamlets in 1993, mass protest ensued. Now, no one cares.

Cameron was lucky that the mainstream right had nowhere else to go. Two years
ago, the local governments coincided with the European Parliament elections and
the UK Independence Party was ploughing resources into the election which it did
not this time.

Last weeks local elections played to Camerons strengths. He is a Londoner, who
instinctively understands the desires and prejudices of the capitals
middle-class voters. He has forced an agenda against the better judgment of many
in his party and been proven right.

But London has never borne less resemblance to the rest of Britain than it does
now. It is its own capital, a multicultural global stopping point whose
preoccupations and political patterns are unique. Winning the rest of Britain
will be tougher.

Phase One of Cameron was a success, electorally as well as presentationally. The
next stage is to develop a message for the low-income voters that resonates
outside London. This will be by far the harder task.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 7, 2006

Anti-migrant party leader hires Polish builders

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo and Rachel Mostyn

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words


THE leader of the anti-immigration UK Independence party (UKIP) has imported
cheap east European labourers to renovate his West Country mansion.

Roger Knapman, an MEP and UKIP's leader since 2002, hired Polish workers through
his son, who runs a company that specialises in bringing foreign labour to
Britain.

Over the past 11 months they have been working 10 hours a day, six days a week,
while living dormitory-style in Knapman's attic. His son's company claims east
Europeans are up to 50% cheaper than their British counterparts.

Knapman, whose party was the only British group in the European parliament to
vote against allowing east European states, including Poland, into the EU,
boasted to an undercover reporter he could help supply Polish labourers to do
similar work for British customers.

He said using cheap foreigners is much better since "they work so much harder".

The disclosure will surprise supporters of UKIP, which has warned that enlarging
the EU to incorporate east European states would lead to a "flood of migrants"
that would be "bad for Britain".

Its 2005 manifesto said the rate of immigration had to be stemmed because "the
numbers of those permitted to enter legally has been rising sharply as a result
of both the eastern expansion of the EU and deliberate government policy. The
Labour government's untenable excuse is that we need large numbers of immigrant
workers".

In public, Knapman, a former Tory MP, claims to take pride in supporting British
business and boasts of owning two Rover cars. However, last week he told an
undercover reporter that for the past 11 months he had been using a team of
Polish workers to restore his grade II listed home in the west Devon village of
Coryton.

For much of that time he has had three or four workers, who have been provided
with an old television, sleeping in his attic.

"They have a very good work ethic and work so much harder than anyone over
here," he said. "You know they are not going to go off to another job as they
are there specifically for you.

"Many workers here just aren't skilled enough to do the work involved in
renovating an old property. These men work 10 hours a day, six days a week and
then we give them Sunday off. It's a 60-hour week, but they want to do it."

Knapman said he could help arrange teams of east Europeans to carry out building
work through the firm run by his son William. "He will bring over some Polish
workers according to what you need and they won't let you down," he said.

William Knapman runs Billdar, a Polish-registered company that sources east
Europeans for jobs in Britain. The workers, whom he described as "like an army
of ants", are paid about £ 50 a day -about half of the cost of a British
builder.

William Knapman told an undercover reporter he used mostly Polish workers but
also some Slovaks, Latvians and Swedes and quoted £ 4,000 for two men working
for six weeks, from which the company takes an unspecified fee.

"I think it's anywhere between 20% and 50% cheaper (than using British workers)
doing it this way," he said. "The important thing is we're not talking Monday to
Friday, nine to five, with a tea break. They work 8am-6pm six days a week."

Roger Knapman said he would be employing the men, who have refurbished much of
his property, for a further three months. When challenged yesterday, Knapman
said there was "no contradiction" between what he was doing and the objectives
of his party.

On UKIP's opposition to letting Poland join the EU, he said: "That is talking
about political union, that is not talking about people working."

When it was pointed out to him that they could freely work here because of the
political union, he said: "I don't see that is relevant at all. We have three
people who come here, they are very nice people and when they finish they go
home."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Home Office chief faces a rough ride;
Reid takes over from disgraced Clarke but prisoners scandal still growing with
1,000 foreigners missing

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 746  words


NEW Home Secretary John Reid was last night warned that he faces a rough ride
over the foreign prisoners scandal.

Dr Reid replaced his disgraced predecessor, Charles Clarke, in the Cabinet
reshuffle on Friday.

He is spending the weekend getting to grips with the chaos in his new
department, as it emerged that almost 1,000 of the foreign ex-prisoners set free
since 1999 were still on the loose.

The Home Office admitted last week that the police had only been able to track
down 32 of the 79 most serious offenders among the 1,023 foreign nationals who
had not been considered for deportation following their release from prison.

Officials have ruled out deporting another nine but, to date, the Home Office
has failed to trace any more of the 38 high-risk former prisoners still loose on
our streets, who include rapists and killers.

Of the 1,023 on the Home Office list, work has still not even started on finding
449 of them. Although paperwork for hundreds of deportation orders has begun,
there is no evidence that any efforts have yet been made to track down and
detain any of huge number of exoffenders who are not regarded as the most
dangerous.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: "I am afraid that the Government's
definition of what constitutes a 'dangerous' criminal is very limited. Nearly
1,000 of these people are still at large.

"The so-called 'dangerous' criminals just include the people who are supposed to
be under supervision since leaving prison.

"They should have been able to round up all of these within 24 hours. Instead,
we're now finding out that a large number, some of whom will be a danger to the
public, are still free on our streets."

He added: "The reason the Home Office is not telling us the numbers is that they
are still desperately embarrassing for them.

"This crisis is not over just because Charles Clarke has gone. This problem has
got to be brought under control.

John Reid will not be able to bluster his way out of this one."

Mr Davis was instrumental in piling the pressure on Mr Clarke to be forced out
of office with repeated hard-hitting attacks on the Home Office's failures to
tackle the crisis.

He added: "If Tony Blair thinks that, by getting in a new Home Secretary, he is
solving the problem, he will be disappointed. We are going to keep up the
pressure to find these people."

Dr Reid may also face challenges from Labour backbenchers and civil rights
groups over plans to introduce the principle that foreign nationals who commit a
crime should face automatic deportation.

The Prime Minister last week promised to deport all foreign prisoners following
their release, but critics last night insisted that he made his pledge in the
full knowledge that he could never deliver.

They claimed that the right of foreign nationals to not face torture or
execution under the Human Rights Act made it impossible to deport large numbers
of them.

They also cited bureaucratic problems with certain countries and the simple fact
that many foreign prisoners lie about their identity and nationality, making it
impossible to deport large numbers of them.

A European Directive which came into force last week specifically prohibits
automatic deportation for EU nationals convicted of criminal offences in
Britain.

EU Directive 2004/38 states that "expulsion orders may not be issued by the host
member state as a penalty or legal consequence of a custodial penalty".

UKIP leader Roger Knapman said:

"From the original list of 1,023 foreign nationals who were released without
deportation, 133 - or 13 per cent - were EU nationals and therefore exempt from
deportation.

"Of the remainder, any who were married to British or other EU nationals were
also exempt under the same directive.

"For all the bluster, the Government simply cannot fulfil its promise to
Parliament to ensure foreign nationals serve their sentences in their home
nation as a direct result of an EU directive which this Government signed us up
to and which came into force a week ago.

"What more damning indictment is there of the extent of the powers which have
been signed away?"

A Home Office spokesman said: "We will not update the numbers on the foreign
prisoners until next week. They are being tracked down but the police are
concentrating on the most dangerous people first."

The Home Office denied that the EU directive would prevent removals, insisting
that deportation was allowed "on grounds of public policy, public security or
public health grounds in defined circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Motives behind voting decisions in the local elections

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 112 words


SIR - Most of Labour's losses in the local elections are Conservative gains. If
the Conservatives can move votes directly from Labour, perhaps voters are
starting to regard the Conservatives as a realistic alternative. The Liberal
Democrats, often the party of the protest vote, made few gains, and will now be
a little concerned.

UKIP, Respect and, more interestingly, the BNP have made gains that are modest
at best. But with the three main parties so closely aligned, we must be careful.
The failure to deport criminals, and apparent inability to manage the
immigration system will only encourage more to vote for parties such as the BNP.

Martin Stroud

Cottingham, E Yorks

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Local elections 2006: Results in full

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2563 words


Metro

Barnsley

*Labour

LD lose 1/C gain 1/Ind lose 1/ Lab gain 1

New council LD 2/Ind 21/Lab 34/C 6

Birmingham

*No Overall Control*

Lab lose 4/C gain 1/Respect gain 1/

New council Lab 41/C 41/LD 33/ Respect 1

Bolton

*No Overall Control

LD lose 4/C gain 2/Lab gain 2

New council LD 17/C 21/Lab 22

Bradford

*No Overall Control

BNP lose 1/LD lose 1/C lose 4/ Lab gain 6

New council Ind 1/LD 14/BNP 2/C 33/Lab 36/Green 4

Bury

*Labour lose to NOC

LD gain 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 3

New council C 22/Lab 23/LD 6

Calderdale

*No Overall Control

BNP lose 1/Lab gain 1/LD gain 1/ C lose 1

New council Lab 10/LD 16/BNP 2/ C 20/Ind 3

Coventry

*Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/Soc gain 1/ Lab lose 1/C gain 2

New council Ind 1/Lab 19/LD 2/ C 29/Soc 3

Doncaster

*No Overall Control

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council LD 12/Ind 14/Lab 28/C 9

Dudley

*Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council UKIP 1/Lab 26/C 40/LD 5

Gateshead

*Labour

LD gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council Lib 1/LD 23/Lab 42

Kirklees

*No Overall Control

Ind gain 1/BNP gain 2/LD lose 4/ Lab gain 2/C lose 1

New council Ind 2/LD 20/Lab 20/C 21/BNP 3/Green 3

Knowsley

*Labour

LD gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council LD 12/Lab 51

Leeds

*No Overall Control

BNP gain 1/Ind lose 1

New council BNP 1/C 24/LD 26/Green 3/Lab 40/Ind 5

Liverpool

*Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 3/LD lose 3

New council Green 1/Lib 3/Lab 30/ LD 56

Manchester

*Labour

LD lose 4/Lab gain 4

New council Green 1/LD 34/Lab 61

Newcastle-upon-Tyne

*Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 30/LD 48

Oldham

*Labour

Ind gain 1/C lose 1/Lab lose 2/ LD gain 2

New council C 1/Ind 1/LD 27/Lab 31

Rochdale

*No Overall Control

C gain 1/Lab lose 4/LD gain 3

New council C 10/Lab 20/LD 30

Rotherham

*Labour

Ind lose 1/C lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council Ind 2/Lab 55/C 6

Salford

*Labour

Ind lose 1/LD gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council Lab 44/C 8/LD 8

Sandwell

*Labour

BNP gain 3/Lab lose 3

New council C 11/Ind 2/BNP 4/ LD 5/Lab 50

Sefton

*No Overall Control

New council C 19/Lab 21/LD 26

Sheffield

*Labour

Green gain 1/LD lose 2/Lab gain 1

New council Ind 1/C 2/Green 2/ LD 34/Lab 45

Solihull

*Conservative

BNP gain 1/Lab lose 1/LD gain 1/ C lose 1

New council BNP 1/LD 15/Ind 2/ C 26/Lab 7

St Helens

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 19/Lab 23/C 6

Stockport

*Liberal Democrat

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council C 10/Lab 15/R 3/LD 35

Sunderland

*Labour

C gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council Ind 1/C 13/LD 2/Lab 59

Tameside

*Labour

LD lose 1/Ind gain 2/C gain 1/ Lab lose 2

New council LD 2/Ind 3/Lab 44/C 8

Trafford

*Conservative

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council Lab 20/C 39/LD 4

North Tyneside

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Ind 1/Lab 23/C 28/LD 8

South Tyneside

*Labour

Ind gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council Ind 13/C 3/Lab 34/LD 4

Wakefield

*Labour

Ind lose 1/C gain 4/Lab lose 3

New council C 14/LD 3/Lab 41/Ind 5

Walsall

*Conservative

Lab gain 2/C lose 2

New council Ind 1/Lab 19/C 34/LD 6

Wigan

*Labour

C gain 2/Ind lose 3/Lab gain 1

New council Ind 15/Lab 43/LD 8/C 9

Wirral

*No Overall Control

UKIP lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 19/C 21/Lab 26

Wolverhampton

*Labour

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lib 1/C 16/LD 2/Lab 41

District

Adur

*Conservative

Lab lose 2/LD gain 1/C gain 1

New council LD 1/Ind 2/C 26

Amber Valley

*Conservative

C gain 3/Lab lose 3

New council Lab 18/C 27

Barrow-in-Furness

*Labour lose to NOC

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 6/C gain 5

New council C 17/Lab 18/Ind 3

Basildon

*Conservative

Lab lose 3/C gain 3

New council Lab 12/C 27/LD 3

Basingstoke & Deane

*No Overall Control

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 12/LD 15/Ind 3/C 30

Bassetlaw

*Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 3/C gain 4

New council LD 1/Lab 14/C 28/Ind 5

Bedford

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 2/Ind lose 1/LD gain 2/ C gain 1

New council Ind 10/Lab 12/LD 15/ C 17

South Bedfordshire

*Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council LD 11/C 35/Lab 4

Brentwood

*Conservative

LD lose 6/C gain 6

New council C 27/Lab 3/LD 7

Broxbourne

*Conservative

New council BNP 1/Lab 2/C 35

Burnley

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 2/C gain 1/BNP gain 1/ Lab lose 5/LD gain 5

New council Ind 1/LD 16/Lab 16/ C 5/BNP 7

Cambridge

*Liberal Democrat

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 13/LD 29

South Cambridgeshire

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/ C gain 3

New council Lab 1/Ind 12/LD 19/C 25

Cannock Chase

*No Overall Control

C gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council C 11/LD 14/Lab 16

Carlisle

*No Overall Control

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council Ind 1/C 19/Lab 24/LD 8

Castle Point

*Conservative

Ind gain 5/C lose 5

New council Lab 1/Ind 11/C 29

Cheltenham

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 1/C gain 2/LD lose 1

New council Lab 1/C 17/LD 17/Ind 5

Cherwell

*Conservative

Lab lose 2/LD gain 1/C gain 1

New council C 38/LD 4/Lab 8

Chester

*No Overall Control

LD lose 2/Lab lose 3/C gain 5

New council Ind 1/Lab 14/LD 19/C 26

Chorley

*Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 5

New council Lab 17/LD 2/C 25/Ind 3

Colchester

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council Ind 2/LD 21/C 30/Lab 7

Congleton

*Conservative

Ind gain 1/LD lose 1

New council LD 14/C 26/Ind 8

Craven

*No Overall Control

New council Ind 11/C 13/LD 6

Crawley

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 3/C gain 3

New council Lab 16/C 19/LD 2

Crewe & Nantwich

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 3/C gain 4

New council Lab 19/C 25/Ind 6/LD 6

Daventry

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/LD gain 1/ C gain 1

New council LD 2/Lab 2/C 34

Eastbourne

*Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council LD 12/C 15

Eastleigh

*Liberal Democrat

C lose 2/LD gain 2

New council Lab 3/LD 34/C 7

Ellesmere Port & Neston

*Labour

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 15/LD 2/Lab 26

Elmbridge

*No Overall Control

Ind gain 1/R lose 6/C gain 5

New council Ind 2/R 24/C 26/LD 8

Epping Forest

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 3/Ind lose 1/R lose 1/BNP gain 3/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council Lab 1/LD 13/C 29/Ind 4/R 5/BNP 6

Exeter

*No Overall Control

LD lose 1/C gain 3/Lab lose 2

New council LD 12/Lab 16/Lib 4/C 8

Fareham

*Conservative

New council C 22/LD 9

Gloucester

*No Overall Control

New council LD 12/C 16/Lab 8

Gosport

*Conservative lose to NOC

Lab lose 3/C lose 1/LD gain 4

New council C 17/Lab 8/LD 9

Great Yarmouth

*Conservative

Lab gain 3/C lose 3

New council Ind 1/Lab 16/C 22

Harlow

*No Overall Control

LD lose 1/C lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council C 12/Lab 13/LD 8

Harrogate

*Conservative lose to NOC

Ind gain 1/C lose 2/LD gain 1

New council LD 22/C 27/Ind 5

Hart

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/R gain 2/C lose 1

New council LD 12/C 16/Ind 2/R 5

Hastings

*Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 4/C gain 4

New council Lab 10/C 17/LD 5

Havant

*Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 30/LD 4/Lab 4

North Hertfordshire

*Conservative

Lab lose 5/C gain 5

New council C 33/LD 7/Lab 9

Hertsmere

*Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 28/Lab 5/LD 6

Huntingdonshire

*Conservative

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council LD 11/Ind 2/C 39

Hyndburn

*Conservative

Ind gain 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 2

New council Ind 1/Lab 15/C 19

Ipswich

*No Overall Control

LD gain 2/Lab lose 5/C gain 3

New council Lab 18/C 19/Ind 2/LD 9

South Lakeland

*Liberal Democrat gain

Lab lose 6/Ind lose 1/C lose 2/ LD gain 9

New council Ind 1/C 18/Lab 2/LD 31

West Lancashire

*Conservative

Lab lose 3/C gain 3

New council Lab 22/C 32

Lincoln

*Labour

LD gain 1/Lab lose 5/C gain 4

New council C 11/LD 2/Lab 20

West Lindsey

*Conservative lose to NOC

LD gain 2/C lose 2

New council Ind 1/Vacant 1/C 17/LD 18

Macclesfield

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 1/LD gain 1/ C lose 1

New council Ind 1/LD 15/R 3/ C 34/Lab 7

Maidstone

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 2/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council LD 19/C 27/Ind 3/Lab 6

Mole Valley

*Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council LD 16/C 22/Ind 3

Newcastle-under-Lyme

*Labour lose to NOC

C gain 3/LD gain 2/Lab lose 5

New council Ind 1/UKIP 1/LD 14/C 17/Lab 27

Norwich

*No Overall Control

C gain 1/LD lose 6/Green gain 4/ Lab gain 1. New council LD 12/Lab 16/C 2/Green
9

Nuneaton & Bedworth

*Labour

C gain 4/Lab lose 4

New council LD 1/C 15/Lab 18

Oxford

*No Overall Control

Ind gain 1/Green gain 1/ LD gain 2/Lab lose 4

New council Lab 17/LD 19/ Ind 4/Green 8

West Oxfordshire

*Conservative

LD lose 2/Ind lose 2/C gain 4

New council Lab 1/LD 11/C 32/Ind 5

Pendle

*Liberal Democrat

BNP gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council BNP 1/C 13/LD 30/Lab 5

Penwith

*No Overall Control

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 1/LD 12/C 14/Ind 8

Preston

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 1/ Lab gain 1

New council LD 12/C 17/Ind 2/ Respect 2/Lab 24

Purbeck

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1. New council Ind 1/Vacant 1/C 14/LD 8

Redditch

*Labour lose to NOC

BNP gain 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 2

New council BNP 1/C 11/Lab 14/LD 3

Reigate & Banstead

*Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/ C gain 3

New council Lab 2/C 39/LD 4/R 6

Rochford

*Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 1/C gain 2

New council R 1/C 34/LD 4

Rossendale

*Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 2

New council Ind 1/LD 1/C 25/Lab 9

Rugby

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 2/Lab lose 1/C gain 3

New council Ind 1/LD 10/Lab 13/C 24

Runnymede

*Conservative

Lab lose 3/Ind lose 2/R gain 2/ C gain 3

New council R 2/C 36/Ind 4

Rushmoor

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/C gain 3

New council LD 10/Ind 2/C 25/Lab 5

Shrewsbury & Atcham

*Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 10/Ind 2/C 22/LD 6

St Albans

*Liberal Democrat gain

Lab lose 3/C gain 1/LD gain 2

New council Ind 1/C 18/LD 31/Lab 8

Stevenage

*Labour

New council C 3/Lab 32/LD 4

Stratford-on-Avon

*Conservative

New council LD 20/Ind 3/C 30

Stroud

*Conservative

Green gain 1/LD lose 1/Lab lose 2/ C gain 2

New council C 29/Ind 3/Green 5/ LD 5/Lab 9

Swale

*Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab lose 1/C gain 3

New council Ind 1/Lab 10/C 28/LD 8

Tamworth

*Conservative

Lab lose 5/C gain 5

New council Ind 1/C 21/Lab 8

Tandridge

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council Ind 1/LD 10/Lab 2/C 29

Three Rivers

*Liberal Democrat

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 11/LD 30/Lab 7

Tunbridge Wells

*Conservative

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 1/C 38/LD 9

Watford

*Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 2/Green gain 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 1/Vacant 1/LD 28/C 3/Green 3

Dorothy Thornhill (LD) re-elected mayor

Waveney

*Conservative

Ind lose 3/Lab lose 1/C gain 4

New council Lab 12/C 29/LD 3/Ind 4

Welwyn Hatfield

*Conservative

LD gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council Green 1/Lab 12/LD 3/C 32

Weymouth & Portland

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 2/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council C 11/LD 13/Ind 5/Lab 7

Winchester

*Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 1/LD lose 5/C gain 7

New council LD 21/C 29/Lab 3/Ind 4

Woking

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/C lose 1/LD gain 3

New council C 15/LD 18/Lab 3

Worcester

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council Lab 11/C 18/Ind 3/LD 3

Worthing

*Conservative

C lose 3/LD gain 3

New council LD 14/C 23

Wyre Forest

*No Overall Control

Lib lose 1/KHHC gain 1

New council C 18/Ind 2/LD 2/Lab 4/Lib 7/KHHC 9

Unitary

Blackburn with Darwen

*Labour

Ind gain 2/C lose 2/LD gain 2/Lab lose 2

New council LD 13/C 15/Ind 3/Lab 33

Bristol

*No Overall Control

Green gain 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 2/ LD gain 1

New council Green 1/C 13/Lab 23/ LD 33

Derby

*Labour lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/C lose 1/Lab lose 2/ LD gain 4

New council Ind 1/C 11/LD 15/Lab 24

Halton

*Labour

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council LD 13/Lab 35/C 8

Hartlepool

*Labour

LD lose 2/UKIP gain 1/Ind lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council UKIP 1/Vacant 1/Lab 26/C 4/LD 7/Ind 8

Kingston-upon-Hull

*No Overall Control

Lib lose 1/Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2/LD gain 4

New council C 2/Lib 2/Lab 25/LD 26/Ind 4

North East Lincolnshire

*No Overall Control

Lab lose 1/LD gain 2/C lose 1

New council C 15/LD 17/Ind 4/Lab 6

Milton Keynes

*Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/LD lose 4/C gain 6

New council C 13/Lab 15/LD 23

Peterborough

*Conservative

Lab lose 3/Ind gain 1/Lib gain 1/C gain 1

New council Vacant 1/Ind 10/C 33/Lab 4/Lib 4/LD 5

Plymouth

*Labour lose to NOC

LD lose 1/Ind lose 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 6

New council Vacant 1/C 25/Lab 28/LD 3

Portsmouth

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 3

New council C 16/LD 21/Lab 5

Reading

*Labour

LD gain 1/C gain 2/Lab lose 3

New council Lab 32/LD 6/C 8

Slough

*No Overall Control

R lose 1/LD lose 1/C lose 2/Ind gain 1/Lab gain 3

New council UKIP 1/Lab 18/Lib 3/R 4/C 5/Ind 5/LD 5

Southampton

*No Overall Control

Lab gain 1/LD lose 1

New council C 16/LD 16/Lab 16

Southend-on-Sea

*Conservative

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council C 30/Ind 4/LD 8/Lab 9

Stoke-on-Trent

*Labour lose to NOC

Soc lose 1/C gain 1/BNP gain 3/Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2

New council Soc 1/Ind 13/Lab 30/BNP 5/LD 5/C 6

Swindon

*Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab lose 3/C gain 5

New council Lab 14/Ind 2/LD 3/C 40

Thurrock

*Conservative

C lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council Ind 2/Lab 21/C 26

Warrington

*Labour lose to NOC

Lab lose 4/LD gain 4

New council LD 25/Lab 26/C 6

Wokingham

*Conservative

LD lose 3/C gain 3

New council LD 13/C 41

London

Barking & Dagenham

*Labour

LD lose 3/R lose 2/C lose 2/BNP gain 11/Lab lose 4

New council C 1/BNP 11/Lab 39

Barnet

*Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 5

New council Lab 20/C 37/LD 6

Bexley

*Conservative gain from Labour

Lab lose 23/C gain 23

New council C 54/Lab 9

Brent

*Labour lose to NOC

C lose 3/Lab lose 13/LD gain 16

New council C 15/Lab 21/LD 27

Bromley

*Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2/LD lose 6/ C gain 9

New council Lab 4/C 49/LD 7

Camden

Labour lose to NOC*

LD gain 13/Lab lose 18/C gain 3/Green gain 2

New council LD 20/Lab 18/ C 14/Green 2

Croydon

*Conservative gain from Labour

LD lose 2/Lab lose 10/C gain 12

New council Lab 27/C 43

Ealing

*Conservative gain from Labour

LD lose 1/Lab lose 19/C gain 20

New council Lab 29/LD 3/C 37

Enfield

*Conservative

Ind gain 2/Lab gain 3/C lose 5

New council Ind 2/Lab 27/C 34

Greenwich

*Labour

LD lose 2/C gain 4/Lab lose 2

New council C 13/LD 2/Lab 36

Hackney

*Labour

Green gain 1/C lose 1

New council Green 1/LD 3/Lab 44/C 9

Hammersmith & Fulham

*Conservative gain from Labour

Ind lose 2/Lab lose 16/C gain 18

New council Lab 13/C 33

Haringey

*Labour

LD gain 11/Lab lose 11

New council LD 27/Lab 30

Harrow

*Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/LD lose 2/Lab lose 6/C gain 10

New council LD 1/Lab 24/C 38

Havering

*Conservative gain from NOC

BNP gain 1/LD gain 1/Lab lose 9/Ind lose 3/R lose 4/C gain 14

New council: BNP 1/LD 1/R 13/Lab 2/ Ind 3/C 34

Hillingdon

*Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 6/Lab lose 9/C gain 15

New council Lab 18/LD 2/C 45

Hounslow

*Labour lose to NOC

R lose 4/LD gain 1/Ind gain 1/C gain 9/Lab lose 7

New council C 23/Lab 24/LD 5/Ind 8

Islington

*Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

C lose 1/Green gain 1/Lab gain 12/LD lose 12

New council Green 1/Lab 23/LD 24

Kensington & Chelsea

*Conservative

Lab lose 3/C gain 3

New council LD 1/C 44/Lab 9

Kingston-upon-Thames

*Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 1/C gain 6/LD lose 5

New council Lab 2/C 21/LD 25

Lambeth

*Labour gain from NOC

Green gain 1/C lose 1/LD lose 10/Lab gain 10. New council Green 1/LD 17/Lab
39/C6

Lewisham

*Labour lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/C gain 1/Green gain 5/LD gain 10/Lab lose 15

New council LD 17/Soc 2/Lab 26/C 3/Green 6

Steve Bullock (Lab) re-elected mayor

Merton

*Labour lose to NOC

Ind lose 2/Lab lose 4/C gain 6

New council Lab 27/R 3/C 30

Newham

*Labour

C lose 1/CPA gain 2/Respect gain 1/ Lab lose 2

New council Lab 54/CPA 3/R 3

Redbridge

*Conservative

BNP gain 1/LD lose 1

New council BNP 1/Lab 19/C 34/LD 9

Richmond-upon-Thames

*Liberal Democrat gain

Ind lose 1/C lose 16/LD gain 17

New council C 18/LD 36

Southwark

*No Overall Control

Ind lose 3/Green gain 1/Lab gain 2

New council Green 1/LD 28/Lab 28/ C 6

Sutton

*Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 3/Ind lose 1/C gain 14/ LD lose 10

New council C 22/LD 32

Tower Hamlets

*Labour

Ind lose 5/LD lose 9/C gain 6/Respect gain 11/Lab lose 3

New council Respect 12/Lab 26/LD 6/ C 7

Waltham Forest

*No Overall Control

C lose 3/LD gain 4/Lab lose 1

New council C 15/LD 19/Lab 26

Wandsworth

*Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 51/Lab 9

Westminster

*Conservative

New council Lab 12/C 48

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 2006 Tuesday



CORRECTION: The following changes should be made to the local election results
published on page 20, May 6: Sheffield - Lib Dems lose one seat, now 35, Labour
no change, now 44; Harlow - Labour no change, now 11, Lib Dems up one, now 10.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Local elections

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 3301 words


LONDON BOROUGHS

BARKING & DAGENHAM: Lab hold

LD lose 3, R lose 2, C lose 2, BNP gain 11, Lab lose 4. NEW COUNCIL C 1, BNP 11,
Lab 39.

BARNET: C hold

LD lose 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 20, C 37, LD 6.

BEXLEY: C gain from Lab

Lab lose 23, C gain 23. NEW COUNCIL C 54, Lab 9.

BRENT: Lab lose to NOC

C lose 3, Lab lose 13, LD gain 16. NEW COUNCIL C 15, Lab 21, LD 27.

BROMLEY: C hold

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD lose 6, C gain 9. NEW COUNCIL Lab 4, C 49, LD 7.

CAMDEN: Lab lose to NOC

Green gain 2, C gain 3, Lab lose 18, LD gain 13. NEW COUNCIL C 14, Lab 18, Green
2, LD 20.

CROYDON: C gain from Lab

LD lose 2, Lab lose 10, C gain 12. NEW COUNCIL Lab 27, C 43.

EALING: C gain from Lab

LD lose 1, Lab lose 19, C gain 20. NEW COUNCIL Lab 29, LD 3, C 37.

ENFIELD: C hold

Ind gain 2, Lab gain 3, C lose 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, Lab 27, C 34.

GREENWICH: Lab hold

LD lose 2, C gain 4, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL C 13, LD 2, Lab 36.

HACKNEY: Lab hold

Green gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, LD 3, Lab 44, C 9.

HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM:

C gain from Lab

Ind lose 2, Lab lose 16, C gain 18. NEW COUNCIL Lab 13, C 33.

HARINGEY: Lab hold

LD gain 11, Lab lose 11. NEW COUNCIL LD 27, Lab 30.

HARROW: C gain from NOC

Ind lose 2, LD lose 2, Lab lose 6, C gain 10. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, Lab 24, C 38.

HAVERING: C gain from NOC

BNP gain 1, LD gain 1, Lab lose 9, Ind lose 3, R lose 4, C gain 14. NEW COUNCIL
BNP 1, LD 1, R 13, Lab 2, Ind 3, C 34.

HILLINGDON: C gain from NOC

LD lose 6, Lab lose 9, C gain 15. NEW COUNCIL Lab 18, LD 2, C 45.

HOUNSLOW: Lab lose to NOC

R lose 4, LD gain 1, Ind gain 1, C gain 9, Lab lose 7. NEW COUNCIL C 23, Lab 24,
LD 5, Ind 8.

ISLINGTON: LD lose to NOC

C lose 1, Green gain 1, Lab gain 12, LD lose 12. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, Lab 23, LD
24.

KENSINGTON & CHELSEA: C hold

Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, C 44, Lab 9.

KINGSTON-UPON-THAMES: LD hold

Lab lose 1, C gain 6, LD lose 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 2, C 21, LD 25.

LAMBETH: Lab gain from NOC

Green gain 1, C lose 1, LD lose 10, Lab gain 10. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, LD 17, Lab
39, C 6.

LEWISHAM: Lab lose to NOC

Ind lose 1, C gain 1, Green gain 5, LD gain 10, Lab lose 15. NEW COUNCIL LD 17,
Soc 2, Lab 26, C 3, Green 6.

MERTON: Lab lose to NOC

Ind lose 2, Lab lose 4, C gain 6. NEW COUNCIL Lab 27, R 3, C 30.

NEWHAM: Lab hold

C lose 1, CPA gain 2, Respect gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL CPA 3, Respect 3,
Lab 54.

REDBRIDGE:C hold

BNP gain 1, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, Lab 19, C 34, LD 9.

RICHMOND-UPON-THAMES:

LD gain from C

Ind lose 1, C lose 16, LD gain 17. NEW COUNCIL C 18, LD 36.

SOUTHWARK: NOC no change

Ind lose 3, Green gain 1, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, LD 28, Lab 28, C 6.

SUTTON: LD hold

Lab lose 3, Ind lose 1, C gain 14, LD lose 10. NEW COUNCIL C 22, LD 32.

TOWER HAMLETS: Lab hold

Ind lose 5, LD lose 9, C gain 6, Respect gain 11, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL
Respect 12, Lab 26, LD 6, C 7.

WALTHAM FOREST: NOC no change

C lose 3, LD gain 4, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 15, LD 19, Lab 26.

WANDSWORTH: C hold

Lab lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 51, Lab 9.

WESTMINSTER: C hold

Lab 12, C 48.

METROPOLITAN DISTRICTS

BARNSLEY: Lab hold

Lab 12, C 3, Ind 7. LD lose 1, C gain 1, Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD
2, Ind 21, Lab 34, C 6.

BIRMINGHAM: NOC no change

Details not available.

BOLTON: NOC no change

Lab 10, LD 3, C 7. LD lose 4, C gain 2, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL LD 17, C 21, Lab
22.

BRADFORD: NOC no change

BNP 1, Green 1, C 11, Lab 15, LD 4. BNP lose 1, LD lose 1, C lose 4, Lab gain 6.

NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 14, BNP 2, C 33, Lab 36, Green 4.

BURY: Lab lose to NOC

LD 3, Lab 5, C 9. LD gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 22, Lab 23, LD
6.

CALDERDALE:NOC no change

BNP 1, Ind 2, Lab 4, LD 5, C 6. BNP lose 1, Lab gain 1, LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW
COUNCIL Lab 10, LD 16, BNP 2, C 20, Ind 3.

COVENTRY: C gain from NOC

Soc 1, C 10, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, Soc gain 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2. NEW
COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 19, LD 2, C 29, Soc 3.

DONCASTER: NOC no change

C 3, LD 3, Ind 6, Lab 9. LD lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, Ind 14, Lab
28, C 9.

DUDLEY: C hold

LD 1, Lab 10, C 13. LD lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL UKIP 1, Lab 26, C 40, LD
5.

GATESHEAD: Lab hold

Lab 14, LD 8. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lib 1, LD 23, Lab 42.

KIRKLEES: NOC no change

Green 1, Ind 1, BNP 2, LD 4, Lab 7, C 8. Ind gain 1, BNP gain 2, LD lose 4, Lab
gain 2, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, LD 20, Lab 20, C 21, BNP 3, Green 3.

KNOWSLEY: Lab hold

Lab 17, LD 5. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, Lab 51.

LEEDS: NOC no change

BNP 1, Green 1, Ind 1, Lab 16, C 7, LD 8. BNP gain 1, Ind lose 1. NEW COUNCIL
BNP 1, C 24, LD 26, Green 3, Lab 40, Ind 5.

LIVERPOOL: LD hold

Lib 1, Lab 12, LD 17. Lab gain 3, LD lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, Lib 3, Lab 30,
LD 56.

MANCHESTER: Lab hold

Lab 23, LD 9. LD lose 4, Lab gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, LD 34, Lab 61.

NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE:LD hold

Lab 10, LD 16. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 30, LD 48.

NORTH TYNESIDE:NOC no change

C 10, LD 3, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 23, C 28, LD 8.

OLDHAM: Lab hold

C 1, Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 8. Ind gain 1, C lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 2. NEW
COUNCIL C 1, Ind 1, LD 27, Lab 31.

ROCHDALE:NOC no change

LD 12, C 2, Lab 6. C gain 1, Lab lose 4, LD gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 10, Lab 20, LD
30.

ROTHERHAM: Lab hold

Lab 19, C 2. Ind lose 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, Lab 55,

C 6.

SALFORD: Lab hold

Lab 16, C 3, LD 3. Ind lose 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 44, C 8,
LD 8.

SANDWELL: Lab hold

Lab 15, LD 2, BNP 3, C 4. BNP gain 3, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL C 11, Ind 2, BNP
4, LD 5, Lab 50.

SEFTON: NOC no change

LD 10, C 6, Lab 7. NEW COUNCIL C 19, Lab 21, LD 26.

SHEFFIELD: Lab hold

Green 1, LD 13, Lab 15. Green gain 1, LD lose 2, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1,
C 2, Green 2, LD 34, Lab 45.

SOLIHULL: C hold

BNP 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 5. BNP gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW
COUNCIL BNP 1, LD 15, Ind 2, C 26, Lab 7.

SOUTH TYNESIDE:Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Lab 11, Ind 5. Ind gain 2, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 13, C 3, Lab
34, LD 4.

ST HELENS: NOC no change

C 2, LD 7, Lab 7. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 19, Lab 23, C 6.

STOCKPORT: LD hold

R 1, LD 11, C 4, Lab 5. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 10, Lab 15, R 3,
LD 35.

SUNDERLAND: Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 19, C 5. C gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 13, LD 2, Lab 59.

TAMESIDE:Lab hold

Lab 15, Ind 2, C 3. LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL LD
2, Ind 3, Lab 44, C 8.

TRAFFORD: C hold

C 13, LD 2, Lab 6. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 20, C 39, LD 4.

WAKEFIELD: Lab hold

Ind 1, LD 1, Lab 13, C 6. Ind lose 1, C gain 4, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL C 14, LD
3, Lab 41, Ind 5.

WALSALL: C hold

Ind 1, C 10, LD 2, Lab 7. Lab gain 2, C lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 19, C 34,
LD 6.

WIGAN: Lab hold

Lab 14, LD 3, C 4, Ind 4. C gain 2, Ind lose 3, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 15,
Lab 43, LD 8, C 9.

WIRRAL: NOC no change

C 7, LD 7, Lab 8. UKIP lose 1, LD

gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 19, C 21, Lab 26.

WOLVERHAMPTON: Lab hold

Lib 1, Lab 13, C 6. Ind lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lib 1, C 16, LD 2, Lab 41.

UNITARY AUTHORITIES

BLACKBURN WITH DARWEN:

Lab hold

Lab 10, Ind 2, C 4, LD 5. Ind gain 2, C lose 2, LD gain 2, Lab lose 2. NEW
COUNCIL LD 13, C 15, Ind 3, Lab 33.

BRISTOL: NOC no change

Green 1, Lab 5, C 8, LD 9. Green gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 2, LD gain 1. NEW
COUNCIL Green 1, C 13, Lab 23, LD 33.

DERBY: Lab lose to NOC

C 3, LD 7, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, C lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Ind
1, C 11, LD 15, Lab 24.

HALTON: Lab hold

Lab 12, C 3, LD 3. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 13, Lab 35, C 8.

HARTLEPOOL: Lab hold

LD 1, UKIP 1, Vac 1, C 2, Ind 2, Lab 9. LD lose 2, UKIP gain 1, Ind lose 1,

Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL UKIP 1, Vacant 1, Lab 26, C 4, LD 7, Ind 8.

KINGSTON-UPON-HULL:

NOC no change

C 1, LD 10, Ind 2, Lab 7. Lib lose 1,

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 4.

NEW COUNCIL C 2, Lib 2, Lab 25,

LD 26, Ind 4.

MILTON KEYNES: LD lose to NOC

Lab 4, LD 6, C 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 4, C gain 6. NEW COUNCIL C 13,
Lab 15, LD 23.

NORTH EAST LINCOLNSHIRE:

NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 7, LD 7. Lab lose 1, LD gain 2, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 15, LD
17, Ind 4, Lab 6.

PETERBOROUGH: C hold

C 12, Ind 3, LD 3, Lib 3. Lab lose 3,

Ind gain 1, Lib gain 1, C gain 1.

NEW COUNCIL Vacant 1, Ind 10,

C 33, Lab 4, Lib 4, LD 5.

PORTSMOUTH: NOC no change

Lab 2, LD 5, C 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 16, LD 21, Lab
5.

PLYMOUTH: Lab lose to NOC

C 12, Lab 7. LD lose 1, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 6. NEW COUNCIL Vacant 1,
C 25, Lab 28, LD 3.

READING: Lab hold

LD 2, C 6, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 32, LD 6, C
8.

SLOUGH: NOC no change

C 1, LD 1, Lib 1, Ind 2, Lab 8. R lose 1, LD lose 1, C lose 2, Ind gain 1, Lab
gain 3. NEW COUNCIL UKIP 1, Lab 18, Lib 3, R 4, C 5, Ind 5, LD 5.

SOUTHAMPTON: NOC no change

C 4, Lab 6, LD 7. Lab gain 1, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 16, LD 16, Lab 16.

SOUTHEND-ON-SEA: C hold

Ind 1, C 11, LD 3, Lab 4. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 30, Ind 4, LD 8,
Lab 9.

STOKE-ON-TRENT: Lab lose to NOC

C 2, BNP 3, LD 3, Ind 6, Lab 6. Soc lose 1, C gain 1, BNP gain 3, Ind lose 1,
Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Soc 1, Ind 13, Lab 30, BNP 5, LD 5, C 6.

SWINDON: C hold

LD 1, C 13, Lab 5. LD lose 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 14, Ind 2,
LD 3, C 40.

THURROCK: C hold

C 7, Lab 9. C lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, Lab 21, C 26.

WARRINGTON: Lab lose to NOC

LD 11, C 2, Lab 7. Lab lose 4, LD gain 4. NEW COUNCIL LD 25, Lab 26, C 6.

WOKINGHAM: C hold

C 15, LD 3. LD lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 13, C 41.

NON-METROPOLITAN DISTRICTS

ADUR: C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 12. Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, Ind 2, C
26.

AMBER VALLEY: C hold

C 7, Lab 8. C gain 3, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 18, C 27.

BARROW-IN-FURNESS:

Lab lose to NOC

C 10, Ind 2, Lab 3. Ind gain 1, Lab lose 6, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL C 17, Lab 18,
Ind 3.

BASILDON: C hold

LD 1, C 11, Lab 2. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 12, C 27, LD 3.

BASINGSTOKE & DEANE:

NOC no change

Ind 1, C 10, Lab 3, LD 8. LD lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 12, LD 15, Ind 3,
C 30.

BASSETLAW: C gain from NOC

Lab 7, C 9. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 3, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, Lab 14, C 28,
Ind 5.

BEDFORD: NOC no change

Ind 3, Lab 3, LD 5, C 7. Lab lose 2,

Ind lose 1, LD gain 2, C gain 1.

NEW COUNCIL Ind 10, Lab 12, LD 15, C 17.

BRENTWOOD: C hold

LD 1, Lab 1, C 11. LD lose 6, C gain 6. NEW COUNCIL C 27, Lab 3, LD 7.

BROXBOURNE:C hold

Lab 1, C 12. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, Lab 2, C 35.

BURNLEY: NOC no change

BNP 2, C 2, Lab 5, LD 8. Ind lose 2, C gain 1, BNP gain 1, Lab lose 5, LD gain
5.

NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 16, Lab 16, C 5, BNP 7.

CAMBRIDGE:LD hold

LD 11, Lab 4, C lose 1, LD gain 1.

NEW COUNCIL Lab 13, LD 29.

CANNOCK CHASE:

NOC no change

LD 3, C 4, Lab 6. C gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 14, Lab 16.

CARLISLE:NOC no change

LD 3, C 7, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 19, Lab 24, LD 8.

CASTLE POINT: C hold

Ind 5, C 9. Ind gain 5, C lose 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, Ind 11, C 29.

CHELTENHAM:

NOC no change

LD 10, Ind 2, C 8. Lab lose 1, C gain 2, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, C 17, LD
17, Ind 5.

CHERWELL: C hold

Lab 1, C 15, LD 2. Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 38, LD 4, Lab
8.

CHESTER: NOC no change

C 12, LD 3, Lab 5. LD lose 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 14,
LD 19, C 26.

CHORLEY: C gain from NOC

Ind 1, LD 1, C 11, Lab 5. LD lose 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 17,
LD 2, C 25, Ind 3.

COLCHESTER:

NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 8. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, LD
21, C 30, Lab 7.

CONGLETON: C hold

C 11, Ind 2, LD 3. Ind gain 1, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 14, C 26, Ind 8.

CRAVEN: NOC no change

LD 2, C 3, Ind 4. NEW COUNCIL Ind 11, C 13, LD 6.

CRAWLEY: C gain from Lab

LD 1, Lab 3, C 8. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 16, C 19, LD 2.

CREWE & NANTWICH:

NOC no change

Ind 1, C 11, LD 2, Lab 6. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 3, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 19,
C 25, Ind 6, LD 6.

DAVENTRY: C hold

LD 1, C 12. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 2, Lab
2, C 34.

EASTBOURNE:C hold

LD 4, C 5. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, C 15.

EASTLEIGH: LD hold

Lab 1, LD 13, C 2. C lose 2, LD gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 3, LD 34, C 7.

ELMBRIDGE:NOC no change

Ind 1, C 11, LD 2, R 6. Ind gain 1, R lose 6, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, R 24,
C 26, LD 8.

ELLESMERE PORT & NESTON:

Lab hold

LD 1, C 7, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 15, LD 2, Lab
26.

EPPING FOREST:

NOC no change

Ind 1, R 2, BNP 3, LD 5, C 9. Lab lose 3, Ind lose 1, R lose 1, BNP gain 3, LD
lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, LD 13, C 29, Ind 4, R 5, BNP 6.

EXETER: NOC no change

Lib 1, LD 3, C 4, Lab 5. LD lose 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, Lab
16, Lib 4, C 8.

FAREHAM: C hold

C 10, LD 6. NEW COUNCIL C 22, LD 9.

GOSPORT: C lose to NOC

Lab 3, C 6, LD 8. Lab lose 3, C lose 1, LD gain 4. NEW COUNCIL C 17, Lab 8, LD
9.

GLOUCESTER:

NOC no change

LD 4, Lab 4, C 7. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, C 16, Lab 8.

GREAT YARMOUTH: C hold

Lab 6, C 7. Lab gain 3, C lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 16, C 22.

HARLOW: NOC no change

LD 3, C 4, Lab 5. LD lose 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 12, Lab 13, LD
8.

HARROGATE:C lose to NOC

LD 10, Ind 3, C 6. Ind gain 1, C lose 2, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 22, C 27, Ind
5.

HART: NOC no change

Ind 2, LD 2, R 3, C 6. Ind lose 1, R gain 2, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, C 16,
Ind 2, R 5.

HASTINGS: C gain from NOC

LD 2, Lab 6, C 9. Lab lose 4, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 10, C 17, LD 5.

HAVANT: C hold

LD 1, C 11, Lab 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 30, LD 4, Lab 4.

HERTSMERE:C hold

Lab 1, C 11, LD 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 28, Lab 5, LD 6.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE:C hold

Ind 1, C 13, LD 3. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 11, Ind 2, C 39.

HYNDBURN: C hold

Ind 1, C 4, Lab 6. Ind gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 15,
C 19.

IPSWICH: NOC no change

LD 3, Lab 6, C 7. LD gain 2, Lab lose 5, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 18, C 19, Ind
2, LD 9.

LINCOLN: Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 4, C 6. LD gain 1, Lab lose 5, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 2, Lab
20.

MACCLESFIELD: C hold

Ind 1, R 1, C 12, Lab 3, LD 4. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1, LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW
COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 15, R 3, C 34, Lab 7.

MAIDSTONE:NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 2, LD 6, C 9. Lab lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 19, C
27, Ind 3, Lab 6.

MOLE VALLEY:

C gain from NOC

Ind 1, LD 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 16, C 22, Ind
3.

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME:

Lab lose to NOC

C 6, LD 6, Lab 8. C gain 3, LD gain 2, Lab lose 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, UKIP 1, LD
14, C 17, Lab 27.

NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE:

C hold

C 14, LD 2, Lab 2. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL C 33, LD 7, Lab 9.

NORWICH: NOC no change

C 1, LD 3, Green 5, Lab 6. C gain 1, LD lose 6, Green gain 4, Lab gain 1. NEW
COUNCIL LD 12, Lab 16, C 2, Green 9.

NUNEATON & BEDWORTH: Lab hold

C 8, Lab 9. C gain 4, Lab lose 4. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, C 15, Lab 18.

OXFORD: NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 10, Green 5, LD 9. Ind gain 1, Green gain 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 4.
NEW COUNCIL Lab 17, LD 19, Ind 4, Green 8.

PENDLE:LD hold

BNP 1, C 4, Lab 4, LD 9. BNP gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, C
13, LD 30, Lab 5.

PENWITH: NOC no change

LD 5, C 6. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, LD 12, C 14, Ind 8.

PRESTON: NOC no change

Lab 10, LD 4, C 5. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD
12, C 17, Ind 2, Respect 2, Lab 24.

PURBECK: C hold

Ind 1, LD 2, C 6. Ind lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Vacant 1, C 14, LD 8.

REDDITCH: Lab lose to NOC

BNP 1, C 4, Lab 5. BNP gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, C 11,
Lab 14, LD 3.

REIGATE & BANSTEAD:

C hold

LD 1, C 15, R 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 2,
C 39, LD 4, R 6.

ROCHFORD: C hold

R 1, C 10, LD 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL R 1, C 34, LD 4.

ROSSENDALE:C hold

Ind 1, Lab 5, C 7. LD lose 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 1, C
25, Lab 9.

RUGBY: NOC no change

LD 3, Lab 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 10,
Lab 13, C 24.

RUNNYMEDE:C hold

C 14, R 2. Lab lose 3, Ind lose 2, R gain 2, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL R 2, C 36,
Ind 4.

RUSHMOOR: C hold

Lab 2, LD 3, C 9. Ind lose 1, LD lose 2, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 10, Ind 2, C
25, Lab 5.

SHREWSBURY & ATCHAM:

C gain from NOC

LD 3, Lab 3, C 8. Ind lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 10, Ind 2, C 22, LD 6.

SOUTH BEDFORDSHIRE:

C hold

C 13, Lab 2, LD 3. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 11, C 35, Lab 4.

SOUTH CAMBRIDGESHIRE:

NOC no change

C 11, Ind 2, LD 7. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab
1, Ind 12, LD 19, C 25.

SOUTH LAKELAND:

LD gain from NOC

C 1, LD 17. Lab lose 6, Ind lose 1, C lose 2, LD gain 9. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C
18, Lab 2, LD 31.

ST ALBANS: LD gain from NOC

LD 10, Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 3, C gain 1, LD gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 18, LD
31, Lab 8.

STEVENAGE - Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Lab 11. NEW COUNCIL C 3, Lab 32, LD 4.

STRATFORD-ON-AVON: C hold

Ind 1, C 11, LD 7. NEW COUNCIL LD 20, Ind 3, C 30.

STROUD: C hold

Green 1, Ind 1, LD 1, C 13, Lab 2. Green gain 1, LD lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain
2.

NEW COUNCIL C 29, Ind 3, Green 5, LD 5, Lab 9.

SWALE:C hold

LD 1, C 11, Lab 4. LD lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 10, C
28, LD 8.

TAMWORTH: C hold

Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 21, Lab 8.

TANDRIDGE:C hold

C 12, LD 2. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 2, C
29.

THREE RIVERS: LD hold

Lab 1, LD 11, C 4. C lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 30, Lab 7.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS: C hold

C 14, LD 2. LD lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, C 38, LD 9.

WATFORD: LD hold

C 1, Green 1, Lab 1, Vacant 1, LD 9. Lab lose 2, Green gain 1, LD gain 1. NEW
COUNCIL Lab 1, Vacant 1, LD 28, C 3, Green 3.

WAVENEY: C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 11, Lab 3. Ind lose 3, Lab lose 1, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 12,
C 29, LD 3, Ind 4.

WELWYN HATFIELD: C hold

LD 1, C 13, Lab 3. LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, Lab 12,
LD 3, C 32.

WEST LANCASHIRE:C hold

C 13, Lab 5. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 22, C 32.

WEST LINDSEY:

C lose to NOC

C 6, LD 6. LD gain 2, C lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Vacant 1, C 17, LD 18.

WEST OXFORDSHIRE:

C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 14. LD lose 2, Ind lose 2, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, LD 11, C
32, Ind 5.

WEYMOUTH & PORTLAND: NOC no change

Ind 2, Lab 2, LD 3, C 5. Lab lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD
13, Ind 5, Lab 7.

WINCHESTER: C gain from NOC

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 13, LD 4. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD lose 5, C gain 7. NEW
COUNCIL LD 21, C 29, Lab 3, Ind 4.

WOKING: NOC no change

C 5, LD 8. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, C lose 1, LD gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 15, LD 18,
Lab 3.

WORCESTER: C hold

LD 1, Lab 5, C 6. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 11, C 18, Ind 3, LD 3.

WORTHING: C hold

C 7, LD 7. C lose 3, LD gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 14, C 23.

WYRE FOREST:

NOC no change

Lib 2, KHHC 5, C 7. Lib lose 1, KHHC gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 18, Ind 2, LD 2, Lab
4, Lib 7, KHHC 9.

MAYORAL ELECTIONS

HACKNEY

First count

Jules Pipe (Lab) 20,830

Andrew Boff (C) 7,454

Matthew Penhaligon (LD) 4,882

Mima Bone (Green) 4,683

Hettie Peters (Ind) 2,907

Dean Ryan (Respect) 2,800

Monty Goldman (Comm Brit) 896

Jules Pipe elected at second count

LEWISHAM

First count

Steve Bullock (Lab) 22,155 Christopher Maines (LD) 12,398

James Cleverly (C) 10,790

Michael Keogh (Green) 7,168

John Hamilton (Ind) 4,823

Sinna Mani (LPA) 1,366

Steve Bullock elected at second count

NEWHAM

First count

Sir Robin Wales (Lab) 28,655; Abdurahman Akhtar Jafar (Respect) 12,988

Reza Ahmed Shafi Choudhury (C) 8,822

Alan Craig (CPA) 6,559

Anwar Hussain (LD) 2,886

Sir Robin Wales elected at second count

WATFORD

First count

Dorothy Thornhill (LD) 11,963

Steve O'Brien (C) 4,838

Ruth Ellis (Lab) 4,062

Steve Rackett (Green) 2,522

Dorothy Thornhill elected at first count

KEY

BNP British National Party

C Conservative

CPA Christian People's Alliance

Green Green Party

Ind Independent and Others

Lab Labour

Lib Liberal

LD Liberal Democrat

R Ratepayers or Residents

Respect Respect - the Unity Coalition

NOC No overall control

Soc Socialist

UKIP United Kingdom Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2006



CORRECTION: In Kensington & Chelsea there is no Liberal Democrat councillor and
one more Conservative so the New Council should be C 45, Lab 9 and not LD 1, C
44, Lab 9.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 6, 2006, Saturday

Make my day

SECTION: FEATURES; The Knowledge Scotland/Ireland; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


SAT

Feel the heat at the Carling Academy Glasgow, where the brother and sister team

the Fiery Furnaces bring their new album, Bitter Tea, to the stage. (www.

glasgow-academy.co.uk see page 31)

SUN

Can Tom Cruise claw

back an ounce of credibility with the third in the never-ending Mission
Impossible series? Unlikely, but the explosions are good.

(www.missionimpossible.com see page 12)

MON

Carl Barat finally follows his former Libertines band-mate Pete Doherty into the
public eye with Dirty Pretty Things and their new album, Waterloo to Anywhere.

(www. dirtyprettythingsband.com see page 28)

TUE

Ever wanted to spend an evening with Joan Collins? Well, now you can at the
Usher Hall in Edinburgh. And it's actually really funny. Forget the UKIP thing,
it's not worth it. (www.usherhall.co. uk see page 23)

WED

New Orleans may have been battered by Hurricane Katrina but it certainly ain't
broke. The legendary Dr John brings the spirit of the old city to Scotland
tonight. (www.usherhall.co.uk see page 31)

THU

Some very serious theatre indeed at the Lyric in Belfast tonight, as Peter
Shaffer's heavily intellectual play The Royal Hunt of the Sun spills the blood
of the Incas for us all to see. (www.lyrictheatre. co.uk see page 23)

FRI

From Russia with love comes the unbelievably charismatic Valery Gergiev with the
Kirov Opera Orchestra, to the Sage in Gateshead. Thrilling stuff.

(www.thesagegateshead.org see page 30)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Blair punished at the polls Ministers to be axed in Cabinet reshuffle today
Prescott to apologise for letting down the party

BYLINE: George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words


TONY BLAIR will carry out a major Cabinet reshuffle today to relaunch his
battered government after voters in the English local elections punished Labour
for weeks of chaos and scandal.

Nine years after sweeping the Tories from office, Mr Blair suffered his worst
night at the polls as Labour lost almost 200 council seats to the Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats in the 176 local authority areas that went to the polls.

Early indications were that Labour was failing to make progress even in seats
last fought in 2004 - previously its worst year since coming to power in 1997.

With heavy losses likely to trigger calls for Mr Blair to name the day for him
to leave No 10, Geoff Hoon, the leader of the Commons, confirmed that the Prime
Minister would seek to reassert his authority with a bigger than expected
reshuffle.

He said it was "time for a new team'' to take over.

Like other Cabinet ministers he blamed Labour's poor performance on the bad
headlines over the past fortnight. The Government had been "blown off course''
by the cash crisis in the National Health Service, the foreign prisoners blunder
by the Home Office and the sex scandal involving John Prescott.

A humiliated Mr Prescott, who appeared in public for the first time with his
wife Pauline since the news of his affair broke last week, was summoned back to
London overnight from his Hull East constituency.

Government sources said he would shoulder much of the blame for the Labour
debacle. While he was expected to hang on to his title of Deputy Prime Minister
and deputy Labour leader, they predicted he could be stripped of his
responsibilities for local government and the communities.

In a television interview on Sunday, Mr Prescott is expected to apologise for
letting down Labour and his wife. He has effectively been in hiding since it was
disclosed he had an affair with one of his secretaries.

Labour appeared to have avoided a meltdown, but lost overall control of seven
councils, including Stoke-on-Trent, Bury, Redditch, Derby and Camden.

The Conservatives won Bassetlaw, Shrewsbury, Atcham, Crawley, Winchester, Harrow
and Coventry.

Labour said the results showed a "North-South divide'', with Conservatives
making progress in the capital but making little impact in the north of England.
A senior party aide pointed to the Tories' failure to win a single seat in
cities such as Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle.

Lib Dem campaign chiefs predicted they would win Richmond-on-Thames from the
Tories and South Lakeland in Cumbria from no overall control.

More than half the UK electorate - 23 million people - were entitled to vote in
elections in rural and urban councils across England.

Supporters of the far-Right British National Party said they were making gains
across England. By 1.30am, the party had 11 gains, including three in
Stoke-on-Trent, where Labour lost overall control.

In Sandwell in the Black Country, one of the West Midlands' most deprived
boroughs, three more BNP councillors were elected in addition to one already on
the council. All three gains were at the expense of Labour.

The BNP gained four seats in the London borough of Barking and Dagenham.

Among the smaller parties, the UK Independence Party won a seat in Hartlepool.
The Greens appeared to be picking up support in Norwich.

Cabinet ministers launched a co-ordinated effort to protect Mr Blair and shift
the blame on to other ministers - including Mr Prescott and Charles Clarke, the
Home Secretary, who faced fresh embarrassment over the foreign prisoner crisis
yesterday.

Tessa Jowell, the Culture Secretary, apologised to local party activists who
felt they had been let down by her Cabinet colleagues. John Reid, the Defence
Secretary, said he would not be surprised if Labour lost "several hundred
seats''.

Its campaign had been "blasted by some national problems''.

Derby's Labour group leader blamed the national media for losing overall control
of the city council. Chris Williamson said: "We were fighting the campaign
against the most hostile, vituperative media coverage of the Labour Party I have
seen and we have paid the price.''

Francis Maude, the Tory chairman, said its results would be "at the top end'' of
expectations. The Tories are understood to be hoping to gain a 40 per cent share
of the vote - the percentage of the national poll needed to form a government -
breaking their lengthy period of flat-lining around 31-34 per cent in polls.

Mr Maude said: "None of us are throwing our hats into the air and saying we are
about to storm into Downing Street. We have started to build from a low base and
have a long way to go, but this is a good start.''

Last night's losses will increase pressure on Mr Blair to bring forward the
hand-over to Gordon Brown. A close ally of the Chancellor urged Mr Blair to
address the "disappointment'' many people felt with the Government.

Nick Brown, a former agriculture minister, said voters were disappointed and the
Government appeared to be "a complacent elite that has lost touch with the
people we wanted to represent''.

In what could be seen as a call to Mr Blair to make way for the Chancellor, he
said: "It has got to be put right now, put right very, very sharply.

"We've got to listen to people - people who supported us in 1997, were
enthusiastic about us and now not voting for us. They are unhappy and we have to
turn that around.''

Mr Brown said he had not seen a letter calling for Mr Blair to stand down which
is said to be circulating among Labour backbenchers.

Although Mr Blair has said he will quit before the next election - favouring a
hand-over in 2008 - a growing number of MPs want him to declare a definite date,
possibly around his 10th anniversary in Downing Street next May.

Half of voters would like him out by the end of this year, a BBC poll shows
today.

The problem is staring him in the mirror

EARLY this morning it became clear just how disenchanted with Labour the country
is. The results are especially striking in London, where Labour has been swept
out of many of its strongholds.

Many results naturally reflect local preoccupations. But hovering over the scene
is the national story: a tired government, all out of excuses, with little to
show for Gordon Brown's enormous increases in public spending. Each of the main
fields of policy - home affairs, education and health care - is in disarray, and
last night Labour got the treatment it deserved.

This dissatisfaction is focused most directly on Tony Blair. Last night was the
worst in his nine years in Downing Street. Today he begins a reshuffle but he
cannot imagine that rearranging the Cabinet seating plan will cure his troubles.
As Sir Menzies Campbell said, the elections represented "a referendum on the
Prime Minister''. Labour's problem is gazing at Mr Blair from his mirror this
morning.

Not that Sir Menzies can take much hope from the results, for the Liberal
Democrats had a disappointing night. The real winners were fringe parties. The
recrudescence of the British National Party, and the rise of Respect, are grim
harbingers. More encouragingly, a range of single-issue fringe groups has taken
seats from the big three. This election confirms the obvious: people are tired
of the politics of Westminster, and want direct control over their own
communities. Voter turnout - and support for respectable parties - will improve
only when meaningful local accountability is restored.

It is in this turbulent scene that David Cameron faced his first electoral test.
The Conservatives deserve to be jubilant at their gains in London and the
suburbs. But results from elsewhere show how far Mr Cameron is from Downing
Street. Labour remains strong in the northern cities. Newcastle and Manchester
are still without a Tory councillor.

Mr Cameron will not become Prime Minister without picking up parliamentary seats
in these places.

The first result to be announced last night was Tamworth, where the Tories
retained control. In that place 172 years ago, Sir Robert Peel set out his creed
in a manifesto that marks the foundation of the modern Conservative Party. He
accepted the absolute necessity of "reform'' but that did not mean he wanted "a
perpetual vortex of agitation''. He did not believe, he said, that "public men
can only support themselves in public estimation by adopting every popular
impression of the day''.

Mr Cameron has made much of his wish to "change'' his party, and these results
confirm the need for it. But he must not do so by abandoning the principles on
which Peel founded his party, and which have served it so well.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Conservatives Cameron's crusade puts Tories back on victory trail

BYLINE: Graeme Wilson Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 3145 words


DAVID Cameron's crusade to put the Conservatives back on the map in the cities
was boosted last night amid signs it had won some crucial London boroughs.

But on a night of mixed fortunes for the party, it appeared the Tories had
failed to make a breakthrough in the big northern cities like Manchester,
Liverpool or Newcastle where the party does not have a single councillor.

Jubilant Conservatives were predicting victory early this morning in the pivotal
London battleground of Hammersmith and Fulham, for the first time in nearly 40
years, as well as in Croydon. In another significant result, the party also won
control of Crawley in Sussex from Labour by a single seat. It also seized
Coventry for the first time since 1978, as well as Mole Valley, Chorley and
Bassetlaw.

The party also claimed Winchester, where the Liberal Democrat MP, Mark Oaten,
has been beset by scandals, from the Liberal Democrats

And there were encouraging signs from other parts of the country too, with the
Tories winning a smattering of seats in Birmingham, Warrington, Barrow, Bury,
Sunderland and Wigan.

In another dramatic development, early reports from Tower Hamlets suggested that
George Galloway's Respect party could emerge as the single biggest party in a
council which had been dominated by Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

By 2am this morning, the Conservatives were predicting that their national share
of the vote had broken through the symbolic 40 per cent barrier - up at least
two per cent on two years ago.

Labour was expected to see its share of the vote remain at around 26 per cent -
the figure it recorded in 2004, which was at the time a 30 year low for the
party.

The expected victory in Hammersmith and Fulham will be a big boost for the
Tories, who last controlled the council in 1968.

The party's hopes of clinching the borough rose sharply following last year's
general election when Greg Hands, the Conservative candidate, won Hammersmith
and Fulham from Labour. Last night, Labour insiders admitted the situation
appeared "dire''.

Stephen Greenhalgh, the Tory group leader on the council, said: "Tonight we have
heard the death knell of New Labour in our capital city. We campaigned as
tax-cutting Conservatives and we will run this council as tax-cutting
Conservatives.''

There was a tough battle in Croydon, though the Tories were optimistic about
their chances to snatching the council back from Labour. The Tories were also
expecting to make gains in Ealing and Merton.

Party officials were also eager to flag up successes in places like Bury, Wigan
and Bassetlaw as a sign that they were reaching voters in new areas. However,
the early indications were that they had failed to make a breakthrough in
Manchester despite Mr Cameron's decision to stage the party's spring conference
in the city last month.

Last night party insiders conceded that it had not won any seats in Liverpool,
Sheffield and Newcastle either.

In other results, Shrewsbury & Atcham - where no party had overall control -
became one of the first big Tory gains of the night. There was relief at
Conservative Central Office after the party successfully defended its most
vulnerable council in Worcester, though Labour won one seat from an independent
councillor.

In Brentwood, Essex, the Tories tightened their grip on the council by winning
six seats from the Lib Dems. And there was a similar story in Tamworth, where
the Tories increased their majority by winning five seats from Labour. By 2am,
the Conservatives had 916 councillors across the country, an increase of 127.
Labour had lost 123 councillors.

However, in other London boroughs - including Lewisham and Haringey - it was the
Lib Dems who appeared to be making inroads on Labour rather than the Tories.

Francis Maude, the Conservative party chairman, said: "It has been a good
evening for the Conservatives. We are continuing to build our support while
Labour's melts away. David Cameron's message of change, optimism and hope is in
tune with what Britain wants today.

"Our success tonight is also down to the hard work of the councillors,
candidates and campaigners on the ground.''

Local election results

KEY TO PARTIES

CConservative

LabLabour

LDLiberal Democrat

GreenGreen Party

BNPBritish National Party

CPAChristian People's Alliance

IndIndependent and Others

KHHCKidderminster Hospital and Health Concern

LibLiberal

Meb Ker Mebyon Kernow

RRatepayers or Residents

RespectRespect - the Unity Coalition

SocSocialist

UKIPUnited Kingdom Independence Party

VacVacant London

Kensington & Chelsea: C, No change. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. New council: LD 1, C
44, Lab 9.

Wandsworth: C, No change. Lab lose 1, C gain 1. New council: C 51, Lab 9.

Westminster: C, No change. Lab 12, C 48.

Metropolitan

Barnsley: Lab, No change. Lab 12, C 3, Ind 7. LD lose 1, C gain 1, Ind lose 1,
Lab gain 1. New council: LD 2, Ind 21, Lab 34, C 6.

Bolton: NOC No change. Lab 10, LD 3, C 7. LD lose 4, C gain 2, Lab gain 2. New
council: LD 17, C 21, Lab 22.

Bury: Lab, lose to NOC. LD 3, Lab 5, C 9. LD gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 3. New
council: C 22, Lab 23, LD 6.

Coventry: C, gain from NOC. Soc 1, C 10, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, Soc gain
1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2. New council: Ind 1, Lab 19, LD 2, C 29, Soc 3.

Doncaster: NOC No change. C 3, LD 3, Ind 6, Lab 9. LD lose 1, Lab gain 1. New
council: LD 12, Ind 14, Lab 28, C 9.

Dudley: C, No change. LD 1, Lab 10, C 13. LD lose 1, Lab gain 1. New council:
UKIP 1, Lab 26, C 40, LD 5.

Gateshead: Lab, No change. Lab 14, LD 8. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. New council: Lib
1, LD 23, Lab 42.

Knowsley: Lab, No change. Lab 17, LD 5. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. New council: LD
12, Lab 51.

Liverpool: LD, No change. Lib 1, Lab 12, LD 17. Lab gain 3, LD lose 3. New
council: Green 1, Lib 3, Lab 30, LD 56.

Manchester: Lab, No change. Lab 23, LD 9. LD lose 4, Lab gain 4. New council:
Green 1, LD 34, Lab 61.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne: LD, No change. Lab 10, LD 16. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. New
council: Lab 30, LD 48.

North Tyneside: NOC No change. C 10, LD 3, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, LD gain 1. New
council: Ind 1, Lab 23, C 28, LD 8.

Oldham: Lab, lose to NOC. C 1, Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 8. Ind gain 1, C lose 1, Lab
lose 3, LD gain 3. New council: C 1, Ind 1, LD 28, Lab 30.

Rochdale: NOC No change. LD 12, C 2, Lab 6. C gain 1, Lab lose 4, LD gain 3. New
council: C 10, Lab 20, LD 30.

Rotherham: Lab, No change. Lab 19, C 2. Ind lose 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2. New
council: Ind 2, Lab 55, C 6.

Salford: Lab, No change. Lab 16, C 3, LD 3. Ind lose 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 1.
New council: Lab 44, C 8, LD 8.

Sandwell: Lab, No change. Lab 15, LD 2, BNP 3, C 4. BNP gain 3, Lab lose 3. New
council: C 11, Ind 2, BNP 4, LD 5, Lab 50.

Sefton: NOC No change. LD 10, C 6, Lab 7. New council: C 19, Lab 21, LD 26.

Sheffield: Lab, No change. Green 1, LD 13, Lab 15. Green gain 1, LD lose 2, Lab
gain 1. New council: Ind 1, C 2, Green 2, LD 34, Lab 45.

Solihull: C, No change. BNP 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 5. BNP gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD
gain 1, C lose 1. New council: BNP 1, LD 15, Ind 2, C 26, Lab 7.

South Tyneside: Lab, No change. C 1, LD 1, Lab 11, Ind 5. Ind gain 2, Lab lose
2. New council: Ind 13, C 3, Lab 34, LD 4.

St Helens: NOC No change. C 2, LD 7, Lab 7. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. New council:
LD 19, Lab 23, C 6.

Stockport: LD, No change. R 1, LD 11, C 4, Lab 5. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. New
council: C 10, Lab 15, R 3, LD 35.

Sunderland: Lab, No change. LD 1, Lab 19, C 5. C gain 1, Lab lose 1. New
council: Ind 1, C 13, LD 2, Lab 59.

Tameside: Lab, No change. Lab 15, Ind 2, C 3. LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, C gain 1,
Lab lose 2. New council: LD 2, Ind 3, Lab 44, C 8.

Trafford: C, No change. C 13, LD 2, Lab 6. LD gain 1, C lose 1. New council: Lab
20, C 39, LD 4.

Walsall: C, No change. Ind 1, C 10, LD 2, Lab 7. Lab gain 2, C lose 2. New
council: Ind 1, Lab 19, C 34, LD 6.

Wigan: Lab, No change. Lab 14, LD 3, C 4, Ind 4. C gain 2, Ind lose 3, Lab gain
1. New council: Ind 15, Lab 43, LD 8, C 9.

Wirral: NOC No change. C 7, LD 7, Lab 8. UKIP lose 1, LD gain 1. New council: LD
19, C 21, Lab 26.

Wolverhampton: Lab, No change. Lib 1, Lab 13, C 6. Ind lose 1, C gain 1. New
council: Lib 1, C 16, LD 2, Lab 41.

Non-Metropolitan

Adur: C, No change. Ind 1, LD 1, C 12. Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1. New
council: LD 1, Ind 2, C 26.

Amber Valley: C, No change. C 7, Lab 8. C gain 3, Lab lose 3. New council: Lab
18, C 27.

Barrow-in-Furness: Lab, lose to NOC. C 10, Ind 2, Lab 3. Ind gain 1, Lab lose 6,
C gain 5. New council: C 17, Lab 18, Ind 3.

Basildon: C, No change. LD 1, C 11, Lab 2. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. New council:
Lab 12, C 27, LD 3.

Basingstoke & Deane: NOC No change. Ind 1, C 10, Lab 3, LD 8. LD lose 2, C gain
2. New council: Lab 12, LD 15, Ind 3, C 30.

Bassetlaw: C, gain from NOC. Lab 7, C 9. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 3, C gain 4. New
council: LD 1, Lab 14, C 28, Ind 5.

Bedford: NOC No change. Ind 3, Lab 3, LD 5, C 7. Lab lose 2, Ind lose 1, LD gain
2, C gain 1. New council: Ind 10, Lab 12, LD 15, C 17.

Brentwood: C, No change. LD 1, Lab 1, C 11. LD lose 6, C gain 6. New council: C
27, Lab 3, LD 7.

Broxbourne: C, No change. Lab 1, C 12. New council: BNP 1, Lab 2, C 35.

Cambridge: LD, No change. LD 11, Lab 4. C lose 1, LD gain 1. New council: Lab
13, LD 29.

Cannock Chase: NOC No change. LD 3, C 4, Lab 6. C gain 1, Lab lose 1. New
council: C 11, LD 14, Lab 16.

Carlisle: NOC No change. LD 3, C 7, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C lose 1. New council: Ind
1, C 19, Lab 24, LD 8.

Castle Point: C, No change. Ind 5, C 9. Ind gain 5, C lose 5. New council: Lab
1, Ind 11, C 29.

Cheltenham: NOC No change. LD 10, Ind 2, C 8. Lab lose 1, C gain 2, LD lose 1.
New council: Lab 1, C 17, LD 17, Ind 5.

Cherwell: C, No change. Lab 1, C 15, LD 2. Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1. New
council: C 38, LD 4, Lab 8.

Chester: NOC No change. C 12, LD 3, Lab 5. LD lose 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 5. New
council: Ind 1, Lab 14, LD 19, C 26.

Chorley: C, gain from NOC. Ind 1, LD 1, C 11, Lab 5. LD lose 1, Lab lose 4, C
gain 5. New council: Lab 17, LD 2, C 25, Ind 3.

Colchester: NOC No change. Ind 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 8. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C
gain 2. New council: Ind 2, LD 21, C 30, Lab 7.

Congleton: C, No change. C 11, Ind 2, LD 3. Ind gain 1, LD lose 1. New council:
LD 14, C 26, Ind 8.

Craven: NOC No change. LD 2, C 3, Ind 4. New council: Ind 11, C 13, LD 6.

Crawley: C gain from Lab. LD 1, Lab 3, C 8. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. New council:
Lab 16, C 19, LD 2.

Daventry: C, No change. LD 1, C 12. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 1, C gain 1.
New council: LD 2, Lab 2, C 34.

Eastbourne: C, No change. LD 4, C 5. LD lose 1, C gain 1. New council: LD 12, C
15.

Eastleigh: LD, No change. Lab 1, LD 13, C 2. C lose 2, LD gain 2. New council:
Lab 3, LD 34, C 7.

Ellesmere Port & Neston: Lab, No change. LD 1, C 7, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose
1, C gain 2. New council: C 15, LD 2, Lab 26.

Elmbridge: NOC No change. Ind 1, C 11, LD 2, R 6. Ind gain 1, R lose 6, C gain
5. New council: Ind 2, R 24, C 26, LD 8.

Epping Forest: NOC No change. Ind 1, R 2, BNP 3, LD 5, C 9. Lab lose 3, Ind lose
1, R lose 1, BNP gain 3, LD lose 1, C gain 3. New council: Lab 1, LD 13, C 29,
Ind 4, R 5, BNP 6.

Exeter: NOC No change. Lib 1, LD 3, C 4, Lab 5. LD lose 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 2.
New council: LD 12, Lab 16, Lib 4, C 8.

Fareham: C, No change. C 10, LD 6. New council: C 22, LD 9.

Gloucester: NOC No change. LD 4, Lab 4, C 7. New council: LD 12, C 16, Lab 8.

Gosport: C, lose to NOC. Lab 3, C 6, LD 8. Lab lose 3, C lose 1, LD gain 4. New
council: C 17, Lab 8, LD 9.

Great Yarmouth: C, No change. Lab 6, C 7. Lab gain 3, C lose 3. New council: Ind
1, Lab 16, C 22.

Harlow: NOC No change. LD 3, C 4, Lab 5. LD lose 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2. New
council: C 12, Lab 13, LD 8.

Hart: NOC No change. Ind 2, LD 2, R 3, C 6. Ind lose 1, R gain 2, C lose 1. New
council: LD 12, C 16, Ind 2, R 5.

Hastings: C, gain from NOC. LD 2, Lab 6, C 9. Lab lose 4, C gain 4. New council:
Lab 10, C 17, LD 5.

Havant: C, No change. LD 1, C 11, Lab 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. New council: C
30, LD 4, Lab 4.

Hertsmere: C, No change. Lab 1, C 11, LD 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. New council: C
28, Lab 5, LD 6.

Huntingdonshire: C, No change. Ind 1, C 13, LD 3. LD gain 1, C lose 1. New
council: LD 11, Ind 2, C 39.

Hyndburn: C, No change. Ind 1, C 4, Lab 6. Ind gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. New
council: Ind 1, Lab 15, C 19.

Ipswich: NOC No change. LD 3, Lab 6, C 7. LD gain 2, Lab lose 5, C gain 3. New
council: Lab 18, C 19, Ind 2, LD 9.

Lincoln: Lab, No change. LD 1, Lab 4, C 6. LD gain 1, Lab lose 5, C gain 4. New
council: C 11, LD 2, Lab 20.

Macclesfield: C, No change. Ind 1, R 1, C 12, Lab 3, LD 4. Ind lose 1, Lab gain
1, LD gain 1, C lose 1. New council: Ind 1, LD 15, R 3, C 34, Lab 7.

Maidstone: NOC No change. Ind 1, Lab 2, LD 6, C 9. Lab lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain
3. New council: LD 19, C 27, Ind 3, Lab 6.

Mole Valley: C, gain from NOC. Ind 1, LD 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain
3. New council: LD 16, C 22, Ind 3.

Newcastle-under-Lyme: Lab, lose to NOC. C 6, LD 6, Lab 8. C gain 3, LD gain 2,
Lab lose 5. New council: Ind 1, UKIP 1, LD 14, C 17, Lab 27.

North Hertfordshire: C, No change. C 14, LD 2, Lab 2. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. New
council: C 33, LD 7, Lab 9.

Norwich: NOC No change. C 1, LD 3, Green 5, Lab 6. C gain 1, LD lose 6, Green
gain 4, Lab gain 1. New council: LD 12, Lab 16, C 2, Green 9.

Nuneaton & Bedworth: Lab, No change. C 8, Lab 9. C gain 4, Lab lose 4. New
council: LD 1, C 15, Lab 18.

Oxford: NOC No change. Ind 1, Lab 10, Green 5, LD 9. Ind gain 1, Green gain 1,
LD gain 2, Lab lose 4. New council: Lab 17, LD 19, Ind 4, Green 8.

Pendle: LD, No change. BNP 1, C 4, Lab 4, LD 9. BNP gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain
1. New council: BNP 1, C 13, LD 30, Lab 5.

Penwith: NOC No change. LD 5, C 6. LD lose 1, C gain 1. New council: Lab 1, LD
12, C 14, Ind 8.

Preston: NOC No change. Lab 10, LD 4, C 5. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 1, Lab
gain 1. New council: LD 12, C 17, Ind 2, Respect 2, Lab 24.

Purbeck: C, No change. Ind 1, LD 2, C 6. Ind lose 1, C gain 1. New council: Ind
1, Vacant 1, C 14, LD 8.

Redditch: Lab, lose to NOC. BNP 1, C 4, Lab 5. BNP gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2.
New council: BNP 1, C 11, Lab 14, LD 3.

Reigate & Banstead: C, No change. LD 1, C 15, R 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD
lose 1, C gain 3. New council: Lab 2, C 39, LD 4, R 6.

Rochford: C, No change. R 1, C 10, LD 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, C gain 2. New
council: R 1, C 34, LD 4.

Rugby: NOC No change. LD 3, Lab 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3. New
council: Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 13, C 24.

Runnymede: C, No change. C 14, R 2. Lab lose 3, Ind lose 2, R gain 2, C gain 3.
New council: R 2, C 36, Ind 4.

Rushmoor: C, No change. Lab 2, LD 3, C 9. Ind lose 1, LD lose 2, C gain 3. New
council: LD 10, Ind 2, C 25, Lab 5.

Shrewsbury & Atcham: C, gain from NOC. LD 3, Lab 3, C 8. Ind lose 2, C gain 2.
New council: Lab 10, Ind 2, C 22, LD 6.

South Bedfordshire: C, No change. C 13, Lab 2, LD 3. LD lose 1, C gain 1. New
council: LD 11, C 35, Lab 4.

South Lakeland: LD, gain from NOC. C 1, LD 17. Lab lose 6, Ind lose 1, C lose 2,
LD gain 9. New council: Ind 1, C 18, Lab 2, LD 31.

St Albans: LD, gain from NOC. LD 10, Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 3, C gain 1, LD gain
2. New council: Ind 1, C 18, LD 31, Lab 8.

Stevenage: Lab, No change. C 1, LD 1, Lab 11. New council: C 3, Lab 32, LD 4.

Stratford-on-Avon: C, No change. Ind 1, C 11, LD 7. New council: LD 20, Ind 3, C
30.

Stroud: C, No change. Green 1, Ind 1, LD 1, C 13, Lab 2. Green gain 1, LD lose
1, Lab lose 2, C gain 2. New council: C 29, Ind 3, Green 5, LD 5, Lab 9.

Swale: C, No change. LD 1, C 11, Lab 4. LD lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3. New
council: Ind 1, Lab 10, C 28, LD 8.

Tamworth: C, No change. Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. New council: Ind 1, C
21, Lab 8.

Tandridge: C, No change. C 12, LD 2. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2. New
council: Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 2, C 29.

Three Rivers: LD, No change. Lab 1, LD 11, C 4. C lose 1, LD gain 1. New
council: C 11, LD 30, Lab 7.

Tunbridge Wells: C, No change. C 14, LD 2. LD lose 2, C gain 2. New council: Lab
1, C 38, LD 9.

Waveney: C, No change. Ind 1, LD 1, C 11, Lab 3. Ind lose 3, Lab lose 1, C gain
4. New council: Lab 12, C 29, LD 3, Ind 4.

Welwyn Hatfield: C, No change. LD 1, C 13, Lab 3. LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain
1. New council: Green 1, Lab 12, LD 3, C 32.

West Lancashire: C, No change. C 13, Lab 5. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. New council:
Lab 22, C 32.

West Lindsey: C, lose to NOC. C 6, LD 6. LD gain 2, C lose 2. New council: Ind
1, Vacant 1, C 17, LD 18.

West Oxfordshire: C, No change. Ind 1, LD 1, C 14. LD lose 2, Ind lose 2, C gain
4. New council: Lab 1, LD 11, C 32, Ind 5.

Weymouth & Portland: NOC No change. Ind 2, Lab 2, LD 3, C 5. Lab lose 2, LD lose
1, C gain 3. New council: C 11, LD 13, Ind 5, Lab 7.

Woking: NOC No change. C 5, LD 8. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, C lose 1, LD gain 3.
New council: C 15, LD 18, Lab 3.

Worcester: C, No change. LD 1, Lab 5, C 6. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. New council:
Lab 11, C 18, Ind 3, LD 3.

Worthing: C, No change. C 7, LD 7. C lose 3, LD gain 3. New council: LD 14, C
23.

Wyre Forest: NOC No change. Lib 2, KHHC 5, C 7. Lib lose 1, KHHC gain 1. New
council: C 18, Ind 2, LD 2, Lab 4, Lib 7, KHHC 9.

Unitary

Blackburn with Darwen: Lab, No change. Lab 10, Ind 2, C 4, LD 5. Ind gain 2, C
lose 2, LD gain 2, Lab lose 2. New council: LD 13, C 15, Ind 3, Lab 33.

Derby: Lab, lose to NOC. C 3, LD 7, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, C lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD
gain 4. New council: Ind 1, C 11, LD 15, Lab 24.

Halton: Lab, No change. Lab 12, C 3, LD 3. LD lose 1, C gain 1. New council: LD
13, Lab 35, C 8.

Hartlepool: Lab, No change. LD 1, UKIP 1, Vacant 1, C 2, Ind 2, Lab 9. LD lose
2, UKIP gain 1, Ind lose 1, Lab gain 2. New council: UKIP 1, Vacant 1, Lab 26, C
4, LD 7, Ind 8.

Kingston-upon-Hull: NOC No change. C 1, LD 10, Ind 2, Lab 7. Lib lose 1, Ind
lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 4. New council: C 2, Lib 2, Lab 25, LD 26, Ind 4.

North East Lincolnshire: NOC No change. Ind 1, Lab 1, C 7, LD 7. Lab lose 1, LD
gain 2, C lose 1. New council: C 15, LD 17, Ind 4, Lab 6.

Plymouth: Lab, lose to NOC. C 12, Lab 7. LD lose 1, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, C
gain 6. New council: Vacant 1, C 25, Lab 28, LD 3.

Portsmouth: NOC No change. Lab 2, LD 5, C 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 3.
New council: C 16, LD 21, Lab 5.

Reading: Lab, No change. LD 2, C 6, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 3. New
council: Lab 32, LD 6, C 8.

Slough: NOC No change. C 1, LD 1, Lib 1, Ind 2, Lab 8. R lose 1, LD lose 1, C
lose 2, Ind gain 1, Lab gain 3. New council: UKIP 1, Lab 18, Lib 3, R 4, C 5,
Ind 5, LD 5.

Southampton: NOC No change. C 4, Lab 6, LD 7. Lab gain 1, LD lose 1. New
council: C 16, LD 16, Lab 16.

Southend-on-Sea: C, No change. Ind 1, C 11, LD 3, Lab 4. LD gain 1, C lose 1.
New council: C 30, Ind 4, LD 8, Lab 9.

Stoke-on-Trent: Lab, lose to NOC. C 2, BNP 3, LD 3, Ind 6, Lab 6. Soc lose 1, C
gain 1, BNP gain 3, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2. New council: Soc 1, Ind 13, Lab 30,
BNP 5, LD 5, C 6.

Warrington: Lab, lose to NOC. LD 11, C 2, Lab 7. C gain 1, Lab lose 5, LD gain
4. New council: LD 25, Lab 25, C 7.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Voters give their verdict

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 106 words


Voters give their verdict

COUNCILS went to the polls in England yesterday. These results show: The number
of seats gained or lost by each party in this election; the number of seats each
party holds in the new council and lastly, which party, if any, now holds an
overall majority.

Tory hat-trick: Father, son and daughter, George and Gareth Fairhurst and Angela
Bland celebrate victory in Wigan last night

Abbreviations: C-Conservative, Lab-Labour, LD-Liberal Democrat, Lib- Liberal,
Ind-Independent, R-Ratepayers or Residents, Soc-Social Democrat, BNP-British
National Party, UKIP-UK Independence Party

(SEE ARTICLE FOR AREAS AND RESULTS)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TORY HAT-TRICK: FATHER, SON AND DAUGHTER, GEORGE AND GARETH FAIRHURST
AND ANGELA BLAND CELEBRATE VICTORY IN WIGAN LAST NIGHT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

The voters' verdict ;LOCAL ELECTIONS 2006

SECTION: ED 4TH; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 105 words


The voters' verdict

LOCAL ELECTIONS 2006

COUNCILS went to the polls in England yesterday. These results show: The number
of seats gained or lost by each party in this election; the number of seats each
party holds in the new council and lastly, which party, if any, now holds an
overall majority.

Conservative hat-trick: Father, son and daughter, George and Gareth Fairhurst
and Angela Bland celebrate

Abbreviations: C-Conservative, Lab-Labour, LD-Liberal Democrat, Lib- Liberal,
Ind-Independent, R-Ratepayers or Residents, Soc-Social Democrat, BNP-British
National Party, UKIP-UK Independence Party

(SEE ARTICLE FOR AREA-BY AREA RESULTS)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONSERVATIVE HAT-TRICK: FATHER, SON AND DAUGHTER, GEORGE AND GARETH
FAIRHURST AND ANGELA BLAND CELEBRATE VICTORY IN THE COUNCIL ELECTIONS IN WIGAN
LAST NIGHT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Comment & Debate: Slavish, timid and maladroit : In his contempt for his party
and liking for cash, Cameron is so like Blair; but why go back to that?

BYLINE: Christopher Montgomery

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 636 words


David Cameron should be bathing in a warm glow of local election results this
morning showing Tory gains. That's not a bad finish for a campaign so low key
that the Tory leader skived off for three days in the middle with the novel
excuse of going to Norway to look at a glacier. The result was a now notorious
photo opportunity, showing Cameron on a sled hauled by huskies. Quite what that
achieved is hard to say, but certainly Cameron has reverted to the worst habits
of his immediate predecessors: leadership by stunt.

The glacier itself is not important. The issue is that it's melting. Though, as
one Tory MP pointed out, "to get there in a suitably carbon-neutral way, he'll
need to swim". But that's the thing: substance isn't what is at stake here - the
photo-op is. The problem with this stunt-led policy-making isn't the
inconsistency in jetting off to the Arctic, it's that if you don't know why
you're opposed to global warming other than that Bono is, you're setting
yourself up for trouble.

Other stunts include the knee-jerk commitment to the government's target for
"ending child poverty". A long time ago, when Tories were as ugly on the outside
as the inside, the response to child poverty would have been to ask why relative
poverty was a problem, when surely only absolute poverty is? Not so Dave. Dave's
loveliness requires special moral sunglasses even to look at. Naturally there is
a marketing-led rationale for this unTory preachiness; namely, we've looked so
hideous for so long, it's far better to risk looking holier than the Lib Dems
than stick with our old image.

Thus where Hague would exploit an immigration scare, the Cameron tactic is not
to play down the fractional risks involved, but to be at one with the health and
safety zeitgeist. From his standpoint, this is sensibly opportunistic
leadership. It also defers to the Cameron faction's principal insight about
modern Britain: we are a country that likes zealous regulation of health scares;
and PC values predominate, among the elite and the public.

Yet even where Cameron should be at his best, he's failing. His media mastery
was circumspect in the loans for honours affair. Allowing the government to
wriggle off that hook required monumental cupidity - which, in putting forward
five donors for seven peerages claimed, he nimbly achieved. Worse still was the
newspeak attack on Ukip for racism. If you're going to anathematise naughty
Eurosceptics - who happen to be using the Freedom of Information Act to find out
what funding you've taken from EU institutions - do at least avoid it yourself.

Sadly, Cameron's Conservatives let him down. In Manchester, one Tory councillor
opined - before she remembered she hadn't meant what she said - that "black
(candidates) wouldn't work" in her constituency. And in Peterborough, Neville
Sanders was reinstated as a Tory candidate, notwithstanding his view that the
Irish are "lazy bastards" he's tired of wasting taxes on.

All of these tendencies - the stunts, the timidity about any view not expressed
in a gel bracelet, and maladroit media handling - come together in Cameron's
obsession with rigging the selection process. The latest reforms ban speeches at
selection meetings because, and I wish I were joking, central office holds that
women can't do speeches. The changes also aim to widen "community involvement"
and lessen the role of the people Cameron has most contempt for: the paid-up
party members.

In this distaste of the party grass roots, slavish immediacy and liking for
money, there's a lot of resemblance to Blair. The question for the next general
election is: why go back to more of that?

Christopher Montgomery worked for Ian Duncan Smith when he was Conservative
leader; his pamphlet The Crisis of Tory Leadership will be published this summer
crit-dufer@yahoo.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2006, Friday

Local elections

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2095 words


LONDON BOROUGHS

WANDSWORTH: C hold

Lab lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 51, Lab 9.

WESTMINSTER: C hold Lab 12, C 48.

METROPOLITAN DISTRICTS

BARNSLEY: Lab hold

Lab 12, C 3, Ind 7. LD lose 1, C gain 1, Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD
2, Ind 21, Lab 34, C 6.

BOLTON: NOC no change

Lab 10, LD 3, C 7. LD lose 4, C gain 2, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL LD 17, C 21, Lab
22.

BURY: Lab lose to NOC

LD 3, Lab 5, C 9. LD gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 22, Lab 23, LD
6.

COVENTRY: C gain from NOC

Soc 1, C 10, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, Soc gain 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2. NEW
COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 19, LD 2, C 29, Soc 3.

DONCASTER: NOC no change

C 3, LD 3, Ind 6, Lab 9. LD lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, Ind 14, Lab
28, C 9.

DUDLEY: C hold

LD 1, Lab 10, C 13. LD lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL UKIP 1, Lab 26, C 40, LD
5.

GATESHEAD: Lab hold

Lab 14, LD 8. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lib 1, LD 23, Lab 42.

KNOWSLEY: Lab hold

Lab 17, LD 5. LD gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, Lab 51.

LIVERPOOL: LD hold

Lib 1, Lab 12, LD 17. Lab gain 3, LD lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, Lib 3, Lab 30,
LD 56.

MANCHESTER: Lab hold

Lab 23, LD 9. LD lose 4, Lab gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, LD 34, Lab 61.

NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE: LD hold

Lab 10, LD 16. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 30, LD 48.

NORTH TYNESIDE: NOC no change

C 10, LD 3, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 23, C 28, LD 8.

OLDHAM: Lab lose to NOC

C 1, Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 8. Ind gain 1, C lose 1, Lab lose 3, LD gain 3. NEW
COUNCIL C 1, Ind 1, LD 28, Lab 30.

ROTHERHAM: Lab hold

Lab 19, C 2. Ind lose 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, Lab 55, C 6.

SALFORD: Lab hold

Lab 16, C 3, LD 3. Ind lose 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 44, C 8,
LD 8.

SANDWELL: Lab hold

Lab 15, LD 2, BNP 3, C 4. BNP gain 3, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL C 11, Ind 2, BNP
4, LD 5, Lab 50.

SEFTON: NOC no change

LD 10, C 6, Lab 7. NEW COUNCIL C 19, Lab 21, LD 26.

SOLIHULL: C hold

BNP 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 5. BNP gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW
COUNCIL BNP 1, LD 15, Ind 2, C 26, Lab 7.

SOUTH TYNESIDE:Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Lab 11, Ind 5. Ind gain 2, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 13, C 3, Lab
34, LD 4.

ST HELENS: NOC no change

C 2, LD 7, Lab 7. Lab lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 19, Lab 23, C 6.

STOCKPORT: LD hold

R 1, LD 11, C 4, Lab 5. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 10, Lab 15, R 3,
LD 35.

SUNDERLAND: Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 19, C 5. C gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 13, LD 2, Lab 59.

TAMESIDE:Lab hold

Lab 15, Ind 2, C 3. LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL LD
2, Ind 3, Lab 44, C 8.

TRAFFORD: C hold

C 13, LD 2, Lab 6. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 20, C 39, LD 4.

WALSALL: C hold

Ind 1, C 10, LD 2, Lab 7. Lab gain 2, C lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 19, C 34,
LD 6.

WIGAN: Lab hold

Lab 14, LD 3, C 4, Ind 4. C gain 2, Ind lose 3, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 15,
Lab 43, LD 8, C 9.

WIRRAL: NOC no change

C 7, LD 7, Lab 8. UKIP lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 19, C 21, Lab 26.

UNITARY AUTHORITIES

BLACKBURN WITH DARWEN: Lab hold

Lab 10, Ind 2, C 4, LD 5. Ind gain 2, C lose 2, LD gain 2, Lab lose 2. NEW
COUNCIL LD 13, C 15, Ind 3, Lab 33.

DERBY: Lab lose to NOC

C 3, LD 7, Lab 7. C lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 14, Ind
2, Lab 24.

HALTON: Lab hold

Lab 12, C 3, LD 3. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 13, Lab 35, C 8.

HARTLEPOOL: Lab hold

LD 1, UKIP 1, Vacant 1, C 2, Ind 2, Lab 9. LD lose 2, UKIP gain 1, Ind lose 1,
Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL UKIP 1, Vacant 1, Lab 26, C 4, LD 7, Ind 8.

KINGSTON-UPON-HULL: NOC no change

C 1, LD 10, Ind 2, Lab 7. Lib lose 1, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 4. NEW
COUNCIL C 2, Lib 2, Lab 25, LD 26, Ind 4.

NORTH EAST LINCOLNSHIRE:NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 7, LD 7. Lab lose 1, LD gain 2, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 15, LD
17, Ind 4, Lab 6.

PORTSMOUTH: NOC no change

Lab 2, LD 5, C 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 16, LD 21, Lab
5.

READING: Lab hold

LD 2, C 6, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 32, LD 6, C
8.

SOUTHAMPTON: NOC no change

C 4, Lab 6, LD 7. Lab gain 1, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 16, LD 16, Lab 16.

SOUTHEND-ON-SEA: C hold

Ind 1, C 11, LD 3, Lab 4. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 30, Ind 4, LD 8,
Lab 9.

STOKE-ON-TRENT: Lab lose to NOC

C 2, BNP 3, LD 3, Ind 6, Lab 6. Soc lose 1, C gain 1, BNP gain 3, Ind lose 1,
Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Soc 1, Ind 13, Lab 30, BNP 5, LD 5, C 6.

WARRINGTON: Lab lose to NOC

LD 11, C 2, Lab 7. C gain 1, Lab lose 5, LD gain 4. NEW COUNCIL LD 25, Lab 25, C
7.

WOKINGHAM: C hold

C 15, LD 3. LD lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 13, C 41.

NON-METROPOLITAN DISTRICTS

ADUR: C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 12. Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, Ind 2, C
26.

AMBER VALLEY: C hold

C 7, Lab 8. C gain 3, Lab lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 18, C 27.

BARROW-IN-FURNESS: Lab lose to NOC

C 10, Ind 2, Lab 3. Ind gain 1, Lab lose 6, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL C 17, Lab 18,
Ind 3.

BASILDON: C hold

LD 1, C 11, Lab 2. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 12, C 27, LD 3.

BASSETLAW: C gain from NOC

Lab 7, C 9. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 3, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, Lab 14, C 28,
Ind 5.

BEDFORD: NOC no change

Ind 3, Lab 3, LD 5, C 7. Lab lose 2, Ind lose 1, LD gain 2, C gain 1. NEW
COUNCIL Ind 10, Lab 12, LD 15, C 17.

BRENTWOOD: C hold

LD 1, Lab 1, C 11. LD lose 6, C gain 6. NEW COUNCIL C 27, Lab 3, LD 7.

BROXBOURNE:C hold

Lab 1, C 12. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, Lab 2, C 35.

CAMBRIDGE:LD hold

LD 11, Lab 4. C lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 13, LD 29.

CANNOCK CHASE:NOC no change

LD 3, C 4, Lab 6. C gain 1, Lab lose 1. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 14, Lab 16.

CARLISLE:NOC no change

LD 3, C 7, Lab 9. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 19, Lab 24, LD 8.

CASTLE POINT: C hold

Ind 5, C 9. Ind gain 5, C lose 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, Ind 11, C 29.

CHELTENHAM: NOC no change

LD 10, Ind 2, C 8. Lab lose 1, C gain 2, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, C 17, LD
17, Ind 5.

CHERWELL: C hold

Lab 1, C 15, LD 2. Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 38, LD 4, Lab
8.

CHESTER: NOC no change

C 12, LD 3, Lab 5. LD lose 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 14,
LD 19, C 26.

CHORLEY: C gain from NOC

Ind 1, LD 1, C 11, Lab 5. LD lose 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Lab 17,
LD 2, C 25, Ind 3.

COLCHESTER: NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 8. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, LD
21, C 30, Lab 7.

CONGLETON: C hold

C 11, Ind 2, LD 3. Ind gain 1, LD lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 14, C 26, Ind 8.

CRAVEN: NOC no change

LD 2, C 3, Ind 4. NEW COUNCIL Ind 11, C 13, LD 6.

CRAWLEY: C gain from Lab

LD 1, Lab 3, C 8. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 16, C 19, LD 2.

DAVENTRY: C hold

LD 1, C 12. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 2, Lab
2, C 34.

EASTBOURNE:C hold

LD 4, C 5. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, C 15.

EASTLEIGH: LD hold

Lab 1, LD 13, C 2. C lose 2, LD gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 3, LD 34, C 7.

ELMBRIDGE:NOC no change

Ind 1, C 11, LD 2, R 6. Ind gain 1, R lose 6, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 2, R 24,
C 26, LD 8.

ELLESMERE PORT & NESTON: Lab hold

LD 1, C 7, Lab 7. Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 15, LD 2, Lab
26.

EPPING FOREST: NOC no change

Ind 1, R 2, BNP 3, LD 5, C 9. Lab lose 3, Ind lose 1, R lose 1, BNP gain 3, LD
lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, LD 13, C 29, Ind 4, R 5, BNP 6.

EXETER: NOC no change

Lib 1, LD 3, C 4, Lab 5. LD lose 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, Lab
16, Lib 4, C 8.

FAREHAM: C hold

C 10, LD 6. NEW COUNCIL C 22, LD 9.

GOSPORT: C lose to NOC

Lab 3, C 6, LD 8. Lab lose 3, C lose 1, LD gain 4. NEW COUNCIL C 17, Lab 8, LD
9.

GLOUCESTER: NOC no change

LD 4, Lab 4, C 7. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, C 16, Lab 8.

GREAT YARMOUTH: C hold

Lab 6, C 7. Lab gain 3, C lose 3. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 16, C 22.

HARLOW: NOC no change

LD 3, C 4, Lab 5. LD lose 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 12, Lab 13, LD
8.

HART: NOC no change

Ind 2, LD 2, R 3, C 6. Ind lose 1, R gain 2, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 12, C 16,
Ind 2, R 5.

HASTINGS: C gain from NOC

LD 2, Lab 6, C 9. Lab lose 4, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 10, C 17, LD 5.

HAVANT: C hold

LD 1, C 11, Lab 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 30, LD 4, Lab 4.

HERTSMERE:C hold

Lab 1, C 11, LD 2. Lab lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL C 28, Lab 5, LD 6.

HUNTINGDONSHIRE:C hold

Ind 1, C 13, LD 3. LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 11, Ind 2, C 39.

HYNDBURN: C hold

Ind 1, C 4, Lab 6. Ind gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 15,
C 19.

IPSWICH: NOC no change

LD 3, Lab 6, C 7. LD gain 2, Lab lose 5, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 18, C 19, Ind
2, LD 9.

LINCOLN: Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 4, C 6. LD gain 1, Lab lose 5, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 2, Lab
20.

MAIDSTONE:NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 2, LD 6, C 9. Lab lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 19, C
27, Ind 3, Lab 6.

MACCLESFIELD: C hold

Ind 1, R 1, C 12, Lab 3, LD 4. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1, LD gain 1, C lose 1. NEW
COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 15, R 3, C 34, Lab 7.

MOLE VALLEY: C gain from NOC

Ind 1, LD 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 16, C 22, Ind
3.

NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE: C hold

C 14, LD 2, Lab 2. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL C 33, LD 7, Lab 9.

NUNEATON & BEDWORTH: Lab hold

C 8, Lab 9. C gain 4, Lab lose 4. NEW COUNCIL LD 1, C 15, Lab 18.

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME:Lab lose to NOC

C 6, LD 6, Lab 8. C gain 3, LD gain 2, Lab lose 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, UKIP 1, LD
14, C 17, Lab 27.

OXFORD: NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 10, Green 5, LD 9. Ind gain 1, Green gain 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 4.
NEW COUNCIL Lab 17, LD 19, Ind 4, Green 8.

PENDLE:LD hold

BNP 1, C 4, Lab 4, LD 9. BNP gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, C
13, LD 30, Lab 5.

PENWITH: NOC no change

LD 5, C 6. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, LD 12, C 14, Ind 8.

PRESTON: NOC no change

Lab 10, LD 4, C 5. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD
12, C 17, Ind 2, Respect 2, Lab 24.

PURBECK: C hold

Ind 1, LD 2, C 6. Ind lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Vacant 1, C 14, LD 8.

REDDITCH: Lab lose to NOC

BNP 1, C 4, Lab 5. BNP gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2. NEW COUNCIL BNP 1, C 11,
Lab 14, LD 3.

REIGATE & BANSTEAD: C hold

LD 1, C 15, R 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 2,
C 39, LD 4, R 6.

ROCHFORD: C hold

R 1, C 10, LD 2. Lab lose 1, Ind lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL R 1, C 34, LD 4.

RUGBY: NOC no change

LD 3, Lab 4, C 9. Ind lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 10,
Lab 13, C 24.

RUNNYMEDE:C hold

C 14, R 2. Lab lose 3, Ind lose 2, R gain 2, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL R 2, C 36,
Ind 4.

RUSHMOOR: C hold

Lab 2, LD 3, C 9. Ind lose 1, LD lose 2, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 10, Ind 2, C
25, Lab 5.

SHREWSBURY & ATCHAM: C gain from NOC

LD 3, Lab 3, C 8. Ind lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 10, Ind 2, C 22, LD 6.

SOUTH BEDFORDSHIRE: C hold

C 13, Lab 2, LD 3. LD lose 1, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL LD 11, C 35, Lab 4.

SOUTH LAKELAND: LD gain from NOC

C 1, LD 17. Lab lose 6, Ind lose 1, C lose 2, LD gain 9. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C
18, Lab 2, LD 31.

ST ALBANS: LD gain from NOC

LD 10, Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 3, C gain 1, LD gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 18, LD
31, Lab 8.

STEVENAGE - Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Lab 11. NEW COUNCIL C 3, Lab 32, LD 4.

STRATFORD-ON-AVON: C hold

Ind 1, C 11, LD 7. NEW COUNCIL LD 20, Ind 3, C 30.

STROUD: C hold

Green 1, Ind 1, LD 1, C 13, Lab 2. Green gain 1, LD lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain
2.

NEW COUNCIL C 29, Ind 3, Green 5, LD 5, Lab 9.

SWALE:C hold

LD 1, C 11, Lab 4. LD lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Lab 10, C
28, LD 8.

TAMWORTH: C hold

Lab 2, C 8. Lab lose 5, C gain 5. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, C 21, Lab 8.

TANDRIDGE:C hold

C 12, LD 2. Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, LD 10, Lab 2, C
29.

THREE RIVERS: LD hold

Lab 1, LD 11, C 4. C lose 1, LD gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD 30, Lab 7.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS: C hold

C 14, LD 2. LD lose 2, C gain 2. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, C 38, LD 9.

WAVENEY: C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 11, Lab 3. Ind lose 3, Lab lose 1, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 12,
C 29, LD 3, Ind 4.

WELWYN HATFIELD: C hold

LD 1, C 13, Lab 3. LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Green 1, Lab 12,
LD 3, C 32.

WEST LANCASHIRE:C hold

C 13, Lab 5. Lab lose 3, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL Lab 22, C 32.

WEST LINDSEY: C lose to NOC

C 6, LD 6. LD gain 2, C lose 2. NEW COUNCIL Ind 1, Vacant 1, C 17, LD 18.

WEST OXFORDSHIRE: C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 14. LD lose 2, Ind lose 2, C gain 4. NEW COUNCIL Lab 1, LD 11, C
32, Ind 5.

WEYMOUTH & PORTLAND: NOC no change

Ind 2, Lab 2, LD 3, C 5. Lab lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3. NEW COUNCIL C 11, LD
13, Ind 5, Lab 7.

WORCESTER: C hold

LD 1, Lab 5, C 6. Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1. NEW COUNCIL Lab 11, C 18, Ind 3, LD 3.

WORTHING: C hold

C 7, LD 7. C lose 3, LD gain 3. NEW COUNCIL LD 14, C 23.

WYRE FOREST: NOC no change

Lib 2, KHHC 5, C 7. Lib lose 1, KHHC gain 1. NEW COUNCIL C 18, Ind 2, LD 2, Lab
4, Lib 7, KHHC 9.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2006, Friday

BNP set for hard-fought breakthrough in South

BYLINE: Will Pavia and Jill Sherman

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 485 words


THE British National Party look set to more than double its council seats
nationwide with a significant breakthrough in the South and further gains in the
North.

The far-right party was expected to walk off with at least six seats in Barking
and Dagenham, where early this morning they were on course to form the main
opposition.

Before the London results started coming in the BNP had already gained 11 seats:
3 in Epping Forest, 3 in Sandwell, 3 in Stoke on Trent, 1 in Pendle and 1 in
Redditch.

The party fielded a record number of candidates this year to try to boost its
tally of 20 seats, which were mainly concentrated in the North.

But BNP activists focused most of their efforts in the East of London, in
Barking and Dagenham, with intensive campaigning in the past few days and a late
surge before polling stations closed.

As Labour faced losing seats to the nationalists, some activists started blaming
Margaret Hodge, the MP for Barking. Her warning that eight out of ten voters in
her constituency were considering voting BNP had given the party "the oxygen of
publicity", according to Liam Smith, a Labour candidate. "Since she said that,
we have never seen so many reporters and cameramen around here," he said. "She
has raised their profile and put them in the limelight.

"We have had people saying they are considering voting BNP because they feel
that once the Labour minister says something, it must be right."

The turnout for the election was 38.1 per cent, with 46,656 votes cast, a
massive rise on the 22.76 per cent of the electorate who turned out to vote four
years ago.

Jon Cruddas, Labour MP for Dagenham, said last night: "I don't know where these
figures came from, but that sort of stuff hasn't dropped out of the sky in the
last ten years. It's come from a fairly longstanding set of issues. But people I
know in the BNP can't believe the amount of media coverage they have received."

He predicted a significant movement against Labour in the borough. "It's not
looking too clever for us. They've put up 13 candidates and in all of them they
will have done pretty well."

Ryan Edwards, a Liberal Democrat candidate for the fiercely contested Eastbury
Ward, said: "It seems the Labour vote has collapsed. It's between ourselves,
UKIP and the BNP. That's my impression from the campaign. People feel
immigration has spiralled out of control, they want to make a protest vote by
voting for a right-wing party."

Diane Challis, a Lib Dem candidate seeking re-election to the same ward, told
The Times: "We've been fighting a local election on national issues and it's all
been immigration.

David Winter, a retired roofer and former Labour activist, now campaigning for
the BNP, said he had been campaigning on "more than just black and white -jobs,
crime, housing, education."

At last year's general election, Richard Barnbrook, the BNP borough leader, came
within 50 votes of the Conservative tally.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Northern losses could be fatal for Blair

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 898 words


Events have conspired to make today's local elections primarily a potential
pitfall for Tony Blair. But the contests are just as vital for David Cameron and
Sir Menzies Campbell. They will be the first test of how well their parties are
faring under their leadership. Both will be keen to demonstrate that they are
leading their parties to new heights.

Neither opposition leader has a particularly easy task - because their
respective parties fared reasonably well in previous local elections. In the
last local election round in 2004, the Conservatives performed at a level that
equated to securing 38 per cent of the vote in a general election - far higher
than the 33 per cent they actually won in the real general election the
following year.

The Liberal Democrats have long since been the masters of the art of local
election campaigning, regularly winning a higher share of the vote in local
elections than in general elections - even when they are held on the same day.
In 2004 they scored the equivalent of 29 per cent of the vote, far higher than
the 23 per cent the party won in the 2005 general election.

Mr Cameron needs to break the 40 per cent barrier while Sir Menzies has to pass
the 30 per cent mark. They are unlikely both to succeed - because, in part,
fulfilment of their ambitions is likely to rest on how well they perform against
each other.

Labour may currently be unpopular - the party's average Westminster poll rating
was no more than 33 per cent, even before last week's Clarke/Hewitt/Prescott
crisis. The post-crisis figure seems to have slipped a little further to 32 per
cent. But the party was almost equally unpopular at the time of the 2004
elections, when its average poll rating was just 34 per cent. There are
therefore unlikely to be further rich pickings to be had from a further fall in
Labour support. In any event, both leaders need to demonstrate that if Labour is
the problem, they are now uniquely regarded as the solution. So, at the very
minimum, the Conservatives will want to register a 2 per cent swing from the
Liberal Democrats to themselves - enough to bring them at least 50 gains. Given
that even if the Tories do no more than emulate their 2004 performance they
should pick up at least 150 seats in those places where the seats up for grabs
this time were last contested in 2002 rather than 2004, this means Mr Cameron is
looking for at least 200 gains today - while something closer to 300 would be
more convincing.

Equally, the Liberal Democrats will want to register at least a 2 per cent swing
from the Conservatives to themselves. Such a swing would actually reap a rather
larger dividend - around 100 seats - than it would for the Conservatives. As the
party could also pick up another 50 seats simply by emulating its 2004
performance in those places where the seats being contested today were last
contested in 2002, a smile of delight might legitimately cross Sir Menzies' face
if his party makes 150 gains.

Of course, the battle is not just for council seats, but also for the control of
town halls. Our map shows where the key battlegrounds are. They are divided into
three groups. "Easy targets" are those councils that are likely to change hands
if Labour performs almost as badly today as it did in 2004, while there is no
net swing between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats. "Tough targets"
are councils that would change hands if Labour did a little worse than in 2004 -
or if, conversely, they managed to emulate their 2002 performance - or if there
were as much as a 3 per cent swing from Tory to Liberal Democrat, or vice versa.
We also show some potential "big" victories and defeats.

London is the key battleground. All the seats are up for grabs in the 32 London
boroughs, whereas elsewhere usually only a third of the seats are. No fewer than
five of the six "easy targets" for the Conservatives are in the capital,
together with two of three most probable Liberal Democrat gains, both of which
depend on swings from Labour.

Nevertheless, if Labour does have a truly bad night it will start losing ground
outside the capital, too. The party's position in a number of former strongholds
such as Barnsley, Hartlepool and Warrington has been eroded to such an extent
they can no longer be regarded as secure. Losing a number of marginal London
boroughs would be painful for Mr Blair. Losing former northern strongholds could
be fatal.

The poll facts

Elections for 4,360 council seats in 176 councils held today.

All 32 London boroughs and 144 other local authorities will go to the polls

Hackney, Watford, Newham and Lewisham will hold mayoral elections.

Elsewhere in the country, councillors are elected by three main systems. To
check which system your council operates, visit:
http://www.electoralcom-mission.org.uk/elec-tions/2006schedule.cfm

The average turnout in elections in May 2002 was 32.8 per cent. In May 2003,35.6
per cent.

In the metropolitan councils Labour has 821 candidates, Conservative has 772,
Liberal Democrats 708 and others 875

In the shire districts the Conservatives have the most candidates with 1,326,
Labour has 1,172, Liberal Democrat has1,052 and others 782.

The Green Party is fielding 1,251 candidates, the BNP 363 candidates, UKIP 319
candidates and Respect - the Unity Coalition 162

Polls will be open between 7am and 10pm

John Curtice is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 4, 2006 Thursday 10:05 PM GMT

EU shoots down tough Blair

BYLINE: By David Rennie

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1155 words


Bold promises from Tony Blair yesterday, as he pledged to resolve the crisis
over deportations of foreign criminals.

The whole system of deporting foreigners who commit crimes serious enough to
serve prison time would be rebuilt "so that those [foreigners] who areconvicted
of a serious offence are deported automatically," the PM told the Commons.

There was just one problem with his vow. It was not true - and could never be
true, thanks (among other reasons) to a brand new European Uniondirective, which
makes it far harder to expel foreigners who are citizens of one of the 25 EU
nations.

That is even before you get into the territory of the European Convention on
Human Rights, which makes it impossible to deportsomeone to a home country where
they face torture or persecution.

The new EU directive, which by pure coincidence entered into force earlier this
week, specifically bans national governments from seeking to expel anEU citizen,
purely on the basis of past criminal convictions.

Officials at the European Commission confirmed to me yesterday that the British
Government has no right to order automatic deportations for thosewho have served
prison sentences.

One official said: "You cannot kick someone out of England automatically, just
because they have spent one year in prison, or 15 months, or whatever.The judge
has to take into account the length of time someone has been in the UK, the
person's age, their level of integration into UK society, theirhealth condition,
and the intensity of their links with their home country.

"Of course, a national judge has the power to expel someone, but he has to find
some other argument, not just the fact that someone has been convictedin the
past," said the official.

In effect, the new directive offers three different levels of protection to EU
nationals, and their family members.

Under articles 27, 28 and 33, national authorities will only be able to deport
EU nationals whose current conduct "represents a genuine, presentand
sufficiently serious threat affecting one of the fundamental interests of
society."

Article 27 specifically states: "Previous criminal convictions shall not in
themselves constitute grounds for taking such measures."

The same directive offers even stronger protections to EU nationals who have
secured permanent residence in the UK, saying they may not be deported"except on
serious grounds of public policy or public security." A final, even higher
hurdle is imposed before UK authorities can expel EU nationals who have resided
in the UK for the past 10 years, or who are minors. Such individuals cannot be
expelled from British soil: "except if the decision is based on imperative
grounds of public security", the new directive states.

Under prodding, the Home Office in London had to agree that this did cut across
talk of automatic deportation.

A Home Office spokesman insisted: "We do think we can presume that deportation
will follow where people have been sentenced to a period ofimprisonment." That
was read as a denial in some quarters - and indeed, most of the British media
lost interest in the story yesterday afternoon,once the Home Office put out that
line.

Halfway through my own researches into this directive, and endless calls to the
Commission, I had been told that UKIP in London had put out a pressrelease to
the Westminster lobby, pointing to this same directive, and saying that it made
automatic deportations impossible.

Once the Home Office started weighing in with what looked like denials, much of
the British press seems to have shrugged, and turned away from thestory. But the
Home Office denial was not what it appeared.

As the Home Office spokesman conceded to me: "We will need to take account of
this directive when making deportation decisions."

The spokesman backed away from Mr Blair's talk of automatic expulsions, and -
echoing the EU directive - admitted that in order to deport a citizen ofone of
the 25 EU nations: "We need to be satisfied that an EU national represents a
present threat, ie has a propensity to re-offend."

As the spokesman himself conceded, British authorities already cannot
automatically expel EU nationals just for having been convicted of aserious
crime.

In other words, deportation cannot be anything like automatic - as the Home
Office, and Mr Blair, well know.

So just what is this new directive? It is basically part of a series of moves to
expand the economic idea of workers moving freely around the EU,and widen it
into a principle of free movement, and equal treatment for all "European
citizens", whether working, looking for work, studying orretired.

Now, as someone who lives and works in another EU nation, and seeing as I
bitterly resented having to visit the Belgian town hall six times to obtaina
foreigners' residence pass, I applaud the idea of sweeping away red tape.

I can also see how some of the directive will make life easier for Brits
retiring to Spain or France, or for Americans married to Italians, who wantto
live in London.

However, enough experts, including liberal immigration lawyers, have expressed
concerns that it will also encourage people to move countries insearch of
generous welfare systems, that I am prepared to listen to them.

The new directive, known as "Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of citizens of
the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within theterritory
of the member states", was agreed by the Labour Government in April 2004, even
after British negotiators lost a series of key battles.

Among the fights lost by the UK was a vain bid to trim clauses greatly expanding
the definition of family members who can settle with an EUnational, and an
article allowing non-Europeans to stay on in the UK, even if they get divorced
from the EU citizen who first secured them British residence.

The Eurosceptic think-tank, Open Europe, put out a paper explaining its views of
the directive.

Some of their report veers into what-if territory, to my eyes - describing the
bad things that could happen if the European Court of Justice struckdown various
safeguards and clauses inserted into the directive by national governments. But
it contains a goldmine of quotes from British Governmentministers and officials,
expressing concerns about parts of the directive - which they later failed to
have changed.

Now that the directive was in force, it "of course" trumps British law, said my
Commission source. It is far too late to talk of opt-outs, or theUK changing its
mind.

"When the UK negotiated this directive [with other EU national governments] in
the Council of Ministers, that was the moment to raise the interests ofEU
citizens," the Commission official told me.

Any attempt to draft a new British law that would contravene the directive would
swiftly attract an "infringement procedure" from the Commission, andultimately
the UK would be taken to the European Court of Justice, which has the power to
strike down national laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2006 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

Battling Barnet play the political game Underhill fans ready to give
Conservative council a bloody nose, says Andrew Baker

BYLINE: ANDREW BAKER

SECTION: SPORT; Soccer; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 447 words


TACTICAL discussion among football fans usually takes place after the match and
concerns the manager's incomplete understanding of the offside trap or his
reluctance to switch to 4-4-2. But for fans of Barnet, the talk this week has
been about tactical voting.

The north London side are still battling to retain their place in League Two, a
matter that will be resolved this weekend. But before then there is another
contest which, the supporters claim, will have a major influence on the future
of the club: tomorrow's council elections.

Barnet FC have been battling for years with the local Conservative-led council
to find a solution to their accommodation problems. Their atmospheric ground at
Underhill is small and ancient, and while the pitch is immaculate the rest of it
could do with rebuilding, from the sloping ground upwards. According to the
club, and in particular their voluble chairman Tony Kleanthous, the council have
been less than co-operative.

Now a group of fans calling themselves Keep Barnet Alive, who have no official
affiliation with the club, are preparing to hit the council where it hurts: in
the ballot box. KBA have analysed the voting returns from the most recent
council elections and concluded that the Tories are vulnerable to attack on two
fronts. Fans of the football club are thus being advised to adapt their voting
according to which ward they live in, with the aim eject the Conservatives and
elect a more football-friendly regime.

The KBA website gives detailed breakdowns of the ward-by-ward tactics to be
adopted, and an article in a recent matchday programme urges supporters to
"red-card the council''. But all concerned insist that they have no wish to
become involved in wider party squabbles. "We pass no comment on the national
political scene,'' KBA committee member Chris Nash said. "These are local
elections affecting local issues such as schools, libraries, parks and Barnet
FC.''

The leader of the KBA campaign, Janet Matthewson, describes herself as "a
Conservative voter, that is, a former Conservative voter.'' Doorstep responses
to the football campaigners have apparently been encouraging. "The feedback we
are getting is good,'' Matthewson said. "If there is a Conservative regime here
after May 5, we do not believe that the future of Barnet FC looks good.''

The local Conservative party insist they are committed to working with the club
in the future, while Labour and the Liberal Democrats have made manifesto
commitments to the club's 'Working Together' initiative. Also participating in
the elections for Barnet borough council are the Green Party, UK Independence
Party, Victory United Party and two independent candidates.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Debts run up by Galloway's party broke electoral law

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 697 words


George Galloway's Respect party broke electoral law by leaving a trail of debts
equivalent to more than pounds 2,000 for each candidate it fielded in last
year's general election.

The law says political par-ties have to settle election bills within 42 days, as
a precaution against running up debts they cannot pay. But six months after the
election, Respect still owed pounds 52,241, about one sixth of the total amount
- pounds 320,716 - that it spent on the election. Another offender was the
British National Party, which failed to settle pounds 10,000 worth of bills in
time.

Election accounts for all the smaller parties were made public yesterday by the
Electoral Commission. Respect's accounts reveal that Greenwich Council, in
south-east London, threatened to call in a debt collection agency over an unpaid
fee of pounds 24 for the hire of a community hall and an office supplies company
refused to continue dealing with Respect until it settled a bill for pounds
564.99. The party also had a warning from BT about an unpaid phone bill. Another
supplier sent an invoice with a handwritten plea: "Ron could do with a cheque!"

A note by the auditors said: "We would draw to the Treasurer's attention
breaches of Section 77(2) of the Political Parties Elections and Referendums
Act. The liability for expenditure incurred by the partyunder this section must
be met not later than 42 days after the end of the relevant campaign period."

The BNP was also rebuked by auditors for failing to keep its accounts in order
during the elections for the European Parliament, and for failing to pay pounds
10,000 worth of bills in time - though part of the problem was said to be a
sudden increase in membership.

The report by the auditors, Silver & Co, said: "In our opinion, the summary of
campaign expenditure does not fairly present in all material respects the
campaign expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the party between 11 February
2004 and 5 May 2005 in respect of its European Parliament election campaign.

"The party has seen a significant increase in membership and activity that has
placed strains upon the record-keeping. Accordingly, therefore, in line with
similar-sized organisations, we have had to relyupon assurances and explanations
given us by officers of the party."

The Electoral Commission said yesterday that it was having talks with several of
the smaller parties, including Respect and the BNP, over how they can improve
their bookkeeping.

Respect outspent all the other minor parties except for the UK Independence
Party, which fielded 496 candidates - nearly 20 times as many as Respect - at a
cost of pounds 648,397.

The Green Party spent pounds 182,555 among 202 candidates, and the BNP spent
pounds 112,068 on 118 candidates. The cheapest campaign of the general election
was that of the Alliance for Green Socialism, which ran five candidates for just
pounds 69.

Poll expense claims

The Green Party spent pounds 860 on a caricature bust of Tony Blair, including
the cost of transporting it to London and Brighton.

The Scottish National Party spent pounds 228.11 on 50 inflatable parrots, and
pounds 180 on haggis treats for an election event.

The UK Independence Party spent pounds 484.55 on books, including two copies of
Germany's Four Reichs by Harry Beckhough and Vernon Coleman's Saving England,
The Case For Independence. The party also bought 600 copies of a pamphlet called
"101 Reasons For Leaving The EU" at 50 peach.

UKIP also spent pounds 11,914.77 on political beer mats and pounds 4,752.88 on
four 'promo' bikes.

The BNP spent pounds 50 each for cartoons called 'Record Shop' and 'Blair at
Dover' to use on their literature.

The Ulster Unionist Party spent pounds 144 on a cylinder of helium and pounds
527.58 on sticks of rock. It also paid pounds 176.25 "for use of terrorist
picture on election poster, as requested".

The accounts of the Democratic Unionist Party include a scone ordered at the
Edenmore Golf & Country Club, Belfast, which cost pounds 1.96 plus 34p VAT.

Sinn Fein kept down the cost of its broadcasts and websites by commissioning the
work in Dublin. It avoided VAT because the products were for 'export'. The bills
were paid in euros.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Galloway's Respect party outspent all other minor parties except
UKIP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 3, 2006, Wednesday

The nightmare figures that could trigger a meltdown for Labour

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 806 words


THE double nightmare number for Labour leaders as they look ahead with
trepidation to tomorrow's local elections is 350. That level of losses would
mean a wipeout for Labour in many councils, while 350 is also the number of
councillors that Labour won in London, out of nearly 1,900 overall, in its
previous worst elections of 1968.

The mere discussion of such a possibility shows how worried Labour MPs are after
a dreadful week for the Government.

The crude benchmarks for the main parties are:

LABOUR Any loss of more than 150 seats would be worse than the previous low of
2004. More than 250 losses, and a share of the vote of less than 25 per cent,
would make Labour MPs very jittery. The worst case is 350-plus losses. This
would mean a panicky weekend, and renewed leadership speculation about Tony
Blair.

CONSERVATIVES Roughly 100 gains would be the same as their previous high in
2004.

But 200 or more gains, and a 40 per cent share of the vote, would mean that
David Cameron can claim that the Tories are really on the way back. He will want
to show some gains of seats in big industrial cities.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS Likely to balance losses to the Tories with gains from Labour,
especially in big industrial cities. If they make 100 to 200 gains, the Lib Dems
will have shaken off their January leadership blues and will show that under Sir
Menzies Campbell they can survive a Tory revival.

Interpreting the local elections is much harder than interpreting a general
election:

There are contests in London, the big industrial cities and most large towns,
but, overall, in just 176 of England's 388 councils. There are no elections in
Scotland or Wales.

Every seat is up in the 32 London boroughs, two fifths of the 4,361 being
fought.

Outside the capital, a third of the seats are up in the 36 metropolitan district
councils (including Birmingham, Leeds, Liverpool and Manchester) and the 20
unitary authorities. A third are up in 81 district councils and half the seats
in seven.

There are two base years: 2002 for London and 2004 for metropolitan districts.

Labour did much worse in 2004 than in 2002. Hence, Labour is already in a poor
position in the big cities and has less scope to lose seats and councils. Labour
held on narrowly in 2002 in several London councils, which are now highly
vulnerable.

Local elections often involve three-way contests. The Liberal Democrats are big
players, winning a larger share of the national vote than did Labour in 2004.

There will be a mosaic of three-way battles, as well as more familiar Tory
Labour and Tory-Lib Dem contests.

In recent local elections, results have varied across the country depending on
the record of the local council.

The Tories are defending 57 councils, Labour 47, the Lib Dems 12, and
independents one, but 59 are under no overall control. The first results will
come from the big industrial cities, where there may be limited shifts in and
out of no overall control.

The main battleground of London will come later in the night and Labour is
likely to lose several councils, some to no overall control. The Tories are
hoping to gain several suburban councils, such as Bexley, Croydon and Merton. In
Labour's nightmare year of 1968, the Tories won a huge 1,438 seats, but the
Liberals gained just 10. Now, however, the Lib Dems already hold 309 in London,
against 653 for the Tories and 866 for Labour.

Watch out also for small parties and independents. Despite well-publicised
fights in Barking and some northern towns, the British National Party is putting
up just 363 candidates nationwide, against 319 for the UK Independence Party,
162 for George Galloway's Respect (notably in Tower Hamlets) and 1,251 Greens.
The Greens are a factor in Oxford, as are independents in such Labour
strongholds as Barnsley and Wigan.

Overall, it looks likely to be a very bad night for Labour, but just how bad,
and who will benefit, will not be clear until early on Friday morning at the
earliest.

NUMBER OF SEATS LOST BY LABOUR. SEATS. RESPONSE

DISASTER: LABOUR WIPED OUT IN MANY COUNCILS. 350.WEEKEND CALLS FOR BLAIR TO GO

WORST RESULTS SINCE BLAIR BECAME LEADER. 250. FURTHER DROP IN LABOUR MORALE

SAME AS PREVIOUS WORST RESULTS IN 2004. 150. CAN BE DISMISSED AS MID-TERM
SETBACK

BAD, BUT NOT AS BAD AS 2004. 100. RELIEF THAT IT IS NOT WORSE

NUMBER OF SEATS WON BY LABOUR. SEATS. RESPONSE

SAME AS 2002 RESULTS. 50. CELEBRATIONS

DOING BETTER THAN IN 2002 OR 2004. 100. MIRACLE: BLAIR TO GO ON FOR EVER

CONSERVATIVES

need to win at least 38%, and preferably 40%, to show they are making progress
after their long doldrums.

LABOUR

likely to come third in share of the vote, but will be worried if figure falls
below 25%.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

will hope to consolidate strong second place in vote share, at above 30%.

NATIONAL SHARES OF THE VOTE

Conservatives. Labour. Lib Dems

2002. 35% 32% 27%

2004. 38% 26% 30%

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 41 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

Britons should back oppressed minorities (that means us, too)

BYLINE: Daniel Hannan

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1170 words


On Wednesday, David Cameron was asked who his political hero was. Intriguingly,
he named the unifier of Italy, Giuseppe Garibaldi. It was a revealing moment.
While one or two UKIP dunderheads have cavilled at his choice of a foreign
republican, thinking Euro-sceptics have been overjoyed. For Garibaldi was
perhaps the supreme exemplar of the doctrine of liberal nationalism, that
generous creed that championed the rights of all peoples, not just one's own.

If Mr Cameron is drawing his inspiration from the greatest advocate of the
nation state, the implications are colossal. Until now, the British Right has
lacked a holistic view of international affairs - what the Germans call a
Weltanschauung, a conception of the world. In other English-speaking countries,
conservatives spend a good deal of time talking about foreign policy, and much
of their electoral appeal derives from the fact that they are trusted on the
big, global issues. But what do Britain's Tories stand for? They are broadly
pro-Washington, broadly anti-Brussels and, er, that's it.

Oddly, even the Conservatives' opposition to European integration - the one part
of their foreign policy platform that is familiar to, and shared by, most voters
- does not translate into support at the ballot box. I suspect that the reason
for this is that the Tories have not extrapolated from their distrust of the
European Union. There is a respectable intellectual case to be made for national
self-determination, but the Conservatives have so far been reluctant to make it
- let alone extend it to other continents. In consequence, their Euro-scepticism
can come across as stubborn and nostalgic rather than high-minded and generous.

The idea that different peoples should be free to live under their own laws and
institutions used to form the basis of Britain's foreign policy. Canning,
arguably the greatest of all Tory foreign secretaries, applied this philosophy,
not only to Europe, but to the whole world, using the Royal Navy to guarantee
the independence of the fledgling South American republics. During the 19th
century, Britain sponsored national movements in the Low Countries, Greece,
Hungary and Italy. During the 20th, it joined two ruinous wars because the
sovereignty of another nation had been violated.

These are not just matters of historical interest. The case for national
self-determination is as strong today as it has ever been. Yugoslavia and the
USSR fell apart for the same reason as the Ottoman and Habsburg empires: they
were arbitrary, multinational polities. The moment their constituent peoples
were given the vote, they cast it in favour of self-rule.

Accountable democracy demands that people feel enough in common one with another
to accept government from each other's hands. Take away the demos, the community
with which we identify when we use the word "we'', and you are left only with
the kratos, the power of a state that must compel obedience by force, because it
cannot appeal to civic patriotism.

What would it mean if the Conservatives were to infer general principles from
their Euro-scepticism? Plainly, as with any policy, dogma would be tempered by
realism: no one is going to invade China in order to secure Tibetan
independence. But a Garibaldian foreign policy would mean some radical changes.
Instead of seeking to hold Iraq together at almost any price, for example,
liberal nationalists would look more kindly on the idea of a peaceable partition
following referendums. Instead of imposing colonial rule on Bosnia and Kosovo so
as to ensure their territorial integrity, Garibaldians would allow the component
parts of those territories to separate, if that is what their inhabitants chose.

A consistent application of this precept would address a complaint frequently
made by Muslims, at home and abroad, namely that Britain's foreign policy is
hypocritical. For while the national principle would make us sympathetic to
Zionism - and, indeed, to Israel's desire to impose ethnographic frontiers - it
would also lead us to support other causes favoured by Muslims, notably those of
the Chechens and the Kashmiris (as well the Turkish Cypriots who, for some
reason, are usually overlooked by their co-religionists). Equally, it would
provide a context to our concerns about religious fundamentalism. A liberal
nationalist is naturally suspicious of any ideology that presumes to override
territorial jurisidiction, whether that ideology is Jacobinism, communism,
fascism or Islamism.

It goes without saying that these are complicated issues. People are capable of
sustaining multiple loyalties. Populations can be so distributed as to make a
clean partition impossible. But a general sympathy, other things being equal,
towards national units would revolutionise existing foreign policy. For our
current stance is almost the precise opposite of favouring self-determination.
We oppose separatist movements on grounds of defending recognised borders; we
elevate the multi-ethnic state as a desirable end in itself; we encourage
regional integration, on the EU model, around the world.

There is a reason why Britain does these things, and it is that we have
effectively surrendered our diplomacy to Brussels. The EU is founded on the
assumption that national loyalties are arbitrary, transient and ultimately
discreditable; and, naturally enough, it seeks to export its own ideology.

It is true that, when it comes to the big questions - whether or not to invade
Iraq, for example - Britain is still autonomous. But when it comes to the
medium-sized ones - whether to sell arms to Beijing, whether to engage with the
ayatollahs in Teheran, whether to back anti-Castro dissidents in Cuba, whether
to fund the Palestinian Authority - a common EU foreign policy is already up and
running. Go to any non-European capital and you will find that the European
Commission's mission dwarfs any of the national embassies. And the chief goal of
these Euro-diplomats is generally to encourage the locals to federate with their
neighbours, in mimicry of the EU.

Recovering our foreign policy from Brussels should not be an end in itself, but
a means to an end. An independent United Kingdom would be free to pursue a very
different international agenda, one more in tune with human nature. Where the EU
believes in ever-closer union, Britain should push for its opposite: the
devolution of power to the lowest practicable level. Where the EU is fond of
international law codes and technocracies, Britain should recognise that
countries are generally best run by their own elected representatives. Where the
EU regards the nation state as anachronistic, Britain should see it as the
optimum forum for democracy.

It was this thinking that, in 1939, led Britain to fight for the cause of all
Europe's nations. Our fathers believed that the patriotism of free peoples
formed a natural bulwark against tyranny. You might call that approach
irrational, or even outdated. But don't dare call it selfish.

Daniel Hannan is a Conservative MEP

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 41 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Letters to the Editor: New EU citizens working in Britain

BYLINE: JOHN ROMER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 92 words


Sir: Ian Williamson's calm and thoughtful analysis of China's emergence as a
global economic force (letter, 28 April) has consequences not only for the US,
but, equally for Europe, Latin America, India, Russia and the Far Eastern basin.

The era of ethnic nation states is giving way to larger entities. To be
economically and politically viable, we, the Europeans, have no option but to
maintain and consolidate our Union, which alone can guarantee our place in the
sun. UKIP, BNP and other Little Englanders are dangerous anachronisms.

JOHN ROMER

LONDON W5

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
