
                               1 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

A genuine concern or the new witchcraft?

BYLINE: Roger Highfield Science Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 317 words


THE Stern review triggered an avalanche of comment.

Simon Retallack, head of the Institute of Public Policy Research's Climate
Change Centre, said: "The only problem with it is that it proposes a long-term
goal to stabilise climate change that has a very high chance of exceeding the 2C
rise in temperature which the EU and UK Government is committed to avoiding.''

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "We are being led to
believe that there is a scientific consensus that global warming exists when, in
fact, the science used to support the theory stresses uncertainty at best.

"In the 1970s, there was a serious debate about whether we were entering a new
Ice Age and the cause back then was based on emissions. Now, those same
emissions are allegedly the cause of global warming.

"Every politician in the world is busy jumping on the 'green' bandwagon, while
the general public ends up paying for it. If the traditional parties want
popular support for their green policies, they had better find the proof that
global warming exists and isn't simply the new witchcraft.''

David Frost, director general of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: "With
over 60 million people living in the UK, businesses must not be singled out as
the ones to pay higher taxes to tackle climate change. If green taxes are to be
raised then it is crucial that they are offset by reductions elsewhere.''

Tom Delay, chief executive of the Carbon Trust, said: "The cost of not taking
action now to cut carbon emissions is unthinkable - both from an environmental
and financial perspective.''

The Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, agreed: "For too long necessary action to
prevent catastrophic climate change has been delayed by fears that this would
damage economic growth. The report nails this myth - it is failure to take
action on climate change that would be the real threat to future economic
prosperity.''

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 30, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Ballot dancing: The baffling array of electoral systems in
Scotland unavoidably leads to voter apathy

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 784 words


Those whom the gods wish to destroy, they first make totally inchoate (or, as
the Electoral Reform Society would say, a world-beating "test-bed" for voting
systems). Yes, it's Scotland, with the land Ruth Kelly calls England only a few
yards away over the border. And yes, it's a world-beating mess that only mass
boredom with the intricacies of democracy, inflicted by too many Liberal
Democrat party broadcasts over the years, prevents us from recognising as
absurdity. Step back for a moment and contemplate this unmade bed.

Voting systems matter because different systems yield different results, and are
custom-built to do so. Why are there no Greens at Westminster, for instance?
Because, for them, first past the post means first into the ditch. But there are
British Greens in the European parliament? Yes, because the system has a
sensitive PR tilt that gives the Greens (and Ukip) an even break. The system is
a means to a selected end.

But when Scotland votes, come 2009, in the next British general election, it
will still be trying to pass that ancestral post first. This is what the big
London parties want: it offers them the chance of overall majority and five
years of "elective dictatorship". From Thatcher to Blair to Brown, the theme is
the same. Give me a mandate and let me get on with it, as untroubled by Commons
distractions as humanly possible.

Scotland's additional member system is quite different. You vote for your party
at constituency level and then, to those elected directly, others are added,
chosen proportionately from party lists. So the Scottish Tories, say, may win
nothing straightforwardly, but still get an assembly toehold in the second
phase. So the seemingly small change of socialism embraced by Tommy Sheridan may
chink far larger in your pocket when the full count is done. And, again, the aim
is clear: to stop any party getting a decisive majority at Holyrood (or, more
crudely, to dish the Nats by making as certain as possible that, even if they
are the biggest force, they have to talk coalition with pro-union politicians).

But two separate systems must be enough? Alas, vain hope - Scotland sends its
MEPs to Strasbourg on a "closed-list" PR ticket. Get on the list, as near to the
top as possible, and you're on your way (voting proportions permitting). But the
killer blow arrives next May, with local government elections held for the first
time under yet another PR variant, the single transferable vote. It's the Irish
and Northern Irish way: you number the names on the ballot paper 1, 2, 3, 4 and
more, and those complex choices are worked through in rotation - "either
anointing a winner or redistributed amongst potential victors" - until the
computer stops whirring.

The benefits, again, are clear: no vote is wasted; personalities as well as
party labels have a chance; the result, a careful division of opinion, tends to
encourage cooperation, consensus and power-sharing. It's a slightly lugubrious,
earnest way of taking the electorate's temperature.

Scottish Liberals, uncoincidentally, love it: a quid pro local quo for all the
coalition demands that additional membership has made on them already.

Any more for any more? Perhaps when Jack Straw's reformed House of Lords comes
up with the multiple transferable peerage; but, even now, Scotland votes in more
totally separate ways than anywhere else on the globe. And there is a simple,
stark price to pay.

Last week our secretary for community affairs (English edition) unrolled her new
package of reforms. Ruth Kelly says that, like everyone from Simon Jenkins down,
she loves local now. Bang go a thousand national targets. Here come dozens of
mayors or elected council leaders with powers entrenched for four years at a
time - responsible only to other lesser councillors on an interrogation basis.
It's the ideal Blair recipe: just give me the tools, guys, and I'll get on with
the job.

One predictable result is that the job of a local councillor - "elected to do
nothing but smile impotently at the boss" - will grow still more unappetising.
Fewer candidates, less interest, smaller turn-outs - the primrose path to apathy
and decay. But the unpredicted result for Kelly's heroes is sadder still. It
pushes Scotland further and further away. It automatically means that the reach
and style of governance at every level will change utterly once you pass
Hadrian's Wall. It guarantees community jealousies and incomprehension. It pits
system against system and drives yet another stake into the heart of the union
as Action Man and Consensus Man do battle on a test-bed of malignant dreams
where nobody thinks about ends or means. Single non-transferable imbecility.

p.preston@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2006 Tuesday



CORRECTION: In a column, Ballot dancing, page 30, yesterday, we referred to
circumstances in which the Scottish Tories might still get "an assembly
toehold". Wales has an assembly, Scotland has a parliament.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday

Bias, the BBC...and why I will not allow newsreaders in veils

BYLINE: MARK THOMPSON

SECTION: FB; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1282 words


JUDGING by some of the headlines over the past week, there are people out there
who think the BBC is dominated by trendy, Left-leaning liberals who are biased
against Christianity and in favour of multiculturalism.

Like all the best conspiracy-theorists, though, they don't let the facts get in
the way of a good story. But let's put the myths and rumours to one side and
take a quick reality check.

The BBC does not object to newsreaders wearing small religious symbols, whether
crosses, crescents or Stars of David. But we do not believe it would be
appropriate for a newsreader to wear a veil over the face, not because we favour
one religion over another but because we believe it would distract from the
presentation of the news.

Some papers argue that the BBC is systematically biased against Christianity and
in favour of Islam. Again, it's hard to square that with the facts.

When the controversy blew up over the Danish cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed,
we decided that, without anything like full publication, we had to show enough
of the cartoons for our audiences to be able to understand the story. As a
result we showed rather more than any British newspaper did.

How did the Press react to this decision? It accused the BBC of
'irresponsibility'.

The BBC has a duty to celebrate and reflect Christian life and belief in this
country in programmes from Choral Evensong to The Convent. Many of those who
work for the BBC are practising Christians (I'm one of them). We also have a
responsibility to celebrate and reflect other religions and belief systems,
including non-religious ones.

To do both requires creativity and fairmindedness, but by enabling audiences to
encounter and understand other faiths potentially benefits everyone.

But some newspapers purport to see political correctness in all BBC actions and
reactions.

When Richard Hammond had his accident, several papers were certain that PC BBC
bosses would insist on the immediate cancellation of Top Gear. Do we take health
and safety seriously on Top Gear as on other BBC programmes? Of course, and,
despite inevitable jokes about form-filling, can you imagine the outcry if we
didn't?

We are anxious to learn any lessons we can from the enquiries into Richard's
crash.

But it's ridiculous to suggest that Top Gear somehow gets broadcast despite the
BBC. It's a programme we're incredibly proud of and we know that exhilaration
and yes, risk are part of the reason for its success.

I've never met a BBC boss who wants to ban Top Gear. And if I ever do, I'll show
them the door.

As a viewer, I'm not sure I can face life without it.

But a DG who loves Top Gear or A Seaside Parish for that matter doesn't fit the
stereotype of an utterly politically correct BBC and is therefore airbrushed out
of the picture. So too are Jeremy Clarkson, Libby Purves, John Humphrys, Terry
Wogan and Ian Hislop and all the other patently politically incorrect
broadcasters with whom the BBC's schedules are full.

The headlines over the past week largely arose from a seminar organised by the
BBC's governors. The way it was covered is itself very instructive.

The seminar was an attempt to have as open a dialogue as possible about the
question of impartiality and some of the editorial dilemmas which the BBC faces
daily. Several papers insisted the seminar had taken place at a 'secret
location' or reported revelations from 'a leaked memo' about its deliberations.

In fact the seminar was open to external participants and many outside guests
took part.

Far from being secret, it was streamed live on the internet.

The seminar included a number of sessions in which people inside and outside the
BBC discussed hypothetical stories and issues. It was a handful of remarks in
these 'what if' sessions that sparked the headlines.

But they were just that off-the-cuff remarks during a free-ranging discussion.
They were not, and were never intended to be, a statement of official BBC
editorial policy.

Now you might ask if it isn't rather foolish to discuss difficult and sensitive
editorial dilemmas in public, knowing that anything anyone says can be attacked
in the Press? I believe the BBC has a duty to open up these questions to public
debate. Goodness knows, we're not perfect and some of the issues we face the
role of religious symbols and religious dress is a good example are challenges
across British society.

The reporting of the seminar has also served to highlight more general concerns
about the BBC and bias, and in particular the charge that the BBC is
institutionally and systematically skewed to the Left. Here too it's worth
trying to disentangle myth from reality.

I've worked with BBC colleagues who have later stood as MPs for all the major
parties.

There is a far broader range of political and religious perspectives inside the
BBC than the 'liberal' myth would suggest.

Perhaps more importantly, every new BBC recruit learns very quickly that,
whatever their personal political view of the world, they have to hang that up
with their coat when they arrive for work in the morning.

Impartiality is not a state of grace it has constantly to be striven for.

And there is always room for improvement. I do not believe conscious or
malicious bias is a major problem at the BBC. Unconscious bias based on
ignorance or a blinkered view of the world sometimes is.

In the 1990s, for instance, the BBC's coverage of business often seemed to be
negative and redolent of the labour relations which dominated the Seventies and
Eighties. Profits were sometimes announced as if a minor crime had just been
perpetrated against the public.

I believe we've made real progress since then. Our current business editor,
Robert Peston, leads a team of correspondents who understand business better and
are keen to share their enthusiasm with the public.

Programmes like Dragons' Den and The Apprentice may have their critics but they
clearly celebrate enterprise and innovation.

When I joined the BBC as DG, I thought our coverage of Europe was deficient.

There was too little and too much of what there was tended to view Europe
through the lens of Westminster politics. By the stopwatch, Eurosceptics may
have had their share of the debate but there was too little curiosity about the
different shades of sceptical opinion and too little seriousness given to those
who believed that the right thing for the UK to do was to leave the EU
altogether.

We've responded by appointing Mark Mardell in the new role of Europe editor, by
delivering more consistent coverage of the work of the European institutions and
by exploring the views of UKIP and other shades of Eurosceptic opinion more
regularly and thoroughly. This is what impartiality feels like in the real world
of broadcasting: a thoughtful response to justified criticism, a painstaking and
professional attempt to improve output in a particular area.

The British public aren't easily fooled. When the BBC gets it wrong they contact
us in their thousands. Some do worry about political bias. But there's no
evidence that they give any credence to the idea of vast liberal or PC
conspiracies.

On the contrary, when it comes to trustworthiness, they give us the highest
rating of any British media organisation.

We live in what feels like bewildering, perhaps dangerous times. We are all
confronted with uncomfortable questions and difficult tradeoffs for instance
between individual freedom and the needs of society as a whole.

Not surprisingly, a national broadcaster like the BBC finds itself constantly
under the microscope. It's more important than ever that the BBC lives up to the
highest standards of accuracy, impartiality and openmindedness in its
programmes.

MARK THOMPSON By DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE BBC

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAKING NEWS: BBC EXECUTIVES DEBATED FIONA BRUCE'S DECISION TO WEAR A
CROSS BBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 29, 2006

7 days: Pendennis

BYLINE: OLIVER MARRE

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 888 words


Now Nestle - are you sitting comfortably?

The Perrier Awards are no more and it is time for the anti-Nestle protesters,
who claimed credit for their demise, to turn their attentions elsewhere. The
next target, I am told, is the children's book prize sponsored by the firm and
administered by the Book Trust.

The Nestle Book Prize is one of Britain's longest-running literary awards and
for it children are asked to vote for their favourite writers. A shortlist of
nine names was published at the beginning of the month, with the winner to be
announced at a grand ceremony at the British Library in December.

'It is highly questionable why the Book Trust, which presumably cares about the
interests of children, is bringing in a company known, apart from the baby food
issue, for its unhealthy foods, targeting of children and contribution to child
obesity,' says a source at the Baby Milk Action group.

The group intends to target schools, which have been co-opted to provide
children to judge the awards. More flamboyantly, it plans to picket the award
ceremony. 'We have information for students and teachers who want to explain why
they won't be supporting it,' adds my source. 'If schools pull out, authors
boycott it and our supporters turn up to leaflet the awards, perhaps the
sponsors will reconsider.'

Nestle responds: 'We are proud of our association with this very well-regarded
prize, which we established to recognise high standards in children's literature
and stimulate a love of reading in children under 11.'

It's official: George W Bush has read two books

Pinguid historian Andrew Roberts sent an email to friends last week under the
heading: 'May I boast?' Indeed, Andrew, you just carry on. George W Bush
apparently said on television that Roberts's latest book, A History of the
English-Speaking Peoples Since 1900 , is his current bedtime reading.

It will bring Bush some comfort as support for his foreign policy evaporates
that the book suggests that the American-British axis represents mankind's most
likely saviour.

This may, however, alarm the rest of us. Previously, the President has said that
his favourite book is The Very Hungry Caterpillar , which he claims to have read
as a child. This puzzles everyone because it was published when he was 23.

Please pass those MPs some more sick bags

Before our esteemed politicians disappeared for their long summer recess, I
reported that they had named and shamed the Ryanair help desk in an early day
motion, providing a direct phone number and email address instead of the
airline's preferred premium rate number.

MP Sharon Hodgson clearly had a bad time on her easyJet flights this summer, for
she has - rather derivatively - now criticised that airline in a motion tabled
last week. Then her colleague David Clelland got in on the act, penning a motion
of his own (that's another £ 300 to the taxpayer) suggesting that
services@easyjet.co.uk does exist, but 'is difficult to find'.

Pete Doherty a thief? Oh surely not

Kate Moss has been flashing a hefty engagement ring around, which, unless she
paid for it herself, must be a present from her fiance, Pete Doherty. It's
surely coincidental that singer Lily Allen, right, has this to say of the time
she shared a festival gig with Doherty in the summer: 'He was very charming
indeed, although he stole one of my rings and I'm very cross about it. I hope I
see it again.'

Salad tosser

Michael Winner, never one to hold his tongue, took the opportunity when meeting
Pendennis at the opening night of the Dirty Dancing musical to respond publicly
to the mild-mannered chef Antonio Carluccio, who recently told me that Winner
was the most unpleasant food writer in Britain. 'He's a wanker,' says Winner.
'Who cares about the opinion of third-rate cooks?'

A Crook writes

Mackenzie Crook, left, the actor still best known as Gareth in The Office, is
turning his hand to writing.

A source at publisher Faber and Faber says that Crook has just signed a deal to
write a 'lighthearted fantasy' known, at the moment, as A Fairy Tale . 'He has a
very vivid imagination,' I'm reliably informed. 'It's not that his film career
is going badly. It's just that he looks so distinctive he's always Gareth in
people's minds. Picking up a pen will let him be someone different.'

Farage farrago

New Ukip leader Nigel Farage tells me that there is no truth in allegations that
he is having an affair with a woman in the press office. 'This rumour is
entirely unfounded,' he says. 'As is the one that I've got her pregnant.' So the
News of the World can stop investigating him. OK?

Dark blue Cox

Film-maker Alex Cox, who wrote the screenplay for Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
and has directed cult classics such as Repo Man , has a new project. He has been
employed by New College, Oxford to direct a DVD to encourage applications to its
sun-dappled cloisters from state school candidates. It's a good thought: lots of
youth appeal there. So, hush those of you who suggest that Cox lacks experience
when it comes to making things appear welcoming.

Richard the first

Spotted in the House of Lords: Richard Desmond, Labour donor and Express
proprietor. He was a guest of Lord Janner, who launched his autobiography there
last week. With a mock-apologetic shrug, Desmond marched straight to the head of
the long signing queue. No shrinking violet he.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 28, 2006 Saturday

Riddle of Barker and the Russian oil billionaire

BYLINE: MICHAEL SEAMARK

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 315 words


GREG BARKER'S gay affair has highlighted the millionaire politician's 'Russian
connection'.

The shadow minister once employed by Roman Abramovich has faced questions in the
past about alleged links to another controversial tycoon.

Boris Berezovsky was one of the richest and most powerful men in Russia, but
fled to London after falling out with President Putin.

Moscow tried to extradite the billionaire on fraud charges, but failed because
Britain granted him political asylum. Mr Barker admits meeting Mr Berezovsky,
who claims a Russian agent was sent to kill him, in London and Moscow.

But the MP, who sold a recruitment advertising company set up with his wife
Celeste for more than Pounds 7million, vehemently denies any financial links
with the oil tycoon.

The Conservative Party was asked to investigate alleged links between Mr Barker
and Mr Berezovsky three years ago.

Fomer Conservative Home Office immigration minister Charles Wardle wrote to then
party leader Iain Duncan Smith asking him to examine whether there were any
connections between the MP and the Russian, at that time facing extradition.

Mr Barker succeeded Mr Wardle as MP for Bexhill and Battle at the General
Election.

During the election, Mr Wardle refused to endorse his successor and urged
Conservatives to back the UK Independence Party candidate.

Mr Wardle also claimed to Conservative Central Office that Mr Barker may have
misled the party about his business credentials infuriating Mr Barker, who said
his predecessor had a grudge against him.

Mr Barker worked for two years for Chelsea FC owner Roman Abramovich.

He was head of international communications for the billionaire's Siberian Oil
Company until 2000, living briefly in Moscow.

Former Tory Party public relations supremo Lord Bell, a friend of Mr Berezovsky,
said the Russian could not recall meeting the MP and had never had any financial
dealings with him.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLED: BORIS BEREZOVSKY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 28, 2006 Saturday 1:00 AM GMT

An American winner? Quelle horreur!

BYLINE: By Ceri Radford

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 612 words


I was surprised on two counts to learn that the Acadmie Franaise, that august
institution built to defend the French language from heinous outside influences,
has awarded this year's Grand Prix du Roman not only to a foreigner, and not
only an Anglo-Saxon foreigner, but an American of all things - albeit one who
chooses to write in French.

Mais qu'est-ce qui se passe?

First of all, most French people I know will spit out their black coffee and
choke on their Gauloise cigarettes in indignation.

How has it come to pass that Les Bienveillantes (The Furies) by Jonathan
Littell, an American living in Spain, has scooped one of France's most
prestigious literary prizes? Anti-americanism, as far as I can tell, is as
embedded a part of the French cultural psyche as a love of philosophy or
aversion to queues.

And yet the primary evidence is here. Except don't bother clicking on that link
if you don't speak French - the Acadmie Franaise is hardly going to translate
its website into English. The announcement simply reads that Mr Littell has won
the prize of 7,500 euros with 12 votes, against four each for the two other
short-listed contendors.The 900-page novel has been the surprise hit of France's
"rentre litteraire", the key Autumn publishing season. According to the
Anglophone French news site Paris Link, it is "a first-person narrative by a
Nazi officer, detailing the bureaucracy and the horror of the holocaust," while
the newspaper Le Figaro goes further: "passionate, provoking, this book is a
literary revelation."Littell was born in New York but brought up partly in
France. He apparently chose to write his debut novel in French both because he
worships the writerslike Flaubert and Stendhal, and because writing in a
'foreign' tongue grants a degree of creative freedom - giving his prose a
distinctive quality that caught the attention of his French critics. The fact
that this quality overrode any populist concerns about his nationality can only
be a credit to the Acadmie.This all brings me to the second reason for my
surprise. I know there's a precedent for great writers to 'borrow' languages -
Samuel Beckett flipping between English and French, the Polish-born Joseph
Conrad writing in English - but why start your first novel in Frenchrather than
English?In case you hadn't already noticed, I'm hopelessly, hideously biased in
favour of English-language literature - by which I mean anything written in
English by authors of any nationality, including works in translation.

Still, in terms of literary taste, I'm a raving, UKIP membership card-carrying
all-English zealot. I've tried to love French literature, so much so I took a
detour from my original English literature degree and ended up sitting most of
my finals in French. But with the exception of Gustav Flaubert, Albert Camus and
Claude Levi-Strauss, I was sorely disappointed. Compared to the nuances of
English, which allow a writer to choose from distinct pools of Germanic or
Latinate vocabulary to vary the tone, I found French literature flat. Worse than
that, having developed an appreciation of irony and understatement, many of the
French writers I encountered struck me as overbearing, pompous and
pretentious.Undoubtedly this is at least partly down to my own experience - a
couple of years of academic cramming hardly adds up to a rounded appreciation of
a body of literature. But still, when Becket famously and obliquely said that
"En franais, c'est plus facile d'crire sans style (In French it's easier to
write without style)," I think I can see what he means. I wonder what Littell
would say to that?

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2006 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday

Tory leader surges ahead of Brown as voters' choice

BYLINE: George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words


DAVID Cameron has moved decisively ahead of Gordon Brown as favourite to lead
the next government, with the Conservatives enjoying their most sustained poll
lead for a decade, according to a YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph today.

The poll confirms that the Chancellor is still struggling to win over voters
despite a concerted effort to broaden his appeal and present himself as the
Prime Minister-in-waiting ready to take over from Tony Blair.

While Mr Cameron is still some way short of the poll ratings needed for victory
at the next general election expected in 2009, Labour is suffering from a
prolonged mid-term slump in support.

The poll shows public dissatisfaction with Labour's record as ministers struggle
with a prisons crisis, hospital closures, worries that the Government is losing
control of immigration and chaos in Iraq, with pressure mounting for withdrawal
of British troops.

YouGov puts the Tories on 39 per cent (up one), Labour on 32 (up one) and the
Liberal Democrats on 16 (down two).

Disaffected voters appear increasingly ready to look at alternatives such as the
UK Independence Party or the Greens. Support for the minor parties totals 13 per
cent, higher than at any time in recent history.

The Conservatives have been ahead of Labour for six months in a row for the
first time in more than a decade, though Mr Cameron needs to be consistently
above 40 per cent to be sure of gaining an overall majority at the next
election.

Asked whether they would prefer to see a Tory government led by David Cameron or
a Labour one led by Gordon Brown after the next election, 46 per cent chose Mr
Cameron compared to 33 per cent for the Chancellor.

The Conservatives are regaining their reputation for economic management, now
only one point behind Labour.

The indication that Mr Cameron - who celebrates his first anniversary as Tory
leader in little over a month's time - is building a sustained lead will alarm
Mr Brown.

The Chancellor is increasingly impatient to succeed Mr Blair and take charge of
a full-scale Labour attack against the Tory leader, who he believes has been
given an easy ride by the Prime Minister.

Mr Brown is concerned that the longer Mr Blair hangs on, the more Mr Cameron
will be able to raise his profile against a Government that appears to be
drifting.

While Mr Brown has established a reputation as a decisive and effective
Chancellor - yesterday presenting an upbeat assessment of the outlook for
Britain's economy this year - voters are unsure whether he would make a good
prime minister.

George Osborne, the Tory shadow chancellor, was rebuked in the Commons as he
launched an attack on Mr Brown's record.

In furious Question Time exchanges, Mr Osborne urged Mr Brown to admit he had
made "serious mistakes'' in pensions policy as a result of the tax regime he had
introduced since 1997.

He quoted a remark attributed to one of the Chancellor's Cabinet colleagues,
John Hutton, the Work and Pensions Secretary, that Mr Brown would "make an
effing awful Prime Minister''.

Tories cheered in delight, but Michael Martin, the Speaker, told Mr Osborne to
withdraw the remark, saying there should be "temperate language'' in the
chamber.

Mr Brown revealed his anger with his Tory shadow when he threw a wad of papers
across the Dispatch Box to Mr Osborne.

He was forced to admit that one of the headline-grabbing pledges in his March
Budget - to raise spending on pupils in state schools to the same level as that
in private sschools - was only an "aspiration'', rather than a definite
commitment.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 27, 2006 Friday

Crisis in prisons batters Labour's poll standing Analysis

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 727 words


WHEN Labour came to power in 1997, Tony Blair and his people were determined to
prove that, unlike so many of their Labour predecessors, they could manage. They
would control events. Events would not control them.

YouGov's latest survey for The Daily Telegraph provides yet more evidence that
the Blair government has largely forfeited its reputation for managerial
competence. On top of the present Government's mismanagement of the immigration
system, large parts of the NHS and the occupation of Iraq comes the crisis in
the prison system. Most voters make it clear that they are deeply unimpressed.

Although David Cameron's Conservatives are still failing to put clear blue water
between themselves and their opponents, they have now been ahead of Labour for
six months in a row - the first time that has happened for more than a decade.

According to YouGov, 39 per cent of voters now say they would vote Tory at an
early election, a single point up since last month. Only 32 per cent say they
would back Labour, also up a single point since last month.

Two of YouGov's findings are familiar. The Liberal Democrats languish, with the
support of only 16 per cent of voters compared with 23 per cent at last year's
general election, and support for one or other of the minor parties continues to
be higher than at any time in recent history.

Thirteen per cent now say they would vote for - among others - the UK
Independence Party, the BNP or the Greens, compared with the eight per cent who
did so in 2005.

YouGov's findings continue to be steadier than those of other polling
organisations. One poll, published on Monday, put Labour on 37 per cent, two
points ahead of the Tories. Another, published on Wednesday, put Labour on 29
per cent, fully 10 points adrift of the Conservatives. Both cannot be right, but
both can be wrong.

In some ways more telling than the latest voting intention figures are the
findings in response to a question that YouGov has asked from time to time since
Mr Cameron emerged as Conservative leader last year: "If you had to choose,
which would you prefer to see after the next election, a Conservative government
led by Mr Cameron or a Labour government led by Gordon Brown?''

In November of last year 46 per cent of YouGov's respondents opted for Labour
and Mr Brown and only 37 per cent for the Conservatives and Mr Cameron. Now 46
per cent opt for a Cameron-led Tory Government and only 33 per cent for a
Brown-led Labour administration.

Liberal Democrat supporters who, forced to choose, formerly divided two to one
in favour of Labour, are now almost evenly divided and a substantial proportion
of Labour supporters give the impression that they might switch to the
Conservatives come the day.

As the figures in the chart show, the proportion of voters thinking Mr Cameron
"is proving a good leader of the Conservative Party'' has risen from 35 per cent
a month ago to 41 per cent now.

Voters' increasing conviction that the Blair administration couldn't organise a
break-out from an open prison finds additional corroboration in the responses to
a series of YouGov questions concerning the present management of the prison
system.

As the figures in the chart also show, only 21 per cent of voters - almost all
of them Labour supporters - think the Government "is doing a good job of
managing Britain's prison system at the moment''. Well over three times that
proportion think the opposite is true.

Asked which party could best handle the problem of prisons, the Conservative
Party enjoys a substantial advantage over Labour - 27 per cent to 16 per cent -
but, as so often in the current political climate, a substantial proportion of
voters, a total of 44 per cent are suspicious of all parties' claims to be able
to run anything.

As for the current overcrowding in prisons, only 24 per cent suppose that the
appropriate solution is the obvious one: to send fewer people to prison. Double
that proportion, 49 per cent, still maintain that "not enough people are sent to
prison''.

The inference to be drawn seems clear. Labour promised to be tough on crime and
tough on the causes of crime. Whether or not Labour has been tough on the causes
of crime, a large majority of voters certainly think the Blair Government has
not been nearly tough enough on crime itself and criminals.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday

£ 300 parking tax on 'gas guzzlers'

BYLINE: Tony Bonnici

LENGTH: 363  words


DRIVERS of gas-guzzling cars could be forced to pay £ 300 a year for residents'
parking permits.

The move is intended to crack down on polluting motors in one of Britain's most
affluent boroughs.

Permit costs would TRIPLE from £ 100 for owners of vehicles with the highest
carbon dioxide emissions, such as 4x4s and some people carriers.

But users of electric cars would pay NOTHING for a permit and others would get
reductions of up to 50 per cent in the cost.

And the Local Government Association admits similar fees could be introduced
across the country wherever parking is at a premium if the scheme is a success.

The idea was attacked last night as a money-grabbing exercise and an intrusion
into people's right to choose what they drive. RAC spokesman Adam Cracknell
said: "It shouldn't matter whether you're driving a Toyota Prius or Jaguar
X-type when it comes to paying for a parking permit." And UKIP spokesman Mark
Croucher said: "It's one of many abuses of power we see from councils when it
comes to extracting money for parking."

The proposals will be considered next month by councillors in Liberal
Democrat-controlled Richmond upon Thames, South West London.

They include a plan to charge households an extra 50 per cent for permits on
second and subsequent cars on top of the adjusted payments for emissions. An
owner of two high-emission cars could pay £ 750 a year for parking -£ 300 for
the first and £ 450 for the second -compared to the £ 200 total they pay now.

The scheme would introduce a sliding scale of charges from band A, which would
be free, to band G, which would charge three times the current cost of permits.

Council leader Serge Lourie said: "Climate change is the single greatest
challenge facing the world. We must all start acting now at local level."

t.bonnici@the-sun.co.uk

Check out the cars that won't cost the earth at thesun.co.uk/motors

PERMIT COSTS

Band A Honda Insight Electric cars - FREE

Band B Toyota Prius, Peugeot 107 1.0 - £ 50

Band C Fiat Panda 1.2, Ford Ka 1.3 - £ 90

Band D Nissan Micra 1.4, Peugot 307 1.4 £ 110

Band E Rover 75 1.8, Ford Mondeo 1.8i - £ 130

Band F Audi A4 1.6, Toyota Rav 4 2.0 - £ 150

Band G - Renault Espace, BMW X5 - £ 300

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday

ICM poll Labour support at lowest level since Thatchers last election victory

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


Support for Labour has dropped to its lowest level in almost 20 years with the
Conservatives opening up a potentially election-winning 10-point lead, according
to a Guardian/ICM poll published today.

Labour has the backing of only 29% of voters, equal to its lowest-ever level of
support in a Guardian/ICM poll - recorded in May 1987, a month before Margaret
Thatcher won a third term.

The party's support has fallen 3 points since last month, despite Labour's
successful annual conference in Manchester and a lack of public conflict over
the succession to Tony Blair. The Conservatives have climbed three points, to
39%, with the Liberal Democrats unchanged on 22%.

Support for minor parties, growing in recent months, has dropped back 1 point to
9%. The Green party and the UK Independence party score 2% each.

The poll, carried out last weekend, follows David Cameron's attack on NHS cuts
as well as the publication last week of a party report advocating tax cuts of
£21bn.

The results suggest that campaigning on the NHS offers the Tories potential
gains, with an overwhelming majority of voters believing that the record sums
being spent on health by the government have largely being wasted.

Only 14% of voters think the money invested since 1997 has been well spent,
against 72% who agree that "a lot" has been used badly. Even 58% of Labour
voters think the extra money has been misspent.

As a result only 25% of voters think that the NHS has improved since Labour came
to power in 1997, against 30% who think it has got worse and 39% who think
Labour has made little difference.

On the one hand the NHS remains a cherished institution that voters trust to
give them the best possible treatment when they fall sick. On the other, voters
think that the service has got worse, not better, during Labour's decade in
power and that much of the government's huge extra investment in healthcare has
been wasted.

Labour has more than doubled health spending since 1997 to almost £90bn a year
but seems to be gaining little political credit for its efforts.

However, most people remain proud of Britain's standard of healthcare: 55% still
think that the NHS is the envy of the world. People also trust it with their
lives, with 60% agreeing that they would get excellent care if they were unwell.
Only 30% think they would not.

Trust in the NHS is strong among voters of all parties, and especially among the
people most likely to need healthcare, older and poorer voters, with 73% of
over-65s confident that they will be well looked after.

True, voters are worried about catching infections such as MRSA in hospital, for
instance, with only 35% sure that they will be safe from it if they have to be
admitted. Most people, 51%, think they would be at risk.

But the public's personal experience of using NHS services is none the less
overwhelmingly positive: 71% of people say that their family and friends have
had a good experience.

But as the government moves ahead with contentious reforms which could see
closures of well-loved hospitals, the poll's findings suggest Labour cannot take
the NHS for granted as an electoral asset.

Meanwhile, most people would choose to opt out of the state system if they could
afford it: 67%, say they would pay to go private if they had the money,
including 61% of Labour voters.

Trust in the private sector is strong, too, when it comes to the NHS itself: 70%
of all voters think that private companies should be allowed to care for NHS
patients. That suggests there is backing for the government's reform programme,
which has seen private organisations invited to compete for NHS work.

Labour voters are even keener on this than the overall electorate, with 73%
agreeing private firms should have a role in the NHS against only 22% who
disagree.

The poll comes after other findings suggesting that Mr Cameron's honeymoon with
voters may be over. Data published in the Times on Monday from a small sample of
242 voters, gave Gordon Brown a lead among swing voters.

Even if today's Guardian/ICM result were repeated at a general election, the
Conservatives would only end up as the largest party in a hung parliament, or
hold only a narrow majority, since Labour gains most from the distribution of
parliamentary seats across the country.

Labour support remains strongest in the north of Britain, where it retains a
lead among voters, and weakest among under 34s and middle-class voters, where it
is in third place behind the Liberal Democrats.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,019 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on October 20-22. Interviews were conducted around the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday

Political briefing Romans, migrants and damned estimates

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 402 words


If John Reid escapes political embarrassment over his fragile new proposals to
restrict migration from Bulgaria and, especially, Romania when they join the EU
next year, he may have to thank the late Roman Emperor Trajan.

By conquering Dacia exactly 1900 years ago, Trajan bequeathed the Romanians a
Latin language. It has made many more of their 2 million migrant workers head
for Latin Spain and Italy than for Britain in recent years. Others will follow
them there, expert evidence suggests.

Given the gross underestimate of the number of arrivals from the eight eastern
EU newcomers since 2004 (60% of the 600,000 were Poles), the home secretary is
not banking on expert evidence to solve his problem. MPs are not banking on Mr
Reid to solve it either.

It is not true that ministers predicted only 13,000 Polish arrivals a year. They
failed to disown it, but did not make an estimate of their own. This has allowed
the anti-immigrant lobby to cry chaos, strained social services in some areas
and alarmed many Labour MPs.

Their less-skilled constituents have seen casual day labour rates of around £40
in the south east halved - still close to the weekly rate in some parts of
eastern Europe, as Ukip and the BNP have been quick to point out.

Pro-EU MPs have protested against the unfairness of Mr Reid's ("temporary")
restrictions, which contrast with the open door shown earlier. At yesterday's
cabinet committee meeting, the Europe minister, Geoff Hoon, joined them.
Thoughtful Labour MPs at the sharp end of the labour market - from Frank Field
to John Denham and Jon Cruddas - last night joined David Davis, the tabloids and
even the wholesome Lib Dem spokesman, Nick Clegg, in poking holes in the Reid
plan.

His managed migration strategy - limited work permits and fines, maybe up to
£1,000 a worker - may simply drive Bulgarians and Romanians into the low-wage,
no-tax, black economy, they say. Reid believes he is working with the grain of
labour markets to penalise rogue employers and help UK workers. His new
migration advisory committee is intended to "take the politics" out of the
policy, he says.

But in deindustrialised Dagenham, Jon Cruddas insists that the underlying
reality remains a fundamental mismatch between the Treasury's "flexible,
unregulated labour market", which drives wages down, and the politics of
Labour's commitment to its own supporters. In a policy with many winners, they
lose.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday

Migrant work quotas 'a sham'

BYLINE: Andrew Porter, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 474  words


Reid's plan 'will not halt EU rush to Britain'

GOVERNMENT plans to halt mass immigration from Bulgaria and Romania were branded
a sham last night.

Home Secretary John Reid yesterday announced a package of measures to stop tens
of thousands of workers coming here after the countries join the EU in January.

But critics said the proposals were not tough enough -and simply would not work.

Mr Reid said there will be a quota of 20,000 unskilled workers allowed in. They
will initially only be able to work in the food processing and agricultural
sectors.

And 100 "highly skilled" professionals will also be able to take jobs. Both
groups will have to register for work. Mr Reid said there will also be fines for
employers who take on workers not properly registered -and immigrants who find
work illegally will be issued with a fixed penalty.

But EU rules mean that any self-employed worker -like plumbers -WILL be let in -
and ANYONE can come for three months without having to register.

And the fines on illegal workers will be limited to £ 1,000 -with NO threat of
deportation.

Students enrolled at an approved college will be able to work part-time.

Critics said that EU rules meant that Mr Reid's plan was purely cosmetic and was
no deterrent. UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This is clearly a
sham. Mr Reid says he will allow workers in the agricultural and food processing
industries, but also acknowledges that he can not prevent Bulgarians and
Romanians from travelling to or living in the UK.

"How will he prevent them changing occupation after they have obtained a
National Insurance number? How will he monitor the work status of those who
claim to be just living here?"

Mr Reid, below, has been desperate to avoid a repeat of the disaster when
600,000 migrants -more than half from Poland -arrived in just two years from
eight new EU countries in 2004.

Home Office estimates had put the likely number coming at just 15,000.

Migrationwatch UK now predicts 300,000 arrivals from Romania and Bulgaria over
20 months unless access to the labour market is further restricted. Shadow Home
Secretary David Davis said: "Mr Reid has merely slipped out a limited written
statement designed to deal with tomorrow's headlines but which leaves important
questions unanswered."

Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman Nick Clegg said: "This complex scheme is
asking a lot in terms of enforcement from an Immigration and Nationality
Directorate which Mr Reid has branded unfit for purpose."

Despite loopholes, Bulgaria reacted angrily to the constraints.

A Foreign Ministry spokesman said: "We will discuss the possibility to impose
reciprocal restrictions on Britain." Romania's president Traian Basescuhas also
warned Britain not to discriminate.

The Sun Says -Page Eight a.porter@the-sun.co.uk

Have your say on this story by commenting at mysun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday

Politics: Simon Hoggart's sketch: Oddjob goes Toto

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 528 words


You might think that one John Reid at the Home Office was enough. You would be
wrong. He now has his own Mini-Me, in the form of the junior minister in charge
of police matters, Tony McNulty. Actually there is nothing very mini about Mr
McNulty. He is a big man, slightly resembling one of those chaps who assists the
villain in Bond films.

"I myself find all forms of violence deeply distasteful, Mr Bond," says the chap
who wants to take over the world by means of nuclear warheads hidden inside a
dormant volcano, "but I fear that my associate Mr McNulty is less fastidious . .
."

The pair set out their strategy. The topic was community support officers. Mr
Reid waved scornfully at the Tory front bench. "The potential government there,"
he said, rather as you might wave dismissively at Ukip candidates, "is going to
make cuts of £21bn".

Nick Herbert, a keen young front-bench Tory spokesman who, in an ill-lit
volcano, might pass for the new James Bond himself, thought that the government
would have to abandon its targets. Mr Reid replied, in that low growl which is
simultaneously cosy and threatening: "These targets are challenging (New
Labour-speak for 'probably impossible') but you will never achieve anything like
them if you cut public expenditure by £21bn."

So the leitmotif had been set. In the McNulty mind a group of cells clustered
together and sent advice to the McNulty mouth. "He's saying it! You must say it
again, and again!"

But the mouth doesn't always listen to the brain. The topic of police pay came
up. David Cameron has suggested that this should be left up to chief constables.
The McNulty brain cells have taken a collective decision to oppose this: "I can
assure you we will not be going down the path of his fluffy bunny and sunshine
for everyone speeches!"

Fluffy bunnies? What was he on about? What was he on? We had left police pay
scales and were deep into Fotherington-Thomas territory.

Tories asked about reducing paperwork for the police.

Mr McNulty appeared to go slightly, but clinically, bonkers. "It's not as simple
as clicking your fingers, twisting your heels, going off to Kansas and
bureaucracy disappears!"

This was, I assume, a reference to The Wizard of Oz, though the image of Mr Reid
as Dorothy clutching to her bosom Mr McNulty in the role of her little dog was
too grotesque to contemplate. ("We're not in Westminster, any more, Toto!") Mr
McNulty must have realised that what he had just said was simply weird, so he
reverted to the template. "I don't know how that can be done if £21bn is taken
away from the public purse," he added. Seconds later he was using the Mark II
boilerplate against the Tories. This consists of saying, as often as possible,
that on crime "they talk tough but they vote soft".

And, he went on, "I wouldn't believe David Copperfield either, he is more
fictional than Dickens!" At this point I began to fear for my own as well as Mr
McNulty's sanity, though I have been told by kind colleagues that "David
Copperfield" is the pen-name of a policeman who writes a highly irreverent blog,
none of which would be appreciated by Mr Reid or his Oddjob, who would
undoubtedly strap him to a lumber saw.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Life is never plain sailing for adventurous Golding Cech injury a warning of
Matilda syndrome

BYLINE: JOHN INVERDALE

SECTION: SPORT; Soccer; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 948 words


MATILDA, you may recall, kept claiming that her house was burning down when it
wasn't, and then one day when it really was, the fire brigade didn't turn up
because they'd been on the receiving end of too many hoax calls before. Result:
no more Matilda.

Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech was perhaps the unwitting victim of the hoax injury
plague that has been bedevilling football for far too long, when he fractured
his skull against Reading. Who was the last player you saw go down and actually
believed they were hurt? Tom Finney? (OK - probably Wayne Rooney, but you get
the point.) Every player on the deck is either looking to get his opponent
booked or hoping to sway decisions in his team's favour.

So referee Mike Riley's conduct in seeking to get Cech to leave the field,
despite the fact that he was very seriously injured, was wholly understandable
given the current cheating epidemic. His first thought on arriving at the
prostrate player was probably, "Oh get up and stop whining and let's get on with
the game''. It should have been, "Oh my God, this could be bad'', but you can
hardly blame him if it wasn't. Cech will hopefully make a full recovery but is
football's first victim of the Matilda syndrome just another collision away from
happening?THERE are certain things in life that you know you're never going to
do, even if you live into the fourth millennium. Things like voting for UKIP or
winning The X Factor. And certainly not sailing round the world. On your own.

Which is where Mike Golding and I differ. He's done it so many times already, he
could almost be excused for being blase about it. Except of course he's not, and
this weekend he'll be setting out on the Velux 5 Oceans race, knowing he'll be
spending the best part of the next six months on his own, with just the odd
whale and several thousand seagulls for company.

I spent only a few hours on board Mike's boat Ecover, but having never given
ocean-going yachts a thought, I now almost understand why he does it. Hurtling
at 20 knots round the Isle of Wight was one of the most exhilarating things I've
done in a long time.

At one stage, with the boat virtually sideways as we forged through the Solent,
I could imagine the nightmare scenario of letting go of my safety rope and being
catapulted into the water.

In the safe confines off the Hampshire coast, there would probably be two-dozen
rescue boats on hand within seconds. What if that happens in the middle of the
Southern Ocean? "You can probably safely say your seafaring days would be over
for ever,'' says Mike casually. "Thoughts like that tend to help concentrate the
mind.''

In a previous existence Mike Golding was a fireman. He never forgets being
watch-leader at Maidenhead when they were called to a children's home that went
up in smoke.

It's brave and it's mad, but in they went because it's their job. And they came
out with some of the kids alive, and a few more that didn't make it. And
Maidenhead is also pretty near the motoring hell that is the M25/M4/M3 triangle.
"Some of the accidents I saw in those days and the rescue missions we had to
undertake, make gale-force winds and raging water, (he pauses) a drop in the
ocean.''

So here he is about to try to win the latest round-the-world race that starts in
Bilbao on Sunday - has stop-overs in Fremantle and the US - and ends up back in
Spain next April. On his own. "In the old days the Francis Chichesters of this
world were more adventurers than sportsmen.

"They didn't have all the technology at their disposal that we do, so survival
and reaching the end was the main objective. These days we race. Race to win.''
And that he has done, winning three world championships on Ecover, his Open
60-class yacht, and being the only man to sail both eastwards and westwards
round the world. On his own.

"But the nature of yachtsmen is changing dramatically,'' he says. "You need
strength out in the Southern Ocean to get up the mast and effect repairs as
quickly as possible.

"I rely largely on grit and determination, but the future is athletes who spend
almost as much time in the gym as they do on the water. You try pulling on some
of those ropes when your body is racked by sleep deprivation and your mind is
getting tired. You sure need to be fit then.''

In this race eight years ago, Golding was two days clear of the field when he
misread a navigational chart and ran aground on the top of New Zealand. He was
waving at a TV helicopter that was flying overhead. "Vanity. Pure and simple,''
is what he puts it down to. This time around he intends to exorcise that demon
forever. "I'm the kind of racer that will put my foot down and go for it. Let's
face it - if you're going to hit an iceberg, you're going to hit an iceberg. It
doesn't really matter what speed you're going at.'' Is that fatalistic or macho?
"Probably a bit of both.''

In one race in those pre-internet days, Golding went three weeks in the Southern
Ocean without speaking to anyone, or seeing another living creature. A living
hell, surely. "You may be surprised to know it was quite peaceful. But let's
just say you have to be at peace with yourself.''

But things have changed. These days he has a three-year-old son, Soren, who will
"obviously miss me but not half as much as I'll be missing him''. "And let's
make it clear,'' says Golding, "I always embark on these races with every
intention of coming back at the end.''

Which is probably just as well. Although won't he be just a tiny bit
apprehensive at the start line on Sunday? "I always think the same two things
before every race. Part of me says, 'Let's go - I can't wait to get started'.
The other me says, 'Oh shit, why on earth are you doing this again?'''

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Britannia rules the waves?Not for much longer if the EU gets to waive the rules

BYLINE: RAY MASSEY

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 394 words


THE European Union was last night accused of a 'sinister' plan to abolish the
sovereignty of Britain's territorial waters.

It is proposing a 'common maritime space' a move critics said would lead to
Brussels, rather than Britannia, ruling the waves.

The change would mean sailing by ferry between Britain and the Continent would
be considered a domestic voyage because at no time will the vessel leave EU
waters.

Eurocrats claim the plan being drawn up by the European Commission's transport
officials is designed only to help 'simplify' trade.

But MPs and shipping bosses said it smacked of creeping federalism.

The industry also fears the commission will attempt to protect its maritime
space by restricting journeys made by vessels not flying the EU flag.

From the 18th century until the mid-20th century, the territorial waters of the
British Empire and many other nations were three nautical miles wide.

Originally, this was the length of a cannon shot, hence the portion of an ocean
that a sovereign state could defend from shore.

Since the late 20th century the 12-mile limit has become almost universally
accepted and Britain extended her territorial waters from three to 12 nautical
miles in 1987.

But earlier this year, the term ' common European maritime space' was included
in a discussion document issued by the commission.

Plans have also been drawn up for an EU coastguard.

Officials are now gathering industry reaction ahead of making a formal proposal
next year and declined to comment last night. However, Lloyd's List, the
newspaper which covers the maritime industries, warned that the description of a
'common European maritime space' 'contains not a few sinister assumptions in its
bland phraseology'.

It added: 'All sorts of deep and difficult implications could emerge should the
Euro-bureaucrats come to believe that this is a legal term which changes these
waters into a political entity.' The Tories' shipping spokesman, Julian Brazier,
labelled the proposal 'an assault on member states' sovereignty' .

UK Independence Party transport spokesman Mike Nattrass said: ''This is a
transparent power-grab by an imperialist Brussels autocracy.' The plan is the
latest challenge to Britain's maritime sovereignty.

The EU has already opened up our fishing zones to Continental rivals and sought
to replace the Red Ensign from merchant ships with the Euro flag.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRITAIN'S MASTERY OF THE SEAS: HMS VICTORY IN THE BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

The Amazing Mrs Pritchard

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 70  words


THE UK Independence Party has cunningly linked itself to The Amazing Mrs
Pritchard, the BBC TV saga starring Jane Horrocks, pictured, about a
disillusioned supermarket manager who defeats Tony Blair and becomes Prime
Minister. She leads the Purple Alliance to surprising power. Now a new website
has been launched, under the name of purplealliance.org, which clicks through to
UKIP's website. You are allowed to dream, UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 16, 2006 Monday

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 1058 words


Cutting CO2myth MUCH has been said about how planting trees would offset the
damaging effects of the carbon dioxide we each pour into the air.

This is not supported by the evidence.

On average each household adds an ten tonnes of CO2 a year to the atmosphere.
After 50 years of growth, one large tree will weigh five tonnes, made up mainly
of carbon.

In 50 years each home produces 500 tonnes of carbon, so 100 trees would be
needed to counteract the damage.

Consider the snags: that would require 20 million hectares of land, but there is
only 17 million hectares of farmland in the UK. Planting more trees would
actually heat up the atmosphere because trees absorb sunlight whereas croplands
reflect it. Finally, if the trees are eventually left to rot or used as
firewood, most of the carbon returns to the atmosphere.

By all means plant trees, but it is no more the solution to the problem than are
carbon trading or carbon offset plans.

TIM FLINN, Garvald, East Lothian.

Something fishy LAST week, health officials warned of a potential risk from
eating salmon caught off Scotland's northwest coast.

An escape, between Loch Ewe and Loch Torridon, of an unknown number of farmed
salmon which had recently been treated with a compound containing emamectin
benzoate - known to be a danger to human health and banned in many countries -
was not made public for weeks after the event.

Why is it that the Scottish Executive, as usual, had to be embarrassed into
making this information public?

There is an increasing perception that the Executive is willing to turn a blind
eye to environmental abuse in its eagerness to protect Norwegianowned salmon
farms from public scrutiny. Has it now reached the point where the profits of
these Nordic polluters takes precedence over public health?

FRED CARRIE, Alford, Aberdeenshire.

Political options

CAMERON'S Conservative credentials are so diluted as to make them like a whisky
at the manse. He's so like Blair, the takeover would be seamless.

Across Europe and here in Britain we see the rise of the far Right while the
whole climate of our country changes to appease minorities, often by stealth.

Correspondents mention the BNP and UKIP as alternatives but they have a dubious
image and - thanks to the hard Left - most of their canvassing is done in a
shadowy way. How Labour and the Conservatives must dread the appearance of a
truly charismatic contender.

CATHERINE CONNELLY, Glasgow.

No' surly lodgers' 'PERFIDIOUS Albion' (Letters) is a negative reference to the
island of Great Britain, not just England - and the vast majority in Scotland
aren't 'surly lodgers'.

The UK, 'precious' or not, is a country and a nation. Germany and Italy were
each formed into one country only in 1870/71 by the unification of various city
states, fiefdoms and republics. The U.S. is a union of 50 states - and a nation
in itself. There are more than 200 nonsovereign countries and nations in Europe
alone, all enjoying the security and prosperity that union delivers, apart from
some 'surly lodgers' in Scotland, apparently.

Scotland itself is a union of five disparate kingdoms which had their own
territories and languages - yet people have no trouble in perceiving Scotland as
a nation. The UK is a union of three kingdoms and a principality - a nation ever
since James VI decreed in 1606 that anyone born in Scotland and England after
1603 would have dual nationality.

Four hundred years later, it seems some people want to leave the fourth largest
economy in the world so that 'Scotland can do just fine'. How? By joining an
even larger union which will still include the UK? Now that really is
perfidious.

COLIN WILSON, Maggie Woods Loan, Falkirk.

Have faith

THE Venerable Victoria and Spiritual Archpip's kind invitation to his Plum Tree
Faith (Letters) offers a belief system whereby 'we can enjoy God while we're
here on Earth'. It's a generous offer, but 2,000 years too late. Such a faith
already exists but you could be forgiven for believing otherwise.

Never in human history has a religious belief been so sorely misrepresented by
its supposed adherents as Christianity.

For two millennia Christianity has been highjacked in the name of religion and
ideas and philosophies superimposed on it that Jesus would have roundly
disowned.

Religion says sex is shameful; the Bible calls it good and even holy.

Religion condemns alcohol as sinful; in the Bible God commends strong drink.
Jesus made wine and later sanctified it as a symbol of his life and our
atonement.

Religion promises Heaven when we die; the Bible declares that Heaven is wherever
God is, which is wherever His people are and that, far from our departing for
Heaven one day, God will dwell with us.

There isn't room here to summarise the difference between the Father Jesus knew
and the God that religion has invented, nor is it time to invent a new faith -
but it is about time we all rediscovered the eternal one.

ALLAN McGREGOR, Glasgow.

Japanese verdict WHY were more Japanese war criminals not hanged (Letters)?

They were housed on death row at Insein Jail, north of Rangoon, where, after a
very short period, executions were stopped and we British guards noticed a rapid
depletion of inmates. They were being repatriated with the main body of
prisoners.

One significant criminal we were holding was the Burmese traitor U Aung San,
father of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi who is currently under house arrest
in Burma for her political activities. He was the wartime general appointed by
the Japanese to command all the dissident rebels fighting for the Japanese.

My secretary told me he was completely ruthless and responsible for many
civilian executions, including that of her father who had been a senior police
officer when the Japanese invaded Rangoon and was a Briton married to a Eurasian
woman. Her mother had been murdered by lethal injection.

When Attlee's government came to power, it took U Aung San off death row and -
believe it or not - appointed him the first Prime Minister of the impending free
Burma.

Around August 1947, as the officer responsible for overseeing the transfer of
stores and equipment to the new Burma Army, I was due to meet the new defence
minister at the Parliament building. At around midday, all hell broke loose.
Dacoits (Burmese insurgents) broke in and shot dead nine Cabinet ministers,
including U Aung San.

H. DAVIES, Swansea.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 16, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Cameron looks too happy for his own good

BYLINE: BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1120 words


David Cameron was a little anxious before last Wednesday's Prime Minister's
questions. Because of the recess, he had not held a bat in his hands for three
months and he felt that his chosen lines of attack were pre-dictable. Tony Blair
would surely have prepared ambushes and minefields. In the event, Mr Cameron
brushed the PM aside with disdainful ease. Mr Blair was playing like a man who
had never held a bat in his life.

Later on in the week, he was equally unimpressive on television, both on Ireland
and on General Dannatt, whose victory was as complete as David Cameron's. None
of this would have happened if Tony Blair had still been Prime Minister. On
Friday and Saturday, there was speculation that Richard Dannatt might get the
sack. That was never possible. It would have done too much damage to the
Government's standing. Indeed, the army boot is on the other foot. Ministers are
no longer dealing with Mike Jackson, a rumbustuous weakling. Richard Dannatt is
quietly spoken but has convictions of steel. If he were pushed across a red
line, he would resign. Ministers know that, and dare not risk it.

The smell of death from the Blair administration is unmistakable. It is
decomposing while still in office. The triumphant speech in Manchester might as
well have never been delivered. I wrote last week that almost the entire press
corps now thinks that David Cameron will become PM. This week, an ambassador
told me that the same is true of the diplomatic corps. No wonder Tory morale is
so high.

Higher than it ought to be, for there are still problems. Mr Cameron has made
advances against a moribund opponent. All the poll evidence suggests, and a
large number of Labour MPs believe, that he will do better still against Gordon
Brown. But there is no sign as yet of a poll breakthrough into the mid-forties.

Here, the conventional wisdom points in opposite directions. On the one hand,
polls in recent years have tended to underestimate Tory support. On the other,
governments traditionally do badly in mid-terms, then recover as the election
approaches. Tony Blair broke that rule; he almost always did well. But it could
be that normal pre-Blair politics is reasserting itself. In that case, the
Tories should be worried. Until 1997, a mere six-point deficit at this stage of
a Parliament would not have alarmed a government.

It appears that Mr Cameron is doing well among women and in much of the south of
England. But this is not replicated north of the Trent. There are a lot of
marginals up north; the Tories cannot win without taking a good chunk of them.
That will need a reorientation of strategy. Mr Cameron has to do more to appeal
to a public mood of anger.

I suspect that the state has never been more unpopular with the English middle
and lower-middle classes. A great number of people believe that they are being
overtaxed by an incompetent government. Nor is this just a matter of income tax.
Council tax, every charge one can think of, many voters feel that in dealing
with the authorities, they are playing a losing game of Monopoly. Whenever they
land on a square, there is a fresh demand for cash.

At the same time, the state and its servants have never seemed so bossy and
intrusive. There has been a widespread outbreak of what was once known as little
Hitlerism, describing the tendency of petty officials to use the war as an
excuse for ordering people around. It is impossible to open a mass-market
newspaper without seeing stories about government waste, interference with
ordinary citizens and proposals to give officials new powers of harassment,
including on-the-spot fines. This all makes the readers seethe.

Nor should we underrate the effect of the various Muslim controversies. To a lot
of voters, it seems as if an alien minority is manipulating the law to achieve
its own aims, while feeling no sense of obligation or allegiance to our nation.
This adds to the feeling that the country people knew and loved is slipping away
from them. Those who think like that need to be persuaded that there is a point
in voting Tory rather than staying at home or switching to BNP/UKIP.

This is not easy for Mr Cameron. He has no intention of turning Poujadist and he
is not anti-state. Thatcherism had no theory of the state. In her body language,
Mrs Thatcher seemed to be saying that apart from the armed forces and the
police, the state was an unprivatisable residue and that those who worked for it
had made a morally inferior choice of career.

Chris Patten tried to put a phrase of Carlisle's in some of her early speeches:
that the state should be far more than "anarchy plus the constable". She often
gave the impression of thinking that Carlisle was wrong. Mr Cameron is
determined to eradicate that impression. Although he knows that not every
doctor, nurse, teacher, or conscientious civil servant will vote Tory in the
next election, he does not want any of them to go into the polling booth
thinking that he is their enemy.

But Mrs Thatcher had one advantage which he lacks. There was a lot of anger in
her personality, not to mention a certain amount of poujadism. She could appeal
to the malcontents who did not think much of the government. Nor, often, did
she, even while she was running it.

David Cameron cannot match that creative schizophrenia. He is too balanced to
feel the restless aggression that drove her - and he is an optimist. This is
nothing to do with the so-called privileged background. It is merely that he is
happy in his own skin: a harmonious state which a great number of his fellow
countrymen do not share. He also possesses the mental, moral, emotional and
physical stamina to cope with a desperately handicapped child and a mildly
stressful job.

Though it is bound to be hard for an essentially gruntled character to appeal to
the disgruntled, Mr Cameron will have to try, for they are part of his core
constituency. While sticking to the line he has taken on fiscal responsibility,
he must do more to offer the hope of tax cuts. Above all, he should tell the
voters what they all know already: that this government is wasting a great deal
of their money, because it never took any interest in obtaining value for money.
There is nothing wrong with spending a lot on health and education, as long as
the result is world-class services, not world-class waste.

Up to now, Mr Cameron has concentrated on topics which enable him to sound
caring and likeable. In future, he will have to make tough points on
harder-edged issues, without using excessively abrasive language. Fortunately
for his party, he is a good enough politician to do this. The connoisseurs of
political warfare can only regret that he never had the chance to take on Tony
Blair in his prime.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 15, 2006 Sunday

Sarkozy offers no reason to stay in EU

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 50 words


I am most disappointed that your report on the Ukip conference in Telford was
confined to just two sentences and 28 words in total (News, October 8). In view
of the serious misgivings of countless people in this country over Europe,
surely the policies of Ukip deserve proper publicity.

G. Hoffmann

Stafford

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 13, 2006 Friday

Coffin-dodgers relish life's absurdities

BYLINE: Mary Kenny

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 981 words


There are many aspects of modern life that I find "offensive'', in the vogue
phrase. I find criminals being let out of jail early (predictably, to "offend''
again) pretty offensive. I find British schoolchildren - perhaps I should say
English schoolchildren, since the Celtic nations aren't yet quite as
uncontrolled - who are unsocialised by family or school, behaving loutishly on
public transport, with nobody daring to correct them, a regularly "offensive''
reality.

I regard the want of common sense that seems so prevalent today - security
personnel at airports scrutinising babies and elderly nuns, on the rigid
principle of equality - exasperating. I consider the lack of perspective -
taking seriously the pronouncements of young film stars promoting HIV tests for
everyone, regardless of age, celibacy or matrimonial fidelity - irritatingly
silly. It is entirely reasonable to have medical checks, but lifestyle and
conduct are also starkly relevant to this particular field of disease
prevention.

I find the sea of drivel in which so much of our culture seems to be drowning
deeply vexatious. I loathe the sexual grossness masquerading as "honesty'' and
the stream of foul language that seems so mandatory in literature and drama. As
for the rubbish of contemporary art - don't get me started.

And why can't arguments about smoking be settled with sensible compromise,
instead of bullying extremism?

I hate the way in which hype replaces substance and the shallow artifice of PR
now substitutes for political philosophy. I am so annoyed by the Old Etonians of
the new Tory party - it's obvious that they have never run a whelk stall - that
I'm considering voting UKIP, just to disoblige them.

But as an official Grumpy Old Woman, expected to complain about the declining
ways of the world, the last thing that I am "offended'' by is "ageist'' comments
or teasing jests about being over the hill or dodging a coffin.

It is indeed alarming to learn that the directors of a respectable insurance
company in Bournemouth, Messrs Alan & Thomas, have ceased to circulate certain
collective birthday cards signed by the staff for fear they might now contravene
anti-ageist legislation.

For these birthday cards, often carrying such jokey slogans as "better to be
over the hill than under it'', could be deemed offensive under the Employment
Equality (Age) regulation, which came into force on October 1. As an expert in
employment law, Neil Gouldson, advises: "Gags in birthday cards about being
'over the hill' and 'coffin dodgers', and Dad's Army jokes and so on, will need
to be curbed. Employers must tackle prejudices within the workplace if they are
to avoid substantial claims.''

Thus is revealed the true reasoning behind the new caution towards old-age
jokes: you might be sued. Some bright-eyed young lawyer might perceive an
opportunity to take up a case for compensation: fear of litigation is now behind
so many of the daft regulations growing apace today, from dire council warnings
of the dangers of falling autumn fruit to the sad abolition of children's swings
in playgrounds.

It seems that waggish greetings cards that compare the over-sixties to antiques,
or nudgingly allude to old codgers and Viagra, must be censored to avoid any
risk of legal action - something that could be financially punitive for the
sender.

"Offence'' isn't altogether what is behind it: as we shrewd oldies know, follow
the money and you usually arrive at the root.

Not that anti-ageist measures are without merit. There is a liberal element to
the proposal that people over 60 should not be forcibly retired, or regarded as
so hopelessly decrepit that they have nothing to contribute.

As with so much contemporary legislation, the law is only seeking to fill a gap
left by the vacuum in custom and manners. When we see a warning notice at a toll
booth, a check-in desk, or even on a bus, saying that employees are entitled to
carry out their work without being threatened by violence or verbal abuse; or
when there is a sign at a post office informing customers that they must switch
off their mobile telephones while speaking to the person serving them - this is
the law is trying to teach manners and respect.

We should not have to be told that it is rude to conduct a phone conversation
while dealing with the person behind a counter; or that it is unacceptable to
swear or verbally abuse a bus driver or someone otherwise serving the public.
But where manners and custom fail, the law now tries to step in. Yet the law is
often blunt, and impersonal, and works with a sledgehammer effect, so that all
are subjected equally, when a fine discrimination is sometimes judicious.

In the matter of age and ageing, what many older people appreciate is a sense of
acknowledgement that they have lived a little, and in that living have often
garnered interesting and helpful experience. They do not want to be dismissed,
just because they are less attuned to a more raucous age of instant data, or
because their physical powers or appearance aren't quite what they used to be.

It is nice when younger people are kind and show some respect - and many younger
people can be kind and even respectful: in America, younger folk have a
gratifying attitude towards seniors who have "paid their dues'' and have thus
earned a certain "entitlement'' to be heard. It is pleasant not to be patronised
and regarded as a dithering old biddy. Such social adjustments might be positive
outcomes of anti-ageist attitudes.

But what a pity if such mannerly ideas are to be reinforced by
compensation-driven regulations that contain within them the most "offensive''
idea of all - that being an oldie means having no sense of humour. Quite the
contrary is the case: with the process of age comes a wry sense of the absurdity
of all things, and the mellow awareness that life, as it recedes, increasingly
resembles a divine comedy.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            October 13, 2006, Friday

Motorists must switch on lights during day, EU says

BYLINE: Ben Webster

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 815 words


MOTORISTS may be forced to switch on their headlights when driving in daylight,
under European proposals aimed at improving road safety.

The European Commission wants all EU states to set a common date for making
daytime running lights mandatory. It is also proposing that all new cars be
fitted with lights that turn on automatically whenever the engine is started.

It claims that this will save between 1,200 and 2,000 lives a year across the EU
because cars will be more conspicuous to vulnerable road users such as
pedestrians and cyclists.

The Government opposes the idea, but admitted this week that it was losing the
argument and would be unable to veto a European directive.

Stephen Ladyman, the Road Safety Minister, said that the move could result in
more motorcyclists being killed. Motorcyclists tend to use their headlamps
during the day to mark them out in traffic.

Speaking in a Commons road safety debate this week, Mr Ladyman said: "Because
motorcycles use daytime running lights they have greater visibility than they
would do if everyone used such lights.

"Given that one of the most serious problems we face in this country is to bring
down sharply the stubborn rate of motorcyclist fatalities, we cannot afford to
compromise an important safety concern for motorcyclists."

But the minister added that he had been unable to persuade his counterparts in
other countries to vote against the Commission's proposal.

"I am increasingly pessimistic. The tide is running against me. A number of
powerful states believe that it is a good idea. I believe that they think that
it is a panacea and an easy solution to which their public will not object and
which will help to reduce their casualty statistics," Mr Ladyman said.

"I do not think that it will reduce their casualty statistics, but it will
affect our casualty statistics. I will continue to fight the good fight, but I
cannot promise that I will win."

The Government is also concerned that daytime running lights would increase fuel
consumption and pollution.

Motoring groups claim that fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions
increase by 3 per cent when drivers use dipped lights. The Commission claims
that dedicated daytime running lights, such as those found on Volvos and Saabs,
would increase fuel consumption by only 0.3 per cent. The dedicated lights use
separate bulbs that are less bright than headlights.

The Commission said 14 of the 25 EU member states already require drivers to use
daytime running lights. However, most of them are in northern Europe where the
days are much shorter in winter.

Some countries compromise by requiring lights to be used in daytime only during
the winter months. A study by the United States National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration in the 1990s found that they cut collisions by between 5 per cent
and 23 per cent. The lights are fitted as standard on most new vehicles in both
the US and Canada, although their use is not compulsory. They can be disabled.

The Commission's consultation paper on the issue concedes: "The benefits of
daytime running lights are likely to be greater at latitudes further away from
the Equator."

But it adds: "Contrary to widespread fears, the fact that cars are using daytime
running lights does not seem to diminish the effect of any motorcyclist's
daytime lights. There have been numerous experiments under laboratory conditions
and field experiments that corroborate that finding."

The Motorcycle Action Group said that the proposal was being supported by many
European politicians because it was cheaper than forcing manufacturers to
redesign car fronts to make them less lethal to pedestrians.

Ian Mutch, the group's president, said: "This is EU lunacy at its cynical worst
and a red herring that distracts attention from the real causes of accidents
between cars and vulnerable targets."

Mike Nattrass, the UK Independence Party MEP, said: "If countries want to force
drivers to use lights in broad daylight that's up to them, but they shouldn't be
forcing us to do it."

The European Parliament's transport committee voted in favour of mandatory
daytime running lights this week.

A final vote by member states, which will be decided by qualified majority
voting, is expected this year. The directive, if agreed, could come into force
within three years.

WHEN TO LIGHT UP AROUND EUROPE

DENMARK

Where All roads

When All year

ESTONIA

Where All roads

When All year

FINLAND

Where All roads

When All year

ITALY

Where Motorways and outside urban areas

When All year

LATVIA

Where All roads

When All year

LITHUANIA

Where All roads

When November to March

AUSTRIA

Where All roads

When All year

POLAND

Where All roads

When October to February

PORTUGAL

Where Indicated roads

When All year

SWEDEN

Where All roads

When All year

SLOVAKIA

Where All roads

When October to March

SLOVENIA

Where All roads

When All year

CZECH REPUBLIC

Where All roads

When All year

HUNGARY

Where Outside urban areas

When All year

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday

End of Conservatism;
Letters

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 180 words


I DOUBT Peter McKay is right to suggest that Dave Cameron is refashioning the
Conservative Party just to win the next election by fooling the Guardian-BBC
media and public service employees (Mail). And then if they win the election,
tax will be slashed and there will be reversion to hardline Toryism.

Careful analysis of Dave's 'song sheet' and its Francis Maude 'music' suggests
that their first priority is not power but to complete the destruction of '
conservatism' with politically incorrect party loyalists, core supporters and
traditional voters as the prime target.

These patriots are expected to stay away from the polls, waste their votes on
the UKIP or BNP, or literally die out, as democracy becomes even more part of
the TV entertainment industry.

Our multiethnic electorate will face a single mainstream policy-package and its
five-yearly choice will be confined to picking the most photogenic celebrity
fronting the common centre ground.

By then, Dave may be ready to replace Gordon but the liberal Establishment will
still run the show.

JASON ROBERTSON Sheringham, Norfolk.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ewe are baarmy

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 85 words


BARMY Brussels bureauprats blew hundreds of thousands of pounds deciding if an
ornamental sheep is a toy or not.

They ended up being lamb-basted after their costly probe concluded the ceramic
ornament was. . . an "ornamental ceramic article".

Last night a spokesman for the UK Independence Party said the farce showed how
wasteful the EU is with our taxes.

She said: "This is typical of the woolly thinking of EU bureaucrats."

Last night a customs man fumed: "What the hell does it matter if it's toy or an
ornament?"

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHEEPISH: The ornament

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tory chick-lit author finally bags a marginal seat;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 232 words


Chick-lit author Louise Bagshawe takes a step closer to the green benches of the
House of Commons.

Late on Tuesday, Bagshawe, right - on the socalled "A-list" of candidates primed
for marginal constituencies - was selected to stand in Corby, Northants. The
seat looks a good bet for the blues: Labour have a slender 1,500-vote lead.

Her transformation from writing saucy books about bed-hopping young women to
complaining to council officials about constituents' broken central heating
would be fascinating.

Bagshawe "idolised" Margaret Thatcher as a child - she was reported to have told
guests at a ball recently that what "gay people really need is a return to
Thatcherism" - but converted to New Labour and voted Blair in 1997.

After graduating from Oxford, she became a leather jacket-wearing publicity
roadie with rock bands. Her hero is Sharon Osbourne. (Stop choking on your tea,
Mr Tebbit.) Such credentials saw her rejected by the old guard in Battersea,
although she did make the shortlist in Mid Norfolk (as did Coronation Street
actor Adam Rickitt).

In Corby, Conservatives believe any candidate would be a shoo-in if they could
only quieten the Tory-baiters from UKIP, who polled 1,300 votes.

"Not a chance," says UKIP leader Nigel Farage. "She is not our sort of person,
she won't be getting any help from us. We will be very active in that area."

Candy-coloured paperbacks at the ready!

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday

party animals

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: FEATURES; Spy; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 89 words


The UK Independence Party seems to have finally acquired a troublesome youth
wing.

"Our party conference in Telford at the weekend went extremely well,'' says my
anti-EU mole.

"But there was a bit of trouble with the delegation from our branch at Keele
University. On Saturday morning, three of them were thrown out of the bed and
breakfast in which they were staying for rowdy behaviour the previous night.
They were deemed to have been too drunk and too loud at 4am. Amazingly, they all
returned on Sunday for the remaining sessions.''

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday

G2: The vision thing: A year after it was launched, YouTube is being sold for
almost £900m. But what is Google buying? The world's biggest collection of pop
videos and silly home movies - or something that could change the face of
policing, politics and the web? John Harris reports

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3598 words


When it comes to identifying that very modern moment known as a tipping point,
there is surely nothing more conclusive than an outraged "investigation" by the
Daily Mail. In that sense, one of the world's most talked-about websites
decisively arrived in the midst of middle England last Saturday, when the
headline "One Click Away From Corruption" flagged up a double-page spread about
YouTube. "It started off as a harmless way for children to share videos on the
internet," said the blurb, ignoring the fact that YouTube advises anyone under
13 not to use it. Now, however, YouTube was apparently "fuelled by horrifying
images of soldiers being shot, animal cruelty and vile racism".

The same day, there came news that slightly undermined the idea that YouTube was
turning into an online dystopia. Perhaps awoken to the site's law-enforcement
possibilities by news that the US government has been posting anti-drug videos
on YouTube, detectives in Manchester announced that they had put up a new appeal
for information about the murder of the Moss Side schoolboy Jessie James,
featuring his mother Barbara and sister Rosemary. Meanwhile, some of YouTube's
35 million regular users went about their usual daily business, watching
somewhere in the region of 100m videos, and adding around 65,000 new ones.

The weekend saw one other bit of YouTube news: rumours that Google was about to
buy the site for $1.65bn (£889m).

Until yesterday, the company's HQ was shrouded in silence. Repeated emails to
its press department produced a curt reply claiming, "We're experiencing an
incredible amount of interest in the company at this time and will regretfully
have to decline your interview/story request." Naysayers continued to compare
YouTube with Napster - the music-sharing service that brazenly defied the
entertainment industry, made an attempt at detente, and then faded from view -
and shouted about the fact that the company had yet to turn a profit. And then,
on Monday, came news that stunned YouTube's users. The Google rumours were true;
YouTube was indeed a billion-dollar company.

In Britain, the site is even more popular than in the US: 3.6 million of us - or
one in eight of British internet users - are now regular visitors, watching or
uploading videos free of charge. As any YouTube junkie will know, it can change
your viewing habits for ever. TV will suddenly seem hopelessly restrictive: why
gawp at a programme schedule planned by someone else when you could be joyfully
hopping from - and these are my recent(ish) choices, but you get the point -
Bill Clinton's recent explosive interview on Fox News, through ancient newsreels
of the Cuban revolution, and on to a Beatles video you have never seen before?

Yes, in the site's virtual backstreets there do lurk jihadi propaganda films and
bits of Nazi agit-prop. Closer to its thriving downtown, however, there is a
wealth of more mainstream material. In the US, they are already talking about
the arrival of "YouTube politics" and "the first YouTube war". But can it last?

The birth of YouTube is already a part of internet folklore. In early 2005, the
site began life in San Mateo, California, when three ex-employees of the online
transaction firm PayPal found themselves faced with a yawn-inducing problem.
Chad Hurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim (who would subsequently step back from
the company, retain his shares, and become a postgraduate computer science
student at Stanford University) wanted to share some digital video of a recent
dinner party with half a dozen friends, but their emails kept being bounced
back, and posting the videos online seemed more trouble than it was worth.
Working in Hurley's garage, they came up with a website whose usability
suggested it was too good to keep to themselves. That April, they went public
with footage of Chen's cat.

Yesterday, I received an email from Karim, who is presumably now very wealthy
indeed. "Yesterday was nuts," he began, before sketching out his version of
YouTube's beginnings. "We did try to come up with something that filled the
biggest current need," he says. "As it turned out, video was just emerging on
the internet due to several factors. Broadband in the home, for the first time
ever, was widely available. Digital video cameras were being sold en masse,
including ones built into cellphones . . . And bandwidth had become very cheap.
All these factors meant that YouTube was suddenly possible. It wouldn't have
worked even one year before."

Within a year, with their new operation based above a pizza shop, YouTube was
showing 30m videos a day. These days, there are about 60 staff, many of whom
spend their day trying to enforce YouTube's rules. Among other prohibitions, the
site allows no clip longer than 10 minutes and rules out material that is
"unlawful, obscene, defamatory, libellous, threatening, pornographic, harassing,
hateful . . . or encourages conduct that would be considered a criminal
offence". Thanks to a system whereby users can flag up any content they find
"inappropriate", they work surprisingly quickly: for example, within 24 hours of
the Daily Mail story crying foul at a clip titled "Belfast man eating a dead
mouse", it was nowhere to be found.

Sixteen months after its foundation, YouTube's core business seems to be based
around two kinds of clip. First, there are the home-made items that often
inexplicably capture the affections of the site's users: the video of two
American schoolboys lip-synching to the theme music from the Pokemon TV show
that has notched up more than 16m hits; the endless deluge of footage in which
Mentos sweets are added to bottles of Diet Coke, with spectacularly explosive
effects; the inevitable clips of accident-prone pets and gurning babies that
prove that, for all its technological dazzle, there is much in the YouTube
universe that is indistinguishable from the content of You've Been Framed and
America's Funniest Home Videos.

What gives the site much of its air of cool, by contrast, is its ever-expanding
archive of music video. Rock classicists can find thousands of hours of Dylan,
the Beatles, the Stones et al. Nearer the cutting edge, meanwhile, YouTube has
become an obligatory aspect of the life of any new act. In August, it signed a
deal with Warner Brothers, allowing YouTube to screen material owned by the
company, and just before the Google takeover was announced, similar agreements
were finalised with Universal Music and Sony-BMG. In August, YouTube's aim of
offering "every music video ever created" looked like hyperbole; now it looks at
least conceivable.

According to the site's critics, however, acres of YouTube's content still sits
in a very uncertain place. Even if every record company in the world signed a
deal, it would only solve part of the problem - given that plenty of rights are
also owned by production companies, film studios and musicians themselves, the
negotiation process could go on for ever. And what of the endless non-musical
material taken from movies and TV, from ancient sitcoms, through iconic film
scenes, to recent news clips?

Among YouTube's most vocal Cassandras is Mark Cuban, a 48-year-old American
billionaire who made his fortune via the web radio company Broadcast.com, and
now owns the Dallas Mavericks basketball team. In September, he put a voluminous
posting on his blog headed "The Coming Dramatic Decline of YouTube". "You can
pretty well bet that every copyright owner is going to be jumping up and down
telling YouTube to remove every bit of content with any copyrighted material,"
he forecasted. "The double worse news for YouTube is that it won't be easy. How
are you going to tell Barry that he has to take down the video of Aunt Sally
getting her groove on to Long Tall Sally, and Uncle Willie doing the Hand Jive
at his bar mitzvah?"

In response to an email I sent him last week, he sent back further predictions
of doom. "If YouTube was smart," he said, "they would take down all the
copyrighted material and build their business on user-generated content. The
fact that they won't tells me they are afraid of what would happen." And what of
the rumours that YouTube would soon be bought for well over $1bn? "No one in
their right mind would do it."

On Monday night, mere hours before the Google deal became official, he was
sticking to his script. "Would Google be crazy to buy YouTube?" he pondered. "No
doubt about it. 'Moronic' would be the understatement of a lifetime."

And then came the big news. YouTube's problems were now Google's problems, and
though that meant they were now the burden of a multinational corporation rather
than 60-odd people above a pizza shop, he was still more sceptical than most.
"It will be interesting to see what happens next," he said. "I still think
Google's lawyers will be a busy, busy bunch."

Even if copyright were to come crashing down on millions of YouTube clips, its
place in the affections of millions would surely prevail. The crucial point is
this: one of its essential rules - that anyone with access to the most
rudimentary digital kit can now make their voice heard - is now so snugly built
in to millions of lives that a world without it would be unthinkable.

Certainly, to hear some people talk, US politics is currently in the midst of
nothing less than a "YouTube revolution". If text-based blogging has yet to
reinvent political coverage in the way that some people suggest, the power of
the moving image seems to have allowed America's "video bloggers" to punch way
above their weight. Put simply, making political noise is no longer dependent on
the goodwill of TV channels or radio stations: home-made campaign films can be
posted on YouTube ad infinitum, and as Rolling Stone recently put it, "any dolt
with a handicam now can capture the unscripted reality of a candidate and
disseminate it worldwide." One of the most celebrated examples of the latter
happened in August, when George Allen, a Virginia Republican senator and
possible presidential contender, spotted an employee of his Democrat opponent at
a rally and went into rhetorical overdrive. His victim, a 20-year-old student of
native American descent named SR Sidarth, was labelled "Macaca" - an obscure
term that in both French and Brazilian slang has racist overtones - and, despite
being born and raised in Allen's home state, was welcomed "to America and the
real world of Virginia". Sidarth filmed it all, and the Democrats posted it on
YouTube: within a week, Allen's two-digit poll lead had come down to a mere few
points.

In the meantime, one corner of the US was caught up in the first YouTube
campaign. In Connecticut, Senator Joe Lieberman - Al Gore's running mate in
2000, and the kind of Democrat who sits so close to the Republicans as to make
no difference - was engaged in a bitter fight, built along the faultline of his
support for the Iraq war, to regain his party's nomination against Ned Lamont, a
more liberally inclined Connecticut businessman who makes his money from cable
TV. For Lieberman's tech-minded opponents, YouTube was a gift: they simply
poured anti-Lieberman and pro-Lamont footage on to the site, linked the footage
to other blogs and websites, and then watched its aftershocks ripple out into
the wider world.

Among the most celebrated examples were film of George Bush greeting the senator
with what appeared to be a kiss, and TV clips of a long line of conservatives,
from Vice-President Dick Cheney to the notorious TV evangelist Pat Robertson,
offering Lieberman their support. In addition, there was a steady trickle of
clips in which pro-Lamont activists pointed cameras at Lieberman and his aides
and asked them testing questions. They played their part in a shock result:
Lieberman lost out to his challenger, and is now defending his seat as an
independent.

Bob Adams, 47, works as an IT specialist in the Connecticut town of Milford.
Over the summer, he devoted a great deal of his spare time to anti-Lieberman
film-making, managing to confront the senator (his best shot came with a testy
encounter about donations from Wal-Mart), and posting about 50 clips to YouTube.
"This is another option for people who want to see what's really going on," he
says. "And it's a very democratic thing: anyone with a video camera and a
computer can get the same shots CNN can get. If you want people to hear your
voice, you put up a video, and you're out there. Political reporters have all
that 'You're off the bus' stuff to worry about; if they're denied access by the
parties, they're going to starve. With someone like me, I don't have that much
to lose. If I had to stop doing this tomorrow, it wouldn't make much difference
to my life, except I'd have a lot more time to spend with my wife. So they don't
have that power over me."

In Britain, though YouTube politics is in its infancy, we may be slowly catching
up. Thus far, the site's most prodigious users have been those whose access to
the mainstream media tends to be limited: contrary to YouTube's policy of ruling
out anything "racially or ethnically offensive", there is a sprinkling of
material credited to "BNPTV" (whose production values suggest the work of
fascistically inclined media studies students), as well as quite a lot of stuff
centred around UKIP. Further towards the mainstream, David Cameron's
"webcameron" clips have been posted, though the Labour party, in keeping with
its rather woeful track record on new technology, does not seem to be interested
at all. Someone has thoughtfully put up John Prescott's apologetic speech from
this year's annual conference; but, strangely, YouTube traces the source to
Belarus. That said, the Labour MP and recent anti-Blair plotter Sion Simon last
week posted his own spoof of the webcameron wheeze: a minute-long monologue
featuring the strange line, "You want to sleep with my wife? That's cool - just
come down, we'll sort it out."

And then there is the small matter of war. Type "Iraq" or "Afghanistan" into
YouTube's search engine, and out it all comes: as well as material traceable to
Islamist websites, there are scores of clips shot by coalition soldiers. British
material is in relatively short supply, and tends to concentrate on carefully
edited souvenir "end-of-tour videos". The Americans, on the other hand, go for
video verite: footage of shoot-outs, ambushes and aerial bombings, much of it
soundtracked by grinding rock music. The phenomenon has so taken off that in
July, MTV screened a clip-based documentary entitled Iraq Uploaded, strap-lined
"the war network TV won't show you". The same month, Time magazine called Iraq
"the first YouTube war".

Around 50 YouTube war clips are credited to a British source named "scipiouk".
After half an hour on Google and a flurry of emails, I manage to talk to him on
the phone: he is a former army reservist, who did a six-month stint in Basra
with the Royal Green Jackets and now propagates his anti-war views by posting
clips online, sourced from both his old army colleagues and unofficial military
websites. "When I was out there, all this was much more associated with the
Americans," he says. "You'd see them passing round discs with stuff they'd shot
on them. But British lads are waking up to it a bit more. A lot more people are
using helmet-cams, which weren't so common when I was in Iraq - you can buy them
for £100 from camera shops. And it's the only way you can get your thoughts
across: now, you sign a non-disclosure agreement when you join saying you won't
talk to the press, and when you leave, you won't write Andy McNab-type books. So
this is a way of letting people see what's happening out there for themselves.

"Very soon, we're going to be hit with a lot of stuff from Afghanistan," he
says. "There have been low-grade things that people have filmed on their phones.
But when soldiers start coming home, you're going to see a lot more. I've got a
few mates who've just gone out there, and I'm expecting to get a lot of stuff
from them when they come back."

As and when that material appears, the burgeoning hysteria surrounding YouTube
will presumably reach a new pitch. The first YouTube parliamentary question is
surely only weeks away. Meanwhile, as news of the Google buy-out spread through
YouTube's millions of users, there were the inevitable moans of disquiet. As
things stand, a multinational corporation seemingly has no greater chance of
posting a popular YouTube video than a 15-year-old with a camcorder, and the
site's bashful use of advertising only furthers the sense of commerce taking a
back seat. Visit Google Video, Google's far less popular equivalent of YouTube,
and you find an altogether more cash-driven set-up: its front page offers the
obligatory home-made clips, but its "featured" section rather tediously flags up
The Cartoon Network, a new Oasis DVD and Sky Sports' coverage of the Ryder Cup.

The worry is that YouTube will become just another money-making website.
Yesterday, it was smattered with anti-Google videos, and the accompanying
message boards were full of hastily typed protests. "Google has a habit of
charging for things," said one user. "Google complied with the Chinese
government to censor websites critical of it, " raged another. "So much for free
speech and privacy. Goodbye, YouTube. It was fun while it lasted." For one user,
a visit to Google Video had provided a worrying augury of the future: "I wanted
to watch an interview, but I was only able to stream three minutes of it . . .
if I wanted to watch the whole interview, I would have to 'download' it for 99
cents. That is ridiculous! Video should be free!"

On Monday, YouTube bosses Chad Hurley and Steve Chen posted their own clip on
their site. Standing outside what looked like a branch of TGI Friday, Hurley
assured their viewers that they were going to "concentrate on developing the
best service for you . . . so you can keep having fun on our site." Their words,
however, said a lot less than the giggly demeanour of two people who apparently
could not believe their luck. For two ex-IT guys, that chimerical fantasy known
as the American dream had come true; after about a minute, they broke into
uncontrollable hoots of laughter *

Ten great YouTube clips

1. Lonelygirl15

One of YouTube's most infamous sagas: a soap opera-like video blog initially
treated as the work of a real American adolescent, only to be exposed as the
work of an actress from New Zealand. To get your head round this
post-post-modern gag, watch Part One and go from there.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=-goXKtd6cPo

2. Sion Simon's

webcameron spoof

The Labour MP and recent anti-Blair plotter, assisted by co-conspirator Tom
Watson, spoofs the Tory leader's PR wheeze. "You want to sleep with my wife?
That's cool - just come down, we'll sort it out," he says.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=X9DYULkAhWI

3. Diet Coke and

Mentos

The explosive effects of mixing these mints with the low-calorie cola are a
YouTube commonplace, though Maine residents Fritz Grobe and Stephen Voltz remain
kings of the genre. Here, they use 101 bottles of Diet Coke to create "a
spectacular, mint-powered version of the Bellagio fountains in Las Vegas."
www.youtube.com/

watch?v=nrCaONL0X9U

4. Clinton on Fox News

A delight: Clinton goes on America's leading source of conservative news bias
and is ambushed by the voguish Bushite view that 9/11 was somehow his fault. He
soon becomes incandescent. "You did your nice conservative hit job on me!" he
spits.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=aPyQ4Ae6Ei0

5. The Beatles' Hey Bulldog video

Proof of YouTube's potentially orgasmic effects on classic rock fans: a
little-seen clip for this underrated track from the Yellow Submarine soundtrack,
not even available on the Beatles' exhaustive Anthology DVDs.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=WzekviobpGk

6. Fallujah Combat

A typical example of YouTube Iraq footage, with US soldier's helmet-cams much to
the fore, endless mortars and machine gun fire, and the sight of a city
apparently being laid waste.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=IA-phhKmhZM

7. Senator George Allen's 'Macaca'

moment

Little over a minute long, but political dynamite. The Virginia senator used an
alleged racial slur as an nickname for a Democrat campaign worker of native
American descent; once uploaded on to YouTube, this footage turned his campaign
for November's elections upside down.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=9G7gq7GQ71c

8. Spice Test

The YouTube ethic in excelsis. A 16-year-old aspirant Norwegian film-maker sits
in a kitchen, eating spices a teaspoon at a time from the family spice-rack and,
for some reason, marking them out of 12. The hilarity peaks with cinnamon and
chilli powder. Thus far, this Jackass-esque bit of wonderment has amassed
496,544 viewings.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=Q66HNKQ-tIw

9. OK Go's Here

It Goes Again

The best example of YouTube's effect on modern music video. In 2005, this US
indie-rock quartet made a $10 video for a single called A Million Ways that
swiftly became the most downloaded music clip in history. This is the follow-up:
an equally cheap one-shot creation involving choreographed

dancing on four treadmills. Its YouTube hits recently passed one million.

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=NINJQ5LRh-0

10. Google to buy YouTube?

Posted last Saturday night by a certain "nuodai", a 15-year-old from Harrogate,
this prompted a deluge of talking-head clips in which YouTube users worried
about Google eating yet another chunk of their lives. "The internet is for
several things: Google, MSN (the Microsoft Network), MySpace, YouTube," nuodai
says. "If you merge two of them, it's not as good any more."

www.youtube.com/

watch?v=o8tvNj-1Fr0&mode=related&search=

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Right farce;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS / HOME; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 115 words


Just when our favourite right-wingers UKIP appeared to have ceased their
post-Kilroy-Silk civil war by electing Nigel Farage leader, a honcho has
resigned from the party citing colleagues' "scurrilous behaviour and downright
dishonesty".

Richard Suchorzewski, runner-up to Farage, says rivals "colluded" to discredit
him, falsely accusing him of associating with the BNP and being gay. He signs
off his resignation letter: "Fish rots from the head down."

Says Farage: "There's nothing like a bad loser in life. We were very surprised
by his allegations."

UKIP's press officer adds: "It is a shame he resigned, because he was very
hard-working, and we had only just learnt to pronounce his name."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 11, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Pandora: Right farce

BYLINE: BY OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 115 words


Just when our favourite right-wingers UKIP appeared to have ceased their
post-Kilroy-Silk civil war by electing Nigel Farage leader, a honcho has
resigned from the party citing colleagues' "scurrilous behaviour and downright
dishonesty".

Richard Suchorzewski, runner-up to Farage, says rivals "colluded" to discredit
him, falsely accusing him of associating with the BNP and being gay. He signs
off his resignation letter: "Fish rots from the head down."

Says Farage: "There's nothing like a bad loser in life. We were very surprised
by his allegations."

UKIP's press officer adds: "It is a shame he resigned, because he was very
hard-working, and we had only just learnt to pronounce his name."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             October 9, 2006 Monday

Cameron wants to set hospitals free;
Tories 'will end political meddling in the NHS'

BYLINE: TIM SHIPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 668 words


'MEDDLING' politicians should be kept out of the day-to- day running of the
Health Service, David Cameron will insist today.

The Tory leader is proposing an NHS Independence Bill in an audacious attempt to
paint himself as a greater friend of the service than Gordon Brown.

In a speech to the King's Fund health think-tank, Mr Cameron will offer the NHS
what he calls a '60th birthday present' by setting hospitals and health
authorities free of Whitehall control.

His plans would lead to the scrapping of many of the government targets blamed
for distorting the priorities of local health chiefs.

Instead, power would be devolved to local health authorities and individual
trusts to make their own decisions based on clinical needs and public demands.

Mr Cameron will dare the Chancellor to work with the Tories when they publish
the bill in the New Year or risk being seen as a roadblock to reform.

He first proposed greater independence for the NHS in February in a submission
to his party's public services policy group, which is drawing up his party's
policy on health.

Since then Mr Brown has also outlined plans to run the NHS with an independent
board similar to the Bank of England committee which decides interest rates,
which he set free from ministerial control in 1997.

Mr Cameron will say: 'I am announcing today our intention to introduce an NHS
Independence Bill. It will offer a statutory framework that will take
politicians out of the day-to- day running of the NHS.

'Our plan is to publish a Bill in the New Year, and we hope that the Government
will work with us on the details and help produce a Bill that commands support
on all sides of the House of Commons.

'If implemented by Spring 2008, it would give the NHS the best possible 60th
birthday present. So my message to the Government is clear: the NHS matters too
much to be treated like a political football.

'Let's work together to improve the NHS for everyone.

Let's give the NHS fair funding, and let's give taxpayers better value for money
by getting rid of the targets and bureaucracy and pen-pushing that's all about
politicians' priorities, not the needs of patients.' Further details will be
outlined by Mr Cameron and Tory health spokesman Andrew Lansley on a trip to
Great Ormond Street Hospital.

They are understood to favour handing operational control of the NHS to a chief
executive independent of the Department of Health who would face 'Parliamentary
confirmation hearings' similar to those common for public appointments in the
U.S..

Mr Cameron used his keynote speech to the Tory conference last week to argue
that protecting the NHS will be his top priority.

The strategy is already bearing fruit. A poll yesterday showed that the public
now trust the party more than Labour on heath issues.

Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt yesterday admitted that Labour's unpopularity
is hitting home with voters. She said: 'Attitudes towards government policy on
the health service are much more dictated by how people feel about the
Government as a whole.

'And we haven't been having a good time recently and we all recognise that.'

She also acknowledged for the first time that reorganisation of NHS services
would 'almost certainly' lead to fewer district hospitals providing a full range
of services.

She argued that she was concerned most with 'saving lives rather than simply
saving buildings'.

Mr Cameron's move is likely to further anger the Rightwing of his party. He has
already faced opposition from Thatcherites Lord Tebbit and Edward Leigh over his
refusal to commit to tax cuts.

They have warned that some Tories might defect to the UK Independence Party or
the BNP. Yesterday, former prime minister Sir John Major urged him to stick to
his guns.

He said: 'If we were to lose any supporters in that direction I think we will
gain ten from the other direction from the centre. You need to be in the
centreground of politics to carry people with you and to win elections that's
where the majority of people are.'

t.shipman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 8, 2006

Chaps, a word in your shell-like - stop up your ears

BYLINE: Armando Iannucci

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 833 words


I WENT to the Conservative party conference last week. I'm not a party member,
you understand. I was asked along by the electoral commission to take part in a
fringe discussion on how we can reconnect people with politics.

I said one way was for politicians not to bang on about 'listening' all the
time. Political parties, especially after they've been defeated a lot, usually
spend several years conducting a listening exercise with the electorate to hear
what they really have to say. Usually it's: 'We didn't like you', but these
exercises are often conducted on the assumption that the electorate is going to
come up with a coherent set of economic policies as well as a vibrant political
credo. It doesn't. It just keeps saying: 'We don't like you.'

At the meeting, I suggested it's a bit like going into a baker's shop and
saying: 'I'd like a cake please', only to hear the baker say: 'Well, we're not
going to rush into cakes at the moment until we get a better idea of the sort of
cakes you like, and, moreover, the proportion of butter to sugar to egg you
think is the right mix of ingredients for a cake that's more relevant to you.'
At this, your natural reaction would be to throw a tray of shortbread in his
face and run out of the shop.

However, a Tory next to me said that's all very well, but there's no point
putting cakes in the window three years before they're going to be eaten and,
moreover, what's wrong with having a good, long, hard think about how you were
going to make the cake in the first place, otherwise it might come out
half-baked. I thought she had a point, but, on the other hand, we were now
spending a lot of energy talking about cakes. We got applause, but I had a
sneaking suspicion we weren't connecting with people.

Me a Tory? Oh come off it

After the session, I was nabbed by BBC 2's The Daily Politics for an interview.
Live on air, I realised I hadn't explained why I was actually at the conference
and went through a momentary dark afternoon of the soul. 'My God,' I thought,
'what if everyone thinks I'm a Tory?' I spent most of the rest of the interview
explaining I wasn't.

Afterwards, I puzzled which was worse: people thinking I'd always been a Tory or
people thinking I'd recently decided to become a Tory because of David Cameron?
Surely, I persuaded myself, there can't be anything more heinous than being so
fickle and fey that nice young David has persuaded you to give being right wing
a go?

A Cameron convert is the political equivalent of someone who's just got into
jazz or decided that short-sleeved shirts look fine on him or who's started
asking: 'Have you got any green tea?' at the end of meals in restaurants.
Converting to Cameron is a lifestyle choice, like moving to the catchment area
of a Church of England school or using a breadmaker or only just starting to
watch CSI or buying monthly membership of LA Fitness. Cameron is the new patio
of politics.

Time to monster Maude

I thought the conference centre in Bournemouth would be full of old Tories. The
mad badger-heads are usually caught sleeping by mischievous camera operators
bored out of their skulls filming a councillor from Derby talking about nuclear
defence. But I was surprised by how few old people there were, until one
delegate confided: 'They're all locked up in a holding bay in a hotel further up
the coast.' Surprised the conference was ending on Wednesday, as opposed to the
more traditional Friday, I asked why and another delegate answered: 'To be
honest, Wednesday is about as far as we can stretch this thing out.'

Best comment came from one delegate stuck in the security compound, having
waited three days for a pass that still hadn't arrived. As I breezed past him
through the doors into the conference proper, he shouted over to me: 'If you see
Francis Maude, kick him!'

Me in Ukip? Oh come off it

Back home, it seemed I couldn't shake the Tories off. David Cameron's set up a
website called Webcameron. He's into The Internet. I met a lot of Tories who
said that one way to get their message across to young people was The Internet.
No one had explained to them that there are a hundred billion websites on The
Internet, so if the Tories want to catch young people's attention, their
content's going to have to be damn interesting. What it turned out to be,
though, was David Cameron doing the washing up saying: 'Hello and welcome to The
Internet.' Still, it was The Internet and that's a good thing. Even now, he's
probably preparing plans to put a BlackBerry in every school.

Anyway, some supporters of the UK Independence party have gone and set up a
website with a similar sounding name to Webcameron and thousands of Tories have
been going to it by accident. When they get there, they click on a link that
takes them through to a clip of a Cameron send-up from my recent BBC2 show, Time
Trumpet . All great publicity, I thought, until I was hit by a nightmare
realisation that I may never be able to shake off: what if people think I'm a
member of Ukip?


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 7, 2006 Saturday

Wouldn't it make more sense to brainstorm about Iraq?: This year's conference
season had all the suspense of Balamory. There must be more to politics than
this

BYLINE: Marina Hyde

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 864 words


how was your party conference season? Did you find something diverting to do
while the politicians and the media were attempting to convince you that any of
it mattered one iota? To inquire how it was for you, of course, implies that the
annual carnival of futility and nanostories is over, which is clearly not the
case. This weekend is the turn of Ukip, who are holding theirs at somewhere
called the Telford International Conference Centre. The odd hotel room might
still be available if you hurry. At 11am today, the party leader, Nigel Farage,
will deliver his speech to delegates, who will subsequently dissect it in
spirit-crushing detail in the bar of Telford's Holiday Inn, and everyone will
behave as if there were some point to it all. In this single respect at least,
Ukip is just like the big boys.

The alleged comedian Jim Davidson - until so recently a Tory party conference
favourite - once reflected on his baffling inability to hold on to his wives for
very long. "In the future," he said, "I'm just going to find a woman I don't
like and give her a house and a hundred grand. It'll save time." How sorely
missed he is. And yet, isn't there something there for conference organisers to
ponder? Perhaps next year, treasurers of all the main parties should simply pick
a town, pay its council a couple of million pounds, and order all delegates to
stay at home. It'd save time.

After the past few weeks, the only reasonable conclusion is that the party
conference is an obsolete format. The Ideal Home Show is more meaningful.
Indeed, I am genuinely intrigued at the realisation that I can recall not simply
nothing of interest, but almost nothing at all, about the three main
conferences. Six days the Liberal Democrats were in Brighton, and all that comes
to mind is a grainy clip of Ming Campbell running, which reminded us that he had
once been fast, and Steve Bell's cartoon of him on a Zimmer frame, which
reminded us that he wasn't any more. I think that Charles Kennedy was supposed
to rock the boat. He didn't. Six days! It was the political equivalent of a
transmission filler.

Twice as sane and half as appealing was Labour, where we synthesised surprise at
the suggestion that Cherie wasn't desperately keen on Gordon, and presumably
would have gone into anaphylactic shock had it emerged she likes a bargain. And
what of the Tories? Well, for that kind of excitement you had to go all the way
back to the Alec Douglas-Home era. "I offer substance," promised David Cameron.
Unfortunately, it wasn't LSD.

There is not enough there for a five-minute highlights package, or even a
five-minute bloopers package. The single discernible result is that a few words
- belief, change, value, renewal - mean slightly less than they did a month ago,
and there may have been a spike in ProPlus sales.

Party conferences appeal solely to people who are involved in them as delegates
or journalists. If the main political parties are truly worried about voter
apathy, they should immediately scrap them, or at least hold them in camera,
because one can bet that normal people never feel more disconnected from
politics than during these autumnal weeks, when their television screens flicker
with images of weird-looking people in slack-jawed thrall to the marginally less
weird-looking man on the podium.

In the more ruthlessly market-researched world of American TV, the main networks
attempt to devote precisely zero minutes of airtime to the Republican and
Democrat conventions, for the obvious reason that no one normal is in the
slightest bit interested in watching parties talk to themselves. Even
presidential nomination debates only glean a couple of hours coverage, which, as
Jay Leno observed, is about a tenth of the time they devote to finding an
American Idol.

Of course, all industries have their pointlessly introspective conferences.
Whole armies of systems analysts will fly to Atlanta to watch a PowerPoint
presentation. But should politicians not have something better to do than
fritter days away waiting for one or two speeches, and pretending to listen to
the party faithful? Certainly journalists should. For the past few years, we
have spent the Sunday of Labour conference week prattling on about the
possibility of a Gordon Brown barnstormer. On the Monday, the speech is
delivered, and the consensus is that Tony Blair will have to pull a rabbit out
of the hat to top it. On Tuesday, the rabbit is duly extracted, and we can turn
to prattling on about whether Gordon's really up to it, perhaps leavening this
important commentary with some drollery about Pauline Prescott's coiffure. It
makes an episode of Balamory look unpredictable.

In the end, all conferences are now nothing more than an exercise in speechcraft
and delivery, and while Tony Blair's effort this year attracted rave reviews,
one can't help wondering whether having his top chaps working round the clock to
perfect it was really the best use of resources. Would you prefer them to
brainstorm over how to pull Iraq back even one millimetre from the brink of
civil war, or to craft another exquisite discourse on his wretched legacy? Gun
to the head, and all that.

marina.hyde@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           October 7, 2006, Saturday

The week on the web

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 437 words


Software will soon tell if politicians are lying. It's true, insists Rhys
Blakely.

THE internet will soon be able to tell us immediately when politicians lie,
according to Google.

Eric Schmidt, the company's chief executive, told journalists that before the
end of the decade "truth predictor" software would "hold politicians to
account".

People could instantly check statements against historical records to see
whether they were correct.

But are our leaders in a position to adapt to such a world?

"Many of the politicians don't actually understand the phenomenon of the
internet very well," Mr Schmidt said.

"It's partly because of their age...often what they learn about the internet,
they learn from their children."

google.com

reuters.com

Wrong directions

As if to prove Mr Schmidt's point, David Cameron's WebCameron initiative
continues to flounder. As well as UKIP cybersquatting on WebCameron.info, hoping
to divert surfers seeking the real WebCameron.org.uk site, those visiting
WebCameron.com find themselves landing on the site of Cameron M. Semmens, a
little-known Australian poet.

Presciently, perhaps, Semmens's work includes a verse written in the style of
the Lord's Prayer. It begins: "Our media/Whose art is manipulation/Hollow be thy
game."

webcameron.com

webcameron.co.uk

webcameron.info

There's a good chap

Thechap.net strikes a more civilised tone.

"The web site you are about to enter contains words and images that may induce
excessive languidity and an increase in levels of panache," it promises. "So
sink into your deepest armchair, pour yourself a gin and tonic, light a
cigarillo, and prepare to join the sophisticated world of The Chap."

thechap.net

Foley's folly

Mark Foley, the Florida Republican Congressman who resigned after sending
improper e-mails to minors, was the most blogged-about personality, "grabbing
more attention than either Harry Potter or President Bush, who usually share
that honour," blogpulse.com reported. Foley had promoted legislation to protect
children online.

blogpulse.com

ONLINE MOST READ

1 Watch the video: Osama Bin Laden's HQ

2 One small word is one giant sigh of relief for Armstrong

3 The laughing 9/11 bombers

4 Focus: chilling message of the 9/11 pilots

5 Britain and America dominate list of best universities

6 Fourth girl dies in Amish school shooting

7 Killer dropped children at school, then took "revenge"

8 They are grieving, but not angry...and not a twitch of emotion shows

9 Gambling online faces collapse in US after Senate ban

10 Pope tries to win hearts and minds by saving souls of unbaptised babies

Source: Times Online, September 29-October 5, worldwide users of site

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             October 6, 2006 Friday

Reply: Letters and Emails: Snapshot of David Cameron

BYLINE: Brian Rushton

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 45 words


* The Conservatives spurned the chance to appoint sensible David Davis as leader
and have lumbered themselves with this touchy-feely, pseudo-evangelical Tony
Blair mk2 - just when we're sick to death of Blair. It's the UKIP for me.

Brian Rushton

Stourport-on-Severn, Worcs

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             October 6, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Letter: Cameron and New Labour jostle for the centre ground

BYLINE: BRIAN RUSHTON

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 55 words


Sir: I despair for the Conservatives. They spurned at least three chances to
appoint sensible David Davis as their leader, and have lumbered themselves with
this namby-pamby, touchy-feely, pseudo-evangelical Tony Blair Mk 2' just when
we're sick to death of Blair.

It's the UKIP for me.

BRIAN RUSHTON

STOURPORT-ON-SEVERN, WORCESTERSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Tory party conference fails to address voters' key concerns

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 97 words


SIR - As a long-time Conservative voter, I have always supported a policy of
less government intervention and, therefore, lower taxation to fund that
intervention. Now that the animals have taken over the zoo I am forced to
support UKIP, not because I think it will form a government (yet) but because
its beliefs are in accord with my own.

We have had nine years of a Left-wing party led by a Right-wing prime minister
and we may be governed in the future with a Right-wing party led by a Left-wing,
centre-ground, sometimes Right-wing chameleon. Some choice.

Brian Rick

Heversham, Cumbria

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

My little girl's fate shows drivers of all ages can kill;
LETTERS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 2506 words


IT ISN'T always young drivers who cause death on the roads (Letters).

In April 1986, my treasured daughter, Sandra Mitchell, was killed, aged 11, by a
driver who'd had five or six whiskies at Formby Golf Club one Sunday afternoon.

He had gone on to a friend's 80th birthday party where he had another whisky
and, going home in the early evening, realised he had to be careful going
downstairs. But he never thought he shouldn't drive. He lived only five minutes
away, so he thought he'd be OK.

On his way, he was speeding and overtaking on the brow of a hill. He mounted the
pavement and smashed into my daughter, who was coming home on her bike. My
husband and I were with Sandra when she died in hospital, connected to monitors
and IV drips, in intensive care, three hours later. All these memories, 20 years
later, are still very fresh in my mind. The man responsible for her death lived
locally. He was sentenced at Liverpool Crown Court to two years in prison, but
served just eight months.

Shortly after he came out of prison, we arranged to meet him. He was very brave
to come face to face with me, knowing that he had destroyed my life. He was a
nice elderly gentleman whose life had also been ruined, to some extent.

We met and chatted several times. I could not interrogate him, but neither could
I forgive him. That year, 1986, I joined the Campaign Against Drinking And
Driving.

I was invited, a few times, to speak to Merseyside Traffic Police Officers. I
also worked with Blackpool Probation Services for six years, talking with groups
of drink-drive offenders on rehabilitation courses. This made a very powerful
message about consequences to families when innocent victims are killed due to
someone's thoughtless behaviour. We bereaved people have somehow to work towards
preventing other families suffering as we are.

For 25 years, I was a nursery nurse and midwife. But I could not return to this
work after Sandra's death, as I could not cope with hospitals and children. So
for 20 years I have been deprived of Sandra's life, love, company and
grandchildren. She should now be 31 years old. Make no mistake, the life
sentence is ours.

Mrs CAROLINE BATESON, Stockport, Cheshire.

First casualty of war

WHEN are we going to be told the true British casualty figures for the Afghan
'conflict'?

Interviewed on television, General Sir Richard Dannatt, Chief of the General
Staff, said he did not know the figure - but had instructed his staff to have
the details for him the following week. Since then we have heard nothing.

Have the media been sworn to silence, bullied by the Government, or are our
generals pandering to the PM and his oft- quoted 'We need to move on'?

I was a soldier for 30 years, and it is utterly inconceivable that the CGS does
not have precise details of our casualties, updated daily. It must be the first
thing he looks at every morning - or is it? Priorities have changed a great deal
in the past ten years.

Previous prime ministers used to walk from Downing Street to the Commons, but
the present incumbent has a Pounds 300,000 armoured vehicle with police
outriders for the short journey, while the soldiers fighting his wars have
inadequately armoured vehicles and lack both the manpower and equipment to carry
out the task.

Perhaps one day a politician might read a history book and listen to the advice
of diplomats and military men before launching our troops into openended foreign
adventures. And will the Government have a 'duty of care' to our maimed and
wounded veterans when they come out of hospital? Don't hold your breath.

W.W.G. HARDY, Lancaster.

Honourable treatment

SERVICE casualties were better looked after and respected 50 years go. As a
young RAMC corporal at Tidworth military hospital in the Fifties, it was my job
to organise the dispersal of military casualty evacuations from overseas.

These CasEvacs would arrive at RAF Wroughton and that base notified me of the
names and diagnoses of patients on the flight. From these, our hospital
registrar allocated to which military hospital patients should be sent - at that
time there were seven or eight he could choose from.

I then organised orderlies, ambulances and drivers to collect the patients from
RAF Hospital Wroughton and take them to the allotted hospitals. Patients would
be received by RAMC or QARANC nurses and treated by Army physicians and
surgeons.

Unless they were very ill, they went on to Nightingale-style wards where they
were among other military patients, who gave them the support and camaraderie
peculiar to servicemen.

The wards were clean and the staff friendly and efficient.

When we received Press queries, they were answered honestly and openly by the
registrar, without discussing individual patients.

Now, there are no military hospitals and casualties are almost smuggled into the
country, sent to civilian hospitals and their very existence statistically
denied.

They lie on public wards among civilians who have nothing in common with them
and no inkling of what they've been through.

They are open to being pestered, abused and insulted by any passing visitor.

And let's not forget the risk of being infected with MRSA. Once discharged,
they're lucky to receive any aftercare and are expected to shut up and say
nothing.

The silence from senior officers at the MoD is deafening. Once they arrive in
Whitehall, do they become jobsworths, unwilling to jeopardise their cosy world
for the sake of the poor bloody infantry?

My CasEvac posting ended abruptly.

One night in 1955, having returned to Tidworth after 20 hours on the road, in
snow, in a canvas-sided ambulance, I found a private had taken my tea mug.

I punched him, was demoted and was posted to BMH Tripoli - where I was
immediately given my stripes back.

IAN OUTRAM, Lisnaskea, Fermanagh.

This woman has no friends for many reasons - and my daughter's wrecked life is
one of them.

Name and address supplied.

Black is white

IT SEEMS illegal immigrants are failing to pay tax (Mail). Clearly, if they're
'illegal' they're hardly going to register for tax. But, more importantly, this
shows that immigrants are making great efforts to assimilate with the largest
ethnic group in the country, the white, working- class British - past masters at
paying no tax.

As an architect, I see at first hand the size of the 'black economy' - and it's
the indigenous white population who set the standards for defrauding the
Exchequer. It's also the white middle class who are happy to support the black
economy in commissioning work on their own homes, no matter where the labour
comes from.

'Thanks for painting my windows - want a cheque?' 'Sorry mate, only cash.'

'Oh, OK, no problem.'

PETER THOMAS de CRUZ, London W4.

Hostages to fortune

WHY do political commentators get so worked up about a so- called lack of
Conservative Party policies?

I'm not a supporter of any of the parties, but I can see no point in wasting
time producing pages of 'policies' that would be of little interest to most of
us at the moment, when we have absolutely no idea what circumstances will
prevail at the time of a General Election.

Will we need to enlarge the Armed Forces because of a rout in Afghanistan and
Iraq, and will we need to raise taxes to pay for that? Have new atrocities
happened requiring internment, deportation or limits on immigration?

Will the long-predicted bird flu arrive on these shores, striking us down in
millions? Will the people involved in the cash for peerages allegations be in
jail, thus necessitating wholesale changes in the funding of political parties?
Will somebody realise that most global warming is caused by the sun?

The answer to these questions, and everything else that might or might not
materialise before the next election, is that no one knows, so why on earth
would anyone waste their time coming up with policies that might be redundant by
the time they are in office? At this stage, policies are just ammunition for the
other lot and the media.

JENNIFER THATCHER, Bath.

Dave the UKIP stalwart

CONGRATULATIONS to David Cameron on the sterling work he did on behalf of UKIP
at the Conservative conference. What a cracking start to show a slide of Edward
Heath with the caption: 'He took us into the European Union', which was met with
predictable boos and jeers. Even better are his policies on immigration - no
controls - and taxation - no reductions.

He intends to continue Gordon Brown's punitive taxation policies and pension
plundering, bankrupting the working and taxpaying classes. What better way of
throwing into stark contrast UKIP's policies of immigration controls, flat-tax
at 33 per cent, and the abolition of inheritance tax and reduction of capital
gains tax?

Keep on hugging trees and hoodies, Dave, we really appreciate all your efforts
on our behalf.

GERARD BATTEN, UKIP MEP for London, London E7.

Yo-yo? No no!

I HAVE been a yo-yo dieter all my life. I have reached my 'goal' more times than
I care to remember, but the weight has always gone back on.

I eat because of stress and depression, but no one ever believes that I suffer
as I always have a smile on my face - I say everything is fine and eat my way
through all the upsets. So I think I'm well qualified to say that I understand
how Anne Diamond feels (Mail).

I will be able to say that I have 'beaten my battle' only when I am able to
solve my problems without resorting to food.

Anne Diamond hasn't 'beaten her battle' because a gastric band does not cure you
of an addiction to food.

It only means that, because your stomach has been reduced to a tiny size, you
are no longer able to eat anything more than minuscule portions, as even eating
'normally' could be dangerous.

So I have rejoined my local healthy eating, slimming group and hope that the
encouragement I get there will see me through to my final goal - and keep me
there.

SUSAN FIELD, Oxhey, Herts.

Unhappy valley

IT'S sad that Rodney Wingfield feels he must end his Jack Frost series of novels
because he's lost faith in the police.

Here in the Rhondda Valley we have no complaints about the police - we have a
different perspective.

Lager drinking, for example, starts at first light and is acceptable all day.

On Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, from 7.30pm to midnight, constant screeching
and yelling is acceptable: it's fine that our young men and women leave the pubs
and discos shouting and singing. OK, the broken glass is like snow in the
morning, but it's all cleaned up.

The railway tracks, bushes and ditches are festooned with lager cans, but where
else does one throw cans and bottles?

The police are most efficient.

When a drunk and drugged-up man tried kicking our front door in late one night,
they caught him straight away, before begging us not to press charges and
allowing him to stagger home.

We had to repair the door - but that's life. The police were busy with other
'priorities' - they couldn't be expected to arrest a man for kicking his way
into a house.

Mr Wingfield is wrong to say the police are 'frightened of upsetting some group
or other.' At the police station in our village, the police are simply afraid.
Paperwork and shortage of officers are the excuses, but the real reason for
their inaction, especially after nightfall, is fear.

And wouldn't you be scared of a gang of four or five tenyearolds on the rampage?

STEPHEN ROBERTS, Rhondda.

The past was Orange

SHOULD Dr Who actor David Tennant be proud of his Orange ancestors? (Letters)
Back in the Sixties, I spoke to a DTI ship surveyor from the Belfast office: I
said I thought it was remarkable that Catholics and Protestants worked together
in harmony at Harland & Wolff shipyard - it was only after work that they
started fighting. His reply was: 'There are no Catholics working at the
shipyard'.

HENRY ASHCROFT, Sapley, Cambs.

Initial doubts

HERE'S a possible different slant on a baby being named 'Fds' (Mail). As this
was taken from a Bounty survey (whose information is often obtained just after
birth), maybe this is actually an abbreviation for 'Family Deciding Still' -
i.e.

Baby no-name.

CAROLE WATERHOUSE, Manchester.

Straight to the POINT

GOOGLE has developed software with which you can see satellite footage of people
sunbathing nude (Mail). Will it now be known as Go Ogle?

ANDY HYDES, Coventry.

SO NOW we know: we didn't hear the 'no' in 'there are no weapons of mass
destruction' because it was spoken in 35 milliseconds (Mail).

GEOFF BENNETT, Chester.

THE BBC is changing its interlude colours from red to blue (Mail). Does it know
something we don't?

D. BROWN, Harwich, Essex.

ARE homeless Eastern Europeans on our streets undercutting our own homeless
beggars by asking passers-by for only half the price of a cup of tea?

STEVE WALKER, Richmond, Surrey.

WHO says Call Me Dave has no political manifesto?

He's already proved he can tax our patience.

ROBERT BEN-NATHAN, Denham, Bucks.

IF ANY Turner Prize entry needs any dust, fluff, hair or grime (Mail), I can
supply it - from a top London hospital where my brother was admitted and is now
suffering from MRSA.

JEAN BLANCHARD, South Benfleet, Essex.

DEBATE

Should the NHS be off-limits to foreigners?

YES

IF A private company acted as the NHS does, it would be bankrupt within days.

I can't understand why foreign nationals can come here and be treated on the NHS
absolutely free of charge. No country can afford to operate an 'international
health service' in the manner in which our NHS is being misused. When people
from the UK go abroad, they need to take out more than adequate insurance to
ensure similar treatment in the country they're visiting.

It's a similar story with social benefits here. I'm currently fighting cancer
and - apparently - should qualify for Pounds 50 a week to help with the expense
of visiting the hospital, but as I have a little over the legal maximum in
savings, I won't get any help.

However, if I went and purchased a new car, HD television and any other gadgets
I fancy to take me under the limit, then I would qualify.

Where's the logic?

PETER HANCOCK, Mapperley, Notts.

NO

I WAS moved by the truth behind the picture of Prince William holding a baby
girl in St Mary's Hospital, London. His mother, Princess Diana, would be proud
of her son, as he is doing exactly what she would have wished - caring for
others not as well off as himself. My daughter recently had to have a Caesarean
section and her baby was kept in an incubator for weeks, lovingly cared for by
the Royal Maternity Hospital in Belfast.

We do appreciate the expense of this, but I'm immensely proud of Britain and of
its welfare state. It must be the best country in the world at giving free care
to those who need it. Far from being scorned, the young mother of the twins
(Mail) deserves any help we can give her to set up a home for her babies.

The Princess Diana Foundation fund would be better spent on St Mary's Hospital
than on that silly fountain in Hyde Park which has no link at all with the
Princess. She would be far better pleased if her fund were being spent on
neonatal clinics to help young mothers and fathers see their premature babies
live.

Mrs BRENDA WILLIAMSON, Castlewellan, Co. Down.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUN DOWN: CAROLINE BATESON S DAUGHTER SANDRA MITCHELL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Column five: We aren't for kipping. We are for No 10

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words


David Cameron tried to drive a stake through the heart of Thatcherism yesterday.
Whether her supporters will pull it out like a cocktail stick from a sausage
remains to be seen. But yesterday he won cheers from the Tory conference for gay
marriage, single parents and the minimum wage, none of which featured highly on
her agenda.

He was even applauded for talking about social justice - this to a party which
not long ago thought that social justice meant birching hooligans, before or
after they'd been strung up.

There were those, he said, who accused him of lacking substance. "What they
really mean is that they want the old policies back. Well, they're not coming
back. And we're not going back."

It was perhaps a deliberate echo of Mrs Thatcher's most famous line, "U-turn if
you want to . . ."

He didn't need to add "and if you don't like it, you know where you can go. Ukip
if you want to. This man is not for kipping!" (Unlike some of the people
gathered behind him on the stage, meant to provide a TV backdrop of alert, eager
folk of all ages, all colours and both sexes. Unfortunately, three appeared to
be falling gently into the arms of Morpheus, so the camera angle changed until
they woke up, possibly with the help of cattle prods.)

Tory opposition leaders usually spend much of the conference speech abusing the
Labour government. He did some of that, but spent more time praising them. They
had done many wonderful things, things the Tories would never want to change.
Bank of England independence! The minimum wage - why they wouldn't only keep it,
they'd increase it! Education reforms! Afghanistan and Iraq - he grew dewy-eyed
about our "vital" presence there.

He spoke movingly about a young, idealistic political leader of 12 years ago,
wanting to change his party, wanting to change his country. It took a few
moments to realise who he meant. Some Tories near me grunted slightly. They
hadn't come to hear the prime minister made to sound like the Boy David.

But this man doesn't just admire Tony Blair, he seems to be in love with him. He
recalled his campaign slogan, "education, education, education". Well his
equivalent was going to be "NHS" - "one of the greatest achievements of the 20th
century!"

The speech was beginning to sound like one of those "inappropriate" emails sent
by that congressman in Washington.

When he did attack Tony Blair, it was from the left. Last week's "cheap joke"
about hoodies had betrayed "one of the best things he ever said - tough on the
causes of crime."

There was perhaps a rueful touch - every great love has bitter moments - when he
opposed ID cards, and spoke about government decisions being removed from the
cabinet room and taken on the No 10 sofa.

Oh, how he yearns to be on that sofa, without Tony Blair but preferably with
him. Perhaps he could be persuaded to stay on and join a Tory cabinet?

He was beginning to sound like the terminally jealous Sebastian in Little
Britain. John Prescott, John Reid, even Gordon Brown - they weren't mentioned,
they might not even exist.

Now and again the old Tory party woke up, as if from a bad dream. The loudest
applause came when he said that immigrants ought to learn English. But the gist
of the speech was clear: "You don't need to lose Tony Blair, for I am him -
reborn!"

Martin Newland, page 32>

Leader comment, page 34>

< continued from page 1

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Conservative conference: Political briefing: New Tory generation emerges at last

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 526 words


Rapturous applause for a party leader's conference speech isn't everything. They
gave Iain Duncan Smith eight minutes in Blackpool's Empress Ballroom in 2003 and
he was out within the month. Margaret Thatcher went the same way in 1990 soon
after the cheers faded here on the Dorset shore.

David Cameron's problem is the opposite to theirs: the rank-and-file is usually
loyal to a Tory leader, especially one who shares their own prejudices, as this
metropolitan sophisticate (mostly) does not. A year after electing him on the
strength of a single conference speech, the rank-and-file has

become wary over all this touchy-feely stuff about trees. To use the kind of
language Mr Cameron used himself yesterday it was a whirlwind courtship and the
bride is having doubts.

There was no booing, but this marriage will need support if the UK Independence
party, encouraged by headbangers in the Tory press, is not to lure party
activists off the straight and narrow. Labour's parallel pursuit of the centre
ground presents similar opportunities to the BNP. Yet overall, it has been a
good week, striking for the way party spokesfolk famous only for their obscurity
have been energised by the feeling that, with luck, they may have picked a
winner in 2009-10. Hague, Letwin, Davis, Willetts and other dogged survivors of
more regimes than Margaret Beckett, have spoken with conviction. Novice MP
Theresa Villiers triumphed over Norman Tebbit's tax plans on the fringe where
tax-cutters and Europhobes lurked like orcs.

As for Cameron and his mate, George Osborne, the idea that they might be the new
Blair and Brown, cringe-making even to them three years ago, no longer seems
absurd. They had the confidence to parade the gaffe-prone Boris Johnson as their
court jester, evidence of Tory tolerance and pluralism. Not before time a new
Tory generation is finally emerging.

What did Cameron say of substance not trailed before? Not much. At times New
Toryism sounds dangerously like Blairism minus Blair. He called on faith schools
to open their doors to other faiths and gave a brave plug for civil partnership
(very patchy applause) during a distinctly secular gloss on the merits of
marriage, making it sound as sensible as owning a Volvo.

Labour spinners patrolling the press room (they are allowed under the Geneva
Spin Convention) stressed a last minute watering down of a no-cuts pledge on NHS
funding. After all it has done for his poor child, Dave is starry-eyed about the
NHS. The conference was a little startled by his ardour.

More striking was his avoidance of any pledge not to outsource most NHS
provision to the private sector, leaving it to become - as one speaker on the
fringe put it this week - little more than "an insurance company."

But omissions are crucial features of an opposition leader's craft. Mr Cameron
(he wore a red tie) did not mention Europe or immigration. He deplored the
nimbyism which blocks new housing, demanded action in Darfur, hinted that
gaz-guzzling cars will feel pain. He did not say how. At my side in the
conference hall a columnist for the Daily Beast spluttered indignantly
throughout the speech. A good sign, but risky.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday

Savour the cheers, Mr Cameron. There may be fewer ahead

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1187 words


The atmosphere in Bournemouth has been like a cross between a convention of the
Jehovah's Witnesses and an SDP conference from the mid-1980s. Some young people
have been pulled into the party by this "change'' - one of Mr Cameron's, and
their, favourite words - though what point of connection these beautiful people
might have with millions of unconvinced voters outside the secure zone is a
mystery to me.

Other more familiar faces are wandering around in a state of bewilderment:
people who have never in their lives been asked to confront the question of
their general wellbeing, or the work-life balance, or any of the other little
obsessions invented by the leadership's gimmick mongers. Still, what these
people - the much-reviled "core vote'' - think of all this is simply irrelevant
to Mr Cameron and his friends. All that matters is that the Leftist press and
their co-religionists in the BBC can be persuaded not to be horrid to the party,
and victory (so they believe) will follow.

There has been much publicity in the past couple of days about all the think
tanks and policy reviews that have come to a common conclusion: that taxes must
be cut. The leadership professes to love all this, and for what are now becoming
familiar reasons. It sets them against "the Right'' (though as my colleague
Janet Daley pointed out so eloquently here two days ago, it is not "Right wing''
to want tax cuts, just sensible). By holding a different view from prehistoric
figures like Lord Tebbit, John Redwood, J Enoch Powell, Mr Gladstone and Adam
Smith, the party can apparently claim that it really has "changed''. Let us not
detain ourselves about whether or not the policy advanced by the Jurassics is
right: cutting off one's nose to spite one's face, in the interests of being
able to spout "we've changed'', is deemed a sacrifice worth making.

So far, this does appear to have recruited to the party a clique of ex-public
school dilettantes. It is plainly disaffecting many others with decades of
commitment to a Conservative cause whose values - the small state, the rule of
law, the importance of the family, an attachment to constitutional liberty - are
actually as relevant today as they were in the era of Mrs Thatcher or, for that
matter, Churchill.

A man I met at the Telegraph's fringe debate on taxation (at which the motion in
favour of cutting taxes was, incidentally, carried by a two-thirds majority)
summed all this up. An accredited constituency activist, he told me of his
passionate support for UKIP. But, then, Mr Cameron and his friends seem
delighted at the prospect of all such people going off and joining UKIP, even
though it would mean that in many parts of the country there would be no one
left to run local associations.

Image has carried Mr Cameron a long way in the past year since he made the
vacuous but highly manipulative speech at Blackpool that won him the leadership.
Image can do that when a party is still treating the wounds of a third
successive heavy defeat, and when an election is three years away. The only
remotely proper job Mr Cameron has ever had in his life was as a PR man, and he
has forgotten nothing. However, many in his parliamentary party are running out
of patience with him, as the tax cuts revolt has shown.

Some of them wouldn't mind if he had a principled objection to cutting taxes, if
he could with conviction make the argument for leaving Labour's obscene levels
of spending where they are, and indeed increasing them, thereby being able to
keep Gordon Brown's client state on the public payroll. But, of course, he
doesn't think that. He is motivated solely by what his image guru, the
advertising man Steve Hilton, tells him the focus groups want. It is this
followership, as opposed to leadership, that irritates people so much. And nor,
into the bargain, do a lot of Tories believe that the focus groups are remotely
indicative of the mood among an electorate that is so fed up with gimmicky,
shallow politicians that increasingly it cannot be bothered to go out and elect.

Yesterday it will have made George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, feel
frightfully big and brave that he could, yet again, "defy'' those calling for
tax cuts. His advisers will have told him so: one of the first things you are
taught in adviser school is that your client is only as big as his enemies and
that, indeed, they can magnify him and his works. Similarly, some bright sparks
will be telling Mr Cameron that full-scale civil war in the party, in which the
Tebbitite-Redwoodite Right are roundly and soundly defeated, is just what he
needs. Oliver Letwin has been saying this to all and sundry for some time.

There are some dangerous assumptions behind this assertion, however. The first
is that the Right of the party (as Mr Cameron and his friends define it) is
relatively small: it isn't, neither among the base of activists nor in the
parliamentary party. The second is that the desire to win the election will
override the distaste many people feel for the lack of policy and the
tree-hugging, bunny-hugging, hoodie-hugging cult Mr Cameron is trying to create:
in many cases it will but, equally, in many it won't, hence the considerable
numbers of paid-up members who are also UKIP devotees. The third is that the
"victory'' Mr Cameron will be able to have over the "Right'' - which he can
easily achieve by refusing to listen to their concerns about policy, making no
changes to his style, and consigning those who oppose him to outer darkness -
will be final, triumphant, and absolute. It won't. In politics, these things
never are. And these people can, and will, do infinitely more damage to him and
his ambitions than he imagines, precisely because they are about substance and
not about image, and will increasingly engage with Labour on substantial
matters.

Mr Cameron's whole strategy is pinned upon appealing to the parts none of his
predecessors could reach. To this end he recently made a grovelling apology to
the people of Scotland for the wickedness of Mrs Thatcher. Last week, at a local
government by-election in Markinch and Woodside East, in respectable Fifeshire,
the result was as follows: SNP 55.7 per cent, Labour 24.2 per cent, Lib Dem 16
per cent, Conservatives 2.4 per cent.

A well-wisher who sent me this information says the party "worked hard'' to get
out its vote in what was always a difficult area, but it was still 60 per cent
down on the last contest. There is no point telling Mr Cameron that the concerns
of what Lord Falconer calls "ordinary people'' are not reflected in the new-age,
wind-turbine powered juice bar that is the modernised Tory party. He listens
only to his image men, and on a point of principle (the only one he appears to
have) will hotly oppose anything anyone not on their approved list says to him.

This will mean that one day he will learn the hard way, as so many of his
predecessors have. When he gets his inevitably rapturous ovation after his
keynote speech today he will be yet more convinced of his political rectitude.
It is a moment he should savour, for there may well be fewer of them in the
months ahead

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday

CONFERENCE SPY

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: NEWS; TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words


Lucky tie

It was recently reported elsewhere that David Cameron had worn a particular lime
green tie on no less than 26 public occasions since he won the Tory leadership
10 months ago - leading to suggestions that it was some kind of lucky omen.

It has not yet been given an outing this week, so might he don it this afternoon
for his leader's speech?

"David found that story very funny, but I don't think you'll be seeing the tie
in Bournemouth,'' one of his aides told me at party treasurer Lord Marland's
party on Monday night.

"He doesn't meticulously plan his neckwear - I think you'll find he just grabs a
tie out of the wardrobe like anyone else.''

Ban the bans

The prize for the most politically-incorrect party of the week goes to Monday
night's "Prohibition Speakeasy Party'' hosted by the Free Society. Guests heard
a series of speakers denouncing the smoking ban and other nanny state-inspired
proposals designed to tell us how to live our lives.

Much in evidence were stickers advocating tax cuts and getting out of the EU,
not to mention badges with the slogan "Maggie Thatcher Still No. 1'', which were
being flogged by MSP Brian Monteith.

"It's in recognition of her recently being ranked as the top Prime Minister of
the 20th century,'' Monteith told me through a fog of cigar smoke.

"They're pounds 1 each or six for a fiver, and anyone not in Bournemouth who'd
like one should email me at bluetrot@blueyonder.co.uk''.

FIGHTING FIT

A phone call from Anne Jenkin - wife of Tory deputy chairman Bernard - to rebut
my suggestion yesterday that bikes were not welcome at the conference.

"Bernard and I have been cycling in each morning and there are ample facilities
for our bikes,'' she says. "What's more, Bernard has been out swimming in the
sea today. There's no question of us not being fit for purpose,'' said Mrs
Jenkin, pictured right.

On the ball

Hobbling around the conference yesterday with a walking stick was the usually
sprightly shadow communities minister, Alistair Burt. Worst of all, he was able
to blame the press for his predicament.

Burt was playing in the annual Tories v Press football match on Sunday when,
towards the end of the first half, he found himself battling for the ball with
the opposition goalie.

"I got the ball, but he got me, and his studs and full weight landed in
spectacular style down my right leg,'' the North East Bedfordshire MP told me.
Fearing he may have fractured a bone, he went to Royal Bournemouth Hospital's
accident and emergency department for an X-ray, but thankfully nothing was found
to be broken.

"The facilities were great and the staff were excellent,'' he said. "I'm hoping
to be fit enough for a 10km run in two weeks' time.''

Conserve-ative

Making mischief after the well-attended Better Off Out fringe meeting yesterday
was newly-installed UK Independence Party leader, Nigel Farage MEP.

Handing out jars of "Slick Dave's Generic Plum Conserve'' (which actually
contained strawberry jam), he was hinting that sitting MPs who favour leaving
the European Union would be left unchallenged by his party at the next general
election.

"There are currently nine MPs in favour of withdrawal and 637 who support
remaining inside the EU,'' he said. "As far as I'm concerned, Ukip should be
concentrating on the 637.''

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday

Ukip sets up bogus Cameron website

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: NEWS; TORIES IN BOURNEMOUTH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 337 words


DAVID Cameron's new venture into webcasting was subjected to a guerrilla attack
by the UK Independence Party yesterday.

Ukip, which wants Britain to quit the European Union, set up an internet
address, WebCameron.info, deliberately similar to the Tory leader's WebCameron
site.

Surfers clicking on the bogus site were treated to a niftily-spliced video
parodying the similarities in language and style between him and Tony Blair.

Ukip crowed that Mr Cameron, who is anxious to portray himself as a go-ahead
leader fully conversant with the internet age, had neglected to take an
elementary precaution when setting up a site by not registering similar sounding
domain names.

Mr Cameron's webcasts have become a must for anyone with nothing else to do,
featuring the great man in various 'impromptu' settings.

First, it was Dave at the sink in his average, unspectacular pounds 1 million
London home; then Dave talking about his first conference speech as leader - it
went very well, apparently. Then it was Mr Cameron discussing the finer points
of web design with a rather geeky man from Central Office, and yesterday it was
Dave sitting with mug of tea replying to his web audience.

Profundities poured forth from his keyboard, including his promise to read the
blogs of doctors and nurses to find out what's going on in the NHS.

When Bill e-mailed him to say that he would vote for anyone who promised to cut
his taxes, Mr Cameron warned him not to believe the "unrealistic promises'' of
vote-hungry politicians. On Iraq, he said that Britain would have to wait until
law and order had been restored in the country before leaving - a commitment he
may come to regret.

He also denied that his kitchen sink weblog was a piece of theatre designed to
increase his appeal.

He wrote: "Many of the earlier comments I saw suggested that the film we did in
my kitchen was staged. I promise you it wasn't staged. I just think the only way
this is going to work is if we record things when we can and get it straight up
as soon as possible.''

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Mister Nice has discovered the thrill of the third way:
Cameron has used classic Tory ideology to seek out Labour's weak spot: big
central government. But can he walk the walk?

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1092 words


The sound must have had David Cameron jumping for joy. Lord Tebbit, John Redwood
and Edward Leigh were deep in the backwoods, heads back and howling at the moon.
For the Tories, if the public is to notice a new direction, there must be an old
one. Here was Old Ma Thatcher's ugly tendency, baying on cue and begging to be
shot. Cameron shot them. He has the luck of the Irish.

The Conservatives must still repeat, morning, noon and night, the mantra of the
new politics: "It's not what you say, it's who you are." The 20th century is
over. People vote, if they vote at all, not for wallets or Europe or schools and
hospitals. They are too comfortable for that. They vote for a person they feel
they know, whose response to events and the world they recognise and trust.
Policies are for nerds and activists, the ectoplasm of the conference season.
Cameron and his shadow chancellor, George Osborne, need to keep their cool,
survive the week and get back to the business of promoting Mister Nice. A bit of
help from Lord Nasty was a bonus.

The strategy is sound. Cameron has been criticised for following too slavishly
the Tony Blair project. His reply, that the project never did Blair any harm, is
cogent, however much it upsets the Westminster village (which adores style but
disgusts itself in doing so). Cameron has avoided controversy wherever he
decently could and struggled not to frighten the centre ground. The Tory right
may threaten to defect to the UK Independence party, but not at a general
election, any more than Blair's left defected to the socialist fringe in 1997.
If there is a risk in style-not-substance, it is that Blair has left it shop-
soiled. The public may want its candyfloss just a little more chewy.

Cameron's speech on Sunday addressed that need. It may have lacked jokes, and he
needed a coach - looking down at the text during a sentence destroys eye contact
and thus sincerity. But the buzz phrase, "a new direction", was cleverly
anticipatory. The rhetorical antithesis, "social responsibility instead of state
responsibility", distanced Cameron from Labour statism, yet also from
Thatcherism red in tooth and claw. Blair taught the current generation of
politicians that a speech should be part evangelism, part stand-up comedy. All
that matters is conveying conviction. Speak of values not policies, beliefs not
issues. Say nothing to which anyone might take exception.

Yet buried in Cameron's speech were the seeds of his own third way, not
Thatcherism or Blairism but a distinctive "narrative" in which electors can
embed their aspirations. The rubric, social responsibility, is intended to
exploit a weakness in Labour's armour, as Blair did with the apparent
callousness of 1990s Toryism. The new message is that Labour's campaign to
transform Britain's public services - the last unfinished business of
Thatcherism - has run into the sand. It has left people feeling disempowered,
stripped of either personal or collective responsibility.

While Cameron is careful always to acknowledge Blair's good intentions, he
claims that his and Gordon Brown's obsession with control has led to the
"nationalisation of everything". Labour is the party of pessimism, holding that
Britain's individuals, associations and professions are essentially incompetent
and must be led by the hand by central government, the Treasury and targetry.
This involves "a culture of irresponsibility . . . whose unintended consequences
are doing much harm". So far, so good.

The new antithesis lies in our old friend, decentralisation. On schools,
hospitals and policing, and public governance generally, Cameron declares: "I
want to trust local leaders not undermine them: we will hand power to local
councils and local people." This should release the wellsprings of voluntarism
and professional autonomy. It should rebuild the social responsibility that once
underpinned British welfare, before the state centralised and undermined it.

Cameron's Sunday speech indicated that he and his team have seen not only what
is wrong with Blair's public sector but the electoral advantage to be gained
from correcting it. Giving responsibility back to society is one thing.
Restoring the morale of local Tory parties and the institutions they once
"owned" could hold the key to reviving a party still desperately in the
provincial doldrums. The welfare state remains popular, and its defence is thus
essential. But delivery has drifted too far from consumers and too close to
Whitehall.

Giving the participants in British politics something creative to do - known
elsewhere as local democracy - is now moving centre stage. Last week Brown made
it the central theme of his speech to the Labour conference. Whether he meant it
is moot, given his deeds in office. Cameron has repeated the same call. He says
that his programme is still at the foundation stage, but the superstructure must
soon take shape.

Cameron is doubtless advised to keep this architecture fuzzy. But he must know
there are billions to be saved from central government's current and capital
account by abandoning its giant computer projects and the overstaffing that has
resulted from Brown's de-localising of public services. Income tax could be cut
by between two and four pence by dismantling just the central oversight of
education, health and policing introduced since Labour took office.

Social responsibility cuts both ways. Cameron says he wants to hand services
back to "local councils and local people". He wants to "return the NHS to the
professionals". Whether or not he can thus cut central taxes, is he ready to see
council taxes break every cap and local health services diverge, subject only to
minimum standards? At the Commons dispatch box will he stop banging on about
postcode lotteries and demanding ministers "do something" all the time? Does he
really mean to leave people to vote locally rather than whinge nationally? Blair
said much the same about devolution when he was in opposition, and did not mean
it. Such respect for social responsibility - the empowerment of individuals
within their communities - requires politicians to deny what they most crave,
power.

Cameron has found an exciting course, one where Labour is vulnerable and where
Conservative ideology has long had a distinctive answer in theory, if not in
practice: less big central government. But the answer is not pain free, and for
Cameron painless is all. I still wonder if he means it.

Simon Jenkins's history of Thatcherism, Thatcher and Sons, is published by
Penguinsimon.jenkins@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Osborne woos core voters with pledge of family tax breaks;
CONSERVATIVE PARTY CONFERENCE

BYLINE: By Colin Brown Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 564 words


George Osborne, the shadow Chancellor, has made a direct appeal to core Tory
voters by promising to rebalance the tax system in favour of the family.

The Tories could go into the next election with a pledge to offer tax breaks of
pounds 5,400 for married couples with children where one parent stays at home to
look after a child, by making the child tax allowance transferable.

Senior party officials said gay couples who had entered a civil partnership
would also qualify. "Life has moved on and civil partnerships are written into
our law now," said one senior Tory source. "If they are in a long-term loving
relationship, that is a good thing. We don't want a fight over that." However,
unmarried couples and single mothers would miss out.

Mr Osborne stood firm against demands by Tory traditionalists, led by Lord
Tebbit, for an explicit commitment for income tax cuts across the board, but he
won a standing ovation after telling his party's annual conference in
Bournemouth that he wanted to rebalance tax in favour of the family.

He confirmed a report in The Independent yesterday that the Tories would raise
"green" taxes to pay for tax cuts for the family, saying: "I want to shift the
tax burden from families, jobs and investment onto the pollution and carbon
emissions. We will tax the bad, but not the good."

Mr Osborne's plan to help the family with tax concessions could leave the
Conservatives open to criticism for penalising single mothers and unmarried
couples, but it fulfils the promise made by David Cameron when he ran for the
leadership to give support to married couples.

The shadow Chancellor's speech won immediate support from the Tory grassroots
website, conserva-tivehome.blogs.com, which at the weekend produced a poll of
Tory activists showing 63 per cent wanted a firm pledge of tax cuts. Tim
Montgomerie, a former senior Tory aide who runs the site, said the hint of tax
cuts for the family, coupled with the promise of more prisons by the shadow Home
Secretary, David Davis, would reassure "core Tory voters".

Rejecting fresh calls for wider tax cuts, Mr Osborne said he would not make
un-costed pledges. He invoked Baroness Thatcher and Lord Howe of Aberavon, her
first Chancellor, to deny the charge of the right-wing Tory old guard that he
and Mr Cameron were betraying party principles.

"Let no one ever portray sound money as a betrayal of Conservative principles,"
he said. "We must win the argument on the economy. We will never do that if
people believe our tax policy comes at the expense of their public services.
That will not happen."

Warning the Tories would risk losing a fourth successive general election if
they did not learn from past mistakes, he said: "We cannot any more promise the
earth safe in the knowledge that we won't have to deliver it. We have to show we
are serious. We cannot any more pretend that complex problems have simple
answers. Above all, we have to show ... that we are responsible."

He added that Labour had been disunited last week at its conference in
Manchester and he warned Tory critics: "We've been there. We've done that. We're
never going back. We have to be disciplined."

Edward Leigh, the chairman of the Cornerstone Group of 40 Tory MPs, said Mr
Osborne's refusal to promise more tax cuts could lead to Tory defections to
UKIP, which unveiled plans for a lower, flat-rate tax for most taxpayers last
night.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Osborne after his speech yesterday, in which he rejected
right-wing calls for tax cuts across the board DAVID SANDISON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           October 4, 2006, Wednesday

Osborne defuses internal rebellion over taxes with plea for discipline

BYLINE: Philip Webster, Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 578 words


THE Tory leadership headed off a simmering internal revolt over tax yesterday as
George Osborne said that the party could never again allow the high mortgage
rates that had led to them being turfed out of office for a decade.

The Shadow Chancellor, facing pressure from rightwingers urging him to be bolder
over tax, secured a warm standing ovation for a speech to the annual conference
in which he demanded discipline from the party and insisted that he and David
Cameron would not be "pushed or pulled" into premature commitments.

But on the fringes of the Bournemouth conference, there were continued rumblings
of discontent over the leadership's refusal to spell out policies on traditional
Conservative priorities such as Europe, immigration or tax.

Edward Leigh, a senior backbencher, said that core Tory voters could flee to the
UK Independence Party or the BNP if Mr Cameron continued to "turn down the
volume" on issues they care about. "It is obviously vital if we are to win the
next election that we remain loyal to our traditional supporters," Mr Leigh told
a meeting of the right-wing Cornerstone group of MPs. "You cannot just assume
that your traditional voters will remain on your side."

Mr Osborne said that the Conservatives were tired of the luxury of opposition
and now wanted the hard choices of government. The Tories had to show that they
were serious. They had to show that they they did not pretend that complex
problems had simple answers and that they could not promise to fund every worthy
cause, please every passing protester and slash every unpopular tax, confident
that they would not have to deliver a real Budget. "For the first time in a
decade we are being judged as a future government," he said. "So there are tests
we have to pass. We have to show that we are disciplined."

Mr Osborne pleased his audience by making plain that he was in favour of the
principle of lower taxes because they would help Britain to compete. But he
warned the Conservatives that they would never win an election if people feared
that the party's tax policy came at the expense of public services or that it
would endanger the low mortgage rates and low inflation that families depended
on.

He said that high mortgage rates were part of the reason the Tories had been out
of office for a decade. "Well, I am not going to allow that to happen again," he
said.

Citing Margaret Thatcher in support of his tough stance against upfront tax
cuts, he said that "sound money was the oldest Conservative principle of all".

He promised a simplification and rebalancing of the tax system, with the burden
being shifted from families, jobs and investment and on to pollution and carbon
emissions.

There was no mention of any specific tax measures in his speech but senior
officials confirmed that the Conservatives were looking at a plan to allow
parents who stay at home to look after children to pass on to their partners the
tax allowance to which they would be entitled if they were working. The idea is
being looked at by the party's tax commission, which is believed to have
suggested that an allowance worth £ 2,000 should be transferrable.

Mr Osborne said that voters had to know that a Conservative government would
never take risks with inflation or interest rates, and that economic stability
would always come first. The leadership would not back down over upfront tax
cuts, he said. "We will not be pushed or pulled. I am not going to write my 2009
Budget in 2006."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           October 4, 2006, Wednesday

Spoof video hits leader's blog

BYLINE: Sam Coates, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 274 words


A VIDEO blog by the Conservative leader has been targeted by cyber-hoaxers
supporting the UK Independence Party.

A group called UKIPhome, which claims to be "unauthorised but proudly pro UKIP",
has produced a video parodying the similarities between Mr Cameron and Tony
Blair, which appears on a website with a similar address to the Tory leader's
own blog.

The spoof comes from Time Trumpet, a recent BBC Two series by Armando Iannucci,
and features pictures of Mr Cameron speaking, interspersed with speeches by the
Prime Minister using the same phrases. Towards the end of the spoof video, the
two leaders are shown mouthing the David Bowie song Changes.

Underneath the video is a notice that says: "Copyright 1996 New Labour. All
words, hand gestures, insincere facial expressions and media stunts used
strictly under licence from the Labour Party's mid-90s 'Spin your way to the
top' guide."

The parody video on webcameron.info has already been viewed more than 7,000
times while the authentic Cameron website on WebCameron.org.uk had received
160,000 hits, according to a spokesman.

Jonathan Robinson, chief operating officer of NetNames, which manages the domain
name portfolios for a third of the FTSE 100 companies, said: "One of the first
steps of setting up a new web site is checking the availability not only of your
desired domain name, but also of alternatives including the .com and .co.uk

versions.

"David Cameron has seen his effort to harness the power of the internet stumble
at one of the very first hurdles."

During the general election Mark Oaten, the Lib Dem MP, was the victim of
cyber-squatting by his Conservative Party rival.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday

Osborne to defy tax cut calls

BYLINE: George Jones and Toby Helm

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 420 words


GEORGE OSBORNE will today face down the most serious challenge to David
Cameron's authority since he became leader.

The shadow chancellor is due to deliver a "tough, uncompromising message'' that
the party's future lies in convincing the voters that the next Conservative
government would put economic stability ahead of tax cuts.

"To those who want us to make up-front promises of tax cuts now, we say: We will
not back down. We will not be pushed or pulled. We will stick to our principles.
We will do what is right,'' Mr Osborne will tell the party's conference.

Those close to Mr Cameron believe the struggle he faces is similar to the battle
Labour Party modernisers waged in the 1980s and early 1990s, as they ditched
Labour's traditional Left-wing policies and rebranded their party as New Labour.

The mood at the conference yesterday showed that many Tory activists are unhappy
and bewildered by the pace at which Mr Cameron is abandoning the Thatcher
legacy.

Tensions in the party over Mr Cameron's efforts to move it back to the centre
burst into the open as Right-wingers accused him of abandoning the fundamental
belief in low taxation.

A fierce debate opened up on the fringe of the conference in Bournemouth as
figures from the Thatcher era claimed the party's grassroots supporters were
being abandoned by a new leader who

was ignoring the moral case for tax cuts. A senior backbencher, Edward Leigh,
said that "at least 100'' of Mr Cameron's 198 MPs wanted an early commitment to
lower taxes, while John Redwood, the head of the Tory leader's own
competitiveness taskforce, published a pamphlet making a "plea for early tax
cuts''.

At a lunchtime fringe meeting organised by The Daily Telegraph and Channel 4,
Lord Tebbit, party chairman in Mrs Thatcher's government, said there was
"compulsive moral and economic case'' for the Tories to offer up-front tax cuts.
A straw poll of the 200 activists at the event showed a clear majority believed
tax cuts should be a priority.

Mr Leigh, MP for Gainsborough and chairman of the Commons public accounts
committee, will give warning today that the disillusioned Tory supporters could
defect to the UK Independence Party, or even the British National Party, if Mr
Cameron moved too far to the centre.

He will tell a fringe meeting that the party should make the case for robust
Conservativism, saying the party must respond to people's "anxieties and
aspirations'' on issues such as immigration, crime and Europe. Otherwise it
could become a "recruiting agent for UKIP''.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday

The Tories need to be tough on crime - tougher than Labour

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1106 words


There is an air of unreality about the Conservative conference in Bournemouth
this year. It is not just the set - giant trees waving against a bright blue sky
- that resembles a mirage.

At the Juice Bar, presented as a symbol of the new modern Tory Party, they do
not actually sell orange juice - just smoothies ordered by David Cameron's team.
Meanwhile, policy is being treated like a reality TV show, with Ann Widdecombe
as the chief "dragon'' rejecting Tory duff ideas. Activists use electronic
key-pads to take part in X-Factor-style votes on "hot topic'' debates such as
banning marketing to children and the environmental impact of cheap flights.

Mr Cameron took part in a video blog, during which he pledged to clean up
politics, while simultaneously clearing away his children's porridge plates. It
was appropriate that at the very moment the Tory leader promised to "let
sunshine win the day'' in his first conference speech, the seafront was being
lashed by wind and rain. The whole thing feels rather artificial, a parallel
universe constructed for the media that seems detached from the real world.

Even the row over tax is not quite what it seems. John Redwood, the cheerleader
of the Thatcherite Right, told the Today programme yesterday that he did not in
fact want the Conservative leader to announce a raft of cuts just yet. But it
suits both Right-wingers and the leadership to keep the disagreement alive. Tax
cuts have become a symbol of the future direction of the party as a whole. It
was revealing that Lord Tebbit, determined to come up with a practical way of
reducing taxation at the Telegraph fringe, suggested: "How about leaving the
European Union?'' At least some of those who are calling for lower tax bills
want to force the Tory leader to vacate the political centre ground. Mr Cameron,
of course, is delighted to define himself in opposition to this group. Unlike
William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard, he has no intention of
giving in to their demands. And the shadow cabinet is united behind him. The
truth is that this is a proxy debate that will have little or no effect on the
next Tory manifesto. It is more about an internal power struggle than it is
about winning power.

There is, however, a genuine argument brewing at the highest level of the
Conservative Party about how to deal with a potentially more important strategic
question: policies on terrorism and law and order. A new shadow cabinet dividing
line has opened up between civil libertarian "doves'' and security conscious
"hawks'', replacing the pre-Cameron division between Tory socially liberal
"mods'' and moral authoritarian "rockers''.

A powerful group of front-benchers - including George Osborne, David Willetts
and Andrew Lansley - is increasingly concerned that the Tory party is being
outflanked to the Right by Labour on security. They are the "hawks'', who fear
that the Conservative commitment to civil liberties, on proposals for combating
terrorism, combined with Mr Cameron's "hug a hoodie'' approach to low-level
disorder, will leave the party vulnerable to attack on issues that were once its
strongest cards when the country next goes to the polls. In their view, the
current Tory approach may play well around the Hampstead dinner table but it
will be less popular, post 9/11 and 7/7, in Hemel Hempstead or Hull.

Dame Pauline Neville-Jones, the former diplomat who heads the Tories' policy
group on national and international security, even thinks her party should throw
its weight in principle behind identity cards. "If you're not going to have ID
cards you have got to find other ways of protecting identity and I don't know
how you do,'' she told me. Although few, if any, members of the shadow cabinet
support her view there are several who think that the pendulum has swung too far
towards liberty. "If Redwood were talking about security instead of banging on
about tax cuts then he'd have a point,'' one shadow cabinet "hawk'' said.

Lined up against the "hawks'' are the civil libertarian "doves'' - led by David
Davis, Oliver Letwin and Liam Fox - who make the case that the Tory party must
represent freedom, or it represents nothing. The shadow home secretary
articulated their position well yesterday, when he told the conference hall:
"You can't defend our liberties by sacrificing our liberties.'' Although the
"doves'' are willing to be tough on crime - as Mr Davis demonstrated in his
speech yesterday - they are also determined to be tough on the causes of crime.
They argue that the Tory party must pick up votes from the Liberal Democrats,
rather than the UK Independence Party, if it is to have a chance of winning the
next election.

Mr Cameron is said to be in the middle trying to find a way between the two
sides. Although there are signs that he may be preparing to water down his
opposition to anti-terrorism proposals, the hawks are sceptical that he
understands the electoral importance of anti-social behaviour. "Etonians are
very good at wanting to tackle poverty,'' one shadow cabinet member said, "but
they're less good at understanding the deeply held concerns of the lower middle
class.''

The security issue - last debated in depth around the shadow cabinet table last
year when the Government published its proposal to allow the police to detain
terrorist suspects for 90 days without a trial - will come to a head again in
the next few months. Ministers are planning new anti-terrorism measures,
possibly including a revival of the 90-day plan, and are also likely to publish
new proposals for tackling anti-social behaviour.

There is no doubt that Labour is trying to steal the Tories' traditional
bullet-proof clothes. When John Reid, a Labour Home Secretary, can be cheered at
his party conference for a speech that seemed Right-wing to many Conservatives,
then what the Prime Minister calls political cross-dressing is rife. Privately
the Prime Minister argues that security, both national and local, is the issue
on which Mr Cameron is most out of step with voters.

Mr Davis admitted in an interview yesterday that Mr Blair was, when it comes to
security, "in the politically and tactically advantageous ground''. And there is
likely to be little change of direction if Gordon Brown becomes prime minister -
the Chancellor has promised to be tough on terrorism and indicated that he
supports detention without trial for 90 days.

Although the Tory approach to security has not yet grabbed the headlines, it
could end up being more important than the party's attitude to tax cuts. It has
the potential to divide the Conservatives from the voters, as well as among
themselves.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Cameron pledges airline tax despite party doubts

BYLINE: Andy McSmith, Andrew Grice and Colin Brown

SECTION: CONSERVATIVE PARTY CONFERENCE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words


David Cameron warned last night that the "green" taxes he plans to introduce in
the manifesto will push up the price of air travel.

The Conservative leader stuck to his policy despite a vote taken by delegates to
the annual Tory conference a few hours earlier, which made it very plain that
they think cheap air flights should be here to stay.

Egged on by The Independent's Travel Editor, Simon Calder, delegates voted by 57
per cent to 43 to throw out a motion that "low-cost flights are a false
economy". Mr Cameron admitted that the vote "went against the environmental
case" - but claimed that the Conservative Party is instinctively
conservationist.

During a question and answer session on the environment, chaired by The
Independent's Deputy Editor, Ian Birrell, Mr Cameron admitted: "This is a
difficult area. I don't want to stop people going on holiday. But we have to
look at the facts. At the moment aviation is a small percentage of the overall
carbon emissions, but it is the fastest growing." Mr Cameron said that air
flights should be part of the emissions trading scheme, an EU agreement that
rewards industries which emit low amounts of carbon and penalises high
polluters.

He went on: "Obviously we are going to have to look at the question of taxation.
My party wants the percentage of taxation taken by green taxes to increase
because obviously we want to increase tax on bad things and try to relieve tax
on good things. The principle is the share of green taxes going up, including
aviation."

He would not be drawn on how much he proposed to add to the cost of a flight,
saying it was too far ahead of the next election to be giving that amount of
detail.

The Tories plan to offer cuts in income tax at the next general election
financed by higher taxation on behaviour that damages the environment.

The Tories have already pledged to increase the proportion of tax revenue raised
by environmental taxes, which may include a rise in petrol duty and higher road
tax on gasguzzling cars.

They hope to raise enough money to fund limited reductions in personal taxes,
which could be targeted at the low paid in an attempt to underline Mr Cameron's
message that the party now represents "the many not the few". A cut in business
taxes is also likely.

Today George Osborne, the shadow Chancellor, will face down the leadership's
critics by telling the conference that Margaret Thatcher would have put
stability before tax cuts. He will say: "We will not back down. We will not be
pushed or pulled."

Promising to rebalance the tax system, he will say: "I want to shift the burden
from families, jobs and investment on to pollution and carbon emissions."

But right-wingers will mount a fightback when Edward Leigh, a former minister,
warns a fringe meeting that the Tories could become a "recruiting sergeant" for
the UK Independence Party and BNP unless it makes an immediate case for tax
cuts, talks about immigration and Europe and avoids a consensus with Labour.

He said: "It is quite wrong for George Osborne to claim that tax cuts would
inevitably desta-bilise the economy. You cannot win the next election on a diet
of spin. We will be torn apart by Gordon Brown unless we meet this head-on now
and make the case for tax cuts. The more we say we put stability before tax
cuts, the more we fall into Gordon Brown's trap."

John Redwood, the chairman of the Thatcherite No Turning Back Group, launched a
pamphlet reinforcing the case for tax cuts.

Mr Redwood's pamphlet openly challenged the leadership strategy, saying: "Lower
taxes are not a desirable extra you can add when everything is going fine. Lower
tax rates are the way to get everything going well." Lord Tebbit, the former
Tory chairman, won rapturous applause when he told a fringe meeting there was a
"compulsive moral and economic case" for upfront tax cuts. He said: "We know
that tax cutting works. We have tried it and it works. We tried raising taxes -
that doesn't work."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Tories plan green levies to allow income tax cuts;
CONSERVATIVE PARTY CONFERENCE

BYLINE: By Andrew Grice and Colin Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 659 words


The Tories plan to offer cuts in income tax at the next general election
financed by higher taxation on behaviour that damages the environment.

Although David Cameron is refusing to bow to growing pressure from Tory
right-wingers to make an immediate promise of tax cuts, the leadership intends
to include such a pledge in the party manifesto.

An announcement may not be made until much closer to the election. Until then,
the Tory leadership will stick to its policy that a tax cuts promise is unlikely
because an incoming Tory government would put economic stability first.

The Tories have already pledged to increase the pro-portion of tax revenue
raised by environmental taxes, which may include a rise in petrol duty and
higher road tax on gas-guzzling cars.

They hope to raise enough money to fund limited reductions in personal taxes,
which could be targeted at the low paid in an attempt to underline Mr Cameron's
message that the party now represents "the many not the few". A cut in business
taxes is also likely.

Oliver Letwin, the Tories' policy chief, hinted at the strategy at The
Independents, fringe meeting at the party's Bournemouth conference yesterday. He
described green taxes as "a very interesting and fruitful line of thought".

One senior Tory source said: "Green taxes are the way we could square the
circle. But we are not going to make irresponsible promises. We would have to
show the revenue was available."

Today George Osborne, the shadow Chancellor, will face down the leadership's
critics by telling the conference that Margaret Thatcher would have put
stability before tax cuts. He will say: "We will not back down. We will not be
pushed or pulled."

Promising to rebalance the tax system, he will say: "I want to shift the burden
from families, jobs and investment on to pollution and carbon emission."

But right-wingers will mount a fightback when Edward Leigh, a former minister,
warns a fringe meeting that the Tories could become a "recruiting sergeant" for
the UK Independence Party and BNP unless it makes an immediate case for tax
cuts, talks about immigration and Europe and avoids a consensus with Labour. Mr
Leigh, the chairman of the 40-strong Cornerstone Group of MPs, claimed that at
least 100 Tory MPs supported an immediate promise of tax cuts. He criticised the
leadership for being "all things to all men".

He said: "It is quite wrong for George Osborne to claim that tax cuts would
inevitably destabilise the economy. You cannot win the next election on a diet
of spin. We will be torn apart by Gordon Brown unless we meet this head-on now
and make the case for tax cuts. The more we say we put stability before tax
cuts, the more we fall into Gordon Brown's trap."

John Redwood, the chairman of the Thatcherite No Turning Back Group, launched a
pamphlet reinforcing the case for tax cuts.

Mr Redwood insisted there were no splits with the leadership over tax, but his
pamphlet openly challenged the leadership strategy, saying: "Lower taxes are not
a desirable extra you can add when everything is going fine. Lower tax rates are
the way to get everything going well."

Calling for a switch from corporate taxes to green taxes, he said: "I think
there is a case for having a more vigorous green policy. If that generates
revenue, it is one way of making tax reductions on enterprise."

The pamphlet said there was scope for introducing a general carbon trading
scheme to replace existing green taxes such as air passenger duty, landfill tax,
the climate change levy and the aggregates levy. It predicted that Tory reforms
would focus on the abolition of capital gains tax and inheritance tax.

Lord Tebbit, the former Tory chairman, won rapturous applause when he told a
fringe meeting there was a "compulsive moral and economic case" for up-front tax
cuts.

He said: "We know that tax cutting works. We have tried it and it works. We
tried raising taxes - that doesn't work."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 26 STEVE RICHARDS, PAGE 27

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron, right, and the shadow Home Secretary David Davis, go on
a Bournemouth walkabout yesterday PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 58 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 3, 2006 Tuesday 4:24 PM GMT

Don't mention the war

BYLINE: By David Rennie

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 536 words


When is it ok to fling a European nation's dodgy war record at them? Apparently,
when you are defending the European Union - but not otherwise. What do I mean?

Double standard:Josep only meant to offend the Swedes

Well, ask Josep Borrell, the Spanish Socialist who is currently president of the
European Parliament, who has caused a terrific stink in Scandinavia with a testy
attack on Sweden, which he said had not suffered enough in WW2 to understand why
his parliament had to keep commuting monthly to Strasbourg, that historic symbol
of Franco-German reconciliation.

Mr Borrell, a rather prissy Catalan, has just presided over a sneaky manoeuvre
to buy a set of parliamentary buildings in Strasbourg, neatly ending a scandal
about how the city of Strasbourg has been skimming millions in hidden rent
surcharges, over several years.

Now, Mr Borrell knew this was sensitive, as the oneseat.eu campaign had just
collected one million signatures for a petition demanding an end to the monthly
commute, which costs pounds 200 million a year. And one of the leading lights of
the oneseat.eu campaign is a Swedish Liberal MEP, Cecilia Malmstrom.

Actually, I suspect Josep is more cross about the fact that the drop-Strasbourg
campaign has had public support from the Swedish member of the EU commission,
Margot Wallstrom, who recently said: "something that was once a very positive
symbol of the European Union, reuniting France and Germany, has now become a
negative symbol - of wasting money, bureaucracy and the insanity of the Brussels
institutions."

Anyway, while signing over the money for the new buildings, Josep had a pop at
"some Nordic nation", which he said had been the source of a disproportionate
number of signatures on the petition.

Referring to Strasbourg's war-torn past, he said "this historic dimension cannot
be perceived in the same way in some Nordic country which did not participate in
WWII".

To keep the story short, the Finns then went off the deep end, complaining -
correctly - that they had suffered mightily in WW2 (especially whenever Hitler
was slow in delivering fresh arms to help them fight the Russians, if I recall
my history right).

So Josep put out a fine non-apology apology, making it quite clear he meant only
to offend the Swedes. He was, he explained: "truly sorry if the feelings of the
Finnish, Danish or Baltic peoples were hurt" by his swipe at softy Nordics.

Double standards at work? Absolutely. In Brussels, the rule when it comes to WW2
is that it can only be referred to in reverential, peaceful tones, as when
praising the EU for bringing 60 years of peace to a shattered continent.

But throwing a whiffy war record at a country is generally considered a no-no.
Tony Blair spoke perfectly for the bien-pensant consensus when he had a little
pop at UKIP's MEPs during a visit to the European Parliament. The British PM was
cross that they all have little Union flags on their desks in the parliament
chamber. "It's 2005, not 1945, you know," he told them, to cheers from the rest
of the MEPs.

Unless, it seems, you are defending the grotesque commute to Strasbourg, when it
was is, and forever shall be1945...

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2006 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            October 3, 2006, Tuesday

Right-wing revolt threatens to split party over tax cuts

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Sam Coates and Greg Hurst

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words


THE Conservative leadership faced a revolt yesterday from the party's
rightwingers, who demanded that the party should promise to cut taxes.

Former ministers, frontbenchers and ordinary MPs joined forces to break with the
official party line that tax cuts must not be made at the expense of other
economic policies. George Osborne, the Shadow Chancellor, refused to bow to the
rebels' demands, declaring that his policy of playing down the prospect of cuts
was proving popular with voters.

Mr Osborne will tackle the revolt head on in his speech to conference today, by
invoking the spirit of Margaret Thatcher. He will quote the former Prime
Minister, still held in awe by the party's right wing, as saying: "I am not
prepared ever to go on with tax reductions if it meant unsound finance."

About 50 MPs supported a pamphlet called The Case for Lower Taxes, which was
published by the Thatcherite No Turning Back group. In the introduction, John
Redwood, a former Cabinet minister, who is the chairman of the group, said:
"This pamphlet is a plea for early action to cut our tax rates, before more jobs
have gone abroad in search of a more fertile soil for enterprise."

Mr Redwood, who is also chairing the party's competitiveness review, said that
Britain was groaning under the weight of taxation: "Lower taxes are not a
desirable extra that you can add when everything is going fine. Lower tax rates
are the way to get everything going well."

Edward Leigh, a former minister, said that it was possible to cut taxes by £ 20
billion a year, as the party's tax reform commission is expected to propose this
month. He said: "A Conservative government is nothing if it is not about
delivering tax cuts and small government. I am disappointed that we are not
making the intellectual case for tax cuts."

Mr Leigh, the chairman of the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee, will
tell a fringe meeting tomorrow that by abandoning traditional issues, such as
low taxes and immigration, the Conservative Party risked acting as a recruiting
agent for the UK Independence Party.

Gerald Howarth, a defence spokesman and supporter of the pamphlet, said:
"Taxation is theft, because it is compulsorily removing money from people. It is
desperately important we have this debate. This issue is travelling up the
agenda."

The Conservative Way Forward group went even further, demanding that the party
adopt flat taxes, as in much of Eastern Europe, where everyone pays the same
rate of tax above a certain threshold. The leaflet declared: "Flat tax is the
future and we should embrace it with both hands."

In a third pamphlet, Lord Blackwell, the head of the No 10 policy unit under
John Major, called for the abolition of inheritance tax, capital gains tax and
stamp duty.

Lord Tebbit, a former party chairman, joined the rebellion, denouncing his party
as being out of touch with British politics. "If we are not careful we are going
to be the only party that doesn't call for lower taxes," he said. "It is madness
that people who are so poor that they receive welfare payments are so rich they
must pay tax."

The tax revolt shattered the truce brokered by the party leadership, which is
desperate to restore the party's reputation for economic competence by
emphasising the need for economic stability and increasing spending on public
services.

Mr Osborne, the Shadow Chancellor, told a conference fringe meeting hosted by
The Times that his stance meant that more people now trusted the Conservatives
on the economy than they did Labour. "We have overtaken the Labour Party on tax
issues.

That is because we have started to talk about issues like interest rates,
mortgage rates and inflation," he said.

Mr Osborne rejected claims that he was trying to provoke a showdown with
rightwingers as a way of demonstrating to the public that the party has changed,
just as Tony Blair did by abolishing Clause Four of Labour's constitution. "We
are not actually looking for a Clause Four moment to have a battle with our
party members," he said. "We want to take the entire party with us."

Leading article, page 17

David Aaronovitch, page 19

Libby Purves, page 19

* TODAY'S Agenda

9.10am discussion: does alcohol do more harm than drugs?

9.40am debate on social justice with Caroline Spelman and Philip Hammond

11am debate on economic competitiveness

Noon speech by George Osborne

2.15pm William Hague and Liam Fox lead debate on international affairs

3.45pm discussion on devolution and localism

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            October 3, 2006, Tuesday

Cameron cannot afford to ignore concerns of Right

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 535 words


THE battle is on for the centre ground: not between the Tories and Labour, but
within the Conservative Party.

The argument this week about what the party should say about tax cuts has
symbolised wider discontent about the direction in which David Cameron is
leading the party.

Mr Cameron has explicitly raised his flag on the centre ground, "where you find
the concerns, the hopes and the dreams of most people and families in this
country". He noted that, for too long, the party had talked about what "we cared
about most, instead of talking about the things most people care about". So "we
were banging on about Europe", obsessed about a handful more grammar schools,
health opt-outs for a few and tax cuts.

For the Right, such talk is a trap. At present, the Right is rumbling, although
not yet rebelling. But the rumbles have become louder. Lord Tebbit banged the
drum for tax cuts yesterday, while, in a speech today, Edward Leigh, chairman of
the Cornerstone Group of self-styled socially conservative MPs, will give
warning of the risks of returning to the pre-Thatcher consensus. This could turn
the party into a recruiting agent for the UK Independence Party. So the party
should address public fears over immigraton, crime, Europe and tax cuts, and be
less concerned with the environment.

A subtler criticism of the Cameron approach has come from Tim Montgomerie,
editor of conservativehome.com, now a central online forum for party debate. He
argues that Project Cameron is in danger of becoming almost as unbalanced as
Michael Howard's approach at the last election, in believing that the party has
a choice between new issues such as the environment and old ones such as
immigration. He argues that this is a false choice: that strict immigration
controls are compatible with fighting global warming, and lower taxes with
social justice.

Mr Montgomerie claims that "in the failure to talk about crime, immigration and
tax alongside the gentler, greener messages, Team Cameron is not reaching the
"Morrisons voter". These are largely Midlands and northern-based, less affluent
voters whose wage packets are the main victims of uncontrolled immigration and
who are vulnerable both to Gordon Brown's stealth taxes and to crime.

Of course, no party can ignore crime, immigration and Europe. What matters is
how they are discussed. What has jarred in recent years has been the tone, the
appearance of being anti-immigrant and anti-Europe. These viruses have not
disappeared, as shown by the hissing on Sunday when a film about Tory leaders
included a statement about Sir Edward Heath leading Britain into the Common
Market.

Europe is still too often seen as a theological matter. There is a reluctance to
treat issues on their merits and to appreciate the positive work of many Tory
MEPs in pushing for liberalising, pro-market measures.

Mr Cameron is correct to try to broaden the party's appeal away from the
obsessions of some activists. But that cannot mean ignoring these issues.

The key test for the new leadership is not just what it says on the environment
and the quality of life, but also whether it addresses tax, immigration and
Europe in a way that attracts, rather then repels, voters in the centre.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             October 2, 2006 Monday

Comment & Debate: Its lunacy if Labour thinks it can win from the right: Brown
must resist being caricatured by the new Tories as the anti-liberty,
anti-progressive, grimly centralising party

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1108 words


If politics has seemed topsy-turvy recently, you ain't seen nothing yet. It is
time to admit it squarely: as things stand, we could go into the next general
election with David Cameron's Conservatives appearing to attack Labour from the
left, and Labour pitching its appeal to the centre right. We could see Cameron,
heart-on-sleeve ecowarrior and anti-Bush civil libertarian, v Brown, Reid and co
promising new immigration controls and an ever tougher crackdown on terrorists,
hoodies and the workshy.

Splutter if you must, but don't laugh. In his speech in Manchester, Tony Blair
came at Cameron from the right, mocking him for opposing ID cards, pandering to
anti-Americanism and failing to back nuclear power. Remember his snort of
derision at Cameron on crime? "His policy for the old lady terrorised by the
young thug is that she should put her arm round him, and give him a nice, big
hug." It is a pitch-perfect copy of the kind of sneer Margaret Thatcher used to
use against Labour.

John Reid was at it in yesterday's papers, warning against the "appeasement" of
terrorism. He attacked Cameron for waiting to see which way the wind is blowing
until he risks getting "blown away by the gale". And Gordon Brown has been
harping on the importance of security, being pro-business and staying close to
Washington.

Meanwhile Cameron and his shadow chancellor, George Osborne, are doggedly
determined to resist the calls of rightwingers for tax cuts and for new promises
to claw back public spending. It

isn't even as if the voices of the right are extreme by Conservative standards.
They are asking if it would be, ahem, possible, please, for the Tory leader to
mention the European superstate, inveigh against illegal immigrants and give
them the chance of lower taxes. And they have a point: if the Conservatives
aren't about those things, what are they for?

It is only a year since the party conference where Cameron made his mark and
considerably less than a year since he became leader, and yet he has transformed
the political landscape. The Labour leadership has responded with jibes about
his lack of experience, substance and policies, and his obsession with spin.
Speech after speech at Manchester made the same hackneyed point that Cameron is
all about image. Well, I wonder where he learned that from?

So far Labour looks flat-footed and supercilious, underestimating Cameron as
radically as Thatcher was underestimated by Jim Callaghan in the 70s. Cameron is
at least as good a performer as Blair was in his early years and is following
the New Labour war book page by page. He's untried, he doesn't have substance?
He has several years to grow. He doesn't have policies? He has set up all those
policy reviews, already turning out detailed ideas. Even if he rejects half of
them, he will have plenty of policies by the time of the election.

Even so, both Labour and Conservatives are taking huge risks by making politics
more fluid than at any time since the Blair/Brown ascendancy began. New Labour
was all about sidelining the traditional interests of the core vote, and wooing
the middle classes, to the point where the party was left with hollowed-out
inner city organisations, which began to fall to the Lib Dems. Now that they are
losing the liberal-minded middle classes too, the situation is perilous.

But there are equal risks for the Conservatives. The weekend polling that showed
their lead over Labour falling away again was dismissed as a post-conference
bounce (though it's hard to see why last week's conference, with all its
divisions, would have boosted Labour support). More likely, the poll showed a
growing Conservative unease about Cameron and what he stands for. Core Tories
are now voicing their worry and irritation more openly, and there is clearly
more to come. What may be happening is that Cameron is attracting liberal
middle-class support from Labour, but losing traditional voters.

It is worth just standing back and reflecting what this means for our democracy.
On the one side, millions of disgruntled traditional Labour voters who feel they
have no one speaking for them any more. On the other, an army of traditional
Conservatives who feel the same thing. In the middle, a mobile, fickle group of
mildly liberal middle-class voters being desperately scrabbled over. Whatever
this is, it isn't representative democracy as we used to know it.

And probably the process is just beginning. Labour is positioning itself so much
as the party of security and the state that it has almost no option but to pitch
openly for the Daily Mail vote and the neoconservative Murdoch press vote (the
Lord help us all). Cameron's strategy of focusing relentlessly on urban
marginals means he is committed to going further in rebranding his party as
environmentalist, caring and liberal. However much the Tebbit tendency yells,
Cameron cannot turn tail now. I can't quite see the Guardian going for him (
please, let something in life be secure), but the Observer is flirting.

Yes, there will be a splintering of support from Cameron on the right, among
voters and MPs. One day, we will see Tory defections to Ukip. But while he is on
a confident-looking roll, it will be splinters, not splits - just as Blair was
given the benefit of the doubt in the mid-90s by another party, equally
desperate for power. Anyone crossing their fingers and waiting for Cameron to
blow up may be waiting a long time.

The answer for Labour is surely to resist being caricatured by Cameron's new
Tories as an anti-liberty, anti-progressive and grimly centralising bunch of
has-beens. Under a new leader, there has to be a multi-pronged strategy, winning
back some of the core vote while not giving up on the liberal middle classes. It
will be a tricky balancing act, which will mean bringing in younger , more
liberal faces. Any strategy that depends on the Daily Mail's goodwill is lunacy.
Labour cannot win from the right. It has to reach out again, and fast.

After Iraq this won't be easy, and can't be accomplished until the leadership
question is resolved. Politics will feel very different with a new prime
minister and cabinet. We may then find out that devolving power in public
services, reform of government, green taxes and a revived interest in civil
liberties - with proper defences against terrorism - are the acts of a renewed
party in power, not the promises of a party in opposition.

If that happened, Cameron would find himself caught: no longer the new act, yet
having outraged his traditional base. He wouldn't look so fortunate then. But in
Bournemouth this week, he does seem the luckiest man in politics.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            October 2, 2006, Monday

Peter Martin-Kaye

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 350 words


Peter Martin-Kaye, geologist, was born on February 26, 1921. He died on August
19, 2006, aged 85.

THE geologist Peter Martin-Kaye led the 1950 expedition that discovered the
440ft (134m) Sakaika waterfall on a tributary of the Amazon in British Guiana
(now Guyana).

Peter Hilary Alexander Martin-Kaye was born in 1921 in London. His geology
studies at Imperial College, London, were interrupted by the war, in which he
served in the RAF in Ceylon and Karachi. He returned to Imperial College to take
his BSc in 1948 and his PhD in 1954.

He was director of the Geological Survey in British Guiana from 1961 to 1966
when the country gained its independence. In that year he joined Hunting Geology
and Geophysics (now HTSPE) as a senior geologist, managing a UN Development
Programme geological mapping project in the Red Sea hills area of Egypt. After a
stint as a project manager in Ethiopia (1968-72), he became an associate
director of Hunting, involved in geological remote sensing, using photographs
taken from aircraft and satellites. He helped to interpret satellite radar data
taken over Brazil and the Guianas. He discovered buried fluvial channels in the
Sahara, proving the existence of a wet climate there 6,000 years ago.

As a principal investigator for Nasa, he led geologists on numerous projects,
applying radar to mapping and resource exploration. In 1974 he led a project to
advise Syria on the exploitation of its mineral resources. He also carried out
studies of industrial sand and salt in eastern Nigeria and base metals in
Ireland.

In 1978 he founded a project, funded by the European Economic Community (now the
European Community) and industry, to develop digital analysis of geological
data.

In 1989 he helped to establish the Geological Remote Sensing Group, becoming its
first honorary lifetime fellow. He also served on the editorial board of the
Institution of Mining and Metallurgy.

In retirement he became chairman of the Plymouth branch of the UK Independence
Party, standing as a candidate in local elections. His passion was sailing and
he continued to sail into his eighties.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                October 1, 2006

Bank urged to increase interest rates to stem inflation

BYLINE: Allister Heath

LENGTH: 386 words


INTEREST rates must rise immediately to prevent inflation from spiralling out of
control, economists will warn Bank of England Governor Mervyn King on Monday.

The shadow monetary policy committee, which meets at the Institute of Economic
Affairs and is chaired by University of Derby economist David Smith, voted by 6
to 3 to hike rates by a quarter point from their current 4.75% level.

But their advice is expected to be rejected by the Bank of Englands monetary
policy committee, which is set to wait until November before increasing interest
rates. There is a 75% chance of no change when the Bank meets this week,
according to a poll of economists by Ideaglobal.

Ruth Lea, director of the Centre for Policy Studies, said: On balance, the
economic data supports the view that the next move in interest rates should be
up. The widespread market expectation is for an increase in November at the time
of the Banks next quarterly inflation report. But there is little economic
justification to hold the move back. Rates should be increased by 0.25% in
October.

Peter Spencer, economic adviser at the Ernst & Young Item Club, said: My latest
estimate of the trend in productive potential, which takes into account the
growth of the labour force through increased participation and immigration,
suggests that this could be as high as 3%.

Adding in the 2.75% rate of GDP price inflation that is consistent with the 2%
consumer price inflation target suggests that interest rates could be as much as
a percentage point below the natural rate. I am not suggesting that interest
rates need to be raised by as much as this, especially with households so laden
with debt, but this sort of calculation provides an indication of the direction
in which they need to go.

* The dilemma on interest rates will follow a looming row over tax at the
Conservative Party conference this week, after Shadow Chancellor George Osborne
announced on Saturday that the Tories would not challenge the high levels of tax
introduced by Chancellor Gordon Brown.

John Redwood, Tory MP, will launch a pamphlet by the No Turning Back Group of
MPs calling for huge tax cuts. The United Kingdom Independence Party will
announce that it is endorsing a flat tax in a bid to wrong-foot the Tories and
increase its appeal among disaffected right-of-centre voters.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 1, 2006

Drink up, sunshine, you've got a Tory leader to sell

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 104 words


As David Cameron tiptoes his way towards 10 Downing Street, what does the future
hold for his press spokesman, George Eustice? For example, is the former
strawberry farmer and UKIP candidate always as alert as he should be?

Not if his experience at a London bar is anything to go by. Dropping in for a
swift one after work, he and a fellow Tory official were handed a free cocktail.

Assuming it was a drinks promotion, they pitched in gratefully.

It was only when the bar staff told them they'd been chatting long enough and
ordered them to circulate that the truth dawned -they had inadvertently
gatecrashed a speed dating event.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Strasbourg nets a cashback deal;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 225  words


WHEN MEPs voted last week to buy the Strasbourg Parliament buildings for GBP
100million, it looked like just another European stitch-up for taxpayers.

To rub salt into the wound, the decision came after a million people signed a
petition calling for the European Parliament to stop the wasteful practice of
shipping off to Strasbourg for 48 days a year rather than staying permanently in
Brussels.

As the annual rent for the three Strasbourg buildings is GBP 10million, MEPs
insist the GBP 100million one-off purchase amounted to a bargain - despite the
fact that shifting MEPs, staff and office equipment hundreds of miles every few
weeks will still cost EU taxpayers GBP 135million each year.

Now, it seems, we got an even worse deal and even MEPs who voted for the
purchase were left in the dark. An EU civil service document has exposed the
"double lock" of the contract under which the buildings can be sold back only to
the City of Strasbourg for the token price of  1 (67p).

Not surprisingly, Nigel Farage MEP, leader of the UK Independence Party,
describes the purchase as "a huge waste", adding: "This is a case of underhand
backroom deals between Strasbourg bureaucrats. We should not be travelling here
in the first place but to buy the building with no hope of ever getting the
money back is outrageous."

Outrageous? Yes. But oh, so continental

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 58 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday

'The centre ground is where people's hopes and dreams are. This is where we are
going to stay' As the Conservatives gather for their first main conference with
David Cameron at the helm, Melissa Kite and Patrick Hennessy find the Tory
leader fizzing with ideas and highly animated whenever Gordon Brown's name is
mentioned

BYLINE: Melissa Kite and Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3045 words


DAVID CAMERON is firmly occupying the centre ground of a window seat in a vast
office overlooking the Thames. He is sitting with his arms stretched across the
back of the sofa, as if to emphasise that he has no intention of being budged
even slightly from his position.

An extremely large, newly painted portrait of him by a fellow MP is propped by
the door. Speechwriters scurry around the adjoining rooms as they gear up for
his first party conference as leader this week. George Osborne, the shadow
chancellor and his closest political ally, occupies the office next door -
echoes of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown who were parliamentary room mates in the
1980s.

The Tory leader, who turns 40 this month, is exuberant as he launches into an
oration explaining why he and the Conservative Party are precisely where they
ought to be.

He is unaware of a poll, to be published later, showing him losing his lead over
Labour, although aides put this down to a post-conference bounce for the
governing party.

"Everything has changed in British politics in a year,'' he says with great
urgency. "A year ago, Blair dominated the centre ground of British politics, the
Liberals were still hoovering up Conservative votes and the Conservative Party
was unsure about where it was going. Now Blair is going, the Labour party has no
idea what to do next, the Liberal Democrats are lost and the Conservative Party
is the party that really knows what it is doing. It's moved back into the centre
ground, it's made the changes that were necessary, it's unified. It's a very
exciting time.''

This is, of course, a wholly reasonable spin. But wouldn't Tory politics be even
more exciting if, a year into his leadership, Mr Cameron had some policies? "To
say the Conservative Party has no policies is just rubbish. In every area there
is a clear direction. Let's look at home affairs, right? You can have ID cards
and waste billions of pounds with the Government or you can scrap them with the
Conservative Party.

"On the environment, you can have a lot of hot air from the Government or a
climate change bill from the Conservative Party. Take any area you want to, take
the economy and taxation.''

Ah, yes ...taxation. Are there any policies he would like to announce in this
area? "You can have a Government that complicates the tax system and adds to the
tax burden, or you can have a Conservative Party that's going to share the
proceeds of growth between public spending on the one hand and tax reduction on
the other.''

When it is put it to him that this "policy'' is not exactly getting them rolling
in the aisles, the Tory leader shows a tiny flash of temper.

"It would be literally crazy to write the 2009 Budget in 2006. Do I like
inheritance tax? No, of course I don't like inheritance tax. I'm not in favour
of punitive rates of taxation at all. But we've got a job to do here. The
Conservative Party in the past has tended to flash up tax cuts in advance of an
election and left people in doubt about how they are going to be paid for. I'm
not going down that path. We couldn't be more clear that stability comes ahead
of tax cuts.'' Now it sounds like there will be no tax cuts at all, ever.

"Unlike under a Labour government, where there's never any chance of reducing
taxes, there will be at least the prospect of reducing taxes, but I'm not going
to make big up front promises.'' But what if, following on from the ideas of
Blair outriders such as Stephen Byers who has called for inheritance tax to be
abolished, Labour promises tax cuts? "This is the great mistake in British
politics, to look at what your opponents do, and say I must do either the same
or the opposite. This is what the Conservative Party did for years. Blair
occupied the centre ground of British politics and we charged off to the Right.
This is a great mistake. Byers's latest flight of fancy is of no interest to me
whatsoever.

"I have moved the party consistently over 10 months into the centre ground of
British politics where people's hopes and fears and dreams are and that is where
we are going to stay. Look at the results. The Liberal Democrats don't know what
to do. Ditto the Labour Party.''

We read him a quote from a pamphlet by the No Turning Back group, to be launched
this week by John Redwood, chairman of his economic competitiveness review:
"Taxation at best is compulsory charity. At worst it is theft by kleptocrat
politicians.''

Mr Cameron screws his nose: "It's not the words I use. I think taxation is
necessary because we live in a country where we want to fund public services and
where I think we have obligations towards each other, and an element of
redistribution to help the poorest and give people a chance to climb up the
ladder is absolutely right.

"It's not the way I would have put it, you know. But this is a broad church...''
He stares over the river as if to signal that there is something far more
interesting floating along. "There's absolute unity in the shadow cabinet on
taxation and spending.''

A theme he warms to more readily is that of commercialisation of childhood,
which the conference will debate tomorrow. "When I was brought up, we had strict
rules about how much television we watched. At home, we always sat round and had
supper together rather than watch television and I think I will try and be
relatively strict with my children.''

He and his wife, Sam, have three children - Ivan, who was born with cerebral
palsy, Nancy born in 2003 and Arthur born earlier this year.

"My four and a half year old is profoundly disabled so it's difficult to know
how much he gets out of television. My two and a half year old likes Dora the
Explorer. A little bit just before tea. But not all night.''

But the man who cut his professional teeth at Carlton TV cannot possibly be
thinking of banning adverts can he?

"I think we should look at this argument. Personally, I've always been against
it from my experience of working in commercial television. But we need
responsible advertising and not advertising that plays on pester power.

"We need to find a bit of space in our national conversation for encouragement
and exhortation. That's the problem with this Government, it reaches for
regulation straight away.''

Right-wingers might be dismayed to learn that his softly, softly approach on
legislation will count for crime fighting too. "If legislation was going to make
people good, don't you think we would have got there by now? This is the biggest
difference between Labour and the Conservatives and what we will be explaining
this week, and that idea is social responsibility. The idea that you will never
crack crime just through passing more laws, you need a revolution in social
responsibility where people take personal responsibility, where business behaves
responsibly, where families take responsibility for bringing up children. We are
never going to transform communities unless we have a revolution in civic
responsibility.

"I know you've got to build prisons, I know we've got to get rid of
early-release schemes. I'm a Conservative, that's second nature. But I also know
that we've got to worry about the causes of crime. Blair saying in his speech
last week that I was mad to be worrying about the causes of crime was the
ultimate irony.''

Mr Cameron said recently that youths marauding in the streets should be shown
understanding. His speech was branded "hug a hoodie'' and left some incredulous
at whether the Old Etonian was in touch with the real world. Has he never had
his car broken into?

"Yes I've had my car stolen twice in the last decade. My wife has had her moped
stolen I can't tell you how many times. The other day she was on her moped and
she was pelted with eggs.'' He insists this was not the result of a political
protest.

"I've been burgled twice in the last 10 years. There was a drive-by shooting in
my street in the last two years, I mean in the street adjacent.

"I'm not going to claim I don't live in Notting Hill because I've lost that
argument. But where I live, actually, nearby are some quite difficult
neighbourhoods and I see and experience and understand the problems of crime. My
reaction is just like the British people. But we also have to address the
background to crime.''

But it is when he is asked about Mr Brown that Mr Cameron is most animated. Far
from being cautious about his likely opponent, perhaps prodding him
experimentally with a stick, Mr Cameron suddenly lands a series of coshing
blows.

"He's being pushed around by everyone. He's been told he needs to look more
modern so he tells us he likes the Arctic Monkeys. Incredible. He's told he
looks too Scottish so he tells us he likes Gazza's goal against Scotland [during
Euro 96]. Utterly incredible. He's told he's not Right wing enough by certain
newspapers so he says let's lock people up for 28 days and longer. Why? He's
told, 'you're plotting too much and you look like a schemer' so he says, 'Tony's
always going to be my friend'. Completely incredible.

"If you're pushed around this much before you've even applied for the job what
are you going to be like as prime minister? It just makes me laugh. People tend
to think of Gordon Brown as strong but he's just being pushed all over the
place. He just keeps saying literally incredible things. I didn't think he was
like that but he's literally being pushed all over the place.

"It surprises me. I think his credibility has been damaged. I've made all sorts
of mistakes but I haven't done or said anything that I don't feel 100 per cent
comfortable about and I observe what he has been doing and saying and I just
find it all totally incredible.

"My impression of the last week was someone responding to things by saying
things that lack credibility.''

He even accuses the Chancellor of embellishing police requirements in his
backing for more than 28-day detention for terror suspects.

"It is tragic that Gordon Brown feels that in order to prove that he's not Left
wing [he] wants to sacrifice civil liberties. Police are not currently asking
for more than 28 days. Brown is making this up because he wants to appear tough
and that's a tragic approach.''

The contrast with the way he talks about Mr Blair could not be starker. "This
guy has been a formidable politician, a formidable communicator. He's dominated
the scene and he's now going. But now we know he's going, he ought to go because
actually it is bad for the country.

Asked whether he is the heir to Mr Blair, Mr Cameron says: "I want to be the
replacement, although obviously there's going to be someone in between. Asked
whether Britain will miss Blair, he says: "Erm, that's a difficult question. I
think his initial response to 9/11, that was important. But he's going. Let the
historians answer that.''

Looking back, Mr Cameron is willing to admit to difficulties, particularly
before he was leader: "I think with foundation hospitals and tuition fees we
made a mistake but I was as guilty in making that mistake as everyone else. But
I've learned the lessons.''

Asked about the Thatcher years he goes slightly further than previously in
suggesting that they might not have been all good: "Obviously, there were
difficult things happened and inevitably, in a time of great change, some people
had bad experiences, some people were left behind. The effect on some
communities was severe. But do I think Mrs Thatcher did a good job? Yes.'' He
acknowledges he had to "fight like mad'' to get his work-life balance ideas on
the agenda: "Lots of people said, 'This is just a lot of old tosh'. But it
actually had an enormous response.''

However, rather oddly given the very public row at the time, he completely
rejects the notion that he botched his promised withdrawal from the European
People's Party group in the European Parliament.

"I think the one thing people said about it was that it was very well ordered
and well organised.'' Is he serious? It looked shambolic. "I genuinely think
you're completely wrong. I think it showed judgment and good sense.''

He puts a similarly courageous spin on the fact that three quarters of new
candidates are men. "Well, you could put it another way round. You could say,
'Are you pleased with the fact that in the last tranche I'm responsible for a
third are women and a tenth are black and ethnic minority'?''

Has he made any mistakes? "I'm sure I've made lots.'' Does he regret cycling to
work with his shoes in a car. "Yes, definitely.'' On the polls he says: "Look,
I'd like us to be doing better. We've been ahead in 35 opinion polls but I want
us to be doing better.''

He offers some comfort to the grass roots, restating with passion Michael
Howard's commitment to overturning the hunting ban. "I'm in favour of the
freedom to hunt, I think the law was a great mistake and the position we had at
the last election was absolutely right, that we should give the Commons the
chance to think again in Government time. People said the law would look a
complete imbecile and it just does.''

He has not hunted "since the law changed'' and does not think it would be a good
idea "in this grey, legal area. But I like riding. I rode last weekend on the
Ridgeway in Oxfordshire. As Ronald Reagan said, there's no problem that doesn't
look better from on top of a saddle.'' He also backs The Sunday Telegraph
campaign for a better deal for British troops. "One of the things when I was in
Afghanistan that was said to me over and over again was this issue of troops
paying tax even when they are fighting overseas and I think this is something we
should absolutely look into. What our troops do for our country is just
incredible. The people I met in Helmand had been fighting for 21 days in a row,
some of these guys had only been in the Army for a year.

"Should soldiers pay tax while they are fighting overseas? Do they get enough
contact time back at home? They get less time on the telephone, some would say,
than prisoners.''

As we prepare to leave, Mr Cameron is ready with a quick reply when we ask him
what is on his iPod at the moment. "I like the Killers single.'' The song,
entitled When You Were Young, is from an album called Sam's Town.

Whether the Las Vegas based band are aware of the fortunes of the Tory party is
hard to say. But the lyrics "You sit there in your heartache, waiting on some
beautiful boy, to save you from your old ways'' must surely bring a wry smile to
Mr Cameron's face.

Cameron's inner circle

George Osborne, 35, shadow chancellor. Entered Parliament at the same time as Mr
Cameron in 2001. Leading figure in Notting Hill set. Son of baronet and heir to
Osborne and Little wallpaper fortune. Shares a Commons office suite with his
friend, as Blair and Brown did. Married to Frances. Two children.

Edward Llewellyn, 39, chief of staff. Old friend of Mr Cameron from time
together at Eton and Oxford. Also joined Tory HQ at same time and worked with
him in the party research department. Former aide to Chris Patten in Europe and
Paddy Ashdown. Nicknamed "Steady Eddy'', but friends say his is "dripping wet''.
Pro-European.

George Bridges, 37, head of campaigns. Briefed to target inner cities. Served as
assistant political secretary to John Major in No 10 and adviser to Michael
Howard. Educated at Eton and Oxbridge. Critics ask what his qualifications are
for winning back seats in the north and Scotland. Dated daughter of Viscount
Cranbourne. Described as "tiggerish'' and "Right-winger with attitude''. Met
Osborne, a frustrated freelance journalist at the time, in pub in 1994 and told
him to apply for post at Tory HQ.

Samantha Cameron, 35. Relaxed and attractive. Juggles being director of
Smythson, Bond Street stationer, with caring for their three children, Nancy,
Ivan and Arthur. Stepfather is Viscount Astor, but hung out with the dance music
star Tricky and has a dolphin tattoo on her ankle. Married in 1996. Cited as
influence on business policies, but "would not be a Cherie''. Cameron "really
listens to her views'', however, on the progress of his leadership.

George Eustice, 35, head of press. Ex-strawberry farmer and head of Business for
Sterling. Was key member of Michael Howard's team. Unsuccessful Ukip candidate
in 1999 European elections.

Steve Hilton, 37, director of communications. Went to Oxford. Shares
godparenting duties of Cameron's son with girlfriend Rachel Whetstone. Key
"Notting Hillbilly''. Produced "demon eyes'' poster of Tony Blair in 1997 and
worked for Mr Howard. Worked for Peter Lilley while Mr Cameron was head of
political unit. Runs focus groups and polling showing how the Cameron leadership
is viewed by voters.

Catherine Fall, 35, deputy chief of staff. Cameron's secretary and gatekeeper of
his diary. Met him at Oxford. Worked with him and Mr Osborne at Conservative
research department. Part of Notting Hill set. Daughter of senior diplomat, Sir
Basil Fall. Efficiently ran Howard's business liaison unit.

Danny Kruger, 31, chief speechwriter and another old Etonian. Colourful past.
Edited magazine called Intercourse that showed three naked students and included
ad for massage parlour. Stood down as candidate for Sedgefield after calling for
"a period of creative destruction'' in public services. Was until recently
leader writer at The Daily Telegraph.

Desmond Swayne, 50, Cameron's PPS. His "eyes and ears'' in the Commons,
reporting back on the gripes and feedback offered by Tory MPs. Extent of his
reports revealed in leaked emails. A fellow biker with the Tory leader and so
keen to impress that he even rode his master's bike home for him. Keep-fit
enthusiast and Territorial Army major.

Gabrielle Bertin, 27. Mr Cameron's glamorous press officer, with voice "like an
angel''. Close working relationship with Cameron. Worked with him when he was
shadow education secretary. Also worked with Liam Fox, shadow defence secretary.

Oliver Letwin, 49, head of policy. Old Etonian. So called intellectual
"godfather'' of Notting Hill set as it took over from Mr Howard. Former shadow
chancellor. "Went missing'' in 2001 campaign after expressing aspiration to cut
public spending by pounds 20 billion per year, which went way beyond Tory plans.
Influence may be starting to wane.

Nicholas Boles, 40. Openly gay Tory who runs Policy Exchange think-tank.
Narrowly lost Hove constituency at last election. Educated at Harvard.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
