
                               1 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 28, 2006 Friday

Voters are as exhausted as their leaders in a race among losers

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1085 words


THE Conservative Party increasingly resembles a tired runner panting along in
sweltering heat. He is ahead in the race but only because his main rival is even
more exhausted.

According to YouGov's latest monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph, 38 per cent
of voters now say they would back the Conservatives in an early general
election. That represents a decline of one point since last month and only a
modest improvement - five points - since the Tories' poor showing in the general
election last year.

The Conservatives have been shuffling along with between 32 and 38 per cent
support for most of the past three years. They have occasionally attained 40 per
cent but it is more than a decade since they last exceeded 40 per cent.

The Tories today are no better off than they were under William Hague, Iain
Duncan Smith and Michael Howard.

David Cameron's election as Tory leader last December has so far made remarkably
little difference. An initial tick upwards has been followed by several ticks
downwards.

Voters still seem not to know who the Tories are or what they stand for.

More important, voters are far from convinced that life would be better under
the Tories. They suspect - and have suspected for a long time - that a Tory
government led by any conceivable Tory leader would simply provide more of the
same.

Mr Cameron has still failed to make a personal mark. To be sure, more people
think he "would make the best prime minister'' than think the same of Tony
Blair, but the margin between them is wafer-thin -26 per cent to 25 per cent
-and the largest single proportion of voters, 41 per cent, can offer up only a
despairing "don't know''.

People at first seemed impressed by Mr Cameron's performance, if not as a
potential premier, then at least as leader of his party. Six months ago, a
healthy 46 per cent of YouGov's respondents thought he was "proving a good
leader of the Conservative Party''. That figure has now fallen to 35 per cent.

The proportion who reckon he is not proving effective has nearly doubled from 19
to 33 per cent. The proportion of voters unable to make up their mind about him
remains high: 32 per cent.

The Conservative Party's principal asset - almost its only asset apart from its
core of loyal supporters - is evidently the Blair Government. As the figures in
the chart show, only 23 per cent of voters currently "approve of the
Government's record to date''.

That is the lowest figure recorded since Labour first came to power in May 1997.

The level of approval for the Government has now languished at under 30 per cent
for the past six months.

Shortly after New Labour came to power nine years ago, the equivalent figure
often exceeded 60 per cent and sometimes rose above 70 per cent.

Mr Blair's personal ratings have suffered correspondingly. When he first became
Prime Minister more than 60 per cent of voters consistently expressed
satisfaction with his leadership. For most of the past three years the
proportion expressing satisfaction with him has hovered in the 30-40 per cent
range. It has now fallen for the second consecutive month to 27 per cent.

Against that background, the surprising thing is not that Labour support has
declined at all but that it has declined so little. Only 36 per cent of those
who bothered to go to the polls at the 2005 election voted Labour. According to
YouGov, 33 per cent say they would still vote Labour today.

In other words, despite a chaotic reshuffle, evidence of gross mismanagement in
government departments, "loans for peerages'' and John Prescott's 10-gallon hat,
Labour support over the ensuing 15 months has dropped by only three points.

The explanation must lie overwhelmingly in the Tory Party's continued lack of
popular appeal and in the fact that the economy, if not exactly buoyant, remains
in most people's eyes in reasonably good shape.

Current unhappiness with the Government thus translates into neither real hatred
and contempt for Mr Blair and his ministers nor into an overwhelming desire for
change.

It certainly does not translate into support for the Liberal Democrats. The
equation used to read: unpopular government plus unappealing opposition equals
increased Liberal or Liberal Democrat support.

Not so at the moment. Only 18 per cent of voters currently say they would vote
Lib Dem if there were a general election tomorrow - down five points since the
election last year.

The Liberal Democrats have not declined since Sir Menzies Campbell took over as
party leader in March but neither have they made progress. Part of their problem
is probably that, with both major parties crowding into the centre, there is
little ideological space left for them to occupy.

There are no signs that Sir Menzies is proving a liability to his party but
there are no signs either that he is proving a positive asset. The Lib Dems are
probably doing about as well as they would if they had no leader at all.

Sir Menzies's lack of personal presence probably explains the fact that only
seven per cent of YouGov's respondents think he would make the best prime
minister (compared with the 23 per cent who once thought the same of Charles
Kennedy).

The 2006 electorate clearly embraces a numerous None of the Above Party. People
know what makes them unhappy but in many cases evidently have no idea what
electoral outcome might increase their happiness.

Asked which party leader would make the best Prime Minister, 41 per cent reply
"don't know''. Asked which major party would better manage the British economy,
39 per cent reply either "don't know'' or "neither''.

As a result, voters seek out new homes in which to lodge their discontent.
Historically, support for the "other'' parties taken together usually hovers
around the five to seven per cent mark. Lately support for them collectively has
often exceeded 10 per cent. In YouGov's latest poll it stands at 11 per cent.

Support for other parties is more or less evenly divided among the British
National Party, the UK Independence Party, the Greens and the Scottish and Welsh
national parties.

Most respondents clearly have no high expectations of achieving good government
from the Home Office.

As the figures show, only one voter in three has any confidence that John Reid
will be able to turn round his new department.

Two thirds - representing some 30 million people - either lack confidence or
else have no idea whether Dr Reid can succeed or not.

Today's voters appear every bit as exhausted as their leaders.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 28, 2006 Friday

Where have we seen that look before?

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 296 words


THE high cheekbones, piercing blue-eyed stare and sharp suit are all
unmistakably Kilroy.

Only the name is different.

This is 21-year-old Danny Beauchamp, unveiled yesterday as the new face of the
fashion store H & M.

He is the result of a longconcealed affair between TV presenter Robert
Kilroy-Silk and millionaire art teacher Hilary Beauchamp.

Perhaps wisely, the 6ft 2in model refuses to cash in on his father's fame and
continues to use his 52-year-old mother's surname although Robert is his middle
name.

Birmingham-born Kilroy-Silk was a Labour MP in 1984 when he had a brief fling
with Miss Beauchamp. It ended shortly after she became pregnant.

Although the father was not named on the birth certificate, Miss Beauchamp kept
documents showing that the MP paid her Pounds 200 a month for the first seven
years of her son's life.

News of the affair came to light 11 years ago after she sold her story to a
tabloid newspaper.

Father and son have never spoken publicly about one another although Miss
Beauchamp has said: 'I just want Robert to face up to his responsibilities and
publicly accept my boy is his son.' Beauchamp has already fronted lucrative
campaigns for Burberry and Harvey Nichols, and this latest deal will see him
working on the same team as Madonna, who was announced as the chain's female
face earlier this month.

In stark contrast, his father's career appears to be in decline.

In 2004, he was sacked from his Pounds 500,000a-year job as the host of BBC1's
Kilroy, after he controversially referred to Arabs as 'suicide bombers, limb
amputators and women repressors' in a newspaper column.

He became an MEP for the UK Independence Party, left to set up his own Rightwing
party, Veritas, but quit as leader following disappointing results in last
year's election.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) KILROY WAS THERE: IN TV HOST MODE (2) BEAUCHAMP IS HERE: THE MODEL
IN ACTION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            July 26, 2006 Wednesday

The flag of surrender;
EU's banner is put on a legal par with the Union Jack and Cross of St George

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 563 words


LABOUR was accused of a sellout to Brussels last night after quietly giving the
EU flag the same legal status as the Union Flag and the Cross of St George.

The EU flag, with its gold stars on a blue background, will now count as a
national flag and can be flown without planning permission.

The change in the law is buried deep in one of dozens of consultation documents
and statements published by ministers in the runup to Parliament's summer
recess.

Ministers insisted they were simply scrapping 'outdated' restrictions on flying
flags.

But the Tories and the United Kingdom Independence Party accused them of pushing
ahead with a pro-European agenda, despite widespread opposition.

Currently national flags can be flown without planning permission as long as
they are hung from a vertical flagpole. But the EU flag is classed as an
advertisement and needs clearance from the local planning authority.

It is also technically illegal to fly any national flags from sloping poles or
from windows without permission a rule unwittingly broken by thousands of
football fans during the World Cup.

Ministers say the rule will be scrapped in a shake-up of the planning system, so
that national flags can be flown without permission however they are displayed.
At the same time, the EU flag will be upgraded so it falls into the same
category as national flags.

Nigel Farage, UKIP leader in Brussels, said last night: 'This is yet another
sneaky step to establish a national identity for a European superstate against
the majority wish of the people of Britain.' He accused the Government of trying
to hide the elevation of the Euro flag behind a populist change to allow
England's own national flags to be flown more freely.

Mr Farage added: 'We already have the EU flag on our driving licences and our
car numberplates where is the popular will for this?

It raises the spectre that even the Queen may be pressured to fly the Euro flag
from Buckingham Palace.' Tory MP Maria Miller said: 'The EU flag simply should
not be given the same legal status as the Union Jack. That's our national flag.
The EU flag is something that has been concocted by a bunch of bureaucrats and
is actually nothing more than a logo for Europe.' Planning Minister Yvette
Cooper insisted: 'The regulations on flags are currently woefully out-of-date
and far too bureaucratic.

'It is ridiculous that someone could be prosecuted for displaying their national
flag.

'As the World Cup demonstrated, many people want to show their support for their
national team and they should be able to do so without fear of prosecution.' The
Department for Communities and Local Government said two other international
flags those of the UN and the Commonwealth would also be allowed.

A spokesman said: 'The EU flag will never be classed as a national flag.

It's not. This is about making sure the planning process for putting up flags is
sensible.' The row came as a Labour-dominated committee of MPs attacked the
Government for not scrapping the stalled EU constitution during its presidency
of the community last year.

The Commons Foreign Affairs Committee said: 'Although the treaty is not dead, it
is comatose and on life support. At some point, Europe's leaders are going to
have to decide whether to switch it off.

'We recommend the Government encourage its European counterparts to face up to
this reality.' j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 711 words


It is heartening to see human relationships flourish, even among groups for whom
loathing and distrust have become a way of life. Take our old and dear friends
Ukip and the BNP. We get on with both, as one would expect, but like two warring
tribes, they just don't like each other. Ukip says the BNP are "extremists"; the
BNP attacks Ukip's leadership as "incompetent, self-obsessed, politically
vacuous and venal". So it pleases us to see what is happening in Dartford, Kent,
where ahead of next week's local council byelection in Heath Ward, the Ukip
candidate, Michael Wiltshire, is fighting to secure the single available seat
having been formally proposed by Kevin Saunders, his neighbour, who is fighting
to win the same seat on behalf of the BNP. Greater love hath no man, etc, etc.
But Ukip's leaders - slaves, as ever, to convention and enemies to progress -
are less than pleased. "It was just a genuine mistake," a spokesman explained.
"Michael saw his neighbour washing the car or something and asked him to sign
the form. He didn't know he was the BNP candidate. There is no partnership with
the BNP. It was human error. Not the brightest mistake. But it was genuine."

By the by, the seat being contested next week was vacated by Kenneth Leadbeater,
the former council leader in Dartford who resigned last month after admitting 14
counts of making indecent images on his computer. He was arrested after 300
pictures were found by officers as part of an international investigation into
child porn websites, and is now awaiting sentence. Nevertheless, on stepping
down he voiced the hope that the case would not "eclipse the achievements and
dedication of 23 years". The authority's website displays the motto: "If only
ALL councils were like Dartford" - and there are many ways that one could finish
that sentence, but you'll have your own ideas.

Isn't it brilliant that the BBC should have officials smart enough to want to
mark next year's 200th anniversary of the abolition of slavery with an
appropriately grand series of programmes and cack-handed enough to do it in such
a way it causes consternation among staff. Our man behind the lighting rig says
the initial proposals - headlined by a Simon Schama documentary - were so close
to what Greg Dyke might have described as "hideously white" that some black
staff members began planning protests and had informal talks with the Commission
for Racial Equality. Then, in May, after Trevor Phillips called for the BBC to
be subject to additional provisions under the Race Relations Act, more black
film-makers and executives were quietly drafted in. Nation doesn't yet speak
peace unto nation but our man says the ceasefire is holding, adding: "We are
back from the brink."

Though we abhor society's obsession with trivia, one can't help but note from
the bootleg G8 summit tape that when George W and Mr Tony get together, they
like to pretend they are acne-scarred teenagers discussing the latest Grime CD.
But they struggle to get a proper handle on the vernacular. All that "Yo Blair"
stuff and describing other world leaders as "sweet" and "honey". They are ready
to engage with the hoodie generation but just don't know how. Corinne, the
Diary's "street smarts" correspondent, suggests that if they really want to
sound up to date, they could learn a few more terms. The president might have
better articulated his friendship with the prime minister if he had called him
"Blood", "My Yoot" or "Cuz". Discussing Condoleezza Rice, a lady they both like,
they could have said she was "buff" or "tick". Blair might have told his friend
about the "haters", the pesky Brownites who are always doing him down, and he
might have used the word "swag" to describe an associate who is always causing
problems and anxiety. On the other hand, he might not have mentioned John
Prescott at all.

Sticking with Gordon: we know, courtesy of our friends at Ladbrokes, that the
odds of his newborn son becoming prime minister are 500/1. The odds that the son
will play a competitive game for Raith Rovers, the club his father supports, are
100/1. The youngster's chances of playing football for Scotland are 250/1. We
thought to ask for the odds of Geoff Hoon returning to prominence, but decided
that would be ridiculous.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 15, 2006 Saturday

The postponement of a new grouping for Conservative MEPs

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 97 words


SIR - So David Cameron has now reneged on his only leadership election promise -
to pull Conservative MEPs out of the pro-federalist EPP. It would seem that this
issue is to be sidelined until 2009, when the next Euro-elections take place.

What Mr Cameron may not realise is that by 2009 the whole issue of Conservative
MEPs will undoubtedly be irrelevant, as they won't get any elected. By that time
the British people will have demonstrated their disdain for Mr Cameron and his
unsavoury broken promises and will have voted overwhelmingly for Ukip.

Gerard Batten MEP (Ukip)

London E7

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 15, 2006 Saturday

Bank is forced to pay out for a staff member's racist remark overheard by her
colleague

BYLINE: SINEAD MCINTYRE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 547 words


A BRANCH of the HSBC bank has been found guilty of racism after a staff member
overheard another say she hated foreigners.

Supervisor Debbie Jones remarked that she supported politician Robert
Kilroy-Silk because, she said, he wanted to 'get rid of the foreigners'.

But her comments were heard by Ruby Schembri, a 35-year- old Maltese national,
who reported the incident and took the bank to an employment tribunal, claiming
race discrimination.

Mrs Schembri told the tribunal that she was in the branch office in Whetstone,
North London, when she heard Miss Jones talking to assistant manager Rosemary
Johnstone in April last year, just before the General Election.

She said: 'Debbie asked Rosemary if she supported the Tory or Labour party and
bluntly stated, "I am against immigration."

'My ears pricked up and then Debbie said, "I hate foreigners". I was shocked and
offended. Debbie made her statement with real conviction.' Mrs Schembri, who
came to Britain with her husband in 2004, added: 'I found Debbie's racist
comment to be offensive and very hurtful. I left the room and was on the
counter. I began to cry.' The employment tribunal in Watford this week ruled
that Miss Jones's remark concerning her support for Mr Kilroy-Silk could be
construed as racist and ordered that she and the bank pay Pounds 750
compensation between them.

It is believed to be the first time that a comment not made directly to the
individual in question has been found to be racist by a tribunal panel.

Until now, the guideline has been a ruling made in 1986, in the case of De Souza
v Automobile Association. Then, the expression 'give the typing to the wog' was
found not to be racist because it was not directed at the person who went on to
make the complaint.

In her witness statement, Miss Jones insisted that she had only said she would
vote for Mr Kilroy-Silk because he would get rid of immigrants. She denied using
the word foreigners.

But the tribunal took into consideration her statement made shortly after the
incident when she admitted saying she supported Mr Kilroy-Silk because he 'would
get rid of the foreigners'.

The tribunal chairman said it was reasonable to infer the remark showed a
'substantial dislike of foreigners'. An HSBC spokesman said Mrs Schembri, who
now works for NatWest, had won only one out of five of her grounds for complaint
and the bank branch had been found guilty of discrimination relating to only one
remark.

The tribunal had found against her claims that she had been the victim of
sustained racism at the branch and it had impacted her career, he said.

'We are a global organisation operating in 76 different countries with 280,000
staff, of which around 70,000 are British,' said the spokesman.

'Racism, or any suggestion of it is something we take extraordinarily
seriously.' He added that Miss Jones had received counselling and was having
race awareness training.

The bank is considering an appeal and has not yet decided what proportion of the
award it will pay.

Mr Kilroy-Silk agreed to leave the BBC in 2004 after he described Arabs as
'suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors' in a newspaper column.

In January 2005, he quit the UK Independence Party and launched a new party,
Veritas, claiming Britain was being 'stolen' by mass immigration.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEBBIE JONES: ANTI-IMMIGRATION ;RUBY SCHEMBRI: 'I WAS SHOCKED AND BEGAN
TO CRY'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 14, 2006 Friday

Politics: Political briefing Cameron U-turn makes sense to most

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 537 words


During the year-long campaign which has taken David Cameron from youthful
also-ran to a dominant leadership of the Conservative party he has given only
one serious hostage to fortune, an uncharacteristically specific pledge to leave
the main centre-right group at the European parliament. Yesterday he took the
hostage out and shot it.

To all but the most diehard Tory Eurosceptics, a cabal which has wreaked havoc
for 15 years, this was only sensible. Mr Cameron's pledge, made at a low ebb in
his leadership run, was both politically foolish and almost impossible to
reconcile with prior commitments and deep divisions over Europe.

It is not that Mr Cameron is not a gut Thatcherite on the issue of ever closer
EU integration which inspires the federalist European People's Party (EPP), to
which his 29 MEPs belong. But, like Lady Thatcher, more pragmatic than her Iron
Lady reputation suggested, he seeks to grasp the realities of power.

That is in marked contrast to the headbanging Eurosceptic tendency, which
denounced the compromise "liar" Cameron unveiled and is unwilling to notice that
- on economic reform, the aborted constitution, the euro and the "new Europe" of
25 - the argument has been running their way for a decade.

What Mr Cameron did yesterday was to stand side by side at a Westminster press
conference with Mirek Topolanek, leader of the Czech Civil Democrats (ODS) and
prime minister designate since last month's election. They announced a new
parliamentary group in Strasbourg, moderate, green and globally free-market.

But it will not come into being until safely after the next EU elections in
2009. In politics three years is a long time. Mr Cameron could be prime minister
or retired by then. Though he claimed that " I am fullfilling the pledge I made
(to leave the EPP)" he isn't.

William Hague, long tormented over Europe during his own leadership (1997-2001),
has traipsed Europe looking a for a credible and stable (ie not the Polish Law
and Justice party, or assorted nasties and oddballs) coalition of parties that
would allow them to launch a Not-the-EPP-Group now. The shadow foreign secretary
failed and Mr Cameron accepted his case for a U-turn.

At the back of the hall, Tory MPs with long memories recalled this was the most
prominent Anglo-Czech deal for the Tories since Neville Chamberlain sold Czech
liberty to Hitler at Munich in 1938: it took 50 years to get it back. The 2006
version of "peace in our time" may work better.

By setting up a parallel Movement for European Reform the partners will not be
"marginalised and isolated" - as Labour critics such as Europe minister Geoff
Hoon claimed. Instead, they hope to promote non-federalist options on the right
without offending the EPP or its most powerful member, the German CDU led by
Chancellor Merkel. They will be "friendly neighbours," Mr Cameron explained.

Mr Cameron is not yet out of the wood. As the Bromley byelection showed, Ukip is
nibbling at the Tory vote and some disappointed Euro-sceptic MEPs and MPs may
ignore the praise heaped on the leader's plan .

David Heathcoat-Amory, most sophisticated of sceptics, read out a Hague letter
promising to quit the EPP "in months" and denounced his leader's betrayal to his
face.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Editorial&Opinion: Cameron's isolation in Europe;
CONSERVATIVE PARTY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 448 words


It has been said that David Cameron does not consider "foreign affairs" to be
his strongest suit. We are beginning to understand why. Yesterday, the Tory
leader announced he was delivering on his pledge to pull Conservative
representatives out of the large centre-right grouping in the European
Parliament known as the European People's Party. He also hailed the
establishment of an exciting new parliamentary group in Brussels, led by the
Tories, called the "Movement for European Reform".

Yet it did not take much probing to realise that what Mr Cameron was actually
outlining was rather less substantial. For a start, the Tory withdrawal from the
EPP will not take place until 2009. Last December, Mr Cameron said the break
with the EPP would happen in "months not years". Now it seems we are back to
years. As for the Tories' grand new coalition, it turns out that the only other
participant is the little-known Civic Democratic Party of the Czech Republic.
And even this hardly counts as a strong partner. We are told that its leader,
Mirek Topolanek, was keen to delay the two parties' withdrawal from the EPP
because he will need the support of pro-European Czech politicians to form a
government. Such weakness is an inauspicious basis for the sort of revolution in
European politics that Mr Cameron was talking about yesterday.

The Tories tried to sweeten the pill for those who hoped for immediate
withdrawal by pointing out that Conservative MEPs committed themselves at the
last European election to remain within the present grouping for the duration of
the parliament. But this is disingenuous. The real reason for the delay is that
the Tory foreign affairs spokesman, William Hague, failed to persuade any other
centre-right parties to leave the EPP along with the Conservatives. Honouring
the pledge immediately would have meant asking Conservative MEPs to sit
alongside delegates from the UK Independence Party, who Mr Cameron once
memorably described as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

Withdrawal from the EPP was always a foolish pledge. No doubt Mr Cameron, who
made the promise in the heat of the Tory leadership election, gave little
thought to how it would actually be achieved. The Tory leader has learnt the
hard way that serious European parties do not share the Tories' parochial
obsessions with "creeping federalism". He has also had a taste of how isolated
the Conservatives would be if they fail to work together with the respectable
centre-right parties of the continent.

Instead of proceeding with this charade of creating a new European politics, Mr
Cameron should admit that he made a misjudgement and get down to work within the
present arrangements.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday

Tory vow ditched

LENGTH: 77  words


DAVID Cameron last night pulled the plug on his promise to withdraw 27 Tory MEPs
from a federalist Euro group.

He will delay breaking away from the centre-right EPP-ED coalition until after
European elections in 2009.

The move -announced at a meeting of the Shadow Cabinet -has triggered anger
among eurosceptic Conservatives.

Critics pointed out he had failed on his only pledge from last year's leadership
contest. UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "He just can't deliver."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday

Ukip challenge

SECTION: NEWS; In Brief; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 21 words


Nigel Farage, 42, the UK Independence Party's most high-profile figure, will
stand in the party's leadership contest this summer.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 10, 2006 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

HUG A HOODIE;
DOZY DAVID CAMERON'S ANSWER TO SLASHING CRIME?

BYLINE: BY ROSA PRINCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 384 words


DAVID Cameron will today urge residents of crime-ridden estates to become pals
with hoodies in a bid to cut anti-social behaviour.

The Tory toff claims young tearaways only wear hooded tops to "blend in" and are
not violent thugs hellbent on making people's lives a misery.

But the barmy hug-a-hoodie plan will astound residents in crime-plagued areas
who are constantly intimidated and threatened by the yobs.

In a speech that proves just how out of touch Mr Cameron is with real people, he
will say: "The hoodie is a response to a problem, not a problem in itself.

"We, the people in suits, see hoodies as aggressive, the uniform of a rebel army
of young gangsters. But hoodies are more defensive than offensive.

"They're a way to stay invisible in the street. In a dangerous environment the
best thing to do is keep your head down, blend in. For some the hoodie
represents all that's wrong about youth culture in Britain today.

"For me, adult society's response to the hoodie shows how far we are from
finding the long-term answers to put things right."

In an attempt to appear cool, Mr Cameron - who recently slammed Radio 1 for
playing violent rap records - will also praise thug movie Kidulthood.

The film is about a gang of troubled teens in Notting Hill, West London, near
the Tory leader's smart town house.

And he attacks shopping centre bosses who have banned hoodies from their
premises, saying they should show more "love" to the tearaways.

Labour minister Vernon Coaker dismissed Mr Cameron's be nice to yobs plan. He
said: "His empty idea seems to be let's hug a hoodie, whatever they've done. We
are not interested in demonising anyone based on what they wear, we simply want
to tackle unacceptable behaviour.

"We want to make our streets and communities safer for all, young and old
alike."

There was more trouble for Mr Cameron when leaked emails revealed his plan to
pull Tory MEPs out of their Euro-alliance was in tatters.

His parliamentary private secretary Desmond Swayne told a friend he feared
Euro-sceptic Conservatives would defect to Ukip in protest at their leader's
lack of direction on Europe.

He wrote: "The frustration is compounded by our perceived silence on things
European." Europe Minister Geoff Hoon said: "The Tories are as divide as ever on
European issues."

r.prince@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              July 10, 2006 Monday

Britain - Email leak exposes Tory disarray on Europe

LENGTH: 165 words


Leaked emails from a key Tory aide revealed yesterday that party leader David
Cameron's promise to withdraw from the European People's Party grouping in the
European Parliament is going badly awry.

Mr Cameron's parliamentary private secretary Desmond Swayne paints a bleak
picture of the pledge's impact and also makes a series of candid comments about
colleagues, including party chairman Francis Maude, in the emails.

Failure to clarify the position on Europe is creating a "vacuum" and could lead
to an "army of activists" defecting to the UK Independence Party, Mr Swayne
writes.

Moderate MEPs are "furious" over the planned decoupling from the centre-right
grouping and Conservatives in Strasbourg have "never seen the lads so angry," he
warns.

He also writes of "depression and even dismay" over EU plans to force parts of
the discredited European constitution into law.

Europe Minister Geoff Hoon seized on the leak, arguing that it shows that the
Tories are "as divided as ever over Europe."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  July 9, 2006

Tories lost in swirl of backbiting Cameron aide's e-mails leaked

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1071 words


VICIOUS backbiting is alive and kicking in the Tory party, a series of leaked
private e-mails to David Cameron from his senior Commons aide have revealed.

In the messages Desmond Swayne, the leader's parliamentary private secretary,
calls one colleague a "mincehead", another "Mr Angry", a group of backbenchers
"boring" and a forum of grassroots members "stooges".

Swayne's e-mails are in marked contrast to the polished and friendly image that
Cameron has been trying to promote.

Francis Maude, the party chairman, is seen as "not yet trusted by the
parliamentary party". Swayne advises that Theresa May, the shadow Commons
leader, is "neither liked nor trusted across the party".

The messages paint a picture of Cameron trying to carry his party with him as he
pushes through difficult reforms. The e-mails show that many MPs dislike his
style and that he is facing a threat from simmering revolts over issues from
Europe to nuclear power.

Senior members are said to be feeling "depression and even dismay" at Cameron's
"perceived silence" on the European Union.

On another key issue, Swayne tells Cameron to "beware" that Tories outside the
shadow cabinet are "every single one of them" in favour of nuclear electricity
and at odds with the "stridently anti- nuclear" stance of Zac Goldsmith, who is
reviewing the party's environment policies.

The e-mails also talk intriguingly of looming "colleague sackings" and
"something dreadful" that happened to Swayne in Manchester, adding: "I cannot
put it on paper."

Swayne, 49, MP for New Forest West, wrote the e-mails over a few months this
year.

Most embarrassing for Cameron are the cutting remarks on senior colleagues, with
Maude a prime target.

He is presented as weak, incompetent and distrusted by backbenchers. In one
warning Swayne, who acts as Cameron's "eyes and ears" in the parliamentary
party, says the chairman should not be responsible for telling MPs about new
rules on candidate selection.

Writing at the end of April, he tells Cameron: "If we have to inform colleagues
... it is better coming from someone they trust. Francis may be right and he may
be a likeable fellow but he is not yet trusted."

There is also a poor review for a "frightful" discussion forum at the party's
spring conference in Manchester in April this year. "If Francis is planning road
shows, they will have to be a lot slicker," writes Swayne.

May comes off even worse. Swayne tells Cameron that she is too unpopular to take
the lead on cross-party talks on reform of the House of Lords.

Swayne, a major in the Territorial Army who served in Iraq in 2003, tells
Cameron: "This is a sensitive issue and Theresa is neither liked nor trusted
across the party. A tight rein will be necessary."

Under the heading "Mr Angry", Swayne also has a swipe at Roger Gale, a senior
backbench MP. "Roger Gale bent my ear about your refusal to come to the Industry
and Parliament Trust's big dinner (next year) and miss out on all the
frightfully important big cheeses who will be there," writes Swayne. "Whoever
took this decision deserves a pat on the back; they are a bunch of boring
colleagues with nothing better to do and some corporate bureaucrats."

Swayne is also disparaging about a spokesman on European matters, whom he brands
a "mincehead". Indeed, Cameron's European policy emerges as one of Swayne's
greatest worries. Several e-mails are devoted to the leader's pledge to withdraw
from the European People's party (EPP), a grouping of centre-right parties in
the European parliament. Swayne warns that the EPP pledge has backfired and
alienated all sides of the party.

In a note to Cameron written in February, he reports that moderate MEPs who want
to stay in the EPP are "furious" about the pledge and that colleagues in
Strasbourg have "never seen the lads so angry". He reports that Eurosceptic MPs
who back Cameron's policy are also unhappy, fearing that there is a "very
significant danger of the project being blown off course".

Two months later he writes of the "depression and even dismay" about European
attempts to sneak some provisions of the moribund EU constitution into law. He
adds: "The feeling of frustration and impotence is compounded by our perceived
silence on things European. It is also a prime source of the grumbles in our
mailbags."

Swayne warns that Cameron's failure to make his position on Europe clearer is
creating a "vacuum" that could play into the hands of extreme Eurosceptics. He
adds that some Tories, not including him, believe an "army of activists" might
be pushed to defect to the UK Independence party.

He reports further discord on Europe last month, writing that some MPs suspect
William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, who is known to oppose withdrawal
from the EPP, has been briefing the media against the party line.

He tells Cameron: "One or two colleagues believe that the briefing is coming
from WH's office and that he has wobbled." Insiders believe Cameron is preparing
to postpone a decision on withdrawing from the EPP for several years.

Another message reveals a Tory plan to win votes from ethnic minorities by
targeting what Swayne calls "black churches". In May he complains that
colleagues are "frustrated about the glacial pace of progress" on the plan,
mooted before Christmas. He reproaches Cameron for failing to find time to meet
"leading pastors".

Swayne notes that "40% of black people are regular churchgoers and they are in
every city that we need to get back into".

The e-mails highlight a growing row over nuclear power. In April Swayne reports
a meeting with "a good spread from across the party". He writes: "Every single
one of them, however, was an enthusiast for nuclear ... Beware, concern was
expressed that both Zac (Goldsmith) and some of the front bench give the
appearance of being stridently anti-nuclear and embracing the Greenpeace agenda.
Wind power got a particularly poor review."

More easy to deal with is backbench criticism over Cameron's clothing. Swayne
reports that Sir Nicholas Winterton, MP for Macclesfield, has expressed
disapproval that Cameron wore a green tie for a party thrown by Ian Paisley,
leader of the Democratic Unionists. Green is associated with republicanism.
Swayne tells Cameron: "I told him to get his eyes tested: it was blue. Another
good day."

Swayne declined to comment yesterday.

See Swayne's e-mails at www.timesonline.co.uk/sundaytimes Don't mess with Mr
In-Between Martin Ivens, page 16

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday

Cameron may pay penalty for his aide's angry e-mails

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


DAVID CAMERON was facing embarrassment last night after private e-mails from his
senior Commons aide were leaked, revealing a torrent of bile against key members
of his team.

In a series of messages apparently advising the Conservative Party leader, his
parliamentary aide, Desmond Swayne, delivered bitchy attacks on MPs. He
described Francis Maude, the party chairman, as "not yet trusted by the
parliamentary party'' and Theresa May, the shadow Commons leader, as "neither
liked nor trusted across the party''.

Roger Gale, a senior backbencher, was described as "Mr Angry'' while a loyal
group of followers called the Industry and Parliament Trust was maligned as "a
bunch of boring colleagues with nothing better to do''.

Whether Mr Cameron will be able to defuse the row by disciplining the flamboyant
Mr Swayne is unclear. It seems almost certain that he will have to apologise to
the people named and abused in the leaked e-mails.

Mr Swayne told his boss that his pledge to withdraw the party from the EPP
grouping in Europe had left some Euro-MPs "furious'', while those backing the
policy were unhappy because of the failure to carry it out. He warned of "very
significant danger of the project being blown off course''. There was a "feeling
of frustration and impotence'' at "our perceived silence on things European''
and fears that it was creating a vacuum that could play into extremists' hands.

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, was accused of briefing the media
against the party line and of "wobbling'' on the issue.

An "army of activists'' may be pushed to defect to the UK Independence Party, Mr
Swayne warned, and talked of "colleague sackings'' apparently about to take
place.

A pile of printouts was said to have disappeared some weeks ago before arriving
in the hands of senior Labour figures "by a circuitous route''.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 476 words


TORY leader David Cameron took great care not to be seen drinking alcohol at his
party's summer shindig this week. Generally he sticks to water when
photographers are around. But he sipped from a flute of champagne at Sir David
Frost's annual party. Why so? Perhaps because practising temperance at Sir
David's party even with cameramen present isn't a polite option. It might be
seen as a rude rebuke to the always-convivial and thirsty host.

IS there any such thing as an Alpha female? 'Alpha male' wa s originally a
biological term used to describe social animals like chimpanzees, dogs and
wolves and applied to the strongest member of the pack.

American post-feminists requisitioned it for supposedly successful women.

A spokesman for London Zoo says: 'It's a load of tosh. Alpha refers to physical
prowess. I can't see any of these highheeled ladies wrestling with an angry
gorilla.' Oh I don't know. Self-confessed Alpha female Anna Pasternak might see
off a hesitant silverback.

'MEMORABILIA' from the wedding of Nicole Kidman (pictured) to unshaven country
crooner Keith Urban in Sydney is already for sale on eBay. At a starting price
of Pounds 4,000, the lot includes a crumpled menu from the reception, a piece of
dried wedding cake and a Tiffany desk clock with the inscription 'A moment in
time, June 25, 2006, Nicole and Keith.' Taste is all!

DAVID Cameron's PPS, Tory MP Desmond Swayne, is embarrassed by my note saying he
has called for our withdrawal from the EU. He says he has no recollection of
saying this at the Tory summer party. But his local New Forest paper, the New
Milton Advertiser and Lymington Times, digs up a statement made by him last year
saying that UKIP 'like the Conservatives' would have to negotiate its retreat
from the EU. And: 'Conservatives believe that the renegotiation will be better
arranged from within.' Not quite out of the woods yet, Deso!

GERMANY'S mass-selling Bild tabloid offers '50 reasons why we are still the
best'. These include: 'Because we have the youngest world championship team of
them all, and most certainly will win in 2010.' As well as: 'Because we shall
trounce the Italians before then, in 2008, and become European champions.' Not
to mention: 'Because we always win the penalty shootouts.'

And: 'Because we have the most beautiful national anthem of them all.'

Reality check: Tomorrow, Germany plays again to decide whether they are a modest
third or pitiful fourth in the championship.

NOW 60, Charlotte Rampling (pictured) plays a predatory tourist who holidays in
Haiti to have sex with young men in her new film, Heading South. Miss C is much
preoccupied with canoodling. She says: 'A need to devour, punish, humiliate or
surrender seems to be a primal part of human nature, and it's certainly a big
part of sex. To discover what normal is, you have to surf a tide of weirdness.'
Look out!

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 447 words


CARDINAL Keith O'Brien, Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh and head of the
Roman Catholic Church in Scotland, was in London on a formal visit and asked to
see the Tory leader.

David Cameron couldn't spare the time. Worried Tories urged him to fit in
Cardinal O'Brien. Tory peer Lord Forsyth intervened personally. All to no avail.
'It's gone down very badly,' says my source.

THE Conservatives' summer ball at the Royal Hospital Gardens Boris Johnson MP is
pictured refreshing himself characteristically featured a fashion show from
models wearing highly-revealing swim suits by La Perla, makers of erotic
underwear. Gnomish Tory moneybags Stuart Wheeler, 71, had to be restrained as he
leapt from his seat in terracotta-faced enthusiasm. My source reports: 'Poor old
Stuart lost his hearing aid in the scuffle and ages were spent looking for the
damn thing.'

TORY MP John Redwood looked very dashing at his party's tieless summer shindig.
His glamorous partner Nikki Page describes his outfit as 'very St Tropez Cerruti
knit top, jacket and Loewe loafers.' I say! Meanwhile Tory MP Desmond Swayne
Cameron's PPS wore a cravat. 'It's not a cravat, it's a square UKIP members wear
cravats,' he thundered. 'It's the difference between a ready made bow tie and
one you make yourself.' As for the UKIP, well-refreshed Swayne boasted: 'If you
read the New Milton Advertiser and Lymington Times you will see that I have
called for our withdrawal from the European Union.' Hold the front page!

WHO was the harassed Mercedes driver changing a tyre on the busy, Londonbound A4
yesterday morning? It was dashing barrister Orlando Pownall, QC, the matinee
idol courtroom star who sent TV girl Jill Dando's killer to jail. A flushed Mr
Pownall later arrived at the Old Bailey with oily hands and dusty knees.

PAMPERED pussy Barbara Amiel, 66, (pictured) wife of beleaguered former
Telegraph tycoon Conrad Black, was advised by U.S. Vogue editor Anna Wintour to
buy an Yves Saint Laurent snakeskin trench coat identical to her own. 'You must
have it there's a size 36 left,' she purred. Amiel snapped up the coat for
$12,000. Later she returned the garment, explaining to Wintour, 'I've exhausted
my budget for the season.' Wintour replied: 'But it's only $3,000.'

To discount queen Anna, maybe.

IS tearfulness as in blubbing David Beckham unBritish? Dr Johnson described it
as 'manly' to shed tears.

Parliamentarian Charles James Fox cried in the Commons, Pitt the Younger in
public. Kings Henry VIII, Charles II, James II as well as Admiral Horatio Nelson
emoted incontinently. Even British Bulldog Winston Churchill wept copiously with
little encouragement.

Email: ephraim.hardcastle@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 3, 2006 Monday

Poll slashes Cameron's lead over Labour to just one point

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 293 words


DAVID Cameron suffered a serious blow yesterday when an opinion poll suggested
the Conservative lead over Labour is waning.

An ICM survey said the Tories' advantage had been slashed to just one point.

Most polls over the last few months have given the Tories a lead of between
three and 10 per cent as the Government lurched from crisis to crisis.

But the new survey, for the Sunday Telegraph, put the Conservatives on 36 per
cent, with Labour breathing down their necks on 35 and the Liberal Democrats
trailing on 18.

If repeated at a General Election, those figures would give Labour a 24-seat
majority at Westminster a disastrous result for the Tories.

The poor showing comes just days after the Tories struggled to hold on to the
traditionally safe seat of Bromley and Chiselhurst in a by-election.

Their majority was cut from 13,342 at last year's General Election to just 633.

The poll will boost Labour hopes that the Conservative lead in recent months was
little more than a 'mirage' to do with a string of negative headlines about
Government failings than a resurgence under David Cameron.

Tony Blair's standing has Duncan: 'Labour's regret' Brown: Embarrassment been
blighted by the fiasco over the failure to deport foreign prisoners and the
scandal of John Prescott's affair with his secretary, Tracey Temple.

Rightwing Tory MPs blame Mr Cameron's drive to modernise the Conservatives as
one reason behind the slump in support with traditionalists punishing the leader
by staying at home or voting for UKIP.

But he has also drawn flak over his refusal to tackle Labour on several issues
including health and education.

He is already launching a fightback on several fronts, including his call for
Scottish MPs to be banned from voting on English-only issues.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 3, 2006 Monday

Why voters have rumbled BOTH touchy-feely Dave and lame duck Tony

BYLINE: MELANIE PHILLIPS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1263 words


RARELY has an entire political class been so conspicuously adrift.

Last week's two by-elections, in the Welsh constituency of Blaenau Gwent and in
Bromley and Chislehurst in South London, have produced much heat but precious
little light among the parties.

Everyone knows that the opportunity that a byelection provides to deliver a
safely- contained political raspberry, plus the predominance of local factors,
makes it an unreliable predictor of a General Election result.

But last week's results suggested something more significant than the usual
midterm protest. They exposed a chasm of political alienation that has opened up
between the electorate and the entire political establishment.

Both contests were an utter disaster for Labour. Blaenau Gwent was a totemic
constituency, the former fiefdom of such icons of socialism as Nye Bevan and
Michael Foot. Its loss to an Independent at the last General Election was
explained away as a backlash against the attempted imposition of an all-women
shortlist.

Yet now Labour has lost it again, and badly. And while it would never have
expected to win in Bromley and Chislehurst, neither did it expect to come a
humiliating fourth, behind the UK Independence Party.

Collapsed But the Tories have little to smile about either. In Bromley and
Chislehurst, they saw their previously rock-solid majority of more than 13,000
slashed to a marginal 600 or so votes.

The question is why, when David Cameron had previously appeared to be cresting a
wave of polls that suggested he was rated higher than Tony Blair, and was
gaining widespread admiration within professional and media circles for
single-handedly rebranding the Tories from spawn of the devil to a fragrant
aroma.

The Tories' arch-aromatherapist, Francis Maude, was certain he knew the reason.
The party's transformation needed to be even wider, deeper and faster, he cried.

But a moment's thought suggests that this analysis is deeply implausible.

In Bromley and Chislehurst, the LibDems almost took the seat. Let's put to one
side the cries of foul from the Tories on the grounds that the LibDems fought a
particularly dirty contest. Nothing new in that, after all.

No, the more likely explanation was that the Labour vote collapsed. Those
erstwhile Labour voters chose not to go to the Tories but to the LibDems, the
classic repository of protest votes on the political Left.

But if Labour's vote collapsed, so too did the Tories', with Conservatives
staying at home in large numbers.

This was not apathy. It was the response of voters who believe they have simply
been disenfranchised by Mr Cameron's modernising maunderings. Now the Tory air
is thick with sneers at those who are understandablyclaiming that the result
shows touchy-feely Toryism evaporating into the fumes of a jasmine-scented
candle.

The row derives from the Cameroons' near-religious certainty that the reason the
Tories lost the past three elections was that they campaigned against
immigration, crime and Europe.

On the contrary, these are the three issues that matter most to millions of
people. But they still did not vote Tory because they thought the party was
still thoroughly incompetent, unprincipled and untrustworthy.

The idea that they didn't vote for the Tories because the party wasn't Leftwing
enough - after Tony Blair had come to power in large measure because he
convinced conservatively minded people (misleadingly) that he was one of them -
is sheer political illiteracy.

Indeed, since those previous Tory voters of Bromley and Chislehurst who stayed
at home last week were presumably the same people who had voted for the
Conservatives when the party was putting forward its supposedly voter-repellent
policies on immigration, crime and Europe, it is surely highly unlikely that
they sat on their hands this time round because the Tories had not 'modernised'
enough.

To underline this brutal truth, yet another weekend poll showed that the Tory
lead over Labour has now been slashed to just one percentage point.

Surely a Tory Party with a new leader opposing such a bankrupt and mistrusted
government should be doing better.

What all this surely shows is that the electorate is extremely volatile as it
desperately - and vainly - searches from party to party for politicians who are
prepared to address, honestly and persuasively, its overriding concerns.

There's no doubt that Mr Cameron has made the Tories seem more plugged in to
current fashion. But all the huskies in the Arctic or smutty TV sessions with
Jonathan Ross won't make up for the fact that the new, aromatic Tories have
committed themselves to a ruinously bloated public sector, educational
egalitarianism and redistribution of wealth.

And when they do at last look like they are grasping a nettle - as with human
rights law - they do a Blair and produce an incoherent and unworkable policy,
all because they won't face up to difficult choices.

If the Tories are in danger of taking the wrong message from defeat, so too are
their opponents.

The by-election results are regarded in some Labour quarters as further
irrefutable proof that Mr Blair must immediately depart. But those who think
Labour's fortunes will revive upon the sacrifice of their fallen angel are
living in a fool's paradise.

It's not just that if a post-Blair Labour Party lurches to the Left it will
become unelectable.

The idea that the Blairite torch can be relit by a keeper of the faith is surely
also wishful thinking.

Project Blair has failed because it was based on the vacuities of the supposed
political 'third way', which pretended that it was neither Old Labour nor Tory,
but a new route to nirvana where all problems would be solved with voters
benefiting from gain with no pain.

This radical dishonesty created a political incoherence, whose dismaying results
are now plain to see the length and breadth of Whitehall, as policy after policy
- from the Home Office to the health department, from education to the Treasury
- falls apart in serial government incompetence.

And while this shambles is playing out, no one in the councils of power is
talking about the issues that most concern the electorate.

It has been left to the maverick Labour backbencher Frank Field to raise the
concern uppermost in so many voters' minds.

Politicians, he said, were 'living on borrowed time' over Britain's
unprecedented and unsustainable levels of immigration, which risked turning the
country into a 'global traffic station' for migrant workers and amounted to a
'massive transformation of our population'.

The intelligentsia and much of the media turn into a pariah anyone who dares say
what Mr Field has now so courageously said. The Government has been forced
mutedly to acknowledge that Mr Field has a point, but refuses to address the
root causes of the problem.

And no one can be in any doubt by now that the Tories will ignore it altogether
because they believe it is the issue they think helped deprive them of power.

Instead, they have decided to emulate Mr Blair by being all things to all people
through refusing to face up to any problem that divides the nation.

Both parties are pinning all their hopes on their leader. Labour thinks
electoral success will be achieved simply by erasing the image of Mr Blair from
people's minds. The Tories think that David Cameron can be catapulted into
Downing Street if his image is drilled into people's brains.

However, what these latest by-elections have shown is that if this really is all
that's on offer at the next General Election, the 'none-of-the-above' party
could become the runaway victor.

m.phillips@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                              July 3, 2006, Monday

Bromley's homing instinct

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 995 words


When so many Conservative voters stay away, David Cameron must listen to their
message

I AM MYSELF a year older than British democracy. It was not until the general
election of 1929 that Britain had universal suffrage for both men and women, on
the same terms. I can remember all the general elections back to 1931, when the
Conservative candidate for the old Frome division in Somerset was Lord Weymouth;
he called on our house wearing grey pinstriped Oxford bags, that swirled
fashionably about his ankles.

Since 1929 there have been 20 general elections; the pendulum has swung with
impeccable equity. Ten of them were won by the Labour Party and ten by the
Conservatives. The Thatcher period left an impression that the Conservative
Party has normally been led from the right, or at least from right of centre in
Conservative terms. This is not correct. Thirteen of the 20 elections, and seven
of the ten Conservative victories, have had Conservative leaders who were left
of centre in their own party.

Baldwin, Churchill, Eden, Macmillan, Heath and Major all came from the centre
left tradition of Conservatism. David Cameron is not the exception; he belongs
to this majority group. That is natural enough. Right-wing leaders appeal
strongly to the most right-wing quarter of the electorate, but not to the
centre, except in a crisis. That was true of Margaret Thatcher, despite her
election victories. It is easier for the Conservative Party to win elections
when it is led by liberal Conservatives because they have a broader appeal.

There is evidence that the pendulum has been swinging back; indeed, it showed a
swing to the Conservatives both in 2001 and in 2005. In 1997 the Labour share of
the national vote was 12.5 per cent higher than the Conservatives; in 2001 that
fell to 9 per cent, and in 2005 it fell further to only 2.9 per cent. The latest
YouGov poll in The Daily Telegraph showed a Conservative lead of 6 per cent.
This movement towards the Conservatives has been accelerating and it will be
difficult for a new Labour leader to reverse.

This YouGov poll was remarkable. It almost takes the Conservatives back to the
lead they enjoyed in the 1992 general election, which they won. In 1992 the
result, in terms of share of votes, was Conservative 41.9 per cent, Labour 34.4
per cent, Liberal Democrats 17.9 per cent. The YouGov poll showed Conservatives
39 per cent, Labour 33 per cent, Lib Dem 18 per cent. Before that poll it still
seemed likely that the next election, whenever it came, would produce a hung
Parliament. Now, so far as polls are concerned, one has to take seriously the
possibility of a Conservative victory in 2009 or 2010.

This might have attracted more attention if the poll had been published before
the by-election results. No one should have been surprised by the result in
Blaenau Gwent. Voters in South Wales feel increasingly alienated from the Labour
establishment, which has a finger in every pie and has to take the blame for
every failure. A Blaenau Gwent type of result could happen in almost any Labour
stronghold in Wales, at any time.

The Bromley and Chislehurst result was more interesting. Why did half the
Conservative voters decide not to come out and vote? There is no reason to think
that many previous Conservatives voted for the Lib Dems, though hundreds must
have voted for the UKIP. The figures show that the Lib Dem vote went up by only
1,620; since the Labour vote fell by 8,316, there must have been switching and
abstaining among Labour supporters.

The Conservatives have been losing similar by-elections to the Liberals since
Mark Bonham-Carter won in Torrington in 1958. After nearly 50 years of such
setbacks the Tories should have worked out better methods of defending their
seats.

Undoubtedly the Lib Dems do fight dirty campaigns; they practise professional
fouls and there is no one to give them a red card. But that is nothing new.

The best counter-attack in by-elections would be for the Conservatives to get
out the existing Conservative vote -or for Labour to get out their vote in
Labour's seats. The Conservatives must worry most about the 11,962 voters who
supported Eric Forth in 2005 but did not support Bob Neill in 2006. Eric Forth
was the more charismatic candidate -he was also the more Eurosceptic -but that
does not account for more than a few of the missing votes.

There must have been some organisational failures in the campaign. To lose half
the general election vote, when the Government is so unpopular and the
Conservatives are on the up, is worse than disappointing.

The Bromley result has reinforced the anxiety that already exists among
Conservatives. There is a concern that the modernisers may have alienated too
many party loyalists without sufficiently achieving their strategic objective of
winning new converts in the centre. It is like the matrimonial problem of a
single blanket failing to cover a double bed. If the blanket is wide enough to
keep only one partner warm, there may be unseemly tussles for coverage. This
anxiety has been increased by the loss of support in the right-wing press,
particularly the Daily Mail and The Daily Telegraph. In Bromley, combined Mail
and Telegraph readership must cover more than half of the Tory voters.

David Cameron has, in my view, done an excellent job of reaching out. He has
made himself more acceptable than his predecessors to those voters who float
between the Conservatives and the Lib Dems. He has won back ground that had been
lost since 1992. Yet he does need to reassure the voters he thought he could
most rely on. Party loyalists do want local independence, not party
centralisation. They do worry about European integration. They certainly want
more encouragement and less gloomy preaching from Central Office. They want to
feel that their work is valued.

Everyone needs encouragement to do the best work, whether they are footballers
or party workers.

* Join the Debate Send your e-mails via timesonline.co.uk/debate

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                  July 2, 2006

Anti-politics wins front-bench seat

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

LENGTH: 866 words


FEW of David Camerons MPs were looking forward to the group away-day he planned
for them at the weekend. Wild excuses were being dreamt up to avoid the two days
of breakout groups, where MPs would hone skills in spin, tree-hugging and
constituency relations. But little discussion was planned on the new enemy which
presented itself last Thursday.

Anti-politics was the winner of the by-elections held in Wales and South London.
The Conservatives almost lost Bromley & Chislehurst, what was once a suburban
stronghold, where Labour was forced into fourth place. Blaenau Gwent in Wales
selected another independent candidate. All by-elections are protest votes to an
extent, but last week was a protest not against the government ñ but the
Westminster political menu.

Since becoming Tory chairman, Francis Maude has been keen to dampen any spirit
of optimism which may infiltrate his party workers. This time, he has plenty to
be miserable about. Only two months ago, the Conservatives had triumphed across
London in the local government election ñ but in the Bromley & Chislehurst
by-election it stood just 633 votes away from defeat.

It is a reminder of what is so easily forgotten by Conservatives: that the
Cameron factor is no use to them in places where they have no political
apparatus. The late Eric Forth had taken pride in not bothering the constituents
as he liked to call it, and was popular enough to have been forgiven for his
absenteeism. But the Tory organisation in his constituency had atrophied as a
result. The same story of decay is true in Scotland, north of England and Wales.

It is also a reminder that, no matter how goofy they may seem at the centre, the
Liberal Democrats can be formidable and vicious opponent at the grassroots
level. Their campaign in Bromley & Chislehurst was as dirty as it was successful
ñ focusing on bitter personal attacks on Bob Neil, the Tory candidate.

But a sudden resurgence in LibDem support? Tell that to its candidate for
Blaenau Gwent, who finished a dismal fourth with a laughable 5.4% of the vote.
In Wales, anti-politics had a more articulate voice in both the widow and former
election agent of Peter Law, who was elected as an independent after being
expelled by the Labour Party. His Cardiff Bay and Westminster seats were up for
grabs, most of its electorate turned out, and half of them voted for two people
whose only claim was not being part of the Westminster set.

The Labour-Tory double act is losing its grip on the nation. Their peak came in
the 1951 election which took Churchill back to power ñ then they had 97% of
voters. By last years general election it had slumped to 67% and in the
by-elections last Thursday it was just 43%. While much of this is due to the
steady rise in the LibDems, the independent candidates have also doubled their
vote since 1983.

Party identification ñ the amount of voters who feel strongly associated with
their chosen party ñ is now down from 46% a generation ago to just 15% today.
Party membership is plunging even faster than trade union membership, and it is
not because people are lazy. Members of the RSPB are up from 98,000 in 1971 to
1.2m today and the National Trust is up from 278,000 to 3m over the same
timeframe. Greenpeace membership is up from 30,000 to 221,000.

Apathy is not a problem in Britain. People are active, interested and engaged
with their communities ñ but find new ways of expressing it and are deeply
frustrated with Westminster political parties.

Such conditions mean increasing support for a group which says a plague on all
your houses. This is why the LibDems do best when they have a negative message,
and why there is so little for either Cameron or Gordon Brown to be pleased
about in the by-election results last week. Anti-politics has become a wild card
in the British electoral pack.

The Chancellor may try to exploit this. He will be the establishment candidate
at the next election and it will suit him if his opposition is fractured. The
better non-Westminster candidates do, the more support will haemorrhage from
Cameron and nothing strips away Tory voters better than the UK Independence
Party. It forced Labour into fourth place in Bromley & Chislehurst, and did much
to damage the Tory vote.

Should the Chancellor be minded to, there is a wicked trick he could play. The
next European Parliament election is due in May 2009 ñ might Prime Minister
Brown be tempted to call the general election on the same day? It would set UKIP
alight, stealing Tory votes across the country and give Cameron enemies to fight
on both fronts. It would force the Conservatives to talk about Europe, thus
allowing Labour to caricature them as Little Englanders as they did when William
Hague tried his disastrous save the pound campaign in the 2001 general election.

Camerons task is to portray his Conservative Party as the most effective form of
protest vote, and this may mean adopting policies which are palpably different
to those of the government. Britain is one of the few democracies in the world
where the number of abstainers exceeds supporters of the ruling party. There is
a deep vein of frustration in UK politics and a prize awaits the party that taps
it.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  July 2, 2006
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blair's power wow. . .

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 114 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair urged his party to have the "self belief " to stay in
power.

Addressing Labour activists in London yesterday, Mr Blair called for a "new
generation" of policies to help secure a fourth term.

Mr Blair's future has been under doubt since Thursday's by-elections, when
Labour failed to regain its former stronghold of Blaenau Gwent and was trounced
by the UK Independence Party in Bromley and Chislehurst.

Mr Blair said: "There are real issues we need to sort out - illegal immigration
and crime at the top of them - and we must work hard on them.

"But these areas are where we need to have the confidence to see the difficult
times through for the good of the country."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RALLYING CALL: Blair

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  July 2, 2006

Comment & Opinion: Mr Cameron must resist the siren call of the reactionaries:
In the wake of their disappointing byelection result, the Tories need to go
further and faster to make themselves electable

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1472 words


When David Cameron is among friends, he will sometimes contemplate the
possibility that he might end up taking his party to a fourth disastrous general
election defeat. He has been heard to say: 'My political career could be over by
the time I'm 42.'

Even while the opinion polls have shone upon him and much of the media has
drooled over him, he has been rightly careful about his prospects. When some of
his colleagues have become over-euphoric, he has frequently cautioned them about
the magnitude of what they have to do if there is to be another Conservative
government.

A shiver of doubt about his future must have passed through the Tory leader when
he heard the result of the byelection in Bromley and Chislehurst. A fearful
corner of his mind perhaps started to wonder whether his career truly will be
terminated shortly after he has turned 40. He cannot celebrate that byelection
victory, the first in a Conservative seat under David Cameron's leadership, in
the way that he must have hoped. Rather than win a thumping endorsement for the
Cameronised Conservatives, the Tories came perilously close to losing what
should be a blue-chip seat.

There is the consolation for the Conservatives that they did at least hold the
seat while Labour was defeated at the byelection in Blaenau Gwent. Labour is
arguably licking the deeper wound this weekend. It has lost - again - in an area
of south Wales where it used to be the case that a lump of coal wearing a red
rosette would get elected.

This adds to the febrility within the government, swells the calls for renewal
which are as noisy as they are unspecific and increases the volume of those
clamouring for Tony Blair to go before next May's elections.

Many Labour people fear that will be a meltdown for their party. Interestingly,
Gordon Brown is not one of those who thinks that next May is a disaster
foretold. Though the Chancellor might be thought to have every incentive to talk
up the prospect of further Labour defeats, he has told close allies that he
expects Labour to see off the threat from the Nationalists in Scotland. Other
members of the cabinet are nothing like as sanguine about what may unfold. They
tremble in anticipation of a catastrophe next spring in which the Labour
administrations are turfed out in both Edinburgh and Cardiff.

Labour's miserable performance told us little that we did not already know.
Government unpopular, Blair bashed, Labour in trouble: that is not a new story.
The more interesting story is the Tory failure to translate Labour misery into
success for the Conservatives.

Labour's multiple problems only sharpen the questions for the Tories, the more
so when the Lib Dems are drooping in the national polls under a leader widely
derided as too doddery for the job. Instead of harvesting that opportunity, the
Conservatives almost lost a seat where their votes are traditionally not
counted, but weighed.

If this can happen in the Conservative heartland, what might this say about Tory
chances when a by-

election comes up in a marginal seat? What if those opinion poll leads are
deceptive? What if Gordon Brown proves to be a more appealing Prime Minister
than the Tories tend to assume? What if we lose again? These are the questions
which should be gnawing away at Conservatives this weekend.

Various excuses have been advanced for the outcome of the byelection. Alibi one
is that the Lib Dems assassinated the character of the Tory candidate. So they
did. And so what? A grown-up Tory party wouldn't waste time whingeing; it would
be energetically modernising its campaign operation and being much more skilful
about its candidate selection.

Alibi two is that Conservative voters, taking it for granted that their
candidate would win, stayed at home. Let's assume that might be true. This
hardly speaks to a surging enthusiasm for the Tories among people who should
want to give their preferred party maximum momentum.

Alibi three is that Labour support virtually disappeared, pushing the
government's candidate into fourth place as people voted tactically for whoever
might best beat the Conservatives. This tells us that there is still visceral
anti-Tory tactical voting. Despite Mr Cameron's best efforts, negatives continue
to cling to his party like stale cigar smoke.

The byelection is a highly unwelcome disruption to the narrative of Tory renewal
and revival that Mr Cameron is trying to write into the public's consciousness.
His party chairman, Francis Maude, is absolutely right to describe it as 'a
wake-up call'.

The early success of David Cameron's leadership has tended to obscure what a
risky endeavour he is trying to pull off. He is attempting to get his ancient
party to take a giant leap across a yawning chasm from unelectablity to
plausible contender of power. He has abandoned the narrow, but safe, ground of
the traditional Tory base. He has yet to land on secure new territory where he
can prove incontrovertibly that his approach is the winning one.

The public can see him trying to shed his party's old baggage. They can also
note that he has yet to replace it with anything solid. David Cameron is
mid-leap, poised over a lot of thin air.

Mr Maude, an ultra moderniser, suggests that the Bromley result goes to prove
that 'we've got a long way further to go' and they need to move there much
faster. From the other side of the chasm, voices of the right are calling out to
Mr Cameron to turn back to them. They contend that the byelection demonstrates
that they've already moved much too far in the wrong direction. The leader and
his allies know that they must win the battle of interpretation over this
result.

The Cameroons are already bad-mouthing the truculent local party for conducting
a dire campaign. The local Tories refused to embrace the leader's change agenda
and spurned a more user-friendly candidate from his A-list. They presented the
voters with a rather charmless, Eighties-style Tory, a Freemason in a pinstripe
suit. The Lib Dems, with their characteristic byelection ruthlessness, targeted
him mercilessly and to effect.

Even though all the polls suggest that the Conservative party's best asset is Mr
Cameron, he made just one brief visit to the seat. The campaign literature
produced by the local Tories barely featured their leader. They preferred to
reheat the stale slogans of the Michael Howard era. So the Cameroons complain
and they have a point. But the Tory leader's allies will have to be careful how
vociferously they make that point. By casting the blame on the dinosaur Tories
who still roam Bromley, the Cameroons highlight the brittle and shallow support
within the Conservative party for the programme of modernisation.

The late MP for Bromley, Eric Forth, was one of the most vituperative opponents
of the Tory leader's dash to the centre ground. To Mr Cameron's face, Mr Forth
once sarcastically inquired whether he was allowed to be a Conservative any more
when he still believed in tax cuts. His majority of more than 13,000 collapsed
to a paltry 633 on a reduced turnout. Traditional Tories didn't vote or defected
to Ukip, banging the anti-immigration drum. This only goes to show, say Tories
who think along similar lines to the late Mr Forth, that the Cameron approach is
utterly misconceived.

When Tony Blair took Labour on its forced march to the middle ground, his party
was so desperate for success that it put up with the mass slaughter of its
sacred cows. The Thatcherites in the Conservative party are a much trickier
proposition for Mr Cameron to contend with. They have many more newspaper barons
and columnists to encourage and amplify them than the Labour left has ever had.
More, the Tory right has never felt anything like as vanquished as the Labour
left. The right still draw confidence and a sense of entitlement from the three
election victories of Margaret Thatcher.

David Cameron's answer to his internal enemies has to be a lecture about more
modern history. In the three most recent general elections, the Tory party has
fought on an agenda set by its reactionary tendencies. The result has been three
successive defeats, the worst run of them for the Conservative party ever. That
is why even Michael Howard came to see that the next leader had to be a
moderniser.

I'm sceptical that the Bromley byelection tells us anything useful about what
might happen at the next general election. What will be highly revealing is how
Mr Cameron and his party respond to this setback. He can find the courage, the
determination and the ideas to challenge the Conservative party to push forward
with faster and deeper change. Or he can allow the old sirens to lure the Tories
back on to the rocks of reaction on which the party has repeatedly wrecked
itself. That's the way to guarantee that David Cameron's political career really
will be over by the time he is 42.


LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday

Blow for Cameron as Tory lead over Labour shrinks to one point

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 603 words


DAVID CAMERON suffers a fresh setback today from an opinion poll which cuts the
Conservatives' lead over Labour to just one per cent.

The ICM survey for The Sunday Telegraph puts the Tories on 36 per cent with
Labour right behind on 35 per cent and the Liberal Democrats trailing on 18 per
cent. A directly comparable poll last week put the Tory lead at five per cent.

Today's poll result comes in the wake of the Bromley and Chislehurst by-election
which saw the Conservative majority in what had long been regarded as an
ultra-safe seat slashed from 13,342 at last year's general election to just 633.

Bob Neill, the victorious Conservative candidate and his party's leader in the
London Assembly, suffered a personal battering at the hands of the Liberal
Democrats, who came close to snatching the seat. The United Kingdom Independence
Party (Ukip) polled 2,347, pushing Labour into fourth place.

A factor behind the slump in Conservative support was seen as Tory
traditionalists attempting to punish Mr Cameron over his drive to modernise his
party - either by voting Ukip or staying at home. Turnout was low at just 45 per
cent.

Today's poll has seen Labour pick up support directly from the Lib-Dems while
the Conservatives are down by one per cent from the comparable ICM survey last
week. That put the Tories on 37 per cent and Labour on 32.

Most recent opinion polls have given the Conservatives a lead of between three
and 10 per cent while the Government has been facing crises including the fiasco
over the non-deportation of foreign prisoners and the scandal of John Prescott's
affair with his secretary, Tracey Temple.

The Sunday Telegraph poll findings, if repeated in a general election on current
constituency boundaries, would give Labour a 24-seat majority.

At Downing Street there was barely disguised jubilation over today's dramatic
narrowing of the gap. Sources close to Tony Blair claimed that the findings
showed that the recent Tory surge in support could be a "mirage'' resulting from
a spate of bad headlines about Labour.

In an attempt to fight back, the Conservatives are planning an attack on the
Chancellor, Gordon Brown, by stepping up demands for Scottish MPs to be banned
from voting on issues which only affect English voters - including education and
health.

Ken Clarke, the former Tory Chancellor responsible for mapping out policy on the
constitution, has thrown his weight behind the "English votes for English laws
plan''. He told The Observer: "There is no prospect of backing down on this.''

The latest findings came as Mr Cameron considered a letter from the 92 Group of
Right-wing Tory MPs calling on him to make good his pledge to withdraw
Conservative Euro-MPs from the European Peoples' Party (EPP), the mainstream
centre-Right grouping in the European Parliament. Bill Cash, the 92 Group's
vice-chairman, said: "This is not hostile - it's what I would call good, solid
advice. We should leave the EPP even if this means sitting alone in the
parliament.

"There is an absolutely clear commitment from David Cameron on this and there is
no reason whatsoever to believe he will not honour it.''

A spokesman for the Conservative leader said: "David Cameron has had a lot of
representations on this issue. It's true to say people have strong views - on
both sides of the argument. We are carrying on the discussions.''

Mr Cameron has recently attracted criticism over his refusal to attack Labour
directly on a number of issues - including health, education and crime. He is
waiting for a series of policy commissions to formulate detailed positions but
these will not report for about a year.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday

That was the Week that Was...

BYLINE: Compiled by Anne-Marie Conway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1397 words


Home news

Catalogue of prison failings

The inquiry into the murder of a 19-year-old Muslim, Zahid Mubarek, by a known
psychopath and racist in Feltham young offenders institution six years ago,
found a "bewildering catalogue of shortcomings''. In his report on Thursday, Mr
Justice Keith condemned the Government for failing to fund the Prison Service
adequately, and recommended that a new concept of "institutional religious
intolerance'' be adopted to combat prejudice against Muslim inmates. To add to
Home Office embarrassment, the report came out on the day the prison population
reached an all-time high of 77,865 in England and Wales.

Voters show disapproval of leading parties

Labour suffered two humiliating by-election defeats on Thursday, when it not
only failed to retake Blaenau Gwent - the former seat of such stalwart
soci-alists as Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot - but was knocked into fourth
place by the UK Independence Party in Bromley and Chislehurst. And although the
Conservatives had their majority in the latter severely dented by the Liberal
Democrats, there was comfort for party leader David Cameron on Friday, when a
YouGov poll showed he was now the nation's preferred choice of a prime minister
when Tony Blair goes.

A royal family for 62p a head? What good value

The Queen and the Royal Family cost taxpayers pounds 37.4 million last year,
said the Keeper of the Privy Purse on Wed-nesday. That's 62p per person, and
after the revelation that John Prescott costs us pounds 2 million a year, it
seems a bargain. After all, Prince Charles did pay almost pounds 3.3 million tax
last year, it was revealed on Monday. Who then could begrudge the Palace the
extra million (on top of the pounds 15 million it already receives) it wants for
building maintenance?

Two into one Anglican Church won't go

Monday's attempt by the Archbishop of Canterbury to prevent schism by proposing
two-tier membership of the Anglican Communion has not been received with
universal enthusiasm. Traditionalists such as the Church of Nigeria do not wish
to be even "associated'' with Churches that take a liberal view on gay rights.

NatWest Three lose their extradition battle

The former bankers known as the "NatWest Three'' lost their two-year battle
against extradition on Tuesday, when the European Court of Human Rights declined
to take up their case in time to stop their removal to the United States to
await unspecified charges connected with the Enron fraud. There were widespread
protests against a one-sided agreement that allows Britons to be extradited to
the US for crimes allegedly committed in the UK.

Worse, the CIA has been given illegal access to financial data of millions of
people in Britain and elsewhere. All transactions routed through Swift, the
industry-owned co-operative that links 7,800 financial institutions in more than
200 countries, are monitored under the "terrorist finance tracking program'', it
was revealed on Tuesday.

Jobless nurses only one symptom of NHS in crisis

Four out of five nurses graduating this summer have no job to go to, according
to a study of 20 universities made public on Thursday. This was nothing to do
with Wednesday's revelation that students at the University of Wales were being
allowed to write their own exam questions - although the Nursing and Midwifery
Council said on Friday that it had found foreign nurses using fake
qualifications to get jobs in Britain - but a symptom of the financial crisis in
the NHS. This was put sharply into focus when the Department of Health quietly
invited private health firms, via an advertisement (subsequently withdrawn) in
an EU journal, to tender for contracts worth up to pounds 64 billion, prompting
accusations on Thursday that the Government was trying to "privatise the NHS by
stealth''.

International news

Israel gets tougher

Hopes raised by Tuesday's announcement that Hamas had signed up to the idea of a
negotiated permanent peace with Israel were quickly lowered by the re-occupation
of part of the Gaza Strip and Thursday's bombing of the (empty) HQ of the
Palestinian ministry, in retaliation for the abduction of an Israeli soldier on
Sunday. Israel denies that the 64 Hamas officials detained on Wednesday are to
be used as "bargaining chips'', although the Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said he
was prepared to take "extreme steps'' to secure the soldier's release. These are
unlikely to include the release of 1,000 prisoners demanded by the kidnappers.
The Foreign Office condemned the bombing of Gaza's only power station as
"collective punishment''.

Legal setbacks to the war on terror

A military trial of a Yemeni detained in Guantanamo Bay camp would contravene
both US law and the Geneva conventions, the US Supreme Court ruled on Thursday.
The previous day a British High Court judge ruled that control orders
effectively keeping six Iraqi terrorist suspects under house arrest were
"incompatible'' with their human rights.

Unknown soldiers killed in Helmand

The Ministry of Defence said it would not reveal the identities of the two
British soldiers killed after a grenade attack on a patrol in Afghanistan on
Tuesday morning. It refused to confirm rumours that they were special forces
members, saying only that it was deferring to the families' wishes.

People

The castaways' inquisitor

Kirsty Young, the face of television's Five News, is to become the voice of
Radio 4's Desert Island Discs when Sue Lawley leaves in the autumn. It is not
yet known if Young will actually move into her predecessor's seat or just perch
on the studio table.

Charity begins at rich man's Gates

The world's second richest man has pledged pounds 17 billion - most of his
wealth - to the world's richest man. Warren Buffett, 75, explained on Monday
that he thought the charitable foundation set up by Bill Gates could "do a
better job of giving it away than I can''.

Business

BP accused of price-fixing

The American Commodity Futures Trading Commission has accused the UK oil company
BP of trying to make an illegal pounds 11 million by manipulating the market for
propane, the bottled gas that fuels a million backyard barbecues and heats
millions of American homes, in 2004. BP denies all the charges.

Nation of debtors has pounds 1 trillion in mortgages

More than a million Britons are strug-gling to pay off large debts, said Debt
Free Direct, which specialises in individ-ual voluntary arrangements (IVAs) for
overstretched borrowers. On Tuesday, almost 40 years to the day Barclaycard
introduced the credit card to Britain, DFD reported turnover up 93 per cent, and
pre-tax profit up to pounds 4.8 million from pounds 1.54 million last year.

On Thursday, the Bank of England revealed that mortgage debt has broken the
pounds 1 trillion barrier.

Smiths to split, but ports out of storm

WH Smith set out its plan for August's demerger on Tuesday, promising
share-holders one share in each of the retail busi-ness and the news
distribution arms when they are split into two separate listings.

Macquarie pulled out of the bidding war for Associated British Ports on Friday,
leaving the field clear for the consortium led by Goldman Sachs.

Sport

Whatever it takes to win

England's World Cup squad took some flak for their failure to show much of the
beauty in the beautiful game to date, prompting Sven Goran Eriksson to say if it
took "bad football'' to win, he had no problem with that.

The home team traded on-pitch blows with Argentina but still won Friday's
penalty shoot-out 4-2. The Argentinian manager immediately resigned. Germany
goes through to a semi-final against Italy, who won through despite the
distracting news that their former international compatriot Gianluca Pessotto,
the new general manager of Juventus, had suffered multiple fractures after
falling from a window at the club's Turin headquarters on Tuesday. An unlucky 13
of the squad also had to cope with the anxiety of knowing that their clubs will
appear before a sports tribunal tomorrow on match-fixing charges.

Brits fade out of All England tournament

Hearts across the nation went out to Richard Bloomfield from Norwich when his
first-round Wimbledon victory over Carlos Berlocq was marred by allega-tions of
a betting scam (he went out in the next round). Andre Agassi announced that this
is his last Wimbledon, but, despite a second-round defeat by Roger Federer on
Wednesday, Tim Henman said he has no plans to retire yet.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday

It's indifference that Cameron now has to combat

BYLINE: Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1163 words


Gordon Brown's contempt for David Cameron deepens by the day. When he hears that
the Tory leader has made a speech, the Chancellor snorts: "But where's the
policy?'' In Mr Brown's view, Mr Cameron's strategy is all wrong: wooing Lib Dem
votes he may not win over, while ditching what the Chancellor regards as the
popular elements of Toryism.

In this respect, Mr Brown will surely feel vindicated by the Conservatives' poor
showing in the Bromley & Chislehurst by-election, which they won by a nugatory
633 votes (down from the late Eric Forth's 2005 majority of 13,342). And it is
incontestable that the Tories should have done much better.

Hours after the result was declared, Labour strategists were gleefully drawing
contrasts with their own party's robust performance in by-elections - Barnsley
West, Hemsworth, and Islwyn - during Tony Blair's three years as leader of the
Opposition. "We're not doing well, and we don't deny it,'' one Downing Street
insider says, "but the Tories aren't doing well enough, and they should be.''

As Francis Maude observed on the Today programme on Friday, this was a "wake-up
call'' for the Tories. He offered no glib explanation of what had gone wrong, or
how to fix it. But he is right about one thing: there should be no turning back
for the Cameroons. To revive the "core vote'' strategy that has kept the Tories
reliably below the 200-seat threshold in the Commons since 1997 would be
electoral insanity. Whatever the pressures, and as noisy as the criticisms will
undoubtedly get, the Tory leader is not falling into that old trap.

Lest we forget: the local elections were promising for Mr Cameron. The polls
continue to provide encouragement for his strategy: a YouGov survey in Friday's
Daily Telegraph showed that he is the first of five successive Tory leaders to
be more popular than Mr Blair. Perhaps even more significantly, the same poll
had the Conservatives running neck and neck with Labour on the issue of economic
competence - the foundation of the Tory brand that was smashed on Black
Wednesday.

Considered in this context, the Bromley & Chislehurst debacle suggests that the
electorate has tested Cameron-positive - but has not yet succumbed to full-blown
Cameronism. The voters are no longer hostile to the Tories, but - crucially -
they are not yet energised by the prospect of a Conservative government. The Lib
Dem vote rose from 9,368 in the general election only to 10,988. The UK
Independence Party nudged up from 1,475 to 2,347. But the Tory vote plummeted
from 23,583 to 11,621. Turn-out was only 40 per cent, compared to 65 per cent
last year.

The message was not one of ideological hostility to the new-look Tories but
supreme indifference: a big suburban yawn. On a sunny evening, the golf-playing
burghers of Chislehurst preferred to sip expensive lager, compare BMWs and talk
about the World Cup than to traipse to the polling station to vote for Bob
Neill, a Tory candidate who - as the Lib Dems kept reminding them - already has
"three jobs''.

Nasty local politics? Of course. But - when it comes to winning elections - all
politics is nasty and local. The Lib Dems are still much better at such
ferocious campaigning than the Tories, and they nearly pulled off the worst
upset of Mr Cameron's seven months as leader. The Conservatives should
emphatically not change their message, but they will have to bare their teeth on
the campaign trail and improve their local intelligence-gathering if they are to
win the Lib Dem votes that they desperately need to win the 85 or so marginal
seats where they are second to Labour. As one shadow cabinet member put it: "We
haven't learned how to localise the national Cameron message.''

As for the governing party, its humiliation in Blaenau Gwent set the seal on a
week of toe-curling embarrassment. The very same spin doctors who were shrugging
off Charles Clarke's attack on Tony Blair on Tuesday were blaming him on Friday
for Labour's atrocious performance in the Welsh seat. The psychology of the
former home secretary's interventions remains - and will remain - the subject of
detailed analysis. One long-time friend of Mr Clarke insisted to me that his
motivation was only to hurt John Reid, with whom he first clashed when they both
worked for Neil Kinnock in the 1980s. Much is also read into the fact that Mr
Clarke stands by his suggestion, while still a Cabinet minister, that Mr Blair
hang on until 2008. This, I am assured, reflects the former home secretary's
belief that he might yet be a candidate for the Labour leadership, and that he
needs two years to test his chances on the back benches.

I dare say. All that really matters, however, is that a former Cabinet minister
who was, until his sacking, one of Mr Blair's most trusted lieutenants said last
week that the PM had "lost his sense of purpose and direction''. It may be that
the deeply-hurt Mr Clarke meant no real harm, that this was really a cry for
help. It may be that he did not intend to create the impression that Mr Blair's
time was up. In such a tense context, his precise motives, frankly, are neither
here nor there. The effect of his intervention was inescapably to undermine the
Prime Minister. All else is marginal psycho-babble.

Hazel Blears, the Panglossian chair of the Labour Party, did her best on Friday
to dismiss Blaenau Gwent, held by an Independent candidate, as "a family feud''.
This was an unfortunate metaphor to use, given the domestic violence that is
going on at New Labour's apex. One Cabinet Minister told me that "Gordon and
Tony behave at Cabinet meetings like a couple going through a really horrible
break up who just about manage to hold it together in front of the kids''.

Yet Ms Blears is indefatigably loyal and optimistic, a Stepford chairman. If the
four horsemen of the Apocalypse appeared outside Downing Street, she would say
that this was perfectly normal "at this stage of the parliamentary cycle'', and
that it reflected well upon Mr Blair that there weren't six or more. But her
jolly bromides could not explain away Labour's thrashing on Thursday - the party
had a strong candidate in Bromley in Rachel Reeves, but still finished fourth
behind Ukip.

Self-evidently, Labour is in big trouble. What is less clear is that Mr Blair
himself is the biggest problem, and that his resignation would sort things out.
Even the most tenacious Blairites now regard the summer of 2007 as the terminus
ante quem: the date before which their man must call it a day. But why? Where is
the hugely divisive national issue - the poll tax of 2006 - forcing the Prime
Minister's exit? Where is the hugely popular successor waiting in the wings - a
Labour Heseltine - to make Mr Blair's immediate departure politically rational?
His party is not asking itself "why?'' It is only asking "when?'' It is the
wrong question, of course. But the Prime Minister, who posed the question in the
first place, has only himself to blame.

Matthew d'Ancona is Editor of The Spectator

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday

Your chance to rebrand the EU - Brussels wants a new slogan

BYLINE: JUSTIN STARES in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 489 words


ITS current motto is "United in Diversity'', a cheery catchphrase designed to
evoke a continent working together for "peace and prosperity''.

If, however, you can think of a better slogan to sum up the European Union, now
may be your chance.

José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, will this week launch
a "new slogan for Europe'' competition aimed at re-invigorating the stalled
European integration project.

The winning entry will be rolled out during the EU's golden jubilee celebrations
next year, together with a new logo to replace the blue EU flag with its ring of
gold stars (it represented "perfection, completeness and unity'') .

On March 25 next year, the Treaty of Rome, on which the EU is founded, will be
50 years old. European leaders will be using the occasion to rebrand their
supranational model of government - a model dealt a body blow last year by the
constitution referendum rejections in France and Holland.

Preparations for 50 days of concerts, fireworks and general partying in Brussels
- at an expected cost of about pounds 3.5 million - have been under way for more
than six months.

As part of the build up, EU institutions have decided that young designers
should be given the chance to come up with an appropriate logo and slogan to
mark the occasion.

Francis Gutmann, who heads the European parliament's public events department
said: "A logo and slogan competition for young European designers will be
launched on July 6. We will reach everyone via a website and there will be a
cash prize for the winner.''

The designers will be told to focus on the future and on the EU's main pulling
points, such as "democracy'' and "liberty''.

Eurocrats fear that young people no longer believe the oft-used sales pitch that
the EU exists to prevent a repeat of the Second World War.

"We don't want to concentrate on the past,'' said Mr Gutmann. "And we want to
emphasise that the period of reflection which began after the referendum results
is finished.''

To test the waters, The Sunday Telegraph asked a selection of authorities on the
EU for their ideas for a replacement for "United in Diversity''.

For the Europhile wing, Graham Watson MEP, leader of the Liberals and Democrats
in the European parliament, suggested "United in Adversity''.

"The main challenges faced by the EU are global, including population growth,
climate change and international organised crime,'' he explained. "So 'United in
Adversity' might be a better slogan.''

But for the Eurosceptics, Nigel Farage MEP, parliamentary leader of the UK
Independence Party, suggested the slogan "Not Forever''.

"And as far as the logo is concerned I suggest the hammer and sickle, as more
and more every day the EU resembles a failed, centralised Soviet state,'' he
said.

Lord Tebbit, likewise no lover of Brussels, suggested "Bigger but no better''.
The slogan, he added, should be "a tall office tower block with people being
squashed out under it''.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Labour gets a bloody nose - or two - in the Welsh valleys

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 682 words


IT WAS half past three in the morning and the sky was already turning a lighter
shade of blue over Ebbw Vale when nine-year-old Aled Davies poked his head
through the curtains of his bedroom window to see what all the fuss was about.

Down below in the narrow street of small terrace houses his father Dai was
celebrating with a group of friends. Inside were more friends and political
allies, crammed together on sofas in the living room, drinking beer, eating
Scotch eggs and watching television.

"Well done, Dai,'' shouted the new arrivals, slapping him on the back.

"I can't believe it,'' he replied, shaking his head.

A few hours earlier, Dai Davies had been an unemployed electrician who was once
a shop steward at the town's Corus steel plant (closed in 2002). He was also
pounds 6,000 poorer, having used his scarce savings to fight what many regarded
as a futile by-election campaign against the might of New Labour.

Now, he was David Davies MP, the honourable member for Blaenau Gwent.

"I got through two razors, three suits and God knows how many pairs of shoes,''
he joked. "But we did it.''

Aled took in the scene briefly, stored it away for the future, yawned, closed
the curtains and went back to bed.

It was slightly surreal: a small dissident group of former Labour activists,
mostly middle-aged or elderly, proudly, unapologetically socialist, gathered in
the pre-dawn gloom with their egg sandwiches.

One hundred and forty miles away in London, the Labour spin doctors were
watching the same television reports and discussing what gloss should be applied
to a clearly disastrous result. Blaenau Gwent, a collection of depressed
post-industrial valleys towns afflicted by unemployment, ill-health and drugs,
seceded from the Labour empire that is South Wales in the 2005 general election.
Yesterday it again returned an independent MP to Westminster despite a pounds
200,000 Labour campaign. The scale of the defeat became clear when Owen Smith,
the Labour candidate and political lobbyist for an American drugs conglomerate,
failed to show as the count neared its conclusion. Then, around 2am, he turned
up to throw in the towel.

The constituency's declaration of independence followed the decision by Labour
to insist on an all-female shortlist for the general election last year. London
then parachuted in Maggie Jones, a Blairite, who was given the job.

In the ordinary run of things, she would have won with a whopping majority and
gloried in her status as a successor to Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot.

Unfortunately for her, valleys people don't like government by diktat. They
voted instead for Peter Law, a respected former Labour councillor who left the
party in protest at the imposition of Mrs Jones.

He turned Labour's 20,000 majority into his own 9,000 one. Then, in April, he
died, causing the by-election. Mr Davies, his agent, filled the breach and
secured a 2,400 majority. Mr Law's widow Trish won the Welsh Assembly seat,
ending Labour's overall majority in that chamber.

Mr Davies said: "They [Labour] tried to flood this constituency with leaflets
and they telephone-canvassed people to distraction. They virtually demanded that
people vote Labour. Well, the people of Blaenau Gwent like to be talked to, not
talked at.''

His wife Amanda said the schism might have been ended by a true Labour apology
over the 2005 selection and the reinstatement of expelled members.

"Peter Hain never really apologised,'' she said. "He'll learn not to do that
again.''

Mr Davies later toured the constituency in a cavalcade that passed the Labour
Party office, its shutters down.

"They were getting champagne in yesterday,'' said a woman at a market stall. "I
wonder what they did with it.''

Dai Davies

(Ind)12,543 Owen Smith (Lab)10,059

Majority2,484

Steffan Lewis (Plaid Cymru) 1,755; Amy Kitcher (Lib Dem) 1,477; Margrit Williams
(Con) 1,013; Alan Hope (Loony Party) 318;

Turnout: 51.7%

General Election

Peter Law (Ind) 20,505: Maggie Jones (Lab) 11,384; Brian Thomas (Lib Dem) 1,511;
John Price (Plaid Cymru) 843; Phillip Lee (Con) 816: Peter Osborne (Ukip) 192;

Majority 9,121

Turnout 66.1%

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Tories draw wrong lessons from Bromley

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: FEATURES; SIMON HEFFER on Saturday; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 659 words


As if the Conservative Party hadn't had enough grief during its barely
successful campaign in the Bromley by-election, its chairman, Francis Maude,
offered more in the aftermath yesterday. Admitting the result was disappointing
- the majority scythed down from 13,000 to a derisory 633 - Mr Maude announced
that it proved how "change'' in the party had to be driven "faster, wider and
deeper''. Get real, Francis.

Had one of your "A-list'' candidates been parachuted in, with a range of skills
focused on their commitment to multiculturalism and alternative sexual
orientation or their career as an underwear model, there would be a new Lib Dem
MP at Westminster today. At least the Conservatives' shambolic candidate, Bob
Neill, looked and sounded like his core vote.

The honeymoon had to end at some point, and this appears to be that moment.
Traditionally, even the dogs vote Tory in Bromley, so a 633 majority suggests
something is not quite right.

Yes, I know our YouGov poll yesterday showed Dave two points ahead of Tony Blair
in popularity, and the Conservatives six points ahead of Labour: but Donald Duck
could do that against this Labour Government. As the Blaenau Gwent result
showed, Mr Blair and his colleagues are despised even by their core voters. If
the best the Conservatives can do in such a climate is get in by the skin of
their Gucci loafers, then heaven help them.

When I went to Bromley, I detected two factors that ultimately counted against
the Tories, and which will count against them whenever they are put to the test.
First, there remains widespread apathy towards all politicians. Only 40 per cent
of people could be bothered to vote in a constituency where the turnout at the
last election was well above the national average. Many people are viscerally
loyal Tories, which means they would not vote for a neo-conservative alternative
such as UKIP. However, they prefer to stay at home rather than vote for a party
that has ditched so many core beliefs in the past few months.

That is why UKIP did so well, and drove Labour into fourth place. Its
candidate's unequivocal commitment to oppose the EU, unlimited immigration from
Europe, high taxation and high public spending resonated with 2,347 people fed
up with Tory equivocation on these matters. Since last December, Cameron and his
friends have committed themselves to maintaining Labour's obscene levels of
taxation, to redistributing wealth, and to positive discrimination in candidate
selection - in other words, choosing candidates other than on merit. They have
refused to reintroduce grammar schools, remained silent on immigration and, in
proposing tax breaks for homosexual couples, have decided that marriage is no
longer the fundamental social unit. Above all, Cameron has failed to keep his
promise to withdraw his MEPs from the federalist EPP in Brussels.

Because people like Mr Maude bandy about the word "change'' without saying what
they mean, we can only muse with horror on what further indignities he might
have in store for his party. There is very little to choose between it and the
other two main parties, which is why the core vote is so alienated that Mr Neill
could only scrape home. No doubt there will be more humiliating populist stunts
such as Dave's appearing on Jonathan Ross's show last Friday, so he could be
asked about his sexual fantasies. It tells you all you need to know about him
that his office has been telling outraged supporters that he is "relaxed'' about
the Ross interview.

In a country screaming out for an opposition, this policy-lite, image-obsessed
drivel is wildly depressing. Most days, I get letters or e-mails from one or two
of our dear readers asking me when I think they will have a "proper''
Conservative Party to vote for. I have to reply that I simply don't know.
Judging from what Mr Maude now wants to do after the Bromley debacle, it is
going to get a lot worse before it gets better.

simon.heffer@telegraph.co.u

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

What the Bromley by-election says about the parties' appeal

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 175 words


SIR - When Eric Lubbock won Orpington, Kent, in a by-election in 1962, with a
swing of 22 per cent against the Conservatives, it was claimed as a breakthrough
that could soon make the Liberals an alternative opposition to Labour.

It turned out to be no such thing. The Liberals secured only nine seats in the
1964 election, which Labour won, and Mr Lubbock (now Lord Avebury) lost his seat
in 1970. As he later remarked wrily: "In 1962, the wise, far-seeing people of
Orpington elected me as their Member; in 1970, the fools threw me out.''

In the Bromley by-election on Thursday, the Liberal Democrats came within 633
votes of taking the seat from the Conservatives, with a 14 per cent swing. Yet,
meanwhile, Sir Menzies Campbell gained the support of only six per cent of
respondents asked to choose which party leader would make the best prime
minister.

At Bromley, there was no comfort for Labour, coming fourth behind UKIP, and none
for the Tories. But it is hard to see the result as a straw in the wind for Lib
Dem fortunes.

Margaret Carter

London SE24

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

What the Bromley by-election says about the parties' appeal

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 99 words


SIR - Is it unthinkable that the Liberal Democrats could flip-flop their EU
policy, as they have higher taxation, and become a genuine alternative?

In the Bromley by-election, their enthusiastic campaign won over a few more than
the faithful, but it failed to win despite the collapse of the Labour vote and
disenchantment with the local Conservative candidate.

Meanwhile, UKIP increased its vote by 57 per cent, overtook Labour and distanced
itself from extreme minority parties. While the EU is admittedly the main issue
for a minority, it is a major irritation for most.

Rod Barrett

Bromley, Kent

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Fresh pressure on Blair to quit soon

BYLINE: Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words


TONY BLAIR faced fresh pressure from formerly loyal Cabinet colleagues to
organise a swift handover of power after a set of disastrous by-election results
demoralised his party yesterday.

Labour suffered the double humiliation of failing to regain its former South
Wales stronghold of Blaenau Gwent and of being beaten into fourth place behind
the UK Independence Party as the Tories held Bromley and Chislehurst in
south-east London.

While Labour's high command desperately tried to draw comfort from a poor
performance by the Conservatives in Bromley - a 13,342 Tory majority was slashed
to 633 as the Liberal Democrats surged - the results triggered another rash of
demands for Mr Blair to go soon.

Ian McCartney, a trade minister who lost his Cabinet post as party chairman in
Mr Blair's last reshuffle, argued that Labour had "no time to lose'' in its
pursuit of a new sense of purpose and said it had to resist further moves to the
Right.

Echoing comments from Charles Clarke, the recently

sacked Home Secretary, who said this week that Mr Blair had lost his direction,
Mr McCartney told Labour's National Policy Forum it was "time to move forward
with a renewed sense of purpose and direction ... Let's start this weekend. We
have no time to lose.''

A majority of Cabinet ministers is now said to believe that Mr Blair will harm
his reputation and the Labour Party if he carries on as leader past the spring
of next year.

He ignored questions about Labour's poor by-election results after a visit to a
children's hospice in Stockton, Teesside.

Today he will tell Labour delegates to the policy forum, in London, that he
still has a full reform agenda on pensions, welfare, health, education and
energy policy.

Hazel Blears, Mr McCartney's successor as party chairman, claimed the Blaenau
Gwent result showed Labour "was going in the right direction''. The winning
independent, Dai Davis, had a majority of 2,484 over Owen Smith, the Labour
candidate, compared to the 9,121 majority of his predecessor Peter Law at the
last General Election.

She described the outcome in Bromley and Chislehurst as a "disaster'' for the
Tories.

Alan Johnson, the Education Secretary, who has said he wants to be deputy leader
when Mr Blair and John Prescott leave office, will tell a Unison conference
today: "We need new ideas, fresh initiatives and renewal in government, but it
has to build on where we are now - a party proud of its record in government,
firmly based on the centre-Left and able to appeal in all constituencies across
the United Kingdom.

Mr Cameron said he was "delighted'' to have won a by-election but admitted he
was "disappointed'' the margin had not been bigger in Bromley.

Francis Maude, the Tory party chairman, conceded the Bromley result was a
"wake-up call'' which showed the party had not yet convinced the public it had
gone far enough with its reforms.

"We have to drive that change faster, wider and deeper,'' he told the Today
programme.

Sir Menzies Campbell, the Liberal Democrat leader, who has had an unconvincing
start as party leader, said the Bromley result showed the Lib Dems were capable
of challenging both the Tories and Labour in their traditional heartlands.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Tories manage to hold on to safe seat despite themselves

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 684 words


THEY were more the words of an embittered loser than the acceptance speech of a
Conservative victor in a traditionally rock-solid Tory constituency.

Shortly before 3am yesterday, Bob Neill, the newly-elected MP for Bromley and
Chislehurst, attacked the Liberal Democrats for a campaign based on "the most
vicious, unpleasant and underhanded example of cynical personal abuse that I
have encountered in 30 years of politics''.

Almost drowned out by Lib Dem jeers at the by-election count, he added: "If you
wonder why it is that people in this country are turned off by politics, get a
mirror and look at yourselves.''

But he and his minders might like to ponder just how many own goals he gave the
other teams. The Tory majority collapsed to just 633 from the 13,342 bequeathed
by the late Eric Forth, the arch-Eurosceptic MP comfortably re-elected at last
year's general election. The result meant that Ben Abbotts, the public relations
man fielded by the Lib Dems, came within a whisker of the most sensational
by-election result since the party was formed in 1988. Some of the Tory collapse
will almost certainly be Conservative traditionalists giving David Cameron a
bloody nose over his determination to modernise the party.

Of course, the Lib Dem surge was, to a huge extent, based on Labour's abject
collapse to fourth place behind the UK Independence Party. But someone forgot to
tell Mr Neill, 53, and his campaign team that when it comes to by-elections, the
Lib Dems fight like cornered polecats. Mr Neill blamed Tory voters for being
complacent and the World Cup for reducing the turnout in this largely prosperous
seat in south-east London.

In Mr Neill, the Tories selected a candidate who was almost an ideal opponent
for both Lib Dems and Ukip, even if he was not an "A list'' elite candidate
foisted on Bromley by Mr Cameron's modernisers.

"Three jobs Bob'' was the Lib Dem slogan for a man who told voters he would stay
on the London Assembly if he won, and who was also a part-time barrister and a
non-executive director of a strategic health authority that formally disbanded
yesterday. The latter post landed him in a legal wrangle as strategic health
authority membership is incompatible with being an MP.

Mr Neill hastily quit the post before polling day and the affair was always
likely to be one for legal anoraks.

But would-be Tory MPs, if possible, should avoid being reported to Scotland Yard
by a rival candidate for being allegedly ineligible, as has now happened.

Lib Dem by-election attacks that rival candidates are "not local'' are as
frequent as they are hypocritical. Mr Abbotts actually lives outside the
constituency. But Mr Neill, although he represents the Bromley area on the
London Assembly, lives in the East End. Cue endless "not local Bob'' sniping.

Tory chiefs will insist that local members, not they, picked Mr Neill to fight
the seat. But the constituency association chose a man who had twice backed the
Europhile Kenneth Clarke for Tory leader to succeed Mr Forth, who joined the
"Better Off Out'' campaign against EU membership weeks before he died. In vain
did Mr Neill protest that he backed Mr Cameron last year.

Ukip mounted its most expensive by-election campaign, with a pounds 70,000-plus
budget, and attacked the Tory as a Brussels-loving Clarkeite unfit to succeed Mr
Forth. Nigel Farage, the Ukip candidate, was disappointed to poll only 4.88 per
cent of the vote, even if that meant shoving Labour's Rachel Reeves into fourth
place.

If the Tories had got their act together, that would have been the story. The
problem is, they didn't.

Bob Neill (Con)11,621

Ben Abbotts (Lib Dem)10,988

Nigel Farage,

(Ukip)2,347 Rachel Reeves

(Lab)1,925

Majority633

Ann Garrett (Green) 811; Paul Winnett (National Front) 476; John Hemming-Clarke,
(Ind) 442 ; Steven Uncles (Eng Dems) 212; John Cartwright ( Looney Party): 132;
Nick Hadziannis (Ind) 65; Anne Belsey (Money Reform) 33;.

Turnout: 4.5%

General Election

Eric Forth (Con) 23,583; Rachel Reeves (Lab) 10,241; Peter Brooks (Lib Dem)
9,368; David Hooper (Ukip) 1,475; Ann Garrett (Green) 1,470 Majority 13,342
Turnout 64.8 %

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

It's disillusionment that triumphs at polls

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Analysis; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 819 words


IF FURTHER evidence were needed that millions of voters are out of sorts with
the entire political class, the Blaenau Gwent and the Bromley and Chislehurst
by-elections amply provided it.

Tony Blair's Government is clearly on notice to quit but the Bromley result
demonstrates that the Tory recovery in the opinion polls reflects
dissatisfaction with Labour far more than any surge of enthusiasm for David
Cameron's party.

A profound disconnection now exists between the whole of the political class and
a substantial portion of the electorate. Politicians promise much but deliver
little - certainly no better a quality of life.

Restless voters find multiple ways of expressing their dissatisfaction. In
earlier generations, more than 90 per cent of voters backed the Conservatives or
Labour. That figure fell at last year's general election to 67 per cent. On
Thursday a paltry 44 per cent of those who voted backed the two major party
candidates.

In Blaenau Gwent, former Labour voters again turned to the people who most
resembled themselves: namely, former Labour politicians. The official Labour
candidate's share of the vote increased by 4.7 points compared to the 2005
general election but it was far from enough.

Dai Davies, who acted last May as agent for the late Peter Law, followed his
former employer's example by standing as an Independent.

He won easily, taking 46.2 per cent of the vote. Labour's Owen Smith trailed in
second place on 37.0 per cent. The Conservative candidate, Margrit Williams,
finished fifth.

It takes an effort of will to recall that Blaenau Gwent - mostly in its former
guises as Ebbw Vale and Merthyr Tydfil - once boasted Labour majorities of more
than 20,000. This was the home country of Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot. The
Conservatives never did well there but usually contrived to come second.

Labour's poor showing in the by-election for Blaenau Gwent's Westminster seat is
mainly symbolic. It will have no practical significance. But Labour also failed
to regain the constituency in the separate by-election for the Welsh National
Assembly.

As a result, Rhodri Morgan's Labour administration in Cardiff remains in a
minority. Mr Morgan now has to decide whether to soldier on as a minority or to
try to organise some form of governing coalition.

The victorious candidate in the Assembly by-election was Peter Law's widow,
Trish. She won a massive 50.3 per cent of the vote, outperforming even Dai
Davies. The Tories again finished fifth.

If Blaenau Gwent alone had polled on Thursday, the Tories could console
themselves with the thought that they were never likely to do well in a Welsh
valleys constituency. But Bromley and Chislehurst is another matter. A really
resurgent Conservative Party would have romped home in one of the most dark blue
parts of Greater London.

Instead, the Tories barely staggered home. Their share of the vote dropped by a
fifth from 51.1 per cent at the general election to 40 per cent at the
by-election - a fall of fully 11.1 percentage points.

There is no reason to think that Bob Neill was an unsatisfactory candidate.

David Cameron's Conservatives are still failing to win hearts and minds,
whatever the opinion polls may say.

The new-style Conservative Party in Bromley undoubtedly lost some ground to the
political Right. Some voters who would otherwise have backed the Tories
undoubtedly switched to the United Kingdom Independence Party.

Ukip's share of the vote rose from a miserable 3.2 per cent last May to a
somewhat more respectable but still unimpressive 8.1 per cent on Thursday. Ukip
finished fourth last year and its candidate only just made it into third place
in the by-election.

The Conservatives clearly lost more support to the Left. The major beneficiaries
of the Tories' implosion were not Ukip or the National Front but the Liberal
Democrats.

The Lib Dems finished a poor third at the general election but swept into second
place at the by-election, their share of the vote almost doubling from 37.8 per
cent to 38.3 per cent.

The Liberal Democrat candidate, Ben Abbotts, came within 633 votes of taking the
seat.

Labour, as usual these days, did extraordinarily badly.

While some of the increased Lib Dem support undoubtedly derived from former
Tories, the bulk of it must have come from disaffected Labour supporters.
Labour's share of the vote plummeted by more than two thirds from a modest 22.2
per cent a year ago to a derisory 6.6 per cent on Thursday.

Labour in Bromley looked like just another fringe party, contriving to descend
into fourth place, ahead of the Greens but behind Ukip.

Undoubtedly the Tories in Bromley suffered from the universal belief - which
proved correct - that they were bound to hold the seat. A higher turnout might
well have produced a more convincing victory.

However, the hard fact remains that both major parties are failing to address
voters' concerns in terms the voters feel they can respond to.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Whoever the leader, the old parties are suffering

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 453 words


We've said it before and we'll no doubt say it again: people have turned against
the established parties for a good reason. They have reached the correct view
that their ballot will not make much of a change, and so use elections as a
megaphone to shout at the distant party leaderships.

Both the main parties were given a clubbing on Thursday. The Conservatives
nearly lost one of their safest seats in Bromley and Chislehurst, and, in
Blaenau Gwent, were pushed into fifth place, winning less than three per cent of
the vote. For Labour, it was the same story: pushed into fourth place by UKIP in
London and failing to win a constituency represented in the past by Nye Bevan.

We mean no disrespect to Dai Davies, winner of the Gwent contest, when we say
that the result owed less to his personal qualities than to the desire of voters
to thumb their nose at the old parties by backing an independent. The same
applies to the Lib Dems and UKIP, both of whom doubled their vote in Bromley.
(How nice, by the way, to hear Nigel Farage, the UKIP contender, gallantly
stressing that Labour's collapse was in no way the fault of its young
candidate.)

It is in the context of this popular scepticism that we should view the poll in
yesterday's newspaper showing that people would prefer David Cameron to Tony
Blair as prime minister. The Tories will be delighted: here is the first sign
that they have lifted the curse that has lain upon them since September 1992,
when the pound fell out of the ERM. Yet they will also know that the figures are
chiefly anti-Blair rather than pro-Cameron. As the old truism has it,
oppositions don't win elections: governments lose them. This being so, the
wisest strategy for the Opposition is to eliminate its negatives, so as to
present few impediments to the voters who have been repelled by the ruling
party.

This, more or less, is what Mr Cameron has done. One by one, he has sought to
dismantle the perceptions that stand between his party and the electorate: that
the Tories don't care about the poor, that they are in the pocket of big
business, that they have nothing to say about the environment. His party members
have followed him, partly because they can read the polls, and partly because he
has kept faith with them on Europe, promising to leave the federalist EPP. With
a fair wind, the tactic could well take him to Downing Street. It is true that
many of his votes will be cast tactically against Labour; but, when neatly
stacked before the returning officers, they will look just the same as the ones
cast enthusiastically for the Tories. Anti-politician sentiment is thus, in a
narrow sense, good news for Mr Cameron. But, in the longer term, it is bad news
for our democracy.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Voters are sick of these PR men on the make

BYLINE: JULIA LANGDON

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 709 words


IT WAS one of those accidents of history that the Aneurin Bevan Society was
holding a reception for 'old' Left-wingers in London just as Tony Blair's
official 'new' Labour candidate for Blaenau Gwent Bevan's former constituency
was crashing to by-election ignominy in what had once been one of Britain's
safest Labour seats.

Many toasts of nicely chilled Chardonnay were being offered and drunk to '
Socialism' by the Bevan comrades gathered at the Transport and General Workers'
Union headquarters.

As it happened, not one of those toasts proposed a Labour victory at the
byelection for the simple reason that there were probably very few people
present who really wanted the Labour candidate to win.

I was one of them. I will hold up my hand and say that as a former Labour Party
member for nearly 40 years, as a former councillor and member of the party
staff, I was pleased subsequently to learn that the Blaenau Gwent official party
placeman was beaten.

My democratic heart beat a little faster with pleasure at the result. Like the
voters in what used to be Ebbw Vale, I wanted Tony Blair to be shown reality.

And next, perhaps, we can show him the door. He has already opened that door and
we know his passage through it is only a matter of time.

The results of the two by-elections both devastating indictments of what Tony
Blair and 'new' Labour now mean to the electorate should help give him a very
good push. The truth is that the 'old' Labour Party is still alive and doing the
pushing.

What is more, the old Conservative Party is up for giving David Cameron a good
push, too. The result in Bromley and Chislehurst in which the Tory candidate
only just scraped in, provides a measure of the distance that the new Tory
leader has yet to cover.

The Liberal Democrats mounted an effective campaign, but that they came so close
to the Tories is something that Mr Cameron needs to think about. And hard.

The result for Labour in this Tory seat was terrible just as bad as in Labour's
heartland of South Wales. The Labour Party candidate was utterly humiliated
trailing in fourth position.

The fact is that Labour had this coming.

Back in Wales, the defeat of Owen Smith, the 'Labour' candidate, was wholly
predictable.

HE WAS not the popular choice. He was the imposed choice. Although the Labour
Party machine had thrown all it could at the campaign, dispatching senior
ministers to Wales, political analysts of my acquaintance knew and reported
privately days ago that Labour had once again lost the seat.

And the reason was already obvious. As Dai Davies, the independent victor and
new MP, said: 'You take people for granted at your peril.' That is what the
Labour Party has done and is still continuing to do. The message from this
by-election is a grave one for Tony Blair and is likely to be etched upon his
own political tombstone if he does not heed what the voters of the valleys have
now told him. It comes down to a few simple facts: The voters do not like Tony
Blair personally and they don't like his cash for peerages and the way he does
his political business. They don't trust him and they do not share his political
priorities.

He has already been given some indication of this by the opinion polls. The
Labour Party may have won the General Election last year, but the important
thing is that it was despite the fact that Tony Blair was the leader not because
of him.

As Professor John Curtice, the electoral analyst, has observed, the Prime
Minister moved probably about two years ago from being a vote-winning wonder
into what is now seen as an electoral liability.

What happened on Thursday in Blaenau Gwent serves as an illustrative lesson
because of the historic socialist significance of the constituency. But it is
also important that in Bromley and Chislehurst, in the cushioned comforts of
suburbia that Blair has tried to make his own, Labour failed to persuade even
2,000 people to vote for its candidate and came fourth behind UKIP.

The conclusion to draw from both of these by-elections is that political parties
underestimate the electorate at their peril.

Neither Tony Blair nor David Cameron has the faintest comprehension of how fed
up voters are with spin. They want politicians of substance and principle, not
PRs on the make.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

'Dave' is defiant, too, as heartland turns on Tories

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 527 words


DAVID CAMERON vowed last night to speed up his reform of the Conservative Party
despite suffering a humiliating blow in the Bromley and Chislehurst by-election.

The new leader was forced on to the defensive after thousands of traditional
voters in the Kent Tory stronghold refused to support his modernising agenda.

Until Thursday night, the seat was one of the safest Conservative seats in the
country with a majority of 23,000 held by the late MP Eric Forth.

But this was dramatically slashed from 13,342 to just 633 by a Lib Dem surge.

The UK Independence Party, which advocates Britain's complete withdrawal from
the European Union, was one of the beneficiaries. It won 2,347 votes an increase
of nearly five per cent and moved into third place ahead of Labour.

In a defiant message, the Tory leader blamed negative campaigning by the Liberal
Democrats for the unexpected drop in popularity and insisted his changes would
go 'further, faster and deeper'.

Mr Cameron said: 'I think the Conservative Party will have to learn from the
result and I think it proves that we have to reform the party and change the
party further to make sure that sort of mud never sticks.

'The changes I am making will go further and go faster and go deeper and I am
pleased we have got a Conservative Member of Parliament today.' Tory chairman
Francis Maude earlier admitted the party had received a nasty 'wakeup call'
after its candidate Bob Neill narrowly clung on to the seat with 11,621 votes
down from Mr Forth's 23,000.

In a bitter acceptance speech, London Assembly member Mr Neill rounded on the
Lib Dems who had attacked him for holding several paid posts and not living in
the constituency.

He said: 'A minority of the candidates, principally the Liberal Democrats, have
chosen to fight this campaign with the most vigorous and underhand example of
cynical personal abuse that I have encountered in 30 years of politics.' Mr
Neill told the Lib Dems: 'If you sometimes wonder why it is that people in this
country are turned off by politics, get a mirror and look at yourselves.' Allies
of Mr Cameron will try to seize on the result as a vindication of the Tory
leader's controversial 'A-List', which aims to fast-track women and ethnic
minority candidates into Westminster.

The Bromley Conservative party had snubbed Mr Cameron's list of candidates in
favour of 53-year-old barrister Mr Neill, who is considered a 'blazerandtie'
Tory.

Labour Party chairman Hazel Blears claimed the Bromley result was an 'absolute
disaster' for the Tories.

'What you've got here is a classic byelection with the Liberal Democrats
campaigning really hard, they have a by-election machine,' she said.

'And people vote tactically in byelections, and clearly there was a move here to
vote anything but for the Tory party so everybody got behind the candidate that
they thought could beat David Cameron's nominee.' Meanwhile, Liberal Democrat
leader Sir Menzies Campbell praised his party's near-miss as a 'stupendous
result' in 'one of the safest Conservative seats in the country'.

'It shows that there is no confidence in Cameron's Tories in the Conservative
heartlands,' he said.

k.walker@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Clear messages for Blair and Cameron

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 560 words


BOTH Tony Blair and David Cameron have a great deal of hard thinking to do after
yesterday's by-election results.

For the Prime Minister, the message from Blaenau Gwent and Bromley and
Chislehurst could not have been clearer: Voters are fed up with him.

Fed up with the spin and sleaze the initiatives, relaunches and renewals, all of
which come to nothing.

Fed up with cash-for-peerages, the disgusting financial gymnastics of Mr Tessa
Jowell and Mr Blair's cynical tolerance of the incompetence and sexual
incontinence of his deputy.

Fed up with violent crime and police forces that seem more concerned with
political correctness than catching crooks.

Fed up with a Home Office beyond satire and a justice system that puts human
rights of criminals above those of victims.

Fed up with an ever expanding public sector and the stealth taxes that eat up
ever more of our earnings.

Fed up with all the lies about rising standards in schools and hospitals, and
the constant, hectoring interference of the nanny state.

In sum, they are fed up with a paralysed Government, whose members seem more
interested in jostling for position under Mr Blair's successor than in solving
the country's problems.

But there was precious little comfort for Mr Cameron, either.

Like Blaenau Gwent for Labour, Chislehurst and Bromley should have been a
walkover for the Tories. They were defending a 13,000 majority.

But the party's candidate scraped home by a mere 633 votes. Why? Why hasn't Mr
Cameron's masterly job of restoring the Tories' fortunes in the opinion polls
been reflected in the polls that really matter?

Until now, Dave's thinking has been that Tory traditionalists will just have to
lump his touch-feely waffle. He reckoned they had nowhere else to go. Oh no?

This week, they showed they did.

Thousands stayed at home. Some voted UKIP. Others resorted to that most
traditional way of registering a protest in a by-election, and voted Lib-Dem.

Mr Cameron needs to realise that there is more to politics than spin and media
manipulation. If Britain has learned one thing from the past ten years, it is
that we don't want another Mr Blair.

Dave and his crew should start spending more time on creating solid policies.

Bromley should teach them that natural Conservative voters are not seduced by
such pathetic stunts as Mr Cameron cycling to Parliament with his
chauffeurdriven car following. Or planting a tree to compensate for the
ecological gaffe of taking a private plane to the World Cup.

Or going tie-less to the Beckhams' party, courtesy of a red-top editor. Or being
asked cringe-making questions on the Jonathan Ross show.

Put simply, the message from tribal Tories to Mr Cameron is: 'Stop taking us for
granted'.

And from the electorate to Mr Blair? It can be summed up in a single word: 'Go!'

Match point AT 4pm today, BBC1 will begin live coverage of the World Cup
quarterfinal between England and Portugal. About the same time, Andy Murray is
expected to walk out before the BBC2 cameras to face Andy Roddick on Centre
Court.

Which to watch? We foresee heated marital disputes all over the kingdom.

At the Mail, we pride ourselves on our courage. But there is a line between
courage and recklessness we won't cross.

Couples must sort out for themselves, without any guidance from us, who should
hold the remote control. All we will say is: Come on Murray! And come on
England!

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Blair still won't set a date

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 773 words


TONY BLAIR was last night refusing to bow to intense pressure to set a firm date
for his departure after another catastrophic night for Labour at the polls.

Even formerly loyal Cabinet colleagues appear impatient for him to announce a
timetable for the handover of power to Gordon Brown.

But Labour chairman Hazel Blears one of a dwindling band of loyal Blairites
insisted that those calling for him to name the date would be disappointed.

'They are certainly not going to get this fabled, mythical timetable,' she
declared.

Downing Street was reduced to insisting the Prime Minister had not 'run out of
steam'.

The internal turmoil over Mr Blair's departure intensified after the party
failed to win back its traditional stronghold of Blaenau Gwent, formerly held by
Nye Bevan and Michael Foot as Ebbw Vale, and was beaten into fourth place by the
UK Independence Party in Bromley and Chislehurst.

Labour's result in the Kent constituency was the worst performance for a
governing party in 15 years.

Trade minister Ian McCartney, former Labour chairman and a Blair loyalist,
issued a blunt warning that the party was in 'choppy waters'.

He said there was 'no time to lose' for 'renewal' the code-word among supporters
of Gordon Brown for Mr Blair's exit from Downing Street.

At Blaenau Gwent, independent Dai Davies beat Labour's Owen Smith with a
majority of just under 2,500.

Labour's apparently impenetrable 19,000-strong majority had been overturned at
last year's General Election by independent Peter Law, who won with a 9,000
margin after quitting Labour in a row over all-women shortlists.

Labour had been confident of regaining the South Wales seat in the by-election,
triggered by Mr Law's death, and poured resources into a vigorous local
campaign.

In another blow, Mr Law's widow, Trish, beat Labour's John Hopkins in a separate
vote for a seat on the Welsh Assembly. Her victory deprives Labour of a majority
on the Assembly for the first time.

Senior Labour backbench MP Gwyneth Dunwoody said the Blaenau Gwent result was a
'wakeup call'.

'Until we make it clear to the electorate that we are a party of principle, not
profit, we shall continue to suffer reverses,' she said.

'It is time for the Labour Party to take a long, cold look at its policies and
future development.' In Bromley and Chislehurst, where a by-election was called
after the death of Tory MP Eric Forth, Labour's vote slumped by 16 per cent to
just 1,925.

While the party had little hope of winning the traditionally Tory constituency,
being beaten into fourth place by UKIP's Nigel Farage was a crushing blow.

At Westminster, Labour MPs were last night blaming both poor results on
increasing dissatisfaction with Mr Blair among voters.

The pressure on the Prime Minister was intensified by a new poll showing David
Cameron was the first Tory leader in a decade to be more popular than Mr Blair.

The Government has also been damaged by allegations that peerages have been
traded for cash, John

Prescott's affair with his secretary and the scandal over the release of foreign
prisoners.

Charles Clarke's warning this week that the party lacks direction and purpose
with Mr Blair at the helm added to the sense of a Government in a state of
limbo.

In a speech to Labour's National Policy Forum, Mr McCartney warned the party
against being consumed by infighting.

But he told party activists there was 'no time to lose' for the party's renewal.

'Here we are in our tenth year in power,' he said.

'We've never been here before as a party. We are in some choppy waters and it's
tough at the moment.' In what will be seen as a call for a smooth and rapid
handover of power, Mr McCartney declared it was 'time to move forward with a
renewed sense of purpose and direction'.

Education Secretary Alan Johnson, tipped as a possible challenger to Mr Brown
for the keys to Number Ten, warned Labour that it would vacate the political
centre ground at its peril.

Sources close to Mr Johnson said he was 'fed up' with the 'navel-gazing' of
senior colleagues.

Addressing union members in Birmingham, he said: 'Yes, we need new ideas, fresh
initiatives and renewal in government. But it has to build on where we are now a
party proud of its record in government, firmly based on the centre-left and
able to appeal in all constituencies across the United Kingdom.

'We vacate that territory at our peril.' Mr Johnson later insisted Mr Blair was
not to blame for the byelection defeats, calling him 'probably the most
incredibly talented politician of his era'.

But he admitted Tory leader David Cameron posed the 'most dangerous threat'
Labour had faced since Margaret Thatcher.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Politics: Narrow margin of victory in Bromley deals blow to Tory renaissance
hopes

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 360 words


The Conservatives were yesterday beginning an inquest into their shock
near-defeat in the former stronghold of Bromley and Chislehurst.

The Liberal Democrats came within 633 votes of snatching the seat in London's
commuter belt, previously the Tories' 17th safest seat with a majority of more
than 13,000. A defeat would have been hugely damaging to David Cameron, and the
closeness of the contest is alarming for the party at a time when it should be
winning with ease in its heartlands.

It suggests that, despite its strong opinion poll ratings, it may struggle to
enthuse its traditional voters and is not yet attracting disaffected Labour
voters in the numbers required. Labour's vote in Bromley slumped from around
10,000 to under 2,000. Francis Maude, the Conservative chairman, admitted the
result was a wake-up call. "David has been rightly driving a process of change
in the party and the simple truth from this result is that we have to drive that
change faster, wider and deeper," he told BBC Radio 4's Today.

Mr Cameron told Sky News he was delighted the Tories had won the seat, but
added: "Obviously the margin was not as great as we wanted. We are disappointed
and there are lessons to learn."

Mr Cameron played a minimal role in the fight for the seat, which was formerly
held by rightwinger Eric Forth. He visited the constituency only once and the
local party chose as candidate Bob Neill, a white, middle-aged barrister and
Freemason rather than a candidate from the A-list, designed to promote
diversity.

Conservative insiders admitted their campaign had been lacklustre and dogged by
Mr Neill's failure to resign as a director of a health authority before
standing.

The Lib Dems were jubilant at running the Tories so close. "Third party politics
are back with a bang," said Sir Menzies Campbell, whose leadership will receive
a welcome boost from the result.

Hazel Blears, Labour party chair, said the result was a disaster for a
supposedly resurgent Conservative party. But a senior Labour source conceded it
was an embarrassment to be pushed into fourth place by Ukip, which had mounted a
£75,000 campaign in the seat.

guardian.co.uk/politics >

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Bromley voters highlight the divide in Tory ranks

BYLINE: ByAndyMcSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 651 words


The Conservatives admitted yesterday that they still need to find "positive"
reasons why people should vote for them, after they narrowly avoided a
potentially catastrophic by-election defeat in one of their safest Commons
seats.

Voters in Bromley and Chislehurst deserted the Tories on a scale that very
nearly produced the worst swing against them since Labour came to power in 1997.
The Liberal Democrats came within 633 votes of capturing the south London seat,
where they had trailed in third place in last year's general election, won by
the late Tory Eric Forth with a majority of 13,342.

The result is likely to provoke recriminations behind the scenes, with Tory
traditionalists blaming the party leader, David Cameron, for putting off natural
Tory voters in his quest to modernise the party. Cameron supporters said it
proved the pace of modernisation had to be stepped up.

Francis Maude, the party chairman, admitted that the result was "a bit of a
wake-up call for us - that we've got a long way further to go".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today: "David's been rightly driving a process of change.
The simple truth from this election result is that we have to drive that change
faster, wider and deeper, because we have to supply more and more positive
reasons why people should vote for us. And I'm sure we will do."

The winning Tory candidate, Bob Neill, angrily accused the Liberal Democrats of
running a personal campaign against them. "If you sometimes wonder why it is
that people in this country are turned off by politics, get a mirror and look at
yourselves," he told them.

The attack was rejected by the Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell,
who praised his party's performance as "stupendous result" which "shows that
there is no confidence in Cameron's Tories in the Conservative heartlands."

Mr Neill had come under attack both from the Liberal Democrats and the UK
Independence Party for his multiple roles as a member of the London Assembly, a
paid member of a health authority, and a practising lawyer. The Lib Dems called
him "three jobs Bob."

The UKIP candidate, Nigel Farage, claimed the campaign had shown "the arrogance
of the Tory party and its willingness to take Bromley and Chislehurst's voters
for granted". He added: "Mr Neill has far too many jobs and sits on too many
committees."

The swing against the Conservatives was 11.1 percentage points - fractionally
better than the 11.2 per cent swing against them in the Hartlepool by-election,
caused by Peter Mandel-son's appointment as an European commissioner, in 2004.
The only other by-election in eight years to produce such a swing of this
magnitude was the unusual poll in Winchester, called after the defeated Tory
candidate challenged the result of the 1997 general election.

John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said: "With the
exception of the modest progress made in May's local elections the Tory party
still has to demonstrate any evidence of a revival in the ballot box.

"This suggests there is still a battle going on for who can secure the spoils of
Labour unpopularity and that the current Tory lead is probably more of
atesta-ment to the unpopularity of Labour than the popularity of the
Conservatives."

In public, Labour officials were avoiding any sign of gloating over a result in
which their candidate tumbled from second to fourth place, behind UKIP. But in
private, they drew a comforting comparison with the sort of results that they
pulled off when Tony Blair was opposition leader. In the first by-election after
Mr Blair's election as party leader, Dudley West in December 1994 Labour ousted
the Tories with a swing of 29 per cent. Thursday's showing by the Tories
compared with the sort of by election results Labour suffered before its defeat
n the 1987 general election.

LEADING ARTICLE PAGE 34

The Tory party still has to demonstrate evidence of a revival in the ballot box-

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Conservative's Bob Neill celebrates winning in Bromley and
Chislehurst with a much-reduced majority. The Liberal Democrats moved into
second place pa/chris young

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

A warning to the main every vote is up for grabs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 606 words


It has been quite some time since Labour has been able to take comfort from
aby-election result. And this week's twin con-tests in south London and south
Wales will have done nothing to change that trend. Labour's candidate was again
rejected in Blaenau Gwent. And in Bromley and Chislehurst the party was pushed
into fourth place, behind the UK Independence Party.

Even allowing for the tendencies of by-elections to go against ruling parties,
these were terrible results for Labour. It is often said that electorates punish
divided parties. It now seems that they are punishing a divided leadership. The
power struggle between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown has eroded Labour's
credibility among voters. The air of perpetual crisis around the Government has
also damaged its image. The cash-for-peerages scandal, John Prescott's
humiliation and a succession of Home Office blunders have taken their toll.

Yet the Conservatives can take no comfort from these results either. The fact
that Bromley almost slipped from their grasp shows how much the Conservative
Party still has to accomplish to win power. David Cameron's leadership has been
so lauded of late that the Conservatives might have expected to romp home. In
the end, they held on only by the skin of their teeth. The Conservative chairman
Francis Maude was essentially correct yesterday when he argued that these
results show the need to drive change "faster, wider and deeper". It is not
enough for Mr Cameron to be favourably regarded - the party must be trusted too.

Strangely, the present political climate probably did the Conservatives no
favours. Mr Cameron has spent the past few weeks talking about some very
traditional Tory topics: law and order, Europe, the Human Rights Act.

Many of his interventions could have been delivered by Iain Duncan Smith or
Michael Howard. Mr Cameron should be pressing the Government on the environment,
social issues and civil liberties, where a strong opposition voice is needed
more than ever. What this week's result underlines is that the old Tory
obsessions turn voters off.

The Liberal Democrats are the only mainstream party with anything to celebrate
from these by-elections. Despite Sir Menzies Campbell's lacklustre leadership,
the party he leads is still, evidently, an election-winning machine. And
by-elections are a particular speciality. An impressive surge slashed the Tory
majority in Bromley from 13,342 to 633 on Thursday. And this comes only five
months after the shock victory over Labour in the Dunfermline and West Fife
by-election. The Liberal Democrats remain a potent threat to both Labour and the
Conservatives. Three-party politics is still very much with us.

But so too are the independents. In the 2005 election, Blaenau Gwent voters
rejected the official Labour candidate in favour of a local councillor who had
resigned from the party over the imposition of an all-female shortlist. This
week, instead of flocking back to Labour, voters elected another independent.

This should be a warning for all three mainstream parties. If a strong local
independent candidate emerges, with a serious campaign, voters are increasingly
likely to support them. Nor is this a passing phenomenon. As we saw in Wyre
Forest in 2005 -and now in Gwent - independent seats can quite easily remain
independent.

Labour, the Conservatives and even the Liberal Democrats should beware. The idea
that the public has nowhere else to go is quite wrong. In this age of increasing
consumer choice and electoral promiscuity, every vote is up for grabs.

If a strong local independent candidate emerges, voters are increasingly likely
to support them

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bromley result highlights the divide in Tory ranks

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 582 words


The Conservatives admitted yesterday that they still need to find "positive"
reasons why people should vote for them, after they narrowly avoided a
potentially catastrophic by-election defeat in one of their safest Commons
seats.

Voters in Bromley and Chislehurst deserted the Tories on a scale that produced
almost the worst swing against them since 1997. The Liberal Democrats came
within 633 votes of capturing the south London seat, where they had trailed in
third place in last year's general election, won by the late Tory Eric Forth
with a majority of 13,342.

The result is likely to provoke recriminations, with Tory traditionalists
blaming the party leader, David Cameron, for putting off Tory voters in his
quest to modernise the party. Cameron supporters said it proved the pace of
modernisation had to be stepped up. Francis Maude, the party chairman, admitted
the result was "a bit of a wake-up call for us."

The winning Tory candidate, Bob Neill, angrily accused the Liberal Democrats of
running a personal campaign. "If you sometimes wonder why it is that people in
this country are turned off by politics, get a mirror and look at yourselves,"
he told them.

The attack was rejected by the Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell,
who praised his party's performance as "stupendous result" which "shows that
there is no confidence in Cameron's Tories in the Conservative heartlands".

Mr Neill had come under attack both from the Liberal Democrats and the UK
Independence Party for his multiple roles as a member of the London Assembly, a
paid member of a health authority and a practising lawyer. The Lib Dems called
him "three jobs Bob".

The UKIP candidate, Nigel Farage, claimed the campaign had shown "the arrogance
of the Tory party and its willingness to take Bromley and Chislehurst's voters
for granted".

He added: "Mr Neill has far too many jobs and sits on too many committees."

The swing against the Conservatives was 11.1 percentage points - fractionally
better than the 11.2 per cent swing against them in the Hartlepool by-election,
caused by Peter Mandel-son's appointment as an European commissioner, in 2004.
The only other by-election in eight years to produce a swing of such magnitude
was the unusual poll in Winchester, called after the defeated Tory candidate
challenged the result of the 1997 general election.

John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said: "With the
exception of the modest progress made in May's local elections, the Tory party
still has to demonstrate any evidence of a revival in the ballot box.

"This suggests there is still a battle going on for who can secure the spoils of
Labour unpopularity and that the current Tory lead is probably more of a
testament to the unpopularity of Labour than the popularity of the
Conservatives."

In public, Labour officials were avoiding gloating over a result in which their
candidate tumbled from second to fourth place, behind UKIP But in private, they
drew a comparison with the results that they pulled off when Tony Blair was
opposition leader. In the first by-election after his election as party leader,
Dudley West in 1994, Labour ousted the Tories with a swing of 29 per cent.
Thursday's showing by the Tories was comparable with the sort of results Labour
suffered before losing the 1987 general election.

Bromley and Chislehurst

BOB NEILL Conservative: 40%

BEN ABBOTTS Liberal Democrat: 37.8%

NIGEL FARAGE UKIP: 8.1%

RACHEL REEVES Labour: 6.6%

OTHERS 7.5%

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE34

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Conservatives' Bob Neill barely clung on to Bromley and Chislehurst
chris young/pa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

LABOURED;
PASTING AT POLLS BLAIR FACES GROWING CLAMOUR TO GO AFTER ELECTION DEFEATS

BYLINE: BY OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 282 words


TONY Blair will today face down calls to quit early after Labour suffered a
humiliating defeats in two by-elections.

Blaenau Gwent - once the seat of Aneurin Bevan and Michael Foot - was won by
former Labour man, now Independent, Dai Davies.

And the Welsh Assembly seat also went to Independent Trish Law, widow of the
constituency's last MP Peter Law.

Labour also finished fourth behind the right-wing UK Independence Party in
Bromley and Chisle-hurst in Kent.

The Prime Minister will today make a fight back speech to Labour activists in
East London as he faces mounting pressure to stand down before the local
elections in May.

Former steelworker Mr Davies slammed Labour for "taking voters for granted".

He added: "It's the people that matter, not the political parties. The dinosaurs
thought they would live for ever - they died out.

"Political parties take note and listen to the people or you're in trouble."

But Education Secretary Alan Johnson warned his party not to lurch to the left.
He said: "Cameron has realised that he can only win by occupying the centre
ground and he's banking on a hunch that if he occupies that ground we'll leave
it for the electoral fringe that we consigned ourselves to 25 years ago. We
vacate that territory at our peril."

Labour chairman Hazel Blears denied Mr Blair must set a date to go. She said of
his critics: "They are not going to get this fabled, mythical timetable."

But left-wingers called for him to leave this year so Gordon Brown could revive
the party.

o.blackman@mirror.co.uk

Blaenau Gwent

Dai Davies (Ind) 12,543' Owen Smith (Lab) 10,059' Steffan Lewis (PC) 1,755' Amy
Kitcher (LD) 1,477' Margrit Williams (C) 1,013' Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 318

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTORY: Dai Davies after win yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

LABOURED;
PASTING AT POLLS BLAIR FACES GROWING CLAMOUR TO GO AFTER ELECTION DEFEATS

BYLINE: BY OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 288 words


TONY Blair will today face down calls to quit early after Labour suffered
humiliating defeats in two by-elections.

The PM will today make a fight-back speech to Labour activists in East London
telling the party to "hold firm".

He will say: "This is the time to make the right decisions' to face up to the
tough challenges no matter how daunting.

"This is the time to renew, not by returning to the past, but by showing we have
the drive, determination and vision to make the future work, not for a few but
for all."

Labour failed to regain Blaenau Gwent - once the seat of Aneurin Bevan and
Michael Foot - from ex-Labour man, now Independent, Dai Davies.

The Welsh Assembly seat went to Independent Trish Law, widow of the
constituency's last MP Peter Law. Labour also finished fourth behind the
right-wing UK Independence Party in Bromley and Chislehurst in Kent.

Former steelworker Mr Davies slammed Labour for "taking voters for granted".

He said: "It's the people that matter, not political parties. The dinosaurs
thought they would live for ever - they died out."

But Education Secretary Alan Johnson warned his party not to lurch to the left.

He said: "Cameron has realised he can only win by occupying the centre ground
and he's banking on a hunch that we'll leave it for the electoral fringe that we
consigned ourselves to 25 years ago. We vacate it at our peril."

Labour chairman Hazel Blears said of the PM's critics: "They are not going to
get this fabled, mythical timetable." Left-wingers called for an early exit so
Gordon Brown could revive the party.

Blaenau Gwent

Dai Davies (Ind) 12,543' Owen Smith (Lab) 10,059' Steffan Lewis (PC) 1,755' Amy
Kitcher (LD) 1,477' Margrit Williams (C) 1,013' Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 318.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBLEMS: Tony Blair yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 51 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

AND SNORIES;
PASTING AT POLLS CAMERON SUPPORT COLLAPSES IN TRADITIONAL TORY STRONGHOLD

BYLINE: BY OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 283 words


DAVID Cameron has been left reeling after Tory votes collapsed in one of the
safest Conservative seats in the country.

The party only just held traditional true blue Bromley in Kent.

The once ultra-safe seat almost fell to the Liberal Democrats despite a hopeless
few months by their new leader Sir Menzies Campbell.

Tory candidate Bob Neill held the seat but the general election majority was
slashed from 13,342 to just 633 by the Liberal Democrats -just short of a
spectacular political upset.

Mr Cameron now faces an internal backlash from Tory right-wingers who do not
rate his chance of wooing the heartlands. The by-election was the first critical
test of Mr Cameron's popularity in a Tory stronghold.

The Tory leader and his inner circle will now spend the weekend holding a
by-election inquest and surveying the damage from Bromley.

One source said party chiefs were "gobsmacked" when the results came in

The source said: "What this tells us on the national picture is that the opinion
polls favouring Mr Cameron may be one thing but the reality on the ground is
much more fragile."

Tory chairman Francis Maude admitted yesterday: "It's a bit of a wake-up call
for us - that we've got a long way further to go."

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell said: "It shows that there is no
confidence in Cameron's Tories in the Conservative heartlands."

Yesterday Mr Cameron said: "I think the Conservative Party will have to learn
from the result."

Voice of The Mirror: Page 8

o.blackman@mirror.co.uk

Bromley & Chislehurst

Bob Neill (C) 11,621' Ben Abbotts (LD) 10,988' Nigel Farage (UKIP) 2,347' Rachel
Reeves (Lab) 1,925' Ann Garrett (Green) 811' Paul Winnett (NF) 476' John
Hemming-Clarke (Ind) 442.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTER SWEET: Tory Bob Neill ponders victory

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Britain - Blairites take a hammering at the polls

BYLINE: Daniel Coysh

LENGTH: 569 words


New Labour suffered a crushing double blow yesterday after Blaenau Gwent's
voters rejected it in by-elections for both the House of Commons and the Welsh
Assembly.

In Labour's former south Wales stronghold, the party's candidate Owen Smith was
beaten by independent Dai Davies, the agent of former MP Peter Law, who died in
April.

Mr Law's widow Trish, meanwhile, beat Labour's John Hopkins to the Welsh
Assembly seat by more than 4,000 votes. Her victory denies Labour a majority in
the assembly.

Mr Law, who was elected in 2003 as a Labour Assembly Member, won the Commons
seat as an independent in last year's general election after the party tried to
parachute in a serviceable Blairite under the guise of an all-women shortlist.

Feelings are still running high in Blaenau Gwent, as Labour officials
subsequently "punished" local members who supported Mr Law with expulsion.

The constituency's new MP, Mr Davies - a former steelworker and union official -
hailed a "political revolution" in his acceptance speech.

"Political parties, take note - you take people for granted at your peril," he
declared.

Ms Law said: "This is a victory for Blaenau Gwent. This is a victory for honesty
and integrity," adding that she wished to ensure that "never again will the
people of this area be taken for granted."

Communist Party of Britain general secretary Rob Griffiths warned: "This result
shows the dangers that lie ahead for the Labour Party if they don't dump new
Labour and its warmongering, pro-big business policies."

Senior Labour MP Gwyneth Dunwoody said that the defeat was a "wake-up call" for
the party.

"Until we make it clear to the electorate that we are a party of principle, not
profit, we shall continue to suffer reverses," she warned.

"It is time for the Labour Party to take a long, cold look at its policies and
future development."

But unelected Labour chairwoman Hazel Blears sought comfort in the fact that an
aggressive campaign, which involved a visit by Chancellor Gordon Brown, had
reduced the independent majority by 6,637 votes.

She claimed that the result was "going in the right direction" and rejected
fresh calls for the departure of Prime Minister Tony Blair.

Ms Blears admitted that there had been "issues" around Mr Blair's leadership,
but she insisted that he would not bow to critics calling for a timetable for
the handover of power.

"They are certainly not going to get this fabled, mythical timetable, because I
think what that would do is mean that we are not talking about policy, we are
not talking about the practical ideals," she told BBC radio.

But Mr Griffiths retorted: "Gordon Brown scuppered any faint hope for the Labour
candidate with his recent support for a new generation of nuclear weapons.

"This was, clearly, a lot more popular among his audience of City bankers than
it was among the working-class voters of Blaenau Gwent, who understand that £25
billion would be better spent on housing and the NHS than on weapons of mass
destruction."

On a grim night for Labour, the party was also kicked into fourth place behind
the UK Independence Party in Bromley and Chislehurst in south-east London,
following a by-election prompted by the recent death of Tory MP Eric Forth.

However, the Conservatives also suffered a major blow, with their majority cut
from more than 13,000 votes to less than 700 in one of the party's safest seats.

See related article: STAR COMMENT: Plot a new course.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Blair is bruised..Dave's dented

BYLINE: Andrew Porter, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 285  words


By-election misery for BOTH leaders

LABOUR'S two terrible by-election results add to the pressure on Tony Blair to
quit.

The party failed to regain a former safe Welsh seat and were dumped into FOURTH
in Bromley and Chislehurst, where even UKIP beat them.

The PM's only consolation from Thursday was Tory leader David Cameron also had a
bad night as his party's majority in posh Bromley, South London, crumbled from
13,000 to just over 600. Labour lost Blaenau Gwent - once held by major party
figures Nye Bevan and Michael Foot - at the last election to independent Peter
Law.

His death led to this week's poll and another independent, Dai Davies, romped
home.

And in Bromley Labour was totally humiliated by coming fourth - adding to MPs'
fears about the party's future under Mr Blair and putting pressure on him to
hand over to Gordon Brown.

Despite the grim news party chairman Hazel Blears said they were heading in the
right direction.

She said there would be no timetable on when Mr Blair, below left, should step
down.

Labour then seized on the Tory troubles and said the narrow Bromley win over the
Lib-Dems showed that "Cameron is vulnerable". A No10 source said: "If he is
nearly losing his 18th safest seat then his problems look pretty big.

"He clearly is not even convincing his own supporters in an area of the country
that he is supposed to be strong in."

Tory chairman Francis Maude admitted the result was a "wake-up call" for
Cameron, below right, which showed the Tories still had "a long way to go" on
the road back to power. He said: "We have to supply more reasons for people to
vote for us."

Mr Cameron said: "We'll have to learn from the result. It proves we have to
reform."

a.porter@

the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Tactics trip Tories

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson, Political Editor

SECTION: COMMENT; OPINION

LENGTH: 162  words


DAVID Cameron has never been convinced by his 10 point poll lead over Labour -
and now we know why.

Translating opinion poll leads into real votes is the only thing that matters -
and Mr Cameron now knows he must sort out his tactics. His Tory dinosaurs in the
Bromley and Chislehurst seat threw away more than 11,000 votes by refusing Mr
Cameron's candidate and then shunning all help in fighting the seat. The local
Tories had no idea how to fight a modern campaign against the ruthless Lib Dems.

But the voters did NOT shun Mr Cameron's new brand of politics. Had UKIP picked
up thousands of votes, his revolution would have been shown to be out of touch.

Instead, support went to the Lib-Dems - proving Mr Cameron's direction of travel
is right but Tory tactics on the ground were useless.

Meanwhile, Tony Blair had written off his chances of regaining Blaenau Gwent.
The Welsh hate New Labour.

The PM knows the seat will return to the fold when he hands over to Gordon
Brown.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Blair bruised

LENGTH: 95  words


LABOUR'S two terrible by-election results have piled on the pressure for Tony
Blair to quit.

The party failed to regain a former safe Welsh seat and were dumped into FOURTH
in Bromley and Chislehurst, where even UKIP beat them.

The PM's only consolation from Thursday's polls was Tory leader David Cameron
also had a bad night as his party's majority in posh Bromley, South London, fell
from 13,000 to just over 600.

Labour lost Blaenau Gwent to an independent and were humiliated in Bromley. But
Party chairman Hazel Blears said there is no timetable on Blair, right, going.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             July 1, 2006, Saturday

Labour and Tories left reeling after by-election disasters

BYLINE: Rosemary Bennett, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 677 words


DISASTROUS results for Labour and the Conservatives at this week's by elections
have triggered separate inquests at the highest level in both parties.

Labour failed to regain the South Wales seat of Blaenau Gwent, a former
stronghold, which was won by Dai Davies, an independent candidate.

The Conservatives were also reeling after they came within a whisker of losing
Bromley and Chislehurst, a seat with a rock-solid 13,000 majority at the last
general election. That majority was slashed to 633 as votes vanished to the
Liberal Democrats, who had fought an aggressive campaign. It undermined claims
that the resurgent Tories were on track to win the next general election.

Labour's woes were compounded when it came fourth in Bromley behind the Liberal
Democrats and UK Independence Party. Hazel Blears, the Labour chairman, had to
defend Tony Blair's continued leadership, saying that he would not be forced
into setting a date to step down despite another rejection at the polls. Calls
for him to go gathered pace with the intervention of a formal loyal Cabinet
colleague. Ian McCartney, a Trade Minister and former party chairman, said that
Labour had no time to lose in renewing itself before the next election.

David Cameron, the Tory leader, spent yesterday holed up with his MPs at an
"awayday" in Buckinghamshire, skipping the traditional victory walkabout in the
constituency. In a session with his MPs he admitted that the result was a
disappointment, but said that the party had been vulnerable to charges that it
had not really changed at all.

"I think the Conservative Party will have to learn from the result and I think
it proves that we have to reform the party and change the party further to make
sure that sort of mud never sticks," he said after the session.

Francis Maude, the party chairman, allowed the Bromley and Chislehurst
Conservative Association more or less to run the campaign, in particular letting
them choose a local candidate rather than one from the centrally selected
priority list. Their choice was Bob Neill, who does not live in the constituency
and has three other jobs. That quickly became the focus of the Lib Dem campaign.

Mr Maude intends to use the near-defeat to push ahead with party reforms. He
sounded his warning in a paged message to all MPs first thing in the morning.
The message read: "Bromley: disappointing result. This shows change must move
faster, wider and deeper."

Mainstream MPs said that the result proved no such thing. "This result is the
precursor to a battle between Francis Maude and Cameron and the circle around
him and the rest of the party," one frontbencher said. "They are already saying
if they had had an A-list candidate in place it would have been a better
campaign.

That is utter fantasy. I think we would have lost the seat in that case."

For the Lib Dems, the swing in Bromley was a powerful demonstration that they
need not be squeezed by Mr Cameron's pitch for the centre ground. It will also
settle any doubt among Lib Dems about Sir Menzies Campbell's leadership by
proving that the party has retained its capacity to mount an effective
by-election campaign.

Matthew Parris, page 23 Leading article, page 25 THE RESULTS

BLAENAU GWENT PARLIAMENTARY BY-ELECTION

Dai Davies (Ind) 12,543

Owen Smith (Lab) 10,059

Steffan Lewis (Plaid Cymru) 1,755

Amy Kitcher (LD) 1,477

Margrit Williams (C) 1,013

Alan Hope (Official Monster Raving Loony Party) 318

Turnout 51.7% (-14.4%)

Dai Davies majority 2,484

BLAENAU GWENT ASSEMBLY BY-ELECTION

Patricia Law (Ind) 13,785

John Hopkins (Lab) 9,321

Stephen Bard (LD) 2,054

Norman Price (Plaid Cymru) 1,109 Joanthan Burns (C) 816

John Matthews (Green) 302

Patricia Law majority 4,464

BROMLEY AND CHISLEHURST

Robert Neill (C) 11,621

Benjamin Abbotts (LD) 10,988

Nigel Farage (UKIP) 2,347

Rachel Reeves (Lab) 1,925

Ann Garrett (Green) 811

Paul Winnett NF 476

John Hemming-Clarke (Ind) 442

Steven Uncles (English Democrats) 212

John Cartwright (Official Monster Raving Loony Party) 132

Nicholas Hadziannis (Ind) 65

Anne Belsey (Money Reform) 33

Turnout 40.5% (-24.3%)

Conservative majority 633

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 51 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             July 1, 2006, Saturday

Blaenau and Bromley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 577 words


The next poor souls who have to fight a parliamentary by-election for the Labour
or Conservative parties may as well start by changing their surname by deed poll
to Kick-Me. For that is almost certainly what will happen. By-elections are not
particularly representative affairs but they are not entirely inconsequential
events either. They have become an odd political version of anger management
sessions. Voters treat them as a chance to get something off their chest and are
none too subtle with their language in so doing.

That was most obvious in the dismal fate of those who wore the red rosettes in
Blaenau Gwent and in Bromley and Chislehurst. At the outset of the battle in
South Wales, Labour had realistic hopes of retaking a Westminster seat that they
had lost after a bitter dispute about all-women shortlists. As all of the main
figures on the ballot paper were male and the party had apologised for the
offence caused, there was reason to believe that normal valleys political
service would be resumed.

It was not, because Dai Davies, the independent who had taken up the colours of
the late Peter Law MP, turned the contest into a de facto referendum on Tony
Blair and new Labour. As the Prime Minister is about as popular in mainstream
Welsh political circles as King Edward I, who invaded the country in the late
13th century, the frantic attempt of the Labour candidate to distance himself
from Downing Street was doomed to failure. And in Bromley, his counterpart must
have known that she did not have a prayer. Coming fourth to a spirited UKIP
effort was close to inevitable. She will be grateful to have saved her deposit.

Yet, in a sense these by-elections revealed nothing about Mr Blair and the state
of the Labour Party that was not obvious already. As the Prime Minister will not
be taking the Labour Party into another general election, his standing with the
electorate is not particularly relevant. To that extent, even if collectively
the results were worse for Labour than the Tories, the inability of David
Cameron to record any by-election "bounce" for himself or his party is the
interesting element.

For as Jonathan Ross might have asked: "Dave, did you ever dream of winning the
Bromley by-election by fewer than 700 votes?". The answer to such an question
has to be "no". The Tories fought an awful campaign in this seat. They permitted
a surly local party to impose its own candidate on the leadership, an individual
who then proved to be something less than an asset. Mr Cameron paid one fleeting
visit to the constituency and seemed almost embarrassed to be there. A casual
elector who only studied the party literature pushed through his or her letter
box could have been excused for assuming that Michael Howard had carried on as
leader of the Opposition.

Future Tory by-election efforts will have to be more professional. Yet Mr
Cameron should not escape all blame. There is anecdotal evidence of voters
feeling that the Tory leader is but a younger and more lightweight version of Mr
Blair, and that this is not what they are looking for. Mr Cameron is correct to
think that in many, but not every, policy respect he needs to be closer to
Blairite territory.

This does not have to involve coming across to electors as an aspiring Rory
Bremner as far as the Prime Minister himself is concerned. Bromley holds two
messages for Mr Cameron: he must be the Tory message and he must have a message
of substance to put before voters.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
