
                               1 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 30, 2007

Appeal exposes baby leave fears

BYLINE: Mary Braid and Sian Griffiths

SECTION: FEATURES; Appointments; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1713 words


The EOC's move to look again at a City trader's case casts the spotlight on
business's distrust of young women, write Mary Braid and Sian Griffiths

KATHARINA TOFEJI, 38, paints an ugly picture of life in the City for the female
high-flyer trying to combine career and family. The former trader claims that
when she returned to her £ 70,000-a-year post with the investment bank BNP
Paribas after a year's maternity leave, her employer made things so difficult
for her that she resigned.

Three months after her £ 1.35m compensation claim was thrown out by an
employment tribunal, Tofeji is still on anti- depressants. There have been a few
huge, high-profile payouts in recent years to other City women who made sexual-
discrimination claims, but Tofeji's claims of pregnancy discrimination, sex
discrimination, general and sexual harassment, victimisation and unfair
constructive dismissal were all thrown out by a tribunal in June.

With so much at stake and her career in the City probably over, the tribunal
decision must have been devastating for Austrian-born Tofeji, whose boyfriend,
Mike Webb, also worked for BNP Paribas when she met him.

"Personally I suffered a lot," she said. "Even worse is the effect on my
daughter.

Sometimes I blamed her, a little girl, for the loss of my independence. She
deserves a happy mother, but she has had a mother for the last 18 months who has
been crying all the time. I have to think about changing my career completely."

Tofeji's gloom was lifted, however, by the Equal Opportunities Commission's
decision this month to back her appeal against the tribunal ruling.

The commission claims that up to 30,000 women a year lose their jobs due to
pregnancy or maternity leave. One of Tofeji's allegations was that her clients
were not given back to her when she returned to work and that she was placed "in
a vulnerable position and at considerable disadvantage" as a result of her
absence.

Women are supposed to be legally protected from such treatment after maternity
leave.

The commission will argue that not only was Tofeji not protected but that the
tribunal was wrong to compare the bank's treatment of her with that of a man
absent for a similar period because "pregnant women are in a unique position".

BNP Paribas, meanwhile, has expressed "surprise" that Tofeji has chosen to
appeal after having been so soundly beaten at tribunal.

"The employment tribunal, having listened carefully to the evidence given over
seven days, found there was no merit at all in any of Miss Tofeji's claims and
that in no sense had she been badly or unfairly treated or discriminated
against," it said, adding that the tribunal "expressly found" that Tofeji had
not been told by her manager that she would have to start from scratch with new
clients or would be allocated poorly performing ones.

For Tofeji, of course, this is a very personal battle. But Jenny Watson,
chairman of the commission, sees the case as representative of a wider malaise,
one that continues to dog progress towards gender equality.

"We know from our research that many women experience discrimination upon return
from maternity leave and that they suffer considerable stress and hardship as a
result," said Watson.

Maternity benefits and rights have been a concern to business owners since 2004
when Godfrey Bloom, UKIP politician and small-business owner, said: "No
self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of child-bearing age. That isn't politically correct, is it, but
it's a fact of life. The more women's rights you have, it's actually a bar to
their employment."

An eccentric, neanderthal point of view? Apparently not. Several surveys since
have shown that Bloom is a member of a surprisingly large club. Just two months
after his controversial statement, a poll by Croner, a human-resources
consultancy, found that eight out of ten HR professionals believed bosses
automatically thought twice about employing such women.

This month a YouGov survey carried out for a legal-services website revealed
that one in five company directors has personally avoided hiring women of child
bearing age. Two-thirds also saw the extension of maternity and paternity leave
as part of an increasing legislative burden that posed "a serious threat" to
their businesses.

On top of complaints -particular from smaller firms -about the administrative
burden, the You-Gov survey also found employers avoided hiring women because of
the risk of falling foul of the law as the rules on maternity pay and time off
changed.

Kieran O'Keeffe, policy adviser at the British Chambers of Commerce, said there
was a real nervousness in business about being caught, inadvertently, breaking
the law.

"It's the cumulative impact of all the legislation on businesses," he said.
"It's very hard to keep up to date with everything. There is a genuine
nervousness among employers of missing something and ending up at a tribunal."

There is good reason for firms -particularly small ones -to worry about
sex-discrimination claims. "These particular employment cases don't require a
qualifying period of service, there's no limit on the level of compensation and
a much more legalistic approach applies," said Cathy Monaghan at the employment
consultancy PES.

There is also the damage that can be done to a company's reputation. Privately,
some employers admit they worry that women may exploit their new and extended
rights when they return after having a baby and engineer a discrimination claim
against a business.

"I think most businesses see the value in retaining well- qualified women after
maternity leave," said a senior manager, who asked to remain anonymous.
"However, there are a small number of exploiters on both sides. Less scrupulous
employers often come up with part-time deals for women returners but on a lower
rate of pay. And a minority of women also exploit the new rights and employers,
wishing to avoid damage to their reputation, often settle privately."

There's clearly a lot of distrust. The Tofeji appeal aims to clear up what the
Equal Opportunities Commission sees as some woolly areas around maternity
rights.

But with further extensions of maternity and paternity rights on the horizon, it
is unlikely that the tensions between business and those who champion the rights
of women will disappear any time soon.

FIND OUT MORE

The Sunday Times Recruiter Forum is a new community for HR and recruitment
specialists in which professionals can share best practices and discuss the
issues affecting recruitment and retention. Each week forum members will appear
here and at timesonline.co.uk/ recruiterforum For partnership enquiries, contact
Paul Brown at paul.brown@newsint.co.uk

* WHAT THE EXPERTS SAY

* The obligation is too one-sided

Ruth Lea, director of the Centre for Policy Studies

Regulation on maternity leave isn't helping women as it is supposed to. I was
head of the Institute of Directors' policy unit for eight years, and when
maternity rights were extended in 2003, we did a survey that showed two-thirds
of IoD members would be less keen to recruit young women after the extension. At
the time, an IoD member said to me, 'and they're just the honest ones'.

What irritates me, and it irritates employers, is the asymmetric obligation -
employees have a right to return after maternity leave but no obligation to do
so.

A woman can have a company keep her job open for months and then just say she
isn't coming back. And the firm has often been struggling to cope without her.

It's not easy for bosses to find a temp to cover for a senior skilled and
responsible position during a year's maternity leave.

* It's hard to legislate for every situation

Cathy Monaghan, head of human resources at PES Consultancy

Under the new extension to maternity leave, women returning to work after six
months off have the right to return to the job they left, and those returning
after a year have the right to return to the one they left or to a similar
position.

This gives employers more room for manoeuvre and is legislative recognition that
a year is a long time in the history of a company.

But I think it is very difficult to legislate for every situation that can
arise.

I have heard stories of some employers making women's lives hell when they find
out they are pregnant. However, I don't think you can expect things to be
exactly the same when you return from maternity and you aren't the same when you
return, either. I think SMEs have more difficulty managing this issue than
bigger companies with more capacity.

* Mindset hasn't kept up with society

Kiran Daurka of Russell, Jones & Walker (solicitors to Tofeji)

The government has legislated to assist working mothers and parents with its
extension to maternity leave this year. But the commercial mindset has not kept
up with what society wants.

The Tofeji appeal will look at a fundamental point -the interpretation of 'the
same or similar job'. What this means is unclear, particularly in areas like the
City or advertising where people are working on projects and have a set of
clients.

I think some businesses are resistant to change. Many won't think outside the
box in terms of things like flexible working. They need to be more creative and
flexible in their solutions.

I think it's terrible when women start off all excited about having a baby and
then the situation at work blights those first months of motherhood.

* Stop women feeling out of the loop

Joanne Pitts, employment law specialist at Croner

The new regulations on maternity leave include 10 'keeping in touch' days where
employees on maternity leave can come into work for a training course or even to
do some work and get paid without this affecting statutory maternity benefits.

This is designed to prevent people feeling out of the loop when they come back.

During the leave period, employers also have an obligation to tell employees of
any promotion opportunities that arise.

Employers are very scared of discrimination claims because the level of
compensation is unlimited. It is like writing a blank cheque. Still, I would
say, judging by the clients I speak to on our helpline, that most are flexible
and recognise that a diverse workforce will help them retain skills.

To cut out women is to cut out a huge chunk of the available talent.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 30, 2007

Will Brown play his trump card?

BYLINE: David Cracknell, Alan Schofield and Richard Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2580 words


The prime minister appears to hold all the aces for a snap election. But can he
overcome his natural caution to call the electorate's bluff? David Cracknell,
Alan Schofield and Richard Woods report

While David Cameron prepares feverishly for his all-important speech to the Tory
party conference in Blackpool, the only place where Gordon Brown is likely to
break into a sweat this weekend is on the tennis court.

Having delivered a well received personal "mission statement" to the Labour
conference in Bournemouth last week, the prime minister will be holding court at
Chequers, his official Buckinghamshire retreat, with Alan Greenspan, the former
chairman of the US Federal Reserve.

Reports that Brown will be holding a summit today with advisers on whether to
call a snap general election next month are mistaken. The prime minister will
content himself with playing a few sets of tennis before supping a glass or two
of wine with the 81-year-old economics guru. Brown, say his allies, is "great at
serving, but awful at rallies. He'll probably let Alan win".

He can afford to be so generous. Opinion polls this weekend give him a solid
double-digit lead over Cameron, which would equate to a Commons majority of more
than 100. Cameron was given his own presentation of private polling last Monday
by one of his aides. It was not all bad, however, particularly from local
elections.

Not for a long time has the country seen such an intense game of electoral
poker.

The prime minister appears to be holding a strong hand, but will he be able to
overcome his natural caution to bet all his chips on it?

EARLY last week, as cabinet ministers, MPs and Labour activists gathered in
Bournemouth, the odds were balanced against a snap poll.

Cabinet ministers were divided. The young turks such as Ed Balls, the schools
secretary, Ed Miliband, who is in charge of drafting the manifesto, and Douglas
Alexander, the election co-ordinator, were keen to capitalise on Tory struggles.
More experienced "grey hairs" among the ministerial crowd, including Geoff Hoon,
the chief whip, and Alan Johnson, the health secretary, were anxious that
Labour's lead was soft and could easily dissipate during a campaign. Brown might
win, they reasoned, but what would be the size of his House of Commons majority?

Talk of an election had started as an attempt to destabilise the Tories. One
Brown adviser said: "This began as a way to make sure Cameron spilt his policies
and spent the Tory party's money early. It (an autumn election) just wasn't a
goer at first. But then we saw the polls for us getting stronger and stronger."

While at the beginning of the conference aides were saying the chances of an
early poll were 60-40 against, by the end of the week they were claiming this
had shifted to 80-20 in favour.

A well-received conference speech by Brown, a febrile atmosphere among
delegates, whose bar-room chat was dominated by election talk, and a spate of
populist policy announcements -such as Jack Straw's conversion to have-a-go
heroism and Jacqui Smith's clampdown on binge drinking -left a sense among party
members that an election before Christmas was more a case of "when", not "if".

Brown's aides maintain that the decision is "still in the balance". Those in
favour of an autumn election point to focus groups which show that, while
Labour's lead is solid when people are asked who they would vote for at the next
election, the lead increases to 14 points when they are asked how they would
vote tomorrow. Those against a quick election point out that the same focus
groups show that people are not keen on voting in the dark.

Brown is fully aware of the risks. The sun sets at 4.34pm on November 1 and
4.22pm on November 8, the two most likely dates for a poll. Does he dare go to
the polls when the nights are drawing in knowing that many Labour voters might
not bother to vote when they return from work? Traditionally, a low turnout
adversely affects the Labour vote.

Brown may win, but would he rightly be able to claim a fresh mandate if turnout
was low, with many Labour MPs losing their seats and with a government majority
- already reduced to 66 in the 2005 election -potentially even lower?

Another factor that might sway the cautious side of Brown is the sobering
picture from local council by-elections, fought most Thursdays up and down the
country.

After dismal Tory results 10 days ago, including a big swing against the party
in Worcester (iconic because of the electoral importance of "Worcester woman"),
the Tories fought back last Thursday. There were swings in their direction,
including the gain of a seat from Labour in Sunderland.

Professor Colin Rallings, director of Plymouth University's elections centre,
says that in 35 council by-elections since Brown took over as prime minister,
the Tories actually have a nine-point lead over Labour.

This is not as gloomy for Brown as it sounds -Tony Blair won general elections
while being well behind locally -but it suggests that the opinion polls may be
exaggerating Labour's lead. The Tory nine-point lead at local level compares
with six points in 2005, when Blair won his 66-seat majority. If Brown is hoping
to increase that majority substantially, he might be disappointed.

"I don't think the evidence is there for a majority of 100," said Rallings. "The
odds must be that Labour will win, but nobody can say whether there will be a
majority of 10 or 80, and there's a lot of difference between them."

Balancing against such concerns are fears about the political consequences of
not making a decision soon. One aide said: "Gordon will need to move swiftly on
ruling in or ruling out a poll. He is going to have to make an announcement
either way, as to let this dribble on without making clear his intentions could
lead to the charge being made that he is indecisive."

One young member of the cabinet said: "We didn't expect to find ourselves in
this position. But now that we are, we can save some of those seats in the south
that otherwise we might lose as time goes on and events take place."

Behind the scenes the Labour machine is at full pace for the election. It is
understood that the party has already committed £ 3m of its election coffers and
is advertising for an extra 25 election officials.

The wind is blowing towards an announcement next week. It is understood that
Brown has ruled out a poll on October 25, which would have to be announced this
Tuesday, because it would clash with school half-term holidays, which people are
increasingly using as an opportunity to travel abroad.

The week beginning October 8, when parliament returns, is looking like a
favoured time for calling an election, if that is what he decides to do. Brown
would visit the Queen to ask for a dissolution, he would inform parliament of
his decision and after a minimum of 17 working days an election would be held.

One aide said: "Gordon would want to tell parliament about any decision he has
made. The thing is that we've been at great pains to paint a contrast between
Cameron and Brown. We can't go around saying Cameron is all PR and Brown is all
PM and then go and spoil the Tory conference -it just wouldn't wash. It would
look like spin."

THE Tories have worries enough of their own. Last weekend researchers, press
officers and senior advisers were all told to be in work on Saturday and Sunday
to help to finalise the Tory manifesto, with Oliver Letwin, the party's policy
co-ordinator, putting the finishing touches to the document. They are convinced
that an election is coming.

"There was no doubt about it, we are resigned to Brown calling an autumn
election," said one adviser. "He knows he can't bottle out of it now."

The reaction inside Conservative headquarters on Monday afternoon to Brown's
conference speech was one of depression. "He may not have provided the
inspiration that a Blair speech did, but he certainly ticked loads of boxes on
policy," said one Tory aide. "It was a sign that we had better get our act
together -and fast."

As the party gathers in Blackpool, senior members are expressing doubts that it
is in a fit state to conduct an election.

Norman Fowler, a Conservative peer and former cabinet minister, said: "One point
is for certain: the party will not grumble its way to victory. Cameron is
probably the best communicator in British politics today, but that has not saved
him from attack and, worst of all, sniping from behind. At times the internal
criticism has drowned out his achievements. It is amazing how quickly some of
the party's sour tendency forget."

As one MP put it: "You talk to senior members of the party and they are
desperately trying to be loyal and on-message. But talk to them for about an
hour and they finally crack and give away their exasperation: 'How did we get to
this stage? We were so far ahead in the polls and beginning to believe that this
guy Cameron was going to be the next prime minister, and now look at it'."

There has also been a rift at the heart of Tory Central Office about the
direction of policy.

Its genesis was in the summer when Cameron went to Rwanda on an aid mission
instead of staying at home in his constituency which had been hit by the summer
floods. This was done on the advice of Steve Hilton, Cameron's closest aide, who
insisted that the Tory leader should go ahead despite the crisis at home.

Andy Coulson, the former News of the World editor who was recruited as
communications director, is believed to have opposed the trip. After the
criticism the party leader received, Coulson has been in the ascendancy. Cameron
won a brief boost in the polls a month ago when he talked about immigration
getting out of hand, a sign of Coulson's increasing influence.

Both Cameron and Hilton are said to have been "very down" in recent weeks. Maybe
it is because they realise that they have had to submit to the greater will of
George Osborne, the party's election co-ordinator and shadow chancellor, and
Coulson, who was essentially his recruit.

Osborne, who claims he has "always been a moderniser", even before Cameron, has
been the more forthright in claiming that the party can now afford to talk
freely about "dog whistle" issues that appeal to voters' often subconscious
beliefs, such as tax cuts and immigration, because of the repositioning work it
has done under the new leadership over the past two years.

"Hilton is softly spoken and is a one-on-one man," said one Tory insider.
"Members of the shadow cabinet have resented his influence and the way he and
Cameron conduct their business behind closed doors. They are more likely to
listen to Osborne, who has a more upfront approach and is better at bringing
together all the strands in a convincing way.

"The Hilton phase is arguably over; it is Osborne and Coulson who are in charge
of the direction of the party now."

Whoever is in charge, Cameron's speech to the party faithful on Wednesday will
be crucial. Friends insist that he is a "show court" performer and that his
address to the nation beyond Blackpool will revive the party's fortunes.

His suggestion yesterday that the Zac Goldsmith- inspired plan to charge
supermarket shoppers for parking "will not be taken forward -it's dead" and that
young couples with children will be given favourable tax breaks point to a
series of eye-catching policy announcements this week.

ONE town where Cameron's speech will have to play well, if the Tories are to
have any hope of victory in an election, is Swindon in Wiltshire. Its
inhabitants are "swingers"; they have followed the country's political mood in
recent elections.

In the 1980s, Swindon's two constituencies were solidly Conservative; but since
1997 they have voted Labour, although with ever reducing majorities.

In many ways the town, with a population of about 180,000, can be seen as a
microcosm of the UK outside London: the average household size is 2.38 people,
more than 90% of the residents are white and were born in the UK; among its
minorities are Indians, Bangladeshis and Poles.

"It's the land of the new Britain," said Rallings. "The Tories need to win there
if they are to challenge Labour."

Judging by the mood on the streets of Swindon last week, there is plenty for
both parties still to fight for. Many people complained about Labour's record on
tax, immigration and crime; yet there was also scant admiration for Cameron even
among those who were intending to vote Tory.

"I'm a traditional Tory," said Les Bundy, a retired supermarket manager. "I
don't like the way Labour has done nothing to stop the rich getting richer, it's
allowed uncontrolled immigration, put up taxes and the lack of police."

However, he was underwhelmed by Cameron: "I'm not terribly impressed. He just
strikes me as the rich son of rich people who wants to get into politics."

For Alan Peake, a young business analyst in the IT industry, the problem with
Cameron was that he was too much like Brown. "I wouldn't trust Gordon Brown as
far as I could throw him," he said. "But David Cameron is just a fellow
champagne socialist.

"People know Labour has wasted billions; they are concerned about immigration;
but David Cameron -he's decided he's going to join Labour." Peake said that he
might vote for UKIP.

Jemma Cram, a 28-year-old mother who works part-time, is one of the floating
voters who hold the balance of power in the constituencies, which require swings
of less than 3% to go Tory. "I suppose people should give Gordon Brown a chance,
but I think I'd try the Tories. David Cameron is young and fresh," she said.

For the Conservatives to make progress nationally, they must hope that
sentiments such as that prevail across similar Labour seats throughout the south
-never mind the Labour strongholds in the north.

SO, is an election imminent? On Friday as Jacqui Smith, the home secretary,
prepared to leave her office for home, she startled her civil servants by
saying: "We might well be in purdah this time next week."

Purdah is the period of time when the non-partisan civil service goes into
"suspended animation" as an election campaign gets under way. It means ministers
are unable to make new spending commitments, so the period leading up to purdah
often sees a rash of government announcements.

Even if it was a joke, Smith's remark will be sending the civil service into
overdrive. Some Labour MPs are also cancelling their engagements for next week
and returning to their constituencies.

Certainly Brown is making himself busy. Yesterday he was attending a conference
on drugs. This week he will be opening a hospital, overseeing the publication of
a key report on the NHS, visiting schools and holding a meeting with an
international business advisory council.

He will be aware that the "will he, won't he?" tease could come back to haunt
him if he fails to push the button next week. Cameron, in his interview with The
Sunday Times today, reiterates Osborne's comments that Brown must do so or be
accused of "bottling" the decision. Such criticisms would echo to the rafters if
an election is not called.

At the same time, following his "father of the nation" address in Bournemouth,
in which he failed to mention the Tories once, Brown may be criticised as
"opportunistic" for forcing an election so soon after becoming prime minister.

He will find himself damned by political pundits either way. But it is the
potential verdict of the public that will be weighing most heavily on his mind
this week as he confronts the fabled "loneliest decision" that he will make as
prime minister.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday

Big names with the Right stuff who can make a difference in the political arena

BYLINE: IAIN DALE and BRIAN BRIVATI

SECTION: NEWS; Conservative Conference; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1832 words


AS THE Conservative Party gathers in Blackpool for the most important conference
of David Cameron's leadership, we have compiled a list of the 100 most
influential people on the Right of British politics today.

Being on the Right does not just mean support for the Conservatives, so the list
contains figures from the UK Independence Party (Ukip), right-of-centre pressure
groups, businessmen, bloggers and the odd celebrity. The term "Right''
encompasses both the libertarian and authoritarian traditions. You can be
socially liberal, as well as socially conservative, and still be classed as on
the "Right''. It's a big tent and we have attempted to find the 100 people who
most deserve to live in it.

As with our list of the Top 100 on the Left (see Telegraph.co.uk), it will
present plenty of opportunities for disagreement Here are the first 25 names on
our list. Twenty five more will be published each day in The Daily Telegraph,
tomorrow, on Tuesday and on Wednesday.

Of course, we all have our own answers and our own lists, so let us know who
would be on yours and why.

100. ZAC GOLDSMITH

Conservative candidate for Richmond

Goldsmith may not be quite as influential as he and other commentators might
imagine. It is unlikely that David Cameron will adopt the more controversial
aspects of his Quality of Life Commission Report, but he certainly remains the
Conservative Party's green conscience.

99. PETER BAZALGETTE

Entrepreneur

Bazalgette is the man behind Endemol, Britain's most successful independent TV
production company. He's the man whom we have to thank for bringing Big Brother
to our screens. The keen Conservative supporter is said to harbour parliamentary
ambitions.

98 CHRISTINE CONSTABLE

Deputy Leader, English Democrats

A feisty, Norfolk-based marketing consultant, Constable has been the driving
force behind the campaign for an English parliament. She stood against Charles
Clarke in the last election and has a good nose for a publicity stunt. Although
the English Democrats are relatively insignificant, like Ukip they have the
ability to split the right-of-centre vote.

97. TIM CONGDON

Founder, Lombard Street Research

One of the few Thatcherite economists, Congdon recently left the Conservative
Party to join Ukip, which will benefit massively from his

economic policy input. Between 1992 and 1997 he was a member of the Treasury
Panel of Independent Forecasters (the so-called "wise men''), which advised the
chancellor, Ken Clarke, on economic policy.

96. MIKE WHITBY

Leader, Birmingham City Council

Whitby has been the leader of Britain's second-biggest local authority since
June 2004, albeit in what he describes as a "progressive coalition'' with the
Liberal Democrats. His plans for the rebuilding of Birmingham city centre are
being studied closely by other cities.

95. DESMOND SWAYNE MP

Conservative MP for New Forest West

Although he is one of the few MPs to have served in Iraq, Swayne appears here
due to his job as parliamentary private secretary to David Cameron. Swayne is
far from the typical parliamentary bag carrier and reports on the concerns of
Conservative MPs. One of his gossipy memos was leaked to the press, but all it
did was emphasise that his words count with the Tory leader.

94. STEPHEN GREENHALGH

Leader, London Borough of

Hammersmith & Fulham

Greenhalgh achieved a storming victory last year on a manifesto of cuts in
council tax, waste and some services. Since then many other councils have taken
careful note of how this was done. He has also lost no time in implementing this
radical manifesto.

93. EDWARD LEIGH MP

Chairman, Public Accounts Committee

Leigh gets on to this list on two counts. First, because the select committee he
chairs is the most powerful, but also because of his chairmanship of the
socially conservative Cornerstone Group. Dubbed "Tombstone'' by those who are
not of the "faith, flag and family'' persuasion, it has about 30 supporters in
Parliament and a growing number outside.

92. EDWARD LISTER

Leader, London Borough of Wandsworth

Lister has been leader of this flagship Conservative borough council for more
than 15 years, promoting a policy of low council tax and the contracting out of
public services. The influence of the so-called "Wandsworth effect'' is felt way
beyond the confines of the capital.

91. RICHARD NORTH &

HELEN SZAMUELY

Bloggers, EU Referendum blog

(eureferendum.blogspot.com)

North and Szamuely write one of the few British Right-wing blogs to gain a large
international readership, particularly in the US. They have broken stories of
media manipulation and maintain a dogmatic Eurosceptic line in their blog. Helen
Szamuely is the editor of the Conservative History Journal and research director
of the Bow Group think-tank. Richard North has written a number of books, not
least three produced in collaboration with The Sunday Telegraph's Christopher
Booker.

90. MARGARET EATON

Chairman, Conservative Councillors' Association (CCA)

Eaton has been the leader of Bradford City Council for seven years and as
chairman of the CCA is undoubtedly the most influential female Conservative in
local government.

89. JAMES O'SHAUNNESSY

Director of Policy & Research for the Conservative Party

O'Shaunnessy, who was appointed to succeed George Bridges at Conservative
Campaign Headquarters, was formerly a leading light at Policy Exchange - the
Right's most influential think-tank.

88. ANDREW ROBERTS

Historian

Roberts is the nearest thing the Tories have to an official historian. His
influence is palpable in both this country and America, where his writings on
Churchill are particularly popular. He and David Cameron holiday together, and
Cameron actually saved his life once - from a killer jellyfish. We kid you not.

87. SAYEEDA WARSI

Shadow Minister for Community Cohesion

Warsi's appointment to the shadow cabinet in the July reshuffle caused a few
convulsions among the rank and file. Her remarks about freedom fighters and
terrorists after the 2005 London bombings were not well-received. However, she
has won over many by a series of accomplished performances on Question Time and
a commitment to reviving Tory fortunes in the inner cities. Her honesty is
beguiling, but her influence will only grow if she observes the bounds of
collective responsibility.

86. LORD PEARSON OF RANNOCH

Ukip peer

Malcolm Pearson has funded many a Eurosceptic cause and his defection from the
Conservatives to Ukip last year did not come as a surprise to many. Still close
to Margaret Thatcher, he has deep pockets, which so far seem not to have been
emptied by Ukip.

85. GUIDO FAWKES

Blogger (www.order-order.com)

The notorious Guido Fawkes blog is written by the libertarian-leaning Paul
Staines. Staines, who made his money in the City, spends his day blogging about
politics and pulling politicians down a peg or two. His blog attracts a third of
a million readers a month and is read by a large proportion of MPs.

84. ANNABEL GOLDIE

Leader of the Scottish Conservative Party

Goldie won a lot of praise for her conduct during the 2007 Scottish Parliament
election campaign, displaying superb debating skills and a dry wit. Her task in
leading the Scottish Tories is not an easy one, as the shadow Scottish secretary
famously pointed out in a leaked memo to David Cameron. Her task is to
revitalise the Scottish party, which may only be possible by cutting some of the
ties with London.

83. MARGOT JAMES

Vice Chairman of the Conservative

Party (Women)

James made her fortune in health public relations before embarking on a
political career. A prominent A-lister, she is now the party's candidate in
Stourbridge and was appointed by David Cameron as vice-chairman of the party
with the task of reaching out to the female vote. James, who was once described
as the best-looking woman in Tory politics, will be an important voice if she
wins her marginal seat.

82. JOHN BLUNDELL

Director, Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA)

The IEA is one of the few think-tanks on the Right not to have undergone a lot
of self-analysis about its direction. Blundell is an unashamed Thatcherite and
keeps the torch alive by publishing a series of well-argued tracts concentrating
on small government, low tax and private enterprise. Although it may not have
the influence it used to exert on the Thatcher opposition in the late 1970s,
Blundell has ensured that the IEA remains an important player in Right-wing
thinking.

81. ANDREW FELDMAN

Deputy Treasurer of the Conservative Party

Feldman is one of David Cameron's close personal friends from his university
days, and was treasurer of his leadership campaign. He has made his own fortune
through his family clothing firm, Jayroma. He organises the "Leaders Group'' of
party donors, who pay pounds 50,000 to join.

80. THERESA MAY MP

Shadow Leader of the House of Commons

May's influence has been felt most in the promotion of female candidates. She
was a founder of Women2Win and during her period as chairman of the Conservative
Party she oversaw important female-friendly changes to the way candidates are
selected. She had been tipped for the chop in the summer reshuffle but she is a
great survivor. She now has an opportunity to shine in her new role as shadow
leader of the House of Commons. Whether she does or not will determine if her
influence is on the rise again or on the wane.

79. DOUGLAS MURRAY

Director, Centre for Social Cohesion

Murray is rapidly becoming known as Britain's leading advocate of
neo-conservatism. He is gaining a ubiquitous media presence and is an eloquent
advocate of all things American and was a strong supporter of taking military
action against Iraq. The new Centre for Social Cohesion has been set up to warn
against the dangers of Islamist extremism.

78. JEREMY HUNT MP

Shadow Secretary of State for

Culture Media & Sport

Regarded as perhaps the nicest MP of the 2005 intake, Hunt has been promoted
quickly and in July joined the shadow cabinet. He succeeded Virginia Bottomley
in a highly marginal seat, but defeated the LibDems by playing them at their own
game. Hunt is seen by some as a potential future leader if he can develop a
slightly harder edge.

77. TIMOTHY KIRKHOPE MEP

Leader of Conservative MEPs

Kirkhope has one of the most difficult jobs in British politics, reconciling the
conflicting views of his Europhile and Eurosceptic MEPs. In truth, it's not
possible and he has come under fire for siding with the Europhiles - who reject
the policy of withdrawal from the EPP grouping - far too often.

76. LADY SHEPHARD

Chairman, Association of Conservative Peers

In only 18 months Gillian Shephard has established herself as a key mover and
shaker in the House of Lords. As Chairman of the Association of Conservative
Peers - in other words, their shop steward - the former Cabinet minister
provides an astute early warning system to the party leadership. There are those
who suggest that if Lord Strathclyde were to fall on his sword, Lady Shephard
would be a popular replacement as Tory leader in the Lords.

See tomorrow's Daily Telegraph

for the next 25 names or go to telegraph.co.uk/news

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 30, 2007 Sunday

the week to come

BYLINE: Compiled by ANNE-MARIE CONWAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 257 words


TOMORROW

Statutory holiday entitlement rises to 24 days' paid leave a year. The minimum
wage also increases, but 16-year-olds earning an extra 30p an hour now have to
wait until they are 18 before they can spend it on tobacco. Fuel duty rates rise
by 2p a litre.

England play the first match of their one-day cricket tour of Sri Lanka.

TUESDAY

North and South Korea, technically at war since the 1950s, hold their second
ever summit.

Start of the inquest into the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, above.

WEDNESDAY

David Cameron winds up the Tory conference.

The Horse of the Year Show starts in Birmingham

THURSDAY

National Poetry Day.

The Bank of England reveals its interest rate decision.

Lundy island re-opens after a two-week clean-up to eradi-cate a mystery stomach
bug.

The Ig Nobel prizes single out research projects that "first make people laugh,
then make them think''.

The Council of Europe votes on banning the teaching of creationism in schools.

FRIDAY

Start of the UK Independence Party's conference in London.

SATURDAY

Pakistan presidential elections.

Jason Lewis arrives in Greenwich, having spent 13 years circumnavigating the
world by human power alone.

Rugby World Cup quarter finals.

SUNDAY

Although his Old Bailey fraud trial started last week, jockey Kieren Fallon is
not banned from riding in the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in Paris.

The Chinese Grand Prix, the penultimate race of the Formula 1 championship,
takes place in Shanghai.

The jury are ready to hear the

facts about the princess's death

Follow developments on telegraph.co.uk/dian

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 28, 2007

Unions on standby for imminent election

LENGTH: 965 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Labour party has warned trade unions to be on standby for an
imminent general election, a union source told Guardian Unlimited today.


The Labour party has warned trade unions to be on standby for an imminent
general election, a union source told Guardian Unlimited today.

The news further fuels speculation that Gordon Brown is set to call a snap
general election for October within days.

The union source said that Labour party officials had told staff working for
trade unions affiliated to the party to "make themselves available" to help out
in the event of a snap election being called.

The source said: "There have been requests for press officers to make themselves
available. It happened yesterday via the Labour party press office."

The Labour party relies on resources from affiliated trade unions at election
time. They provide extra funding and experienced personnel, such as press
officers, to help out in various Labour hubs up and down the country.

The source added: "If the election is called, union officials and shop stewards
would be drafted in to work in the key marginals."

Despite speculation about an early poll, council election results showing a
swing to the Tories in marginal seats may dampened Mr Brown's zeal since
yesterday.

The prime minister was buoyed this week by a successful conference week in
Bournemouth coupled with positive opinion polls, which reportedly helped sway a
number of senior figures in the party in favour of an autumn election.

Internal Labour polling showed a five-point lead for Labour at the beginning of
the week and a YouGov opinion poll taken after Mr Brown's speech to his party on
Monday put the lead at 11%.

But the results of last night's byelections painted a different picture with the
Conservatives snatching Sunderland's Washington East seat from Labour and
experiencing major positive swings elsewhere.

Caroline Spelman, the Tory chairman, claimed that the results pointed to "strong
gains" by the opposition in a general election.

"Labour should be very worried by that in a week when Gordon Brown has dominated
the news," she said.

"The Conservatives have made a crucial gain from Labour in the north and
achieved a swing in three marginal seats which would mean three strong
Conservative gains in a general election.

"After a week in which Labour hasn't been out of the news there have been swings
to the Conservatives from north to south."

Of the nine seats contested, Labour retained six, while the Tories held one on
Cheshire county council and gained Washington East with a 3.7% swing.

But the Conservatives also saw swings away from Labour of 5.5% in Dover Town, on
Kent county council, and of 3% in Lloyds, on Northamptonshire county council.

It was not all bad news for Labour, however. The party held two seats on Dover
district council - with a swing from the Conservatives of 11.6% in one - and
gained one in Lindhurst, on Mansfield district council, with a swing from the
Tories of 9.4%, as well as one in Chester Central, on Chester-le-Street district
council, with a swing from the Tories of 1.6%.

Mr Brown is expected to sit down with his closest allies this weekend and
examine these and other polling data before making a final decision about
whether to call an autumn election.

Supporters of an early election believe that his current "Brown bounce"
represents an opportunity to increase Labour's current overall majority, which
was cut to 64 in 2005.

Party sources confirmed yesterday that some lobbyists and PR staff were being
asked privately to be ready to start work as early as Monday.

The shadow chancellor, George Osborne, insisted today that the Tories were ready
for an election and said that if Mr Brown did not call an early poll he would
have "bottled it".

He also indicated that the Conservatives would return to core values on tax,
marriage and crime at their conference next week and that David Cameron would
present himself as the heir to Lady Thatcher, amid criticism that he is
abandoning the right of the party.

"Of course we are the successors of the Thatcher inheritance," Mr Osborne told
the Daily Telegraph.

"She's a Conservative, and Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are Labour politicians.
We are not dumping Margaret Thatcher; David Cameron's first job in politics was
working for Margaret Thatcher."

Results

Cheshire County - Gowy: Con 1863, Lib Dem 1419, Lab 307, Ukip 107. (May 2005 -
Con 3936, Lib Dem 2666, Lab 1555). Con hold. Swing 1.8% Con to Lib Dem.

Chester-le-Street District - Chester Central: Lab 324, Con 89, Lib Dem 81, BNP
51. (May 2007 - Two seats Lab 411, 389, Con 172). Lab hold. Swing 1.6% Con to
Lab.

Dover District - Aylsham: Lab 661, Con 108, Ind 59, no description 1. (May 2007
- Two seats Lab 831, 808, Con 311, 287, no description 75). Lab hold. Swing
11.6% Con to Lab.

Dover District - Maxton, Elms Vale and Priory: Lab 365, Lib Dem 274, Con 252,
Ind 70, Ukip 65, Ind 56. (May 2007 - Three seats Lab 733, 647, Con 624, Lab 602,
Con 566, 545, Lib Dem 381, 296, 291, Ind 243). Lab hold. Swing 5.1% Lab to Lib
Dem.

Kent County - Dover Town: Lab 1860, Con 1348, Lib Dem 420, Ind 300, Ukip 256.
(May 2005 - Two seats Lab 6194, 5888, 3455, 3122, Lib Dem 2658, 2255). Lab hold.
Swing 5.5% Lab to Con. Mansfield District - Lindhurst: Lab 339, Ind 302, Lib Dem
215, Con 61, Green 35. (May 2007 - Two seats Ind 559, 449, Lab 392, 313, Con
266, 186, Green 136). Lab gain from Ind. Swing 9.4% Con to Lab.

Northamptonshire County - Lloyds: Lab 1093, Con 375, Lib Dem 311, BNP 265. (May
2005 - Lab 2620, Con 886, Lib Dem 707). Lab hold. Swing 3% Lab to Con.

Portsmouth City - Nelson: Lab 791, Con 682, Lib Dem 548, Ukip 90, Green 78,
English Democrats 71. (May 2007 - Lab 840, Lib Dem 717, Con 711, English
Democrats 199, Green 168). Lab hold. Swing 0.0% Con to Lab.

Sunderland Borough - Washington East: Con 1196, Lab 994, Lib Dem 206. (May 2007
- Con 1245, Lab 1220, Lib Dem 441, BNP 195). Con gain from Lab. Swing 3.7% Lab
to Con.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               6 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday

Peter Alliss;
The World of Sport

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 29 words


WE accept that the content of an article headed 'BBC stifles Alliss, claims UKIP
chief' (July 23) was untrue and apologise to Mr Alliss for any distress and
embarrassment caused.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 24, 2007 Monday

Electorate, not MPs, must vote on EU treaty

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 175 words


SIR - Christopher Moore says that "the electorate is by no means well-informed
or diligent enough to make a decision on so complex a matter'' as the EU
constitution. The same was said of the French and Dutch voters who said "No'' to
the EU constitution.

I took the trouble to read all 400-odd pages of the original EU constitution
and, while there were many worrying clauses, only three clauses really mattered:

The first was that the EU will have a single legal identity - in other words it
will be a country (or superstate) in its own right. Second, EU laws shall have
supremacy over the laws of member states and, finally, that it is for "an
unlimited period'' - in other words

for ever.

Since Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, who was in charge of the original EU
constitution, assures us that all the earlier proposals will be in the new text
we can assume that those three clauses have survived. What more do you need to
know to convince you that, if you wish to live in an independent country, you
have to vote "No''?

Graham Booth MEP (Ukip)

Paignton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

More councils threaten to hold own EU referendums

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 568  words


THE grassroots campaign for a referendum on the EU Reform Treaty is gathering
momentum.

More than 20 parish councils plan to follow the lead of East Stoke, in Dorset, w
here this week villagers became the first in the country to voice officially
their discontent with government policy on Europe.

Using an ancient right to force a parish poll on a subject of importance, a
resounding 90 per cent of the East Stoke voters backed a call for a national
referendum on the treaty.

The vote has no legal force - but organisers hope it will spark a wave of
similar polls across the country and force Gordon Brown to honour Labour's
manifesto pledge to hold a national referendum.

The Prime Minister is desperate to avoid a referendum which opinion polls
suggest he would lose heavily. He claims no v ote is needed as the new treaty is
different from the original EU Constitution.

But one poll organiser, Iris Binstead, says: "This treaty is 96 per cent the
same as the previous one - some experts say 98 per cent - so the promise should
hold.

"All three of the parties had a manifesto commitment for a referendum on the EU
constitution, but the way things are going we may not get one." Mrs Binstead,
79, lives in Lanteglos by Fowey, in Cornwall, one of five parishes that have
already taken the first steps towards holding a poll.

The others are Mawgan in Meneage parish council in Cornwall, Sidmouth town
council and Shaldon parish council, in Devon, and Charfield parish council in
Gloucestershire.

Although the campaign started in the West Country, organisers say interest is
spreading across the country.

Mrs Binstead said: "I am not at all surprised the campaign is snowballing -
people do not want to be ruled by unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. The more
polls that are held, the more chance we have of forcing a referendum.

"We have never been given a vote on whether we want to be part of a federal
Europe - in 1975 we thought we were voting for a trading organisation, which is
a very different thing." The right to call a parish poll dates back to Saxon
times and is enshrined in the Local Government Act 1972. The right also applies
to town councils. Just six parishioners are needed to call a special parish
meeting. If 10 parishioners then back the call for a poll, the district council
must organise a vote.

In a similar exercise in the late Nineties more than 40 parish polls were held
on whether Britain should have a referendum before joining the euro.

Public pressure helped to persuade ministers not to join.

Research on the law has been carried out by the Campaign Alliance for
Referendums in Parishes (CARP), an organisation set up by members of the UK
Independence Party but not formally linked to the anti-EU movement.

A CARP spokesman said support for the campaign was "mushrooming" as voters
across the country seek to voice their frustration.

"We have got parishes queueing up to find out how to organise a poll of their
own, " he said. "It is really catching the imagination. People want to let the
Prime Minister know their views on whether or not they would like a referendum
on this EU treaty. This is the only way in which the ordinary man or woman in
the street can have their say in a formal way and put it to government.

"Politicians can dismiss opinion polls, but these are real polls with real
voters. This is a formal, legal process that ministers cannot dismiss."

How to run you own referendum

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTEST: Poll organiser Iris Binstead wants politicians to honour
promise of EU vote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A royal letdown

SECTION: LETTERS; 83

LENGTH: 181  words


IF our own head of state has succumbed to the idea of a European superstate
("Her Britannic Majesty bans UKIP covers for passports", Sunday Express,
September 16) by banning the royal coat of arms on passport covers, why in
heaven's name is there still all this furore in Britain about the EU?

UKIP was trying to preserve our status as a sovereign nation, and as our head of
state has already given up, there is no point in continuing the fight to retain
our sovereignty.

I fear that there are dark times ahead for Britain and Europe within the EU, and
I am shocked at our Sovereign for reneging on us at this crucial time, when we
have stood steadfastly by her.

Surely it would make the whole process far less painful if the Queen abdicated
now, disbanded the Royal Family and handed back to the nation (the EU) all her
properties and lands, and let us move on with our new head of state and
unelected masters in Brussels?

Why is there so much worry about the royal coat of arms? Once we are totally
under the control of Europe, it will be worthless anyway.

Sam Turner, Sandown, Isle of Wight

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

More councils threaten to hold own EU referendums

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 568  words


THE grassroots campaign for a referendum on the EU Reform Treaty is gathering
momentum.

More than 20 parish councils plan to follow the lead of East Stoke, in Dorset, w
here this week villagers became the first in the country to voice officially
their discontent with government policy on Europe.

Using an ancient right to force a parish poll on a subject of importance, a
resounding 90 per cent of the East Stoke voters backed a call for a national
referendum on the treaty.

The vote has no legal force - but organisers hope it will spark a wave of
similar polls across the country and force Gordon Brown to honour Labour's
manifesto pledge to hold a national referendum.

The Prime Minister is desperate to avoid a referendum which opinion polls
suggest he would lose heavily. He claims no v ote is needed as the new treaty is
different from the original EU Constitution.

But one poll organiser, Iris Binstead, says: "This treaty is 96 per cent the
same as the previous one - some experts say 98 per cent - so the promise should
hold.

"All three of the parties had a manifesto commitment for a referendum on the EU
constitution, but the way things are going we may not get one." Mrs Binstead,
79, lives in Lanteglos by Fowey, in Cornwall, one of five parishes that have
already taken the first steps towards holding a poll.

The others are Mawgan in Meneage parish council in Cornwall, Sidmouth town
council and Shaldon parish council, in Devon, and Charfield parish council in
Gloucestershire.

Although the campaign started in the West Country, organisers say interest is
spreading across the country.

Mrs Binstead said: "I am not at all surprised the campaign is snowballing -
people do not want to be ruled by unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. The more
polls that are held, the more chance we have of forcing a referendum.

"We have never been given a vote on whether we want to be part of a federal
Europe - in 1975 we thought we were voting for a trading organisation, which is
a very different thing." The right to call a parish poll dates back to Saxon
times and is enshrined in the Local Government Act 1972. The right also applies
to town councils. Just six parishioners are needed to call a special parish
meeting. If 10 parishioners then back the call for a poll, the district council
must organise a vote.

In a similar exercise in the late Nineties more than 40 parish polls were held
on whether Britain should have a referendum before joining the euro.

Public pressure helped to persuade ministers not to join.

Research on the law has been carried out by the Campaign Alliance for
Referendums in Parishes (CARP), an organisation set up by members of the UK
Independence Party but not formally linked to the anti-EU movement.

A CARP spokesman said support for the campaign was "mushrooming" as voters
across the country seek to voice their frustration.

"We have got parishes queueing up to find out how to organise a poll of their
own, " he said. "It is really catching the imagination. People want to let the
Prime Minister know their views on whether or not they would like a referendum
on this EU treaty. This is the only way in which the ordinary man or woman in
the street can have their say in a formal way and put it to government.

"Politicians can dismiss opinion polls, but these are real polls with real
voters. This is a formal, legal process that ministers cannot dismiss."

How to run you own referendum

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTEST: Poll organiser Iris Binstead wants politicians to honour
promise of EU vote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A royal letdown

SECTION: LETTERS; 83

LENGTH: 181  words


IF our own head of state has succumbed to the idea of a European superstate
("Her Britannic Majesty bans UKIP covers for passports", Sunday Express,
September 16) by banning the royal coat of arms on passport covers, why in
heaven's name is there still all this furore in Britain about the EU?

UKIP was trying to preserve our status as a sovereign nation, and as our head of
state has already given up, there is no point in continuing the fight to retain
our sovereignty.

I fear that there are dark times ahead for Britain and Europe within the EU, and
I am shocked at our Sovereign for reneging on us at this crucial time, when we
have stood steadfastly by her.

Surely it would make the whole process far less painful if the Queen abdicated
now, disbanded the Royal Family and handed back to the nation (the EU) all her
properties and lands, and let us move on with our new head of state and
unelected masters in Brussels?

Why is there so much worry about the royal coat of arms? Once we are totally
under the control of Europe, it will be worthless anyway.

Sam Turner, Sandown, Isle of Wight

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 21, 2007 Friday

East Stoke celebrates a 'Yes' in EU vote as more join the fight

BYLINE: Richard Alleyne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 540 words


THE rural rebellion against the proposed European Union reform treaty gathered
momentum last night after communities contacted The Daily Telegraph to announce
their intention to vote for a referendum on the issue.

People from Yorkshire to Cornwall said they had proposed ballots, as the
residents of East Stoke, Dorset, celebrated a "Yes'' landslide in their
ground-breaking poll.

Parishioners in Sidmouth, Devon; Wakefield, West Yorkshire; Loughton, near
Milton Keynes; Lanteglos-by-Fowey, Cornwall, and Mawgan-in-Meneage, near
Helston, Cornwall, said they were organising votes.

Tess Nash, of Mawgan-in-Meneage, said villagers at a parish meeting had voted
unanimously for a poll on the treaty.

They have demanded that Kerrier District Council holds a vote in accordance with
local government regulations.

Under a little-known provision of the 1972 Local Government Act, a district
council is obliged to hold a poll if 10 or more local people vote for it.

The surge in support for the campaign for a referendum came on a momentous day
for East Stoke and its 300 or so residents, who briefly became a cause célèbre
for the debate over Europe after becoming the first community to exploit the
legal loophole to force a local ballot.

Last night campaigners in East Stoke were celebrating as 90 per cent of those
who cast votes said "Yes'' to a referendum on the EU treaty.

By the close of the poll at 9pm last night, 80 residents - almost a quarter of
those in the parish - had passed through the polling station, with 72 voting
"Yes'' and just eight saying "No''. John Barnes, one of the organisers, said:
"It's been a wonderful night for East Stoke and a wonderful night for democracy.

"I hope this encourages other villages planning similar polls and sends a
message to the Government.''

It became clear early on that the majority had voted in favour for the call for
a referendum on the EU treaty.

"Finally democracy has been seen to work,'' said Darren Patterson, one of the
organisers and a member of the Campaign Alliance for Referendums in Parishes.

"We hope it will send a message to other people to do the same on this
fundamental issue. I have already had calls from Sussex, Nottinghamshire and
Bristol from people saying, 'This is great, how do we do it?'.''

Gemma Malbon, 24, said: "I am voting for a referendum. It is an incredibly
important issue for the country and I think the people must have their say.

"I just hope this will have a knock-on effect. There are a lot of problems in
England for young people and moving the decision-making to Europe is just going
to make it harder to solve them.

"I have a lot of foreign friends and I love them but I don't want to be
European. I want to be British.''

Peter Edney, 66, who was with his wife Jan, 65, said: "I will be voting yes, yes
and yes again.'' Mr Edney still lives in the same thatched cottage in which he
was born.

"Europe frightens the life out of me. All the money we are giving to Europe
would be so much better spent here,'' he said.

John Barnes, another organiser and member of the UK Independence Party, said:
"The people, by voting a resounding "Yes'', will tell the Government in no
uncertain terms that they want the whole nation to be given the opportunity to
have a referendum.'

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 21, 2007 Friday

Voting against the reform treaty need not mean leaving the EU

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 116 words


SIR - If Gordon Brown wishes to call on politicians of other parties to advise
on issues facing the country, he should tackle probably the most important one
of all by inviting Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of the UK Independence Party, to
instigate a cost-benefit analysis of our membership of the EU. This badly needed
exercise has for years been shunned by both Conservative and Labour governments.

The Prime Minister is eventually going to be forced into giving us a referendum,
so let's get the facts before we vote.

As the obvious purpose of this "Government of all the talents'' lark is to
wrong-foot Cameron's Conservatives, Mr Farage should be happy to oblige.

Sir George Earle

Crediton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 21, 2007 Friday

The mouse that roared;
Village votes for poll on EU treaty (are you listening, Mr Brown?)

BYLINE: Steve Doughty

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 736 words


SO far, Gordon Brown has denied us a vote on the new European Union treaty.

But last night in deepest Dorset, a group of unlikely champions emerged in the
noble cause of letting the people's voices be heard on the issue.

The villagers of East Stoke gallantly thrust themselves into the vanguard of
democracy - by deciding to have their say whether the Prime Minister likes it or
not.

Using a little-known part of the law, they held a parish poll asking the 339
residents: 'Do you want a referendum on the EU Constitutional Treaty?' The
answer was a resounding Yes.

Ninety per cent of voters supported the idea of a referendum, while just ten per
cent were against.

In total, 80 votes were cast - representing a 23.6 per cent turnout. And Steve
McKenzie, the returning officer for Purbeck District Council, announced that the
proposition was carried.

Although the decision has no legal force, villager and referendum campaigner
Darren Patterson said: 'This is a massive turnout for this parish.

Hopefully this will be the start of bigthey 80% of UK voters want a referendum
on the constitution, an ICM poll found ger things to come. 'I'm sure Gordon
Brown will be aware of this and will be keeping an eye on the result. Let's hope
this prompts him to hold a national referendum.' The PM has found himself under
increasing pressure to give the country a vote on the treaty, which many believe
is simply a revived European Constitution.

Critics of the document, who include Labour and Tory MPs and the unions, want a
national vote.

They say the treaty is a Brussels power-grab virtually identical to the old
Constitution. That was rejected in referendums by the Dutch and the French in
2005.

But Mr Brown is resisting demands for a vote, despite claims that he is breaking
Labour's 2005 manifesto pledge to put any EU constitution to a vote. He says the
new treaty does not amount to a constitution.

The quirk in the law that allowed East Stoke to send Mr Brown a defiant message
about Brussels, is likely to lead to a number of copycat votes, inspired by the
UK Independence Party and a dedicated parish referendum campaign.

A village in Cornwall is already lining up to be the next candidate.

Recently, life hasn't been easy for East Stoke. The village shop went 50 years
ago. The school shut in the Seventies, the church in the Eighties, and the Post
Office six years ago.

Indeed, the village hall, a converted Army barracks from the First World War,
was deemed inadequate to operate as a polling station. Instead, district council
officials thought it better to conduct the poll in a hall belonging to a river
research lab. But yesterday its villagers showed that were happy to stand upand
be counted. Jim Boll, 73, said: 'I voted Yes, as I have been against joining
Europe all of my life. Everyone should get this chance to have a vote.' His wife
Iris, 68, said: 'I believe Europe is taking over our country without our say
so.' Gemma Malbon, 24, said: 'I think everyone deserves to have a say on such an
important issue.

'How can we call ourselves a democracy unless the Government gives us a chance
to vote? 'From a young person's point of view, I am worried about rising house
prices, jobs, wages, immigration and the treaty could affect all of these.' Imre
Niedermayer, 60, the Hungarian-born landlord of the village's surviving pub,
said: 'I was brought up under communism and unless we have a vote about this
treaty and unless we are all allowed to make our contribution to politics, we
will end up with a police state.' s.doughty@dailymail.co.uk

RUN YOUR OWN REFERENDUM

If you want to organise a poll like that in East Stoke, here's how to do it&
Under the Local Government Act 1972, a parish meeting may be convened by a
parish chairman, two parish councillors or any six local electors.

To secure a local referendum, the organisers must give seven days notice of a
parish meeting.

Notices should be put in a 'conspicuous place' and displayed in any manner
'desirable for giving publicity'.

The meeting must begin after 6pm and 'a poll may be demanded on any question
arising at the meeting'.

The referendum must go ahead if it wins the support of either ten local voters
or a third of the voters present, whichever is the fewer.

The chairman can also order a referendum on his or her own account if anybody
asks for one.

The referendum must be held within 14 to 25 days of the meeting.

But...the result of the poll has no legal force.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Some of the East Stoke villagers set off to cast their votes yesterday:
Now other communities nationwide could follow their example

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 21, 2007 Friday

Villagers go to the polls to demand EU referendum

BYLINE: Ben Mitchell

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 457 words


Residents of a village in Dorset yesterday voted overwhelmingly in favour of
holding Britain's first official poll to ask if the government should hold a
referendum on the new European Union treaty.

Villagers in East Stoke, near Wareham, decided by 90% that the country should be
surveyed. But only 80 of the 333 people on the electoral roll turned out, of
whom 72 voted yes and eight no.

John Barnes, a supporter of the UK Independence party (Ukip), used the Local
Government Act 1972 to call the vote . The act states that if 10 members of a
parish call for a poll on any subject, the council must comply.

The vote has been welcomed by the Campaign Alliance for Referendums in Parishes
(Carp), which is affiliated to Ukip. It hopes to hold further polls to put
pressure on the prime minister to hold a referendum on whether to accept the
treaty.

Among the first of the village's residents to step through the doors of the
polling station was Imre Niedermayer, the Hungarian-born landlord of the village
pub, The Stokeford Inn. He said the poll represented democracy in action.

"I was brought up under communism, and unless we have a vote about this treaty
and unless we are all allowed to make our contribution to politics, then it is
not healthy," he said.

Mr Niedermayer, 60, said he had received a lot of interest from across Europe,
including his native Hungary. "It's not just the UK. Countries like Poland,
Hungary and the Czech Republic are all concerned because they have come out of
one centralised system and they do not want to go straight into another."

Another of East Stoke's 369 residents, Gemma Malbon, 24, said: "From a young
person's point of view, I have a different take on things and I am worried about
rising house prices, jobs, wages, immigration, and the treaty could affect all
of these. I don't understand all the ins and outs of the treaty, but I am a
little bit stubborn and I want to be able to make my contribution."

She said TV crews from across Europe had turned up to interview residents.

Peter Roe, 81, added: "The village is normally just quiet and unimportant, but
now it is the mouse that roared."

Not everyone in East Stoke is happy that their village is being used as the
vanguard for the campaign for a referendum. Simon Cross, chairman of East Stoke
parish council, said the poll was little more than a publicity stunt. "The
parish is being used to bring publicity to this politically motivated
procedure."

And Leonard Humble, 73, a retired firefighter, was also unhappy, saying: "This
is just a gimmick."

A Carp spokesman said other villages had contacted it expressing interest in
holding their own polls. It said the next village to do so was expected to be
Lanteglos, near Fowey, Cornwall.

guardian.co.uk/eu >=

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           September 21, 2007, Friday

Villagers vote for referendum on EU

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 126 words


A Dorset village last night became the first place in Britain to stage a vote on
the new EU treaty and demanded that Gordon Brown hold a referendum on the issue.

The poll was called in East Stoke, near Wareham, when John Barnes, a supporter
of the UK Independence Party, used a provision of the Local Government Act 1972
which states that if ten members of aparish call for a vote on a subject, the
parish council must carry out the request.

Ninety per cent of the residents who voted were in favour of the referendum, but
just 80 votes out of a possible 339 were cast, representing a 23.6 per cent
turnout. Darren Patterson, organiser from the Campaign Alliance for Referenda of
Parishes, said: "Another four parishes are in the process of exercing their
right."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday

Europe must listen to 'the mouse that roared' Sleepy Dorset village exercises
right to put EU reform treaty to the vote

BYLINE: Richard Alleyne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 665 words


THE Prime Minister has ruled it out in the face of growing opposition. The
president of the European Union has dismissed it entirely. And countless
politicians have tied themselves in knots explaining why it is not necessary.

But today a small village in Dorset will hold a vote that has thus far been
denied to the British public - a vote on the the EU Reform Treaty.

The farming community of East Stoke may have just 369 residents but it now
stands at the vanguard of the fight against the European juggernaut.

It is, as one resident put it, "the mouse that roared''.

By exploiting a little-known loophole in the law, the village will hold a vote
on whether there should be a referendum on the EU treaty.

And, like rural uprisings of the past, it hopes that its stand will lead to
rebellion across the countryside and force Gordon Brown to put the issue to the
nation.

Darren Patterson, one of the organisers, said yesterday: "We hope that from
small acorns, huge oaks will grow.

"I have been inundated with people from surrounding villages wanting to know how
we have done it. The village may be tiny but the support is massive.''

East Stoke, which lies in the shadow of the Purbeck hills and is surrounded by
unspoilt countryside, is hardly a hotbed of political strife.

The main issues in the past few years have been the positioning of a speed
camera and the lack of buses to the nearby market town of Wareham.

But the Europe vote appears to have awoken a hidden rebellious streak among
residents.

Peter Roe, 81, a farmer in Africa who retired to East Stoke, said: "This country
has pretty much stood on its own for thousands of years. Why should we
jeopardise that?

"I am dead against this Europe thing. Tyranny has affected Europe all through
the centuries. Who has stopped them? We have, this island in the silver sea.

"East Stoke is a very quiet, unimportant place but now it is the mouse that
roared.''

At the Stokeford Inn, the village pub, passions were also running high.

"Somebody has got to stand up and be counted,'' said Imre Niedermayer, 60, the
Hungarian-born landlord. "I was brought up under communism and I know what too
much centralisation can lead to.

"I am so proud to be at the forefront of this campaign. This Government took us
to war against the people's will - it will not do the same for Europe.

"We want to be the new Tolpuddle Martyrs, but without being banished to
Australia.''

Ian Ursell, 48, a landscape gardener enjoying a coffee at the bar, added:
"Normally I don't vote because it makes no difference but this time I will.

"I run my own business and the number of laws that have come in from Europe is
just ridiculous.''

Surely Mary Zanelly, 84, a great-grandmother who is half-French and married an
Italian, would be in favour of Europe?

"I am not against Europe as a whole,'' she said. "But we must have a vote. It
should be the people's choice and then if it goes wrong then it is the people's
mistake.''

Back on the streets, John Barnes was drumming up more support for today's vote.

Mr Barnes, who runs a guesthouse and campsite, is a member of the UKIP party but
claims that this is to do with the community. He said: "The world is shrinking
and bureaucracy is encroaching on even a place like East Stoke.

"We have cattle being shipped in at Poole harbour while our livestock farmers go
out of business; milk from Poland and France while our farmers are paid to do
nothing.

"I believe in free trade with Europe but no more integration.''

But not everyone thinks the stand is worthwhile.

Leonard Humble, 73, a retired fireman, said his fellow villagers were making
fools of themselves.

"This is a waste of time,'' he said. "This referendum is just a gimmick.

"When you are in the outback like this you should just let life go on. What
effect does Europe have on this place? We are hardly overrun by immigrants.''

Nationally, Mr Brown is coming under increasing pressure to hold a referendum.
More than 95,000 people have signed up to The Daily Telegraph's campaign for a
poll.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 660 words


So you gather the pointyheads for a Social Innovation Summit. Matthew Taylor,
who ran the Downing Street strategy unit, is there, as is Geoff Mulgan, who also
ran policy and strategy for Tony Blair. Will Hutton, columnist and chief
executive of the Work Foundation, is in attendance, as is Trevor Phillips, chair
of the new Commission for Equality and Human Rights. Also Gus Macdonald, the
former minister and Labour peer. There is the prospect of enough wonkery to
sustain three Labour administrations; and that might have been the result had
England's footballers not been training at the same venue. As it was Mr
Phillips, a Chelsea fan, went doe-eyed at the sight of John Terry. Then there
was discussion about what Steven Gerrard discussed with the England captain and
whether either recognised Will Hutton. Then Rio Ferdinand complemented Mr
Phillips, occasioning envious outbursts and much pointed joshing. Our "broken
society" seemed a world away and for a while these titans of the liberal
intelligentsia were just dreamy kids, kicking a ball at the local rec. Boys!
Honestly!

"There has been a tabloid streak in Mr Cameron of late," complained a leader in
the Times yesterday, deploring the Tory leader's reaction to the Northern Rock
fiasco. This is strange, for the Times is undoubtedly a tabloid. When it
downsized, Robert Thomson, the editor, promised something "very different to the
average tabloid" - and most will say he has succeeded in that - but a tabloid it
remains. It has been almost four years. Surely it is time to end the
self-loathing. Love yourself. Others may do the same.

Meanwhile, today's Woodward and Bernstein prize goes to the Daily Telegraph,
which, through a Freedom of Information Act request, discovered how much public
money Gordon Brown has spent on cosmetics since the move to No 10. None.
Disgraceful. Get Lord Hutton on the phone.

So Nick Clegg staked his eventual claim to the Lib Dem leadership, but on the
eve of Ming's big speech, is there any more tangible sign of the need for new
and vigorous stewardship than the fact that men with beards are deserting the
party? Polling by the Beard Liberation Front - a loose cross-party network -
calculates that there are perhaps 10% fewer of them at conference this year. Our
correspondent Keith Flett, who monitors the phenomenon along with other varied
duties, says Lib Dems must avoid becoming "more clean-shaven" than the other
parties, and we note that Mr Clegg is clean-shaven, as is Ming. If the leaders
won't lead, what hope?

A relieved Brighton will wave them all farewell today, but many of the publicans
will feel a certain emptiness. "I can tell you're not one of those Liberals
going to that conference," a taxi driver told our correspondent Giovanna Forte
as she visited the city. "How do you know?" she asked. "You're not breathing
bloody booze all over me," he said.

A week touched by tragedy, panic and tension requires something to raise the
spirits, so roll on Saturday and Britain on the Brink, a conference at
Winchester Guildhall. Here's the line-up. There's Mark Wallace of the Freedom
Association to speak on the Erosion of our Freedoms and Liberties; then film
producer Trevor Colman, on Uncontrolled Foreign Immigration and the Free Right
of Entry to 490 million EU Citizens Aiding the Deconstruction of the Nation
State. Guy Herbert of the NO2ID campaign will tell us of the Totalitarian Trend
towards Total State Control and Surveillance; while Christopher Gill, the former
Tory MP, will outline the Powers Parliament Has Given Away: How MPs Can Resist
Giving Away More, and the Path to Recovery of Self-Government for Britain. And
this is just the warm-up material. Apparently there will be serious stuff too.

On a related theme, the Ukip-inspired organisation behind the anti-EU referendum
vote to be held in East Stoke, Dorset, is the Campaign Alliance for Referendums
in Parishes. So the chosen acronym is CARP. Happy days.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday

Sleepy farm community first to hold vote on EU Referendum

BYLINE: Oliver Harvey

LENGTH: 382  words


Village with the X factor

THE thatched cottages and farms of little East Stoke are hardly the setting for
a political revolution.

But today the Dorset village will be the first place in Britain to hold a poll
on whether there should be a referendum on the EU Treaty.

Villagers fed up with PM Gordon Brown's refusal to ask the nation have decided
to hold their own parish poll.

All 369 East Stoke voters will be asked to put aside concerns of daily life to
ponder a bigger question: "Do you want a referendum on the EU Constitutional
Treaty?"

There was fevered canvassing last night, with doors knocked and votes pleaded
for on both sides.

But retired Peter and Jan Edney had already made up their minds.

Retired paramedic Peter, 66, who was born in the picturesque hamlet, fumed: "By
signing up to this treaty Britain is losing its independence, its legal system
and even its own armed forces.

Poll

"Gordon Brown has refused to hold a referendum because he knows he would lose."

The poll was put forward by the Campaign Alliance for Referendums in Parishes
(CARP) which is attempting to stage votes in other counties in England.

The campaign includes members of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) but CARP says
it is not a party political group.

A straw poll by The Sun yesterday suggested that the yes camp seemed to be
heading for victory.

Parish councillor June Axon, 70, stood proudly under the flag of St George
flying in her garden and said: "We've had enough with Europe meddling in our
affairs and the country has a right to have a referendum on Europe."

Local CARP organiser Darren Paterson, 41, is also a member of UKIP.

He said last night: "This is all about local democracy and hopefully other
parishes will also have similar votes to put pressure on the Government.

"There should be a referendum."

Parish council chairman Simon Cross, 44, is against the vote, saying it was
wrong for a parish council to weigh in with an opinion on national politics.

But John Barnes, 61, who proposed the vote at a parish meeting, said: "I believe
we are heading for a victory.

"A benefactor has come forward to pay the costs of the vote so it's not going to
cost taxpayers anything."

Polls close at 9pm and the result is expected ten minutes later -so by tomorrow
East Stoke could have stoked up trouble in Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          September 20, 2007, Thursday

Villagers get the only vote on EU

BYLINE: Simon de Bruxelles

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 172 words


DORSET An EU referendum will take place today, but only in the tiny parish of
East Stoke (Simon de Bruxelles writes).

The village, population 339, will have its say thanks to a little used clause in
the Local Government Act 1972 which permits a parish poll on any subject if at
least ten people are in favour. Residents of East Stoke in the Isle of Purbeck
put the matter to a show of hands at a parish meeting last month.

The mini-referendum was arranged by the UK Independence Party, which is
campaigning for similar local votes elsewhere. Today's vote is not on the reform
treaty itself, but on whether there should be a national referendum.

Darren Patterson, a local activist, said: "We are hoping for a good turnout and
hope about 100 people will vote." However, Barry Quinn, a Conservative Purbeck
district councillor, said that it was a waste of money that would be better
spent on refurbishing the war memorial.

After East Stoke, the 865 residents of Lanteglos, near Fowey, in Cornwall will
stage a parish poll on the same subject.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 18, 2007 Tuesday

Farage passed over Conference Spy

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: NEWS; Lib Dem Conference; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 99 words


A highlight of yesterday's lunchtime fringe was the attendance of the
redoubtable UK Independence Party leader, Nigel Farage, for a debate on the
European Reform Treaty. "I never thought I'd find myself wearing a Liberal
Democrat conference pass, so I'm going to treasure it as a memento,'' he said.

But alas, it was not an access-all-areas pass. "Afterwards, Nigel wanted to go
and hear the address being given by the European Commission president, José
Manuel Barroso,'' I'm told. "But organisers had ensured he only had an
observer's pass, which stopped him from getting into the auditorium.''

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Conference diary

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 319 words


n Space oddity

The Lib Dems boast that a record 1,600 delegates are in Brighton for the annual
jamboree. But organisers have still had to shut off vast sections of the
conference hall to hide the fact that they can't fill the cavernous venue

n Ming 'not too old', say Zimmers

Sir Menzies Campbell won a vote of confidence in the face of sniping over his
advanced years. It came from the music combo the Zimmers who were in Brighton
last night for an Age Concern fringe meeting. John Tree, at 72 one of the
younger members, said: "There is a culture of youth in everything and Ming has a
difficult task, but I think he is doing very well."

n Spying game

Vladimir Putin is not the only one reviving espionage. The Conservatives have a
top Cameron aide undercover in Brighton. "If I find any intelligence, I'll tell
London straight away," the Tory agent said. Labour also has a friend from the
Institute of Public Policy Research, a think-tank very close to No 10.

n Unlikely sighting

Double takes all round as the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, scourge of all things
from Brussels, happily wandered around the conference of Britain's most
enthusiastic pro-European party. He was in town for a fringe meeting.

n Good day

Vince Cable, the party's Treasury spokesman, who won widespread plaudits for
predicting the banking crisis years in advance.

n Bad day

Ming Campbell, who admitted "gosh, I'm a failure" while swapping banter with
radio comedienne Sandi Toksvig in a question and answer session. He said he was
"scared stiff" before big speeches.

n Fringe of the Day

The Independent's, naturally, where Chris Huhne and Nick Clegg went head to
head. They are the two men most likely to slug it out for the leadership come
the day that Sir Menzies steps down.

n Today's agenda

9am Debate on housing

9.40am Tax reform debate

11am Speech by health spokesman Norman Lamb

11.30am Immigration debate 2.30pm Speech by Michael Moore on foreign affairs

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU to give Britain just GBP 4.5m to deport illegals

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 428  words


BRITAIN is to get GBP 4.5million a y ear from the European Union to help fund
deportation of illegal immigrants.

But the sum is a drop in the ocean compared with the GBP 4.5billion Britain pays
into the EU every year.

Brussels will pay out the GBP 4.5million next year as part of the European
return fund which starts w ork next January on improving the management of the
return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin.

All member states will be entitled to claim cash from the fund which has a
budget of GBP 467million for 2008-13. Each country, including the UK, will get
GBP 207,000 a year, with the rest of the cash allocated to member states based
on the number of illegal immigrants awaiting deportation, who have been deported
or who have left of their own accord.

This means that EU border states, particularly in Eastern Europe, will be
entitled to claim the vast majority of the cash.

There will also be GBP 1.2billion in EU funding for the "integration of
third-country nationals" with EU states required to "develop and implement
programmes and activities welcoming newcomers, to improve the capacity of public
and private service providers to respond to their needs".

The return fund is part of the European Commission's "solidarity and management
of migration flows" programme launched last year. It aims to ensure member
states share out the financial burden of managing the EU's external borders.

The scheme was set up after some member states - including Spain and Malta -
that are used by large numbers of illegal immigrants as entry points, complained
that they faced an unfair financial burden.

The cash will go on providing information and counselling to illegal immigrants
on how they can return home, and medical checks, travel and food for returnees.

It will also pay for escorts, including medical staff and interpreters,
educating and training staff, and providing training, cash incentives and
specific assistance to individuals to help their reintegration. The EU nations
have also pledged to develop a common policy on returning illegal immigrants.

But Shadow Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "The success of this scheme
will depend on whether, having sent these people back home, we actually have
border controls in place to stop them from coming back again.

"All the evidence of the past few year suggests that this Government is
incapable of making our borders secure."

Ukip leader and Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Wouldn't that money be better spent
in the UK helping communities deal with the effects of mass migration from the
EU?"

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Her Britannic Majesty bans UKIP covers for passports

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 622  words


THE UK Independence Party has been banned from selling traditional British
passport covers featuring the royal coat of arms - by the Queen.

The party of Euro-sceptics has sold thousands of its traditional souvenir
passport covers displaying the emblem in the past decade.

They are adorned with the words "British passport" and are available in black,
blue and pink, costing GBP 5.

They have been a popular item with anti-EU voters who are keen to keep their
British identity when travelling abroad. They simply carry the official burgundy
EU passport inside the traditional cover supplied by the UKIP.

But now the Lord Chamberlain, one of the chief officers of the royal household,
has written to party leader Nigel Farage, ordering an end to the sales.

For while many other companies sell passport covers, these are usually still
EU-style designs in a variety of colours and, crucially, do not feature the lion
and the unicorn crest.

The Lord Chamberlain insists that the royal coat of arms is protected under law
and cannot be reproduced without permission.

Mr Farage, an MEP, said the ban was "a heavy-handed attempt to make us accept
Euro-style passports" and vowed to fight the move.

A spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace said the Lord Chamberlain's office had
contacted a number of suppliers and manufacturers of the old-style passport
covers.

She said: "This has become quite a serious issue because the coat of arms is
protected by law. We have written to a number of companies who sell and supply
these passport covers.

"The coat of arms now appears only on the inside of a passport and on other
official documents. The coat of arms is protected by law from misuse.

"Passport covers are souvenirs and therefore the royal coat of arms is not
allowed to be used on them. It is the job of the Lord Chamberlain's office to
police this and to point out the error of their ways to people who misuse it."

Mr Farage replied: "Nothing is below their attention when it comes to promoting
the EU, it seems.

"It's another step along the ever-shortening road to an integrated Europe.

"Whatever our politicians say, most people in this country regard themselves as
British and they should be allowed to put their hand in their pocket to be so -
since they cannot make the choice on their original passport.

"The last chance for a proper British passport without the ghastly EU on it has
now gone."

Meanwhile, it emerged last week that the last remaining reference to the Queen
contained in British passports could be erased by 2010.

The first page of the existing design for EU passports issued to British
subjects features the royal coat of arms with a message from the Queen beginning
"Her Britannic Majesty's Secretary of State".

It says the citizen has a right to travel freely, and the right to protection
and assistance.

The new passports, which could be in place in just three years, would refer
instead to the EU constitution, and replace the lion and the unicorn with the 12
stars emblem of Europe.

The message underneath would start: "Every citizen of the Union . . ."

The new version was originally proposed from Article 20 of the EU constitution.

The proposal was criticised by William Hague, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, who
said: "People want to be proud to be British and their passports should have a
clear association with that.

"There is no good reason to change the traditional presentation of our
passports."

British passports have contained a reference to the monarch since 1915.

Twenty years ago they were replaced by smaller, burgundy passports, emblazoned
with the words European Union.

The new versions of the passport will state that Britain is obliged to look
after the citizens of other EU countries on the same basis as its own nationals.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTLAWED: The souvenir cover that Nigel Farage, left, is supporting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Heath home is landmark case;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 409  words


EVEN IN death, Sir Edward Heath is still able to prompt a battle of wills with
his neighbours.

It was the final wish of the former Prime Minister - who carried on the longest
sulk in political history against his successor Lady Thatcher - to have his home
Arundells, opened to the public. But neighbours in The Close, in Salisbury,
Wiltshire, are fighting to stop an influx of tourists.

Neighbours Rear Admiral Bevan and his wife Constance have demanded that
Salisbury District Council block the planning application as "this is the last
chance to stop the commercialisation" of their street - also home to the Bishop
of Salisbury.

Earlier this year, a plan to open the house was thrown out amid fears that
thousands would descend on the road. Now a new planning application, lasting
just three years, has been made.

"Once the house has been altered to accommodate a visiting public for three
years, it is likely it will never again be a private dwelling, " say the Bevans.

As District Councillor Ian Tomes explained: "We don't know how many people Ted
Heath would attract."

IT looks like war has broken out between the smokers and the anti-smoking lobby
in the European Parliament.

After Crossbencher reported that the EU's fag ban had been defied by UKIP leader
Nigel Farage, the MEP has become the victim of theft - of his office ashtrays.

Farage arrived after the summer recess to find that two ashtrays had been
removed by, he suspects, parliamentary officials. He has now written to the
authorities, insisting: "I take great exception to this. . . and earnestly
request that enquiries be instituted with a view to recovering the missing
items." Crossbencher doesn't hold out much hope. . .

GORDON BROWN is right not to be worried about a mass rebellion by Labour MPs
over his refusal to grant an EU referendum. Maverick Ian Davidson claims he has
120 Labour MPs ready to defy the whips but academic Philip Cowley says Davidson
would be hard-pressed to find 40.

"A lost vote on this, so early in Brown's premiership, would have been
catastrophic, " says Cowley. "One or two Labour MPs might be a bit dim at times.
. . but they aren't that stupid."

NEW YORK Mayor Michael Bloomberg is to address the Tories' annual conference in
Blackpool later this month.

David Cameron said he was "delighted", adding: "He is one of America's most
inspirational and effective leaders."

Perhaps the billionaire could help the Conservative coffers ahead of a general
election too.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU to give Britain just GBP 4.5m to deport illegals

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 428  words


BRITAIN is to get GBP 4.5million a y ear from the European Union to help fund
deportation of illegal immigrants.

But the sum is a drop in the ocean compared with the GBP 4.5billion Britain pays
into the EU every year.

Brussels will pay out the GBP 4.5million next year as part of the European
return fund which starts w ork next January on improving the management of the
return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin.

All member states will be entitled to claim cash from the fund which has a
budget of GBP 467million for 2008-13. Each country, including the UK, will get
GBP 207,000 a year, with the rest of the cash allocated to member states based
on the number of illegal immigrants awaiting deportation, who have been deported
or who have left of their own accord.

This means that EU border states, particularly in Eastern Europe, will be
entitled to claim the vast majority of the cash.

There will also be GBP 1.2billion in EU funding for the "integration of
third-country nationals" with EU states required to "develop and implement
programmes and activities welcoming newcomers, to improve the capacity of public
and private service providers to respond to their needs".

The return fund is part of the European Commission's "solidarity and management
of migration flows" programme launched last year. It aims to ensure member
states share out the financial burden of managing the EU's external borders.

The scheme was set up after some member states - including Spain and Malta -
that are used by large numbers of illegal immigrants as entry points, complained
that they faced an unfair financial burden.

The cash will go on providing information and counselling to illegal immigrants
on how they can return home, and medical checks, travel and food for returnees.

It will also pay for escorts, including medical staff and interpreters,
educating and training staff, and providing training, cash incentives and
specific assistance to individuals to help their reintegration. The EU nations
have also pledged to develop a common policy on returning illegal immigrants.

But Shadow Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "The success of this scheme
will depend on whether, having sent these people back home, we actually have
border controls in place to stop them from coming back again.

"All the evidence of the past few year suggests that this Government is
incapable of making our borders secure."

Ukip leader and Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Wouldn't that money be better spent
in the UK helping communities deal with the effects of mass migration from the
EU?"

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Her Britannic Majesty bans UKIP covers for passports

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 622  words


THE UK Independence Party has been banned from selling traditional British
passport covers featuring the royal coat of arms - by the Queen.

The party of Euro-sceptics has sold thousands of its traditional souvenir
passport covers displaying the emblem in the past decade.

They are adorned with the words "British passport" and are available in black,
blue and pink, costing GBP 5.

They have been a popular item with anti-EU voters who are keen to keep their
British identity when travelling abroad. They simply carry the official burgundy
EU passport inside the traditional cover supplied by the UKIP.

But now the Lord Chamberlain, one of the chief officers of the royal household,
has written to party leader Nigel Farage, ordering an end to the sales.

For while many other companies sell passport covers, these are usually still
EU-style designs in a variety of colours and, crucially, do not feature the lion
and the unicorn crest.

The Lord Chamberlain insists that the royal coat of arms is protected under law
and cannot be reproduced without permission.

Mr Farage, an MEP, said the ban was "a heavy-handed attempt to make us accept
Euro-style passports" and vowed to fight the move.

A spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace said the Lord Chamberlain's office had
contacted a number of suppliers and manufacturers of the old-style passport
covers.

She said: "This has become quite a serious issue because the coat of arms is
protected by law. We have written to a number of companies who sell and supply
these passport covers.

"The coat of arms now appears only on the inside of a passport and on other
official documents. The coat of arms is protected by law from misuse.

"Passport covers are souvenirs and therefore the royal coat of arms is not
allowed to be used on them. It is the job of the Lord Chamberlain's office to
police this and to point out the error of their ways to people who misuse it."

Mr Farage replied: "Nothing is below their attention when it comes to promoting
the EU, it seems.

"It's another step along the ever-shortening road to an integrated Europe.

"Whatever our politicians say, most people in this country regard themselves as
British and they should be allowed to put their hand in their pocket to be so -
since they cannot make the choice on their original passport.

"The last chance for a proper British passport without the ghastly EU on it has
now gone."

Meanwhile, it emerged last week that the last remaining reference to the Queen
contained in British passports could be erased by 2010.

The first page of the existing design for EU passports issued to British
subjects features the royal coat of arms with a message from the Queen beginning
"Her Britannic Majesty's Secretary of State".

It says the citizen has a right to travel freely, and the right to protection
and assistance.

The new passports, which could be in place in just three years, would refer
instead to the EU constitution, and replace the lion and the unicorn with the 12
stars emblem of Europe.

The message underneath would start: "Every citizen of the Union . . ."

The new version was originally proposed from Article 20 of the EU constitution.

The proposal was criticised by William Hague, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, who
said: "People want to be proud to be British and their passports should have a
clear association with that.

"There is no good reason to change the traditional presentation of our
passports."

British passports have contained a reference to the monarch since 1915.

Twenty years ago they were replaced by smaller, burgundy passports, emblazoned
with the words European Union.

The new versions of the passport will state that Britain is obliged to look
after the citizens of other EU countries on the same basis as its own nationals.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTLAWED: The souvenir cover that Nigel Farage, left, is supporting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Heath home is landmark case;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 409  words


EVEN IN death, Sir Edward Heath is still able to prompt a battle of wills with
his neighbours.

It was the final wish of the former Prime Minister - who carried on the longest
sulk in political history against his successor Lady Thatcher - to have his home
Arundells, opened to the public. But neighbours in The Close, in Salisbury,
Wiltshire, are fighting to stop an influx of tourists.

Neighbours Rear Admiral Bevan and his wife Constance have demanded that
Salisbury District Council block the planning application as "this is the last
chance to stop the commercialisation" of their street - also home to the Bishop
of Salisbury.

Earlier this year, a plan to open the house was thrown out amid fears that
thousands would descend on the road. Now a new planning application, lasting
just three years, has been made.

"Once the house has been altered to accommodate a visiting public for three
years, it is likely it will never again be a private dwelling, " say the Bevans.

As District Councillor Ian Tomes explained: "We don't know how many people Ted
Heath would attract."

IT looks like war has broken out between the smokers and the anti-smoking lobby
in the European Parliament.

After Crossbencher reported that the EU's fag ban had been defied by UKIP leader
Nigel Farage, the MEP has become the victim of theft - of his office ashtrays.

Farage arrived after the summer recess to find that two ashtrays had been
removed by, he suspects, parliamentary officials. He has now written to the
authorities, insisting: "I take great exception to this. . . and earnestly
request that enquiries be instituted with a view to recovering the missing
items." Crossbencher doesn't hold out much hope. . .

GORDON BROWN is right not to be worried about a mass rebellion by Labour MPs
over his refusal to grant an EU referendum. Maverick Ian Davidson claims he has
120 Labour MPs ready to defy the whips but academic Philip Cowley says Davidson
would be hard-pressed to find 40.

"A lost vote on this, so early in Brown's premiership, would have been
catastrophic, " says Cowley. "One or two Labour MPs might be a bit dim at times.
. . but they aren't that stupid."

NEW YORK Mayor Michael Bloomberg is to address the Tories' annual conference in
Blackpool later this month.

David Cameron said he was "delighted", adding: "He is one of America's most
inspirational and effective leaders."

Perhaps the billionaire could help the Conservative coffers ahead of a general
election too.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU to give Britain just GBP 4.5m to deport illegals

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 428  words


BRITAIN is to get GBP 4.5million a y ear from the European Union to help fund
deportation of illegal immigrants.

But the sum is a drop in the ocean compared with the GBP 4.5billion Britain pays
into the EU every year.

Brussels will pay out the GBP 4.5million next year as part of the European
return fund which starts w ork next January on improving the management of the
return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin.

All member states will be entitled to claim cash from the fund which has a
budget of GBP 467million for 2008-13. Each country, including the UK, will get
GBP 207,000 a year, with the rest of the cash allocated to member states based
on the number of illegal immigrants awaiting deportation, who have been deported
or who have left of their own accord.

This means that EU border states, particularly in Eastern Europe, will be
entitled to claim the vast majority of the cash.

There will also be GBP 1.2billion in EU funding for the "integration of
third-country nationals" with EU states required to "develop and implement
programmes and activities welcoming newcomers, to improve the capacity of public
and private service providers to respond to their needs".

The return fund is part of the European Commission's "solidarity and management
of migration flows" programme launched last year. It aims to ensure member
states share out the financial burden of managing the EU's external borders.

The scheme was set up after some member states - including Spain and Malta -
that are used by large numbers of illegal immigrants as entry points, complained
that they faced an unfair financial burden.

The cash will go on providing information and counselling to illegal immigrants
on how they can return home, and medical checks, travel and food for returnees.

It will also pay for escorts, including medical staff and interpreters,
educating and training staff, and providing training, cash incentives and
specific assistance to individuals to help their reintegration. The EU nations
have also pledged to develop a common policy on returning illegal immigrants.

But Shadow Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "The success of this scheme
will depend on whether, having sent these people back home, we actually have
border controls in place to stop them from coming back again.

"All the evidence of the past few year suggests that this Government is
incapable of making our borders secure."

Ukip leader and Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Wouldn't that money be better spent
in the UK helping communities deal with the effects of mass migration from the
EU?"

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Her Britannic Majesty bans UKIP covers for passports

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 622  words


THE UK Independence Party has been banned from selling traditional British
passport covers featuring the royal coat of arms - by the Queen.

The party of Euro-sceptics has sold thousands of its traditional souvenir
passport covers displaying the emblem in the past decade.

They are adorned with the words "British passport" and are available in black,
blue and pink, costing GBP 5.

They have been a popular item with anti-EU voters who are keen to keep their
British identity when travelling abroad. They simply carry the official burgundy
EU passport inside the traditional cover supplied by the UKIP.

But now the Lord Chamberlain, one of the chief officers of the royal household,
has written to party leader Nigel Farage, ordering an end to the sales.

For while many other companies sell passport covers, these are usually still
EU-style designs in a variety of colours and, crucially, do not feature the lion
and the unicorn crest.

The Lord Chamberlain insists that the royal coat of arms is protected under law
and cannot be reproduced without permission.

Mr Farage, an MEP, said the ban was "a heavy-handed attempt to make us accept
Euro-style passports" and vowed to fight the move.

A spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace said the Lord Chamberlain's office had
contacted a number of suppliers and manufacturers of the old-style passport
covers.

She said: "This has become quite a serious issue because the coat of arms is
protected by law. We have written to a number of companies who sell and supply
these passport covers.

"The coat of arms now appears only on the inside of a passport and on other
official documents. The coat of arms is protected by law from misuse.

"Passport covers are souvenirs and therefore the royal coat of arms is not
allowed to be used on them. It is the job of the Lord Chamberlain's office to
police this and to point out the error of their ways to people who misuse it."

Mr Farage replied: "Nothing is below their attention when it comes to promoting
the EU, it seems.

"It's another step along the ever-shortening road to an integrated Europe.

"Whatever our politicians say, most people in this country regard themselves as
British and they should be allowed to put their hand in their pocket to be so -
since they cannot make the choice on their original passport.

"The last chance for a proper British passport without the ghastly EU on it has
now gone."

Meanwhile, it emerged last week that the last remaining reference to the Queen
contained in British passports could be erased by 2010.

The first page of the existing design for EU passports issued to British
subjects features the royal coat of arms with a message from the Queen beginning
"Her Britannic Majesty's Secretary of State".

It says the citizen has a right to travel freely, and the right to protection
and assistance.

The new passports, which could be in place in just three years, would refer
instead to the EU constitution, and replace the lion and the unicorn with the 12
stars emblem of Europe.

The message underneath would start: "Every citizen of the Union . . ."

The new version was originally proposed from Article 20 of the EU constitution.

The proposal was criticised by William Hague, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, who
said: "People want to be proud to be British and their passports should have a
clear association with that.

"There is no good reason to change the traditional presentation of our
passports."

British passports have contained a reference to the monarch since 1915.

Twenty years ago they were replaced by smaller, burgundy passports, emblazoned
with the words European Union.

The new versions of the passport will state that Britain is obliged to look
after the citizens of other EU countries on the same basis as its own nationals.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTLAWED: The souvenir cover that Nigel Farage, left, is supporting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Heath home is landmark case;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 409  words


EVEN IN death, Sir Edward Heath is still able to prompt a battle of wills with
his neighbours.

It was the final wish of the former Prime Minister - who carried on the longest
sulk in political history against his successor Lady Thatcher - to have his home
Arundells, opened to the public. But neighbours in The Close, in Salisbury,
Wiltshire, are fighting to stop an influx of tourists.

Neighbours Rear Admiral Bevan and his wife Constance have demanded that
Salisbury District Council block the planning application as "this is the last
chance to stop the commercialisation" of their street - also home to the Bishop
of Salisbury.

Earlier this year, a plan to open the house was thrown out amid fears that
thousands would descend on the road. Now a new planning application, lasting
just three years, has been made.

"Once the house has been altered to accommodate a visiting public for three
years, it is likely it will never again be a private dwelling, " say the Bevans.

As District Councillor Ian Tomes explained: "We don't know how many people Ted
Heath would attract."

IT looks like war has broken out between the smokers and the anti-smoking lobby
in the European Parliament.

After Crossbencher reported that the EU's fag ban had been defied by UKIP leader
Nigel Farage, the MEP has become the victim of theft - of his office ashtrays.

Farage arrived after the summer recess to find that two ashtrays had been
removed by, he suspects, parliamentary officials. He has now written to the
authorities, insisting: "I take great exception to this. . . and earnestly
request that enquiries be instituted with a view to recovering the missing
items." Crossbencher doesn't hold out much hope. . .

GORDON BROWN is right not to be worried about a mass rebellion by Labour MPs
over his refusal to grant an EU referendum. Maverick Ian Davidson claims he has
120 Labour MPs ready to defy the whips but academic Philip Cowley says Davidson
would be hard-pressed to find 40.

"A lost vote on this, so early in Brown's premiership, would have been
catastrophic, " says Cowley. "One or two Labour MPs might be a bit dim at times.
. . but they aren't that stupid."

NEW YORK Mayor Michael Bloomberg is to address the Tories' annual conference in
Blackpool later this month.

David Cameron said he was "delighted", adding: "He is one of America's most
inspirational and effective leaders."

Perhaps the billionaire could help the Conservative coffers ahead of a general
election too.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 15, 2007 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Lib Dems go on the offensive over Europe amid criticism of Campbell's leadership

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 846 words


The Liberal Democrats have called for a referendum on whether Britain should
remain in the European Union in an attempt to settle the issue once and for all.

Sir Menzies Campbell, the Liberal Democrat leader, rejected Tory calls for a
public vote on the proposed EU treaty. His surprise move is aimed at calling the
Tories' bluff by drawing Eurosceptics into a debate about Britain's place in
Europe.

It comes amid pressure from some Liberal Democrat MPs and MEPs for the party to
back a referendum on the treaty because it promised one on its forerunner - the
EU constitution blocked two years ago by "No" votes in France and the
Netherlands.

The Tories accused Sir Menzies of distracting attention from his performance on
the eve of his party's annual conference in Brighton which starts tomorrow.

Last night the Liberal Democrat leader dismissed suggestions that he was under
pressure, saying that such talk "goes with the territory" and always happened
before the party's conference. In a BBC Radio interview he said: "I will lead
the party through the parliament, through the next election and into the next
parliament." In his statement on Europe, he called for an end to the "shadow
boxing" on the issue and said it was time for an honest debate. He promised to
lead the campaign for Britain to stay in the EU.

He said: "I am not prepared to allow David Cameron to lead the Europhobes and
their allies in sections of the media, to distort the debate on Europe without
challenge. He tries to pose as a champion of the people but in truth he wishes
to restrict the British people to a choice on a narrow question about a treaty
of far less significance."

In its present form, he said, the substantial differences between the draft
treaty and the constitution mean that a referendum was not needed.

"If there is to be a referendum it shouldn't be restricted to a comparatively
minor treaty. It must be a decision about the EU as a whole," Sir Menzies said.
"Let's have an honest debate on the European Union followed by a real choice for
the British people. That means a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.
We would ask the British people the big question - whether to remain in the
European Union or not."

Gordon Brown is resisting a referendum on the treaty, arguing that it is not the
same as the original constitution on which all three main parties promised a
public vote in their 2005 election manifestos. But the Prime Minister the
pressure to agree to a referendum increased this week when the TUC voted for one
at its annual conference.

UKIP, which wants Britain to leave the EU, welcomed the Liberal Democrats' call.
Nigel Farage, the party's leader, said: "I have believed for some time that the
only referendum that Gordon Brown will ever consider would be one with the new
constitutional treaty as a continued part of our EU membership. Brown believes
that this is the only referendum on the EU that he can win. The parliamentary
arithmetic means that if the Liberal Democrats support such a move it would give
the British people their first chance in over 30 years to determine their own
futures."

But Derek Scott, the chairman of the I Want a Referendum campaign, said: "The
Liberal Democrats want an honest debate so they must not try to force people
into a false choice between giving even more powers to the EU and leaving
altogether. The overwhelming majority of people in Britain want to co-operate in
Europe but not give more powers away."

The Tories were unmoved, and reiterated their call for a public vote on the
treaty. William Hague, the shadow Foreign Secretary, said: "This proposal is a
clear sign of desperation from Ming Campbell, whose party is so split on this
issue.

"The Liberal Democrats promised a referendum on the EU Constitution. They should
concentrate on making sure that promise is kept, instead of producing ill
thought out distractions on the eve of a difficult party conference."

David Cameron tried to mend fences with Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor,
yesterday when he met her for the first time. She had previously declined a
meeting in protest at his decision to pull Tory MEPs out of the main
centre-right group in the European Parliament in 2009.

At their talks in Berlin, the two leaders agreed that their parties would set up
working parties in several policy areas. Mr Cameron said: "Angela Merkel and I
had a very positive meeting, where we discussed how centre-right parties can
co-operate.

"I am delighted that the Conservative Party and the CDU will be setting up joint
working groups covering climate change and environment, security and
counter-terrorism, and economic competitiveness."

Ms Merkel and Mr Cameron, who agreed to disagree over the Tories' decision to
leave the European People's Party, discussed a number of issues including the
fight against terrorism, climate change and the challenges facing the
international community in Afghanistan.

The Tory leader accepted an invitation to deliver a keynote speech on security
issues at a conference to be opened by the German Chancellor in Berlin on 26
October.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 14, 2007 Friday

Spy

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: NEWS; SPY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words


Cutting costs

"The most important thing a woman can have,'' said Joan Crawford, "next to
talent, of course, is her hairdresser.'' Cherie Blair would certainly agree with
her. The former PM's wife famously charged the Labour Party pounds 7,700 for
hair styling during the 2005 General Election, having employed the services of
Andre Suard at an eye-watering cost of pounds 275 a day.

Sandra Howard, wife of then Tory leader Michael Howard, had charged the party
pounds 65 for hairdressing during the campaign.

Spy can reveal that our current PM's wife, however, is the most frugal of them
all, paying a mere pounds 33 for her cut and blow-dry.

"Sarah Brown goes to a hairdresser called Biba in Bloomsbury,'' I'm told, "where
she has just had her hair highlighted and layered. She gets no fuss or special
treatment and usually pays pounds 33 for a cut and blow dry. She gets the bus
from Downing Street - talk about low maintenance.''

Hostile amendment

The UK Independence Party has many detractors, but I'm surprised that these
include an employee of the American diplomatic service. I hear that the UKIP
entry on Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia, has been subject to hostile
amendments from a computer inside the US Mission to the EU in Brussels.

"To say I'm hopping mad would be to put it politely,'' Nigel Farage, the party
leader, tells Spy. "I've complained to the American ambassador in Brussels and
I've had an initial reply confirming that an internal investigation has been
launched.

"I'm waiting to see if the guilty party is disciplined.''

U-turn?

Is Gordon Brown quietly preparing the ground for the mother of all

U-turns by giving us a referendum on the new EU treaty after all? My suspicions
are aroused by a parliamentary question tabled by the Tory MP Nigel Evans, in
which he asked the simple question of the PM: "Will he make it his policy to
hold a referendum on the EU Reform Treaty?''

Mysteriously, Brown ducked the question and gave it to the Foreign Secretary,
David Miliband, to answer - who in turn passed the buck to Europe Minister Jim
Murphy.

Murphy's equivocal reply has now been published in Hansard: "The UK's only ever
national referendum was on EEC membership in 1975. The Reform Treaty will be an
amending Treaty in the tradition of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice, none of
which were subject to a referendum in this country.''

Evans remains hopeful.

Britney's hideaway

After an embarrassing performance at the MTV video awards this week, where
Britney Spears was accused of "lip-synching'' and looking "out of it'', you
could forgive her for wanting to shut herself away.

The 25-year-old has put an offer in on a pounds 4 million home in the secluded
Ramirez Canyon area of Malibu. "It has seven bedrooms and six bathrooms,'' I'm
told. "There is also a guest house, spa and stables. But the main thing is that
the road is completely private - the paparazzi won't be able to get anywhere
near.''

Tea with Sienna

Fancy having Sienna Miller round to tea? If you live in the right kind of house
in north London, then this could be your chance.

"Location managers for Sienna's forthcoming film, Hippie, Hippie Shake, are
currently scouting for a house in Hampstead to use for filming later in the
month,'' says one local resident.

"They've been leafleting houses which they reckon might fit their specifications
- namely, to have two decent-sized ground floor rooms - and are willing to pay
pounds 1,200 a day.''

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 14, 2007 Friday
                                 First Edition

Should we believe politicians when they promise to save the earth? I don't think
so

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1132 words


This column deplores the all-too-common practice of dismissing the political
opinions of the very rich , solely because of their great wealth. It therefore
will play no part in the cruel mockery of Zac Goldsmith, son and heir of the
late billionaire Sir James Goldsmith, David Cameron's "Green Advisor", and
co-author of the Conservative Party's Quality of Life report.

Just because Zac Goldsmith has never had to worry about the cost of his food, it
doesn't mean that his strictures against Britain's supermarkets should be
automatically dismissed. Just because he has experienced the privilege of being
flown in his late father's private jet, it doesn't mean we should not listen to
his argument that the masses must pay more for their EasyJet flights.

In any case, the most significant genealogical point to make about Zac Goldsmith
is not that he is his father's son, but that he is his uncle's nephew. The
magazine Zac Goldsmith now edits, The Ecologist, was founded by his uncle Teddy
- who clearly has been a very big influence on Zac's thinking.

Teddy Goldsmith was on the wilder fringes of the environmentalist movement. He
believed that the whole world should become completely de-industrialised. He was
not swayed by the arguments that it was only through industrialisation that
extreme poverty, malnutrition and high infant mortality had been eradicated in
the developed world - and that exactly the same process was having the same
beneficial effects in what we used to call the Third World.

In fact Teddy Goldsmith, like many of his friends whom we would normally think
of as being on the far Right, such as the late casino and private zoo owner John
Aspinall, was not a great supporter of the human race in general. A friend of
mine once heard Teddy Goldsmith insist that the optimum population for the
planet was 50,000.

I am not saying that Zac Goldsmith shares these opinions - and the fact that he
is a faithful frequenter of John Aspinall's casino is nothing to do with his
political views. Yes, Zac Goldsmith used to support UKIP before he became a
Conservative Parliamentary candidate -but it is no sin to want to withdraw from
the EU. There are, however, alarming elements of atavism in Zac Goldsmith's
analysis. In The Daily Telegraph yesterday he argued that something should be
done about the fact that "the UK's self-sufficiency in food is actually
decreasing". Here we see the profoundly reactionary nature of apparently hip
environmentalists: they have simply failed to grasp why capitalism works. Over
230 years after the publication of The Wealth of Nations, many of them still
don't want to understand that it is through specialising in what we do most
efficiently that general prosperity is achieved.

Why should Britain be self-sufficient in food production, if its people can pay
less for food of a similar quality from, say, East Africa? More to the point for
the "compassionate" Conservative Party of David Cameron's rhetoric: why should
the low-carbon, low-cost farmers of East Africa be shunned in order to preserve
market share for farms such as Zac Goldsmith's 300 organic acres in Devon?

I would not make such criticisms of the official leader of the Quality of Life
report. John Gummer - or Gum-Gum as he is affectionately nicknamed in and around
Westminster - is a much more mainstream political figure, with almost half a
century's service to the Conservative Party. He was responsible for that Party's
"greening" long before David Cameron arrived on the scene: Gummer was behind
such Tory measures - in those distant days when they made the laws in this
country - as the Energy Conservation Act, the Landfill Tax and, most
controversially of all, the Fuel Tax Escalator.

The Quality of Life report's introductory remark from David Cameron - "Modern,
compassionate Conservatism means recognising that there's more to life than
getting and spending money" - is presumably designed to insinuate that the bad
old days of Thatcherite grab-the-money-and-run are over; but the actual text is
full of compliments to Margaret Thatcher's avant-garde environmentalism.

Well, why shouldn't John Gummer be proud of the last Conservative government's
achievements - even if Gordon Brown's enthusiasm for the Tories' fuel price
escalator led the British worker to demonstrate just what he thought of carbon
taxes in action?

John Gummer's personal history is in many ways much more interesting than the
more socially glamorous background of his co-author. The son of a notable Church
of England priest, and himself a long-time member of the General Synod, John
Gummer fled the C of E for Rome when that body - to his horror - permitted the
ordination of women to the priesthood. He is now a regular columnist for The
Catholic Herald.

In this context I was rather surprised to see the Quality of Life report take
the line that population growth had to be tackled in order "to adapt to the
impacts of climate change" and that the Conservative Party should "champion
family planning".

Presumably this was the voice of Teddy Goldsmith's nephew - and the succeeding
anxious sentence must have been Gummer's: "This is categorically not a policy of
coercion." That'll be a relief for bewildered Conservative Party activists. It's
hard enough to get votes with a policy which threatens to ban free supermarket
parking and whack up taxes on cheap holidays: a compulsory one-child policy
would set the seal on electoral annihilation.

Although John Gummer narrowly chose politics ahead of priesthood, his manner of
speaking has never lost its intense, evangelical tone. This would have been
evident to listeners of the Today programme, on which he was interviewed
yesterday. He became extremely excited when criticisms were made of some
elements of his 548-page report, warning that if his proposals were not acted
upon "we may well find that the Gulf Stream ceases to pump! Either we save this
planet, or the next generation will never forgive us".

In reality, nothing that we might do in this country will "save the planet" -
although I suppose Gum-Gum could legitimately argue that every little helps. As
for the turning off of the Gulf Stream, that alleged possible consequence of
anthropogenic global warming has been demonstrated by all the most recent
oceanographical research to be mere scare-mongering; it made a very chilling
Hollywood film - but that is where it belongs.

Gum-Gum makes one very good point in his report, when he criticises politicians
who have staked their entire appeal on enhancing our material wealth. As he
says: "It is not only demagogues who have promised the earth and delivered very
little." It's no improvement, however, when our politicians - some of whom do
deserve to be called demagogues - promise instead to save the earth.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday

G2: One of Anita Roddick's greatest achievements was recognising that beauty is
an ugly business

BYLINE: Catherine Bennett

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 986 words


Tributes to Anita Roddick have rightly emphasised her originality, as an early
pioneer of ethical business, a ground-breaking planet-saver, debt-canceller,
foot-balm inventor. In which departments there are, happily, now scores more
virtuous business people ready to carry on where she left off. It is unclear,
however, who will take over one of her less celebrated personal crusades: to
save women from the beauty industry.

For years, after she became successful enough to shout, Roddick reminded women:
"The most effective anti-ageing product is a sun hat." No matter how absurd, or
actively rebarbative were many of her own products - one thinks, in particular,
of the White Musk range, and a sugary hair-removing substance she discovered in
some benighted corner of the Immac-free world - Roddick never claimed they would
turn back the clock. Industry promises of rejuvenation were, she once said,
"complete pap": "They have a 30-year-old airbrushed model selling you the
product. It is a lie that anti-ageing creams will get rid of wrinkles. They
won't."

If the regularity with which she stated the obvious was considered, by some,
monotonous, the undiminished sales of unproven, insanely overpriced anti-ageing
creams indicate that it was also necessary. Moreover, no one else - or no one as
prominent as Roddick - was saying it. Women who never noticed when dreary
dermatologists advised sticking to sunblock and moisturiser paid attention to
Roddick when she urged them to recognise her own industry's phoniness and fibs.
"There is nothing on God's planet, not one thing, that will take away 30 years
of arguing with your husband and 40 years of environmental abuse," she said.
"You'd be better off spending the money on a good bottle of Pinot Noir."

Now that she's gone, it is hard to think of anyone, least of all anyone in the
beauty business, who will alert women to the lab-coated frauds who continue to
exploit their horror of looking old. Earlier this year, it seemed that Professor
Lesley Regan, a doctor, might usefully reinforce Roddick's message, but her
conclusion, for the BBC's Horizon programme, that one cream might, indiscernibly
to the viewer, have worked on one side of her face, merely led to a mass female
stampede for Boots's No7 Protect & Perfect Beauty Serum. With her headstart at
perfecting and protecting, Professor Regan must be looking almost unrecognisably
dewy.

There are objections, of course; people point out that Roddick was herself
inconsistent, selling her business to L'Oreal, a company currently offering
salvation to "the new seniors". But the only truly compromising discovery would,
surely, be that this handsome 64-year-old used an anti-ageing treatment on
herself. If so, we must hope it was the Pinot Noir.

The response of Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip, to the EU's latest pronouncement
on metrication (allowing Britain her imperial measurements), suggests there may
be an unexpected side to life inside that dismal, single-issue snakepit. "Why on
earth," said Mr Farage, "should we be thankful to (Gunter) Verheugen for
allowing us to continue to use the language of Shakespeare?"

While it is pleasant to think of Mr Farage entering his office with a cheery
"goodmorrow" for his Ukip colleague Jeffrey Titford, and a "well met" to Godfrey
Bloom, his reason for opposing metrication must raise questions as to how far
Ukip would like to go, in harmonising our national measurements with our
literature. Does Ukip hope to revive cubits, to facilitate understanding of The
Tempest? Ditto leagues? Ells? Scruples? If not, is the EU to blame for their
obsolescence? And what of the groats, which cause such confusion in Squirrel
Nutkin? Shouldn't we also preserve the language of Beatrix Potter?

Ukip's own literature has little to offer on the party's affection for
pre-metric language, that is, language up to around 1790, when the British
parliament and French assembly first considered simultaneous adoption of the
metric system. According to a paper by Jim Humble, OBE, the last director of the
UK Metrication Board, "there were many positive debates" on the metric system in
the second half of the 19th century, although it was not until 1969 (three years
before Britain joined the EEC) that Tony Benn created the board, with a target
date for completion of 1972. Even if this proved impossible, the metric system
was taught in British schools from 1973.

For patriots who have sarcastically thanked the EU for "graciously allowing" us
to keep the arithmetic of Shakespeare, it is simpler, presumably, to blame
Europe for allowing modern schoolchildren the jammy option of measuring in 10s,
than to wonder what merit earlier British governments ever saw in the system.
Why dwell on the errors of the 18th and 19th century, when they can be so easily
rectified? Writing in the Daily Telegraph, Simon Heffer seems to anticipate the
revival of a more Vitruvian scheme, with "quantities that we all instinctively
understand". Where "all" is equal to Simon Heffer, Ukip, British market traders
and - outside these shores - America, Liberia and Myanmar, the only remaining
countries where enthusiasm for imperial measurement is likewise, undimmed.

Children were saying yesterday that it is "a tragedy" that Prince Charles has
grown up never knowing where money comes from. "That's worrying," said one of
his 10-year-old subjects, "so I think it would help tremendously if the prince
could have this connection by getting a job." Research showed that the prince
has never visited a supermarket. His wife is thought to have done so, "once or
twice".

This week Catherine watched Nigella, "weirdly mesmerising, and Jamie Oliver, who
was looking cross and diminished, possibly on account of being hated by every
child in the land". She read , shamingly, Gerry's Blog, on findmadeleine.com:
"If only someone would tell him to stop using exclamation marks. Or, better
still, to just stop."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 13, 2007 Thursday

Politics: TUC ignores Brown appeal and calls for EU referendum

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 460 words


The TUC yesterday snubbed Gordon Brown for the second time in a week by calling
on the government to honour its manifesto commitment to hold a referendum on the
EU reform treaty proposals.

Delegates voted overwhelmingly for a referendum despite extensive lobbying by
ministers this week who wanted them to remain neutral on the issue.

But the unions threw out a motion from the Rail, Maritime and Transport union
which would have committed the TUC to a no campaign.

The decision came as David Cameron, the Tory leader, said he would force a
debate in parliament to press for a referendum, while Sir Menzies Campbell, the
Liberal Democrat leader, backed Gordon Brown by telling the Financial Times
there was no need for a vote on the new treaty.

The TUC vote means the unions have joined the Tories and Ukip in calling for a
vote on the controversial treaty - albeit for very different reasons. Although
the Tories argue that the draft treaty is not significantly different to the
failed EU constitution, the unions believe it will add new restrictions to
workers' rights by blocking any access to the courts.

Significantly, the four biggest Labour-affiliated unions voted for a referendum,
which means that Mr Brown could face a further credible challenge at the Labour
conference in 10 days time.

Paul Kenny, general secretary of the GMB union, moving the motion, said Labour's
pledge was right when it was made at the last general election and it was right
now. "We have never had a serious debate about Europe in this country. The EU
has become an ideal kicking horse. If you are in doubt, give the EU a clout."

Mr Kenny accused the government of listening to business groups such as the CBI
when denying the public a vote.

Colin Moses, chairman of the Prison Officers' Association said: "We have had a
bellyful of broken promises and what we have here is another broken promise.

"I have been told that to support this must mean I am a closet Tory, but if
democracy is to mean anything, surely promises must be met."

Tony Woodley, joint general secretary of Unite, said his union was not
anti-Europe "but we don't want to be part of a Europe that discards the social
model that can bring so many benefits to working men and women across Europe.

"We certainly can't support docking a referendum, not because the government has
broken its promise to hold one but because our government is still pushing a
Europe with British workers as second class citizens."

Tories were delighted by the TUC vote. William Hague, the shadow foreign
secretary, said: "This deeply embarrassing defeat at the TUC is a result of the
government's arrogance and its intention to disregard both its own promises and
the views of the British public."

Seumas Milne, page 39 guardian.co.uk/unions >=

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 12, 2007 Wednesday

Is Cameron a true keeper of the Tory flame?;
DEBATE

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 314 words


I WAS amazed Michael Ancram could be branded a traitor by the 'Cameroons' and
the Press for his alleged betrayal of the Conservative Party in writing his
manifesto, Still A Conservative.

I worked with Michael for many years, both as an officer of his association and
an elected member of the council, and his loyalty to the party is
unquestionable.

I resigned from the party in disgust with the national leadership and in so
doing earned the scorn of this ultraloyal man.

Having read his booklet, I think it is an honest appreciation of what he
believes Conservatism should represent and I agree with him..

For Michael to be demonised is grossly unfair and typical of a political system,
supported by the media, which is destroying our national identity.

Despite my leaving the party, I am 'still' a Conservative.

Cllr JOHN IRELAND, Calne, Wilts.

THE constant criticism of David Cameron and the Conservatives does not help the
Tories in their difficult job of reaching everyone in the country.

The party has made mistakes but perhaps its biggest is the in-fighting.

The Tories should concentrate on fighting the opposition, not each other.
Journalists such as Melanie Phillips (Mail) must support the Conservatives and
help them reach out not only to people like me a lifelong supporter even though
I don't always agree with them but others who are dissatisfied with Labour.

David Cameron is a decent, honest man and he has a great team behind him. Let
the courage of their convictions carry them onwards.

Mrs J. SHINGLES, Borehamwood, Herts.

DAVID CAMERON is seen by many as a lightweight opportunist who will never win an
election. The Tories need a different leader but can't find anyone better. So
how about Nigel Farage of the UK Independence Party? An alliance would give both
parties a real boost and the Tories would gain an excellent leader with real
conviction.

G. R. WOODS, Watford, Herts..

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 12, 2007

Unions call for referendum on EU treaty

LENGTH: 791 words



HIGHLIGHT: Union delegates today added to pressure on Gordon Brown over the EU
reform treaty by backing calls for a referendum.


Gordon Brown was warned today that "ducking and diving" on a promised referendum
for the EU treaty could cost Labour dear at election time.

Union delegates at the annual TUC congress in Brighton today unanimously backed
a GMB motion calling on the government to honour its manifesto commitment to
hold a referendum on the EU reform treaty proposals.

The move is designed to put pressure on the prime minister to sign up to EU
social rights.

Unions are angry that the government has inserted a "UK specific" protocol which
excludes the British government from implementing legislative commitments
enshrined in the charter for fundamental rights, which Britain signed up to
seven years ago at the Nice summit.

The UK government obtained a protocol that the charter would not create any new
rights beyond those already enshrined in UK law or extend the powers of the
European court of justice in the UK - in effect, an "opt-out", according to the
unions.

Concerns that the contents of the treaty presents a "Trojan horse" for further
liberalisation and privatisation also fuelled calls for the government to fulfil
its promise to secure the nation's endorsement for the EU document.

Unions hope that a referendum will force Mr Brown to make the treaty more
worker-friendly.

Paul Kenny, the general secretary of the GMB, said that the current draft treaty
presented a "dim vision" of social advances through European engagements.

Mr Kenny said that the document was so close in content to the EU constitution,
shelved two years ago following "no" votes in French and Dutch referendums, that
it "clearly falls within the promise made by the government to the electorate at
the last election".

He said that Mr Brown's refusal to put the document to a vote was based on a
fear that the treaty in its current form would be rejected by the British
people.

But he said that failure to adhere to Labour's 2005 manifesto commitment could
backfire on the government.

"To refuse to honour this by means of ducking and diving may cost the Labour
party dear at election time," Mr Kenny told the conference."If there is
disenchantment with Europe, blame the lack of political vision of MPs, but don't
blame the trade unions for reminding politicians of the promises to the British
people."

Tony Woodley, the general secretary of the T&G section of Unite, admitted that
the unions faced "a bit of a dilemma" by aligning themselves with the Tories in
calling for a referendum.

He said: "On the one hand, we are not anti-Europe and would die sooner than
associate ourselves with Ukip or the Tories, but we don't want to be part of a
Europe that discards the social model that can bring so many benefits to working
men and women across Europe.

"On the other hand we certainly can't support ducking a referendum. Not because
the government's broken its promise to hold one, but because our government is
still pushing a Europe with British workers as second-class citizens.

"The protocol destroys the charter of fundamental rights, never mind dilutes
it."

A separate motion calling on unions to campaign for a "no" vote in a future
referendum failed to garner sufficient support, however.

Bob Crow, the general secretary of the RMT, which proposed the stronger, failed
motion, urged delegates to oppose the draft treaty.

"There is not enough in the constitution to support it," he said.

Mark Serwotka, the general secretary of the Public and Commercial Service union,
urged colleagues to back the call for a "no" vote campaign as a tactic to force
Mr Brown back to the drawing board.

But Joe Mann of the Community Union warned TUC colleagues that backing calls for
referendum would only give the Conservative party a "shot in the arm".

"Who would benefit from the motions?" he said. "The Tories would love it. It's
just the shot in the arm David Cameron needs after a summer of discontent."

While the Conservatives are pressing for a referendum, Sir Menzies Campbell, the
leader of the Liberal Democrats, has signalled his support for Gordon Brown's
position.

Sir Menzies said yesterday that the treaty was "sufficiently different" from the
constitution two years ago and did not therefore require a referendum, as
promised by Labour at the last general election.

The Tories have been vigorously campaigning for a referendum and on Tuesday
David Cameron pledged to force a debate on the issue in parliament.

The Conservative leader said: "Labour MPs should stick to what they promised.
They should vote for our motion when we bring it forward in the House of
Commons."

A cross-party group of MPs demanding a vote was launched last week and senior
Labour MP Ian Davidson has claimed that more than 100 other Labour MPs could
back his campaign for a referendum if changes are not made to the treaty.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               39 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 11, 2007 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Crack the shell of Brown's new politics and out crawl the same
old maggots: The push for participatory democracy has the disturbing whiff of an
Astroturf campaign - a fake grassroots movement

BYLINE: George Monbiot

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1207 words


Is the new European treaty a good or a bad thing? Should you be allowed to vote
for it, or should the decision be left to the politicians? The answer is no.
What I mean by this is that no meaningful question has been asked. The coalition
demanding a referendum now stretches all the way from the rightwing headbangers
of the UK Independence party to Britain's fiercest trade union, the RMT. It has
been joined by several progressive Labour MPs and, yesterday, by the Guardian
columnist Jackie Ashley. All maintain that we should be allowed to say if we
like the new treaty. At first sight this call for a national referendum looks
like a radical one. In truth it reflects not only the poverty of our political
choices but also the poverty of our political demands. Whether or not we are
allowed to vote, we are still treated like idiots.

The new document is an incomprehensible mess of insertions and amendments, but
as far as I can tell it proposes or refers to 448 articles, each of which
contains several clauses. Many of them are contradictory. To draw out one of the
few threads in this dreadful tangle that I can follow, the treaty speaks of
"preserving, protecting and improving the quality of the environment". It also
calls for new trans-European road networks and a continuation of the common
fisheries policy. So if you vote yes to it, does this mean that you want the
environment protected or that you want it destroyed? It means you want both. It
seems, to my inexpert eye, that there are similar contradictions on employment,
economic policy, culture and defence.

A referendum containing a single question is as disempowering as leaving the
decision to other people. If the treaty contains 448 articles, we should be
permitted to answer a set of questions that reflects this breadth - not 448
perhaps, but at least a few dozen. Otherwise we have no means of expressing what
we want: Europe good or bad is meaningless if we are not permitted to define
what Europe represents. You might think that voting on a long list of questions
sounds crazy. If so, it shows how far short of true democracy your demands now
fall. If we are not competent to make these decisions, we are not competent to
determine whether our representatives are making the right decisions on our
behalf.

At present the whole political system works like this. We elect a government on
the basis of a manifesto containing hundreds of proposals. Probability suggests
that a few thousand open-minded people might agree or disagree with all of them.
Everyone else will favour some policies and reject others. But the new
government interprets its victory as public support for every item in the
manifesto, except those that it decides to drop. The moment we seek to refine
our choice, by protesting against one of the proposals we are deemed to have
supported, we are told that we are being undemocratic: the people have spoken -
who are we to disagree? In the meantime, corporate lobbyists glide through
government offices, reshaping policies to suit their commercial needs.

Unlike Tony Blair, Gordon Brown appears to understand some of this. He has
rightly perceived that the credibility of government is profoundly threatened by
an absence of participation - at the ballot box, on party membership lists, in
formulating policy. Representative politics today looks like a dried-out crab
shell. The political exoskeleton is intact, but the flesh inside has shrivelled
up. So he talks of participatory democracy, of citizens' juries, of wider and
deeper consultations.

Look more closely at what Brown is proposing and you perceive that he is
offering us what he cannot deliver, while withholding what he can. A prime
minister cannot create grassroots politics. The initiative has to come from us.
It is true that we have mostly failed, and part of me applauds Brown's effort to
fill the gap. But the danger is that he creates what public relations agencies
call an Astroturf campaign: a fake grassroots movement.

His proposals for a new participatory democracy carry grave democratic dangers.
Citizens' juries are an excellent tool for direct decision-making: when a small
group of people needs to make a decision that affects only that group. If
everybody joined one and the results were collated on a national scale, they
could also be an excellent tool for democratising national decision-making. But
this is not what Brown proposes. He speaks of a "citizens' summit, composed of a
representative sample of the British people", which will be asked to formulate a
British statement of values; and "a nationwide set of citizens' juries", in
which "representatives assembled from every constituency" will help to shape
policies on crime, immigration, education, health, transport and public
services. In what sense will these samples be representative? Will we be allowed
to vote for these people? It looks like an opaque amalgam of representative and
participatory processes, selecting the most dangerous aspects of both.

I have followed the politics of development planning for long enough to
recognise that public consultation is even easier to manipulate than
parliamentary politics. In several cases I have seen how fake consultations have
been used to manufacture consent among unwilling populations, giving a semblance
of democracy to decisions that have already been made by property developers and
venal councillors. This is by no means an argument against consultation or
participation, just a warning that it is not a magic formula for democratic
renewal. Every process can be corrupted: all forms of democracy require
perpetual vigilance.

While Brown cannot create a grassroots mobilisation, he could give us a
redemocratisation of the representative system. But his speech last week was
more remarkable for what it left out than for what it contained. How could he
talk of "a new type of politics which embraces everyone in the nation" without
mentioning proportional representation? If he really wants us to make direct
decisions about important issues, why can we not be permitted to vote in a
series of referendums, each of which would contain a list of questions? Why,
despite the fact that it was billed for inclusion, did he say nothing of
corporate power and its corrosive effect on both political decision-making and
public trust?

As he opens one door, he slams others shut. Two months ago he quietly scrapped
England's regional assemblies and handed their powers to the business people
running the regional development agencies. Is this what Brown means by "a
vibrant reformed local democracy"? Now he is trying to do the same thing to
democracy within the Labour party, shifting powers currently held by the
conference to the national policy forum. How does that correspond to his call
for political parties to "broaden their appeal to articulate the views of more
than the few"?

Though Brown's intentions might be good, the new politics looks like a new con,
another means of creating an impression that the political crab still lives,
while the corporate maggots jostle beneath the carapace. The danger is not just
that his proposals will fail to revitalise the current political model. The
greater danger is that they will legitimise it.

www.monbiot.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 10, 2007 Monday

If Cameron says the state will do less, why won't it cost less?

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 192 words


SIR - David Cameron (Comment, September 8) threatens that if we fail to back him
we could see the end of the Conservative Party. But would this necessarily be a
bad thing?

Mr Cameron consistently fails to explain how he will reduce the level of
government yet cannot reduce the burden of taxes to pay for it. If government is
doing less it must cost less. If the costs are not falling, the intrusion is not
falling. In this case there is nothing to choose between Mr Cameron's statist
party and that of Gordon Brown.

If the Tories were to disappear it would have benefits for the future. Mr
Cameron and his supporters could join the Labour Party, where they would be
welcomed with open arms, while traditional Conservatives could join Ukip or form
a new party. Voters would then have a choice between a Brown/Cameron party (we
know best, all you need to do is obey us) and a party dedicated to supporting
the independence of the citizen against the over-mighty state.

It may be that the former is what the British people want, but at least they
would have to choose it, rather than just deciding the colour of the letterhead.

Mark Edwards

Witney, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 10, 2007 Monday

Comment & Debate: Come on, Gordon - give us a referendum on the EU: The proposed
treaty is the constitution revived in all but name. Labour should honour its
promise of a public vote

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1075 words


The campaign to persuade Gordon Brown to hold a referendum on the new EU treaty
is gaining force. The drums are rolling, time is short and this choice cannot be
fudged. Immediately after next month's EU summit meeting, he and his colleagues
have to decide whether to accept the treaty and ram it through the Commons,
using his personal authority, or risk a crisis in relations with other European
leaders, and the future of the treaty, by throwing caution to the winds and
agreeing that the people have a right to vote directly.

Fighting for a referendum are "usual suspect" Labour MPs, including Gisela
Stuart, Frank Field and Kate Hoey; the still Eurosceptic Conservatives, led on
this issue by that arch-Brusselsphobe William Hague; and now some of the big
voices in the trade unions, led by the GMB and the RMT. Their motives are mixed
and, to the foreign secretary David Miliband, suspect too.

It's easy to see why the prime minister may not want a referendum. Surely, here
is the moment to show himself a committed European and to reassert the powers of
parliament, by pushing it all through the Commons. Yet to my own surprise, the
more I look at the proposed new treaty, the more I find myself in the referendum
camp. They may be a strange alliance, from rightwing newspaper types to
anti-Brown leftists, from dissident Labour MPs to the UK Independence party. But
those calling for a national choice are absolutely right and, if they are
listened to, will strengthen not weaken the government. Brown and Miliband need
to think very carefully before trying to bolt the door on them.

Let's start with the basics. Brown's case to the country has been that he offers
a genuinely fresh start, a "new politics" that eschews deviousness in favour of
plain dealing. His strong performance in the polls is based on people hoping
that's true, plus his highly competent early moves. He has won sceptics round -
a bit - by talking plainly, by sticking with early promises to tell parliament
first about new policies and by working through cabinet. But it is all fragile,
and there are millions of people who haven't quite made up their minds about
him. Lose them, and he'll lose the election.

The government promised a referendum on the original treaty. That caused much
irritation in Brussels, and yet even the very pro-European Tony Blair decided it
was the right thing to do. Only the revolt of French and Dutch voters got him
off the hook. The big problem for the government now is that, to avoid
accusations of bad faith, it would have to show that the new treaty is
significantly less important than the old one. And at the moment, that isn't
true. Apart from trivial changes, such as the use of symbols and music, it is
overwhelmingly similar. Many of the key figures in Europe actually celebrate
this.

Listen to Germany's Angela Merkel: "The substance of the constitution is
preserved. That is a fact." What about Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the
aristocratic former French president who was in charge of the original treaty?
He told a London conference that although Britain, France and the Netherlands
had demanded the word "constitution" be eliminated, all the key elements were
still there: "All the earlier proposals will be in the new text but will be
hidden or disguised in some way." Spain's prime minister Jose Zapatero? "We have
not let a single substantial point of the constitutional treaty go."

There are plenty of other examples from across the EU. And if you judge the
treaty by the core where-does-power-lie questions, they are surely right. The
change in voting includes the end of Britain's veto in 61 areas. The EU court of
justice gets new powers over policing and criminal justice. There would be a new
EU diplomatic service and someone who would be, in effect, Europe's foreign
minister. Though national parliaments do get very limited new rights to
scrutinise what the Brussels commission proposes, they are weak and balanced by
a formal insistence that national parliaments should actively contribute "to the
good functioning of the union".

Now, as it happens, I approve of much of this. To make the larger EU function
better, we do have to give up some veto powers, for instance; and after the
mayhem of the last US-dominated decade, it would be a good thing if the EU
exercised more influence in world affairs. But what I can't manage to do is to
pretend that all of the above is some how unimportant, and does not add up to a
new constitutional treaty. So, a question: how likely is it that the British
people, who seem to be overwhelmingly in favour of a referendum, will be
persuaded despite the known facts, and the cheerfully unhelpful contributions of
Merkel, Giscard, Zapatero and all, that this is a mere tidying-up exercise that
can be left to parliament?

Not very. It is true that there are British opt-outs. But as the former Europe
minister Keith Vaz has pointed out, they are the same ones as in the original
treaty. Nor are they unequivocal. Vaz, like David Blunkett and other mainstream
MPs, has concluded that the argument against a referendum is lost. And, to cap
it all, John Hutton has promised that "if there is some significant
constitutional arrangement that would affect our relationship with the European
Union . . . there should be a proper referendum."

So Brown is under huge pressure, and not just from stroppy union leaders who
call the new treaty "anti-labour to the core". Brown has a reputation as
moderately Eurosceptic, based mainly on his hostility to joining the euro, which
has won him newspaper support but is likely to cause him increasing difficulty
on the continent. Accepting a referendum would not be risk-free. Other leaders
would be furious. At home, it would unleash hostility from hostile Blairites who
have so far bitten their tongues.

Above all, consider the alternative. Parliament doesn't actually get the right
to properly scrutinise the treaty, since parliament can't amend it and send it
back for second thoughts. So the idea is that in the teeth of public hostility,
and on the back of a threadbare, widely ridiculed argument, he should ram this
through Westminster? Not only would that be wrong in principle, it would
severely damage Brown's hard-won reputation for straight dealing and give the
Tories the opening they've been searching for. Come on, Gordon.

Losing a referendum would be a political embarrassment. Refusing one would be a
political disaster.

j.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 9, 2007

Vote for Mote, your local old lag

BYLINE: Jasper Gerard

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 223 words


My representative in Brussels isn't representing me as assiduously as he could
be and I can't even accuse him of getting waylaid in a wine lake or lapdancing
emporium, unlike others elected on the Ukip ticket.

You see, my MEP has an excuse: he is in clink. I can't force Ashley Mote,
pictured, MEP for SE England, to resign, even though he has been given nine
months for claiming £ 65,000 in income support etc, while also drawing
'substantial sums' from business interests.

Yet Ukip voters, who, as well as finding John Redwood far too reticent on
Europe, are just the coves to have robust views on 'benefit scroungers'.

But scandal is a so-so day at the office for Ukip. One party luminary threatened
a train operative with a furled umbrella and a pasty while calling him a
'fucking immigrant', while another party sage weighed into the work-life balance
debate by insisting that women should clean behind the fridge, the nearest Ukip
comes to a domestic agenda.

None of which should detain us, except to ponder in passing why Ukip isn't cut
out of public discourse, like the BNP. But, alas, voters think differently.
'Other' parties are making big gains. Polls suggest they are tipping into double
figures and much of that is Ukip. It helps to explain Cameron's recent Hague
Lurch. Britain's political landscape is moving - moved by nutters.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            September 9, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fears that Brussels riot squad could soon pound the beat on British streets

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 21

LENGTH: 521  words


BRUSSELS has set up a new EU police force which could eventually patrol the
streets of Britain.

The European Gendarmerie Force (EGF) is the first police organisation to come
under the direct control of the EU and is seen by some as another step towards
the creation of a superstate.

The 5,000-strong force, designed to deal with big civil disturbances, has just
completed its training in Italy. It comprises paramilitary police officers from
Italy, France, Portugal, Spain and Holland.

The force will "first and foremost be at the disposal of the EU".

Initially the EGF's main role will be on international missions but it could be
deployed within the EU.

Critics last night warned that the force could eventually patrol the streets of
Britain if Gordon Brown signs up to the new EU constitution, which will lead to
more common working on justice and home affairs and defence issues.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, described the new force as
"sinister".

He said: "It is not at all clear to me why the EU needs its own police force.
The fact that this is being set up before the constitution has been signed is a
pretty worrying sign. Gordon Brown may claim to have an opt-out on justice and
home affairs but all the opt-outs in the past have disappeared. The worry is
that these foreign police, controlled by Brussels, could be seen on the streets
of Britain. That is a pretty scary prospect."

Torquil Dick-Erikson, a British constitutional lawyer who lives in Italy, said
the Continental models of paramilitary police were completely alien to British
policing traditions. "Having different nationalities drilling side by side is
clearly part of a plan to create a European police force, " he said.

"Our Continental neighbours have a different history from ours and do not share
many of our traditions, in particular our traditions of policing. In a merger
their voices will prevail over ours and our traditions will be erased and their
traditions will be imposed on us.

"The best way to stop these fellows demonstrating their skills on a High Street
near you is to make sure that people in Britain know what is going on and put
pressure on politicians to hold a referendum before ratifying any EU treaty
covering justice and home affairs."

The setting up of the EGF stems from decisions taken by EU defence ministers
seven years ago.

Its mission is: "To perform all kinds of police functions in crisis management
operations."

The new force has a permanent headquarters in Vicenza, Italy, where thousands of
officers have undergone extensive training in tackling major incidents.

Officers continue to wear their own uniforms but sport an EGF armband showing a
grey flaming grenade on a sword against a blue background. The logo is said to
represent "the common military roots of the police forces involved".

Last night the Foreign Office said there were no circumstances in which the EGF
could be deployed in Britain. A spokesman said: "The EGF is an initiative of
five EU member states. It is not an EU proposal or agency and has been set up
outside of EU structures. There is no connection with the European Reform
Treaty."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OMINOUS: The EGF's insignia
'SINISTER': Members of the new European Gendarmerie Force during training in
Italy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Swindling MEP jailed but keeps £60,000 job

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 182 words


A EURO MP who falsely claimed £65,000 in benefits was jailed for nine months
yesterday but will keep his seat and £60,000 salary.

Ashley Mote enjoyed an extravagant lifestyle while falsely claiming housing
benefit, council tax benefit and income support.

The 71-year-old father of two, who was elected for UKIP but now sits as an
independent, frequently dined out and took holidays to the U.S., France and the
Caribbean.

Mote, an MEP for the South-East of England, claimed state benefit even though he
was pocketing substantial sums of cash through business interests in two
companies involved in marketing. He made out standing orders to his family from
the two firms.

A court heard the offences took place between 1996 and 2002 two years before he
was elected to the parliament.

The MEP, of Binsted, Hampshire, fought back tears and blushed as he was
sentenced at Portsmouth Crown Court.

Judge Richard Price told him: You gave every impression of being a truly
dishonest man.

He wi l l retain h i s seat because his sentence did not cross the 12-month
threshold required to disqualify him from office.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 676 words


Things probably feel different in south-east England today. Few constituents
awake to find that their elected representative has been jailed for benefit
fraud. But who will look after their interests while Ashley Mote, the
independent MEP, does his time? The former Ukip member received nine months
yesterday and cannot attend meetings of the European parliament for a while but
he will remain a presence on its committees. He can be represented on these by a
member of his political group. So what, then, is his political group? According
to the European parliament, it's Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty (ITS), the
EU's newest and nastiest far-right caucus. In January, my colleague Ian Traynor
revealed that it has within it some of Europe's most prominent neofascists and
Holocaust deniers, including a French professor who was banned from teaching for
questioning the Nazis' mass murder of Europe's Jews and a Bulgarian who boasted
he could buy 12-year-old Gypsy brides for "up to euros 5,000". Mr Mote's gift to
south-east England is that any of these may now be eligible to represent its
views on his behalf while the man people voted for is in nick. Democracy.
Marvellous, isn't it!

Because we run a tighter ship here, let's hear it for joined-up government. In
July Gordon Brown published an open letter to many local newspapers which said:
"Honours should go to our community champions - the people who make a difference
in our communities." On August 24, Hazel Blears and Phil Hope, minister for the
third sector, confirmed that the government funding programme for "community
champions" will end in March 2008. Alastair Campbell is right on this. These
people just don't get it.

We need more like Martin Newland, the muscular former editor of the Daily
Telegraph who has gone to Abu Dhabi to introduce them to our muscular kind of
popular journalism. He is there launching a new English language newspaper, but
prior to that he had discussions with the Sunday Times about becoming the
paper's Focus editor. Sources within the gulag say there was email communication
between Mr Newland and editor John Witherow during which it became clear that
part of the correspondence had been misdirected. When Mr Witherow asked who else
had been appraised of their discussions, Mr Newland, as is his wont, replied:
"Fuck knows." The decidedly cerebral Mr Witherow was, by all accounts, shocked
by this casual profanity. To the subsequent relief of all concerned, the offer
was overtaken by events and budget cuts. The ships passed in the night. A
saintly calm returned.

Mr Newland is too busy to return our calls, but many marvel that the Sunday
Times knew nothing of his florid vocabulary. He swore like a trooper in the
Telegraph newsroom, and last year, on our very own Comment is free website, he
wrote: "I love to laugh and swear and I drink too much as well." Staff at
Canada's Morning Post, which he also launched, had cultural difficulties but
soon realised that if he said a story was "bollocks", there was a problem. If he
said it was the "dog's bollocks", things were usually OK.

We refuse to be alarmist, what with the move towards a nuclear future and the
happy news that Iran's atomic programme is going so well; that's why we are
relaxed about disclosures that a mislaid spanner caused a generator at the
Ringhals 3 pressurised water reactor in Sweden to short-circuit and fail. The
tool was left in the works, and as a precaution a second generator had to be
shut down for tests. World Nuclear News says a plastic pen was also left behind
by builders, "but this was not thought to have caused any damage". These babies
are robust.

Be sure your sins will find you out, the Good Book says, and though few seem to
care about such things these days, they seem to be taking it to heart at the
BBC. A virtuous voice tells us that scenes from the series Nigella Express had
to be reshot before transmission because a group of diners initially described
as her friends were actually extras she had never met. At least the food was
real.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

National: Ex-Ukip MEP jailed for benefitfraud, but still keeps his seat

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 239 words


A British member of the European parliament will continue to get £75,000 a year
in salary and expenses despite being jailed yesterday for swindling £65,500 from
the taxpayer in a five-year benefits fraud.

Ashley Mote was elected in 2004 as an MEP for the UK Independence party, but was
thrown out of Ukip after the fraud charges. He sat as an independent and joined
a far-right bloc. Mote, who represented south-east England, was jailed for nine
months. He would have been expelled from the European parliament had he been
jailed for 12 months or more.

Mote, who sits on the parliament's budgetary control committee, was found guilty
of 21 offences after a four-week trial at Portsmouth crown court. A spokesman
for the European parliament confirmed he would still receive his salary of
£60,000 plus £1,200 a month in expenses to run

his office. Passing sentence, Judge Richard Price said: To say that this case
has ruined you is an understatement; it is a tragedy. You have worked amazingly
hard as an MEP. But only a custodial sentence would be appropriate.

The court heard that Mote's public relations company collapsed in 1990. He then
claimed housing and council tax benefits between 1991 and 1993 before finding
freelance work in 1995. He claimed benefits again from 1996 but failed to

declare income from various enterprises. Ukip leader Nigel Farage called on Mote
to resign his seat if he had a shred of decency or integrity left.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

PAY FURY OVER MEP SWINDLER

BYLINE: BY RICHARD SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 155 words


A SHAMED British MEP will still draw his pounds 60,000 salary even though he was
yesterday jailed for nine months for fleecing taxpayers out of pounds 65,000 in
false benefit claims.

Ashley Mote, 71, lived in luxury while getting housing and council tax handouts
and income support between 1996 and 2002 - two years before he was elected to
the European parliament for UKIP.

But, to the party's fury, his sentence was under the 12 months required to get
him out of office.

UKIP expelled the father of two from Binsted, Hants, but he continued to
represent South East England as an independent.

Leader Nigel Farage, who had hoped to reclaim the seat, said: "Voters will now
see taxpayers' money go to a man unable to represent them. If he had any
decency, he would resign."

Mote, convicted of 21 charges at Portsmouth crown court, was called "a truly
dishonest man" by Judge Richard Price - who ordered him to repay all the cash he
swindled.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAILED: Mote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

£ 65k con MEP gets 9 months

BYLINE: Jamie Pyatt

LENGTH: 135  words


AN MEP who fleeced taxpayers out of £ 65,000 was jailed for nine months
yesterday.

Ashley Mote, 71, fought back tears and blushed as a judge sentenced him for a
"carefully-planned scheme of dishonesty".

Mote, an MEP for south-east England, was convicted in August of 21 offences,
including deception and false accounting.

He will keep his seat as his sentence is less than the 12 months required for
automatic dismissal.

Mote, of Binsted, Hants, raked in housing benefit, income support and council
tax benefit for more than six years - despite earning "substantial sums" from
two management companies.

He was expelled by the UKIP party when news of the trial came to light but
continued as an Independent MEP.

His barrister, Anthony Donne QC, told Portsmouth Crown Court the convictions
were "a massive fall from grace".

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 5, 2007 Wednesday 2:32 AM GMT

Jailed MEP retains European seat

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 307 words


Ashley Mote, who was elected as a UKIP MEP but soon expelled by that party, has
been sentenced to nine months in prison for benefit fraud.

Ashley Mote's sentence will not bar him from office

The sum he trousered , 65,000 , is rather petite bire by European Parliament
standards. An MEP, acting perfectly legally, can easily make that amount every
year from his travel and attendance allowances , and that's before we even get
on to his "general expenses" account, his staff allowances and his various other
tax-free perks.

Still, the sentence handed down to Mote is significant, for it is just light
enough to enable him to retain his seat. Had he got a year, the law would have
considered him a felon, and barred him from public office. This, in turn, means
that UKIP won't get an extra MEP to replace him , which is of some relief to the
Tories, since the next in line on the UKIP list in my South East region is a
well-known campaigner on the Isle of Wight, a marginal seat where a strong UKIP
vote might put the Lib-Dems in. (This is a classic demonstration of why
Euro-sceptics shouldn't vote UKIP, by the way: replacing Andrew Turner, the
energetic and patriotic Isle of Wight MP, with a federalist Lib-Dem, is hardly
in the interests of British independence , but that's another story.)

In other words, with pleasing karma, Labour's failure to build adequate prison
space, and the shorter sentences caused by the consequent overcrowding, has
damaged UKIP and so helped the Conservatives.

UKIP are of course demanding that Mote stand down, and you can see their point.
But I'm not holding my breath. Assuming time off for good behaviour, he'll even
be able to attend more than 50 per cent of the plenary sessions, thus ensuring
that his Euro-allowances continue to paid in full.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          September 5, 2007, Wednesday

MEP jailed for fraud

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 66 words


An MEP was jailed for nine months for falsely claiming state benefits, but will
not have to give up his seat or his £ 60,000 salary because his sentence is for
less than a year. Ashley Mote, 71, an Independent MEP for South East England,
who won the seat for the UK Independence Party but was disowned because of the
charges, was found guilty at Portsmouth Crown Court of claiming £ 65,506 in
benefit.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 4, 2007

MEP jailed for benefit fraud

LENGTH: 274 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ashley Mote handed nine-month sentence for falsely claiming more than
65,000 in benefits.


A British MEP was jailed for nine months today for falsely claiming more than
65,000 in benefits.

Ashley Mote, an MEP for south-east England who formerly represented Ukip, was
found guilty of 21 charges of deception at Portsmouth crown court.

Despite the sentence, Mote will retain his seat in the European parliament. MEPs
are only disqualified from office if they receive jails terms of more than 12
months.

Mote, 71, was found guilty of eight charges of false accounting, eight of
obtaining a money transfer by deception, four of evading liability and one of
failing to notify a change of circumstances. He was acquitted of a further four
charges.

The four-week trial heard that Mote ran a business which collapsed in 1989.

He began to claim income support, housing benefits and council tax benefits but
failed to notify the benefits agency when he began earning money through various
enterprises, including spread betting on currency markets from February 1996 to
September 2002, during which time he received 73,000 in benefits.

The court heard he used this money to pay off credit card debts that he had run
up funding an "extravagant lifestyle", including restaurant dinners, private
healthcare and holidays to the US, France and the Caribbean.

Mote, who was elected in 2004, came to attention early in the year when he
signed up to the neo-fascist "Identity, Sovereignty and Tradition" European
parliament grouping, which also includes Jean-Marie Le Pen of the French
National Front and similarly far-right groups from Italy, Poland, Romania and
Bulgaria.

Ukip had already withdrawn its whip by then because of the impending benefit
fraud trial.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               52 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Plain speaking for flood victims;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 520  words


THE outpouring of sympathy for the victims of this summer's flooding in Hull has
not yet extended to the offices of the city's Ukip Euro MP Godfrey Bloom.

Bloom, who previously courted controversy by suggesting working women should
spend more time at home cleaning behind the fridge, has little time for those
flood victims who have found they can no longer get affordable home insurance.
The former Lloyd's broker explains: "What we have is a problem of modern-day
society when more and more homes are being built on flood plains.

"I don't have a home on a flood plain and don't see why I should subsidise some
idiot who does."

How refreshing to find a politician who doesn't just say what the voters want to
hear.

FORMER Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett admits she was "a bit down, but not
out" after being dumped from the Cabinet by Gordon Brown.

Relegation to the back benches has given her more time to relax with husband
Leo, she says, and even catch up with the odd film.

"When did that film Gandhi come out on video? We've had it all these years and
never watched it, " she muses. It was 1982 as it happens and, as one constituent
notes unhelpfully: "If only she had watched this when it came out she may have
realised there are alternatives to sending in the troops."

IT took Gordon Brown 10 years to get his hands on the keys to the PM's Jaguar.

This week it took Tory MP Robert Goodwill just 10 minutes to get the number
plate.

Goodwill, who is campaigning against number plate cloning, jotted down the
number as Brown's cavalcade swept past, typed it into the internet along with a
payment for GBP 20 and received an exact replica in the post two days later. "If
someone as dim as an MP can do this, imagine what a hardened criminal could do,
" he says.

AS Home Secretary, David Blunkett had his every whim catered for to make his
arduous travel schedule more bearable. Now, after two controversial departures
from the Cabinet, he complains that travelling with hoi polloi is making him
ill. Fresh from a ruined holiday in Italy he says that uncivilised passengers
are turning aeroplane cabins into germ factories. "It's awful having your
holiday wrecked because you have to breathe in second-hand air on the flight
while surrounded by people who don't seem to have heard of using tissues when
they cough or sneeze, " he moans.

THE unveiling of a statue of Nelson Mandela in Parliament Square was meant as a
tribute to the great man's use of political protest to bring South Africa's
former apartheid regime to an end. Ironic, then, that officials decided to evict
a camp of peace protesters from the square so that they wouldn't spoil the
pictures.

RELIEVED Parliamentary scribblers at Hansard have lodged their own tribute to
John Prescott following the announcement he is stepping down as an MP. The new
Prescott In Parliament website translates the former Deputy PM's pearls of
wisdom into English for posterity - a task said to have had even hardened
shorthand veterans in tears. But, whisper it, they may not have seen the back of
him yet - Prescott is hoping to spend many years pontificating in the House of
Lords.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday

That was the Week that Was...

BYLINE: Compiled by ANNE-MARIE CONWAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1524 words


HOME NEWS

Tough on crime, and on its custodians too

The Prison Officers Association called a wildcat strike on Wednesday, over the
Government's decision to introduce their recent 2.5 per cent pay award in two
stages, effectively reducing its value to 1.9 per cent. To the delight of
inmates, the High Court ruled the stoppage illegal, allowing them to taunt their
minders (basic pay pounds 17,000) with breaking the law. The Prime Minister
Gordon Brown warned that he would do nothing to put economic stability at risk,
especially when it came to public sector pay awards. This seemed to include
passing on any of the NHS's pounds 1bn surplus revealed on Thursday.

Meanwhile, David Cameron was launching a "mini-manifesto'' on law and order,
calling for minimum sentences for all crimes; regulation of music videos, films
and computer games; community policing; and "deterrents that work''. This was
unlikely to include the tarring and feathering of a suspected drug dealer in
Belfast on Sunday, described by the loyalist UDA as "a community reaction''.

LEAVE THE EU TREATY TO PARLIAMENT

The former home secretary David Blunkett was only one of many Labour MPs - some
said as many as 120 - calling for a referendum on the EU reform treaty last
week. The Foreign Secretary, David Miliband, continued to repeat "exactly what
the Prime Minister said, which is that the constitution has been abandoned, that
we're in a new situation and that parliamentary scrutiny is the way forward''.
But he did not rule out the possibility of a referendum.

The UK Independence Party's claim that EU membership was costing Britain pounds
96,271 a minute attracted rather less coverage than a press officer's
description of its not-so-youthful membership as "grade-2 listed'', like the
venue for its October conference.

NOT SO SURE START

After 10 years and more than pounds 21bn of taxpayers' money, the Government's
early years education programme had failed to achieve "measurable changes'',
said a report by Durham University educationists on Tuesday, and test results
published on Thursday showed that writing standards among seven-year-olds had
dropped for the second year in a row. Teachers' unions observed that primary
schools were struggling to recruit heads.

POLICE HUNT MOLE IN THE WALL GANG

There was much amusement at the discovery of a plan to break into a Manchester
cashpoint by digging a tunnel from a railway embankment. The thieves had clearly
been studying their Second World War movies, for the design of the tunnel
apparently owed much to the 1963 film The Great Escape, with boarded walls and a
ventilation system. The only thing they hadn't reckoned on was a bulldozer
installing new cables.

INTERNATIONAL NEWS

Mahdi army calls temporary ceasefire

The leader of Iraq's Mahdi militia, the Shia cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, announced a
six-month ceasefire on Wednesday, and called upon his forces to "observe
self-restraint, to help security forces control the situation and arrest the
perpetrators and sedition-mongers'' in the holy city of Karbala, where more than
50 Shia pilgrims had died in sectarian fighting the previous day. There were
hopes that this might speed the departure of British forces from Basra, although
the Pentagon said on Friday that it would redeploy US forces there when they
left. General Sir Michael Jackson, who led the British Army during the invasion
of Iraq, ruffled American feathers further by condemning their postwar policy as
"short-sighted'' and "intellectually bankrupt''.

TALIBAN LETS SOUTH KOREANS GO

By Thursday, the 19 South Korean Christian aid workers held by the Taliban had
been released, after South Korea agreed to end all missionary activities in
Afghanistan and promised to withdraw its 200 troops by the end of the year.

A UN report on Monday said that this year's opium harvest in Afghanistan would
reach record levels, particularly in the British-occupied Helmand province.

THIRD TIME LUCKY FOR GUL

Turkey's Islamist foreign minister, Abdullah Gul, was sworn in as president of
the secular republic, after winning the third round of elections on Tuesday. The
economy minister, Ali Babacan, took over as foreign minister.

GREEK FIRES RAGE ON

Six people were charged with deliberately starting some of the forest fires that
killed at least 63 people. Almost pounds 50m has already been handed out in
emergency compensation aid. There were fears that hot weather could trigger more
fires this weekend.

EVEN HOLY WATER IS A SECURITY RISK

Pilgrims who flew from Rome to Lourdes on the inaugural flight of the Vatican's
charter airline, Mistral Air, on Monday, stocked up on litres of holy water from
the Catholic shrine for their return, only to have them confiscated by airport
security. They had to make do with 100ml bottles in the shape of Our Lady of
Lourdes, handed out on board.

PEOPLE

The Road to literary achievement

Edinburgh's festival season ended with a clutch of awards last weekend. The two
pounds 10,000 James Tait Black memorial prizes went to the 74-year-old American
Cormac McCarthy, for his novel The Road, and to Byron Rogers, for The Man Who
Went into the West, his biography of the Welsh poet RS Thomas. The Fringe award
formerly known as the Perrier (now the ridiculously named If.comedy award) went
to the Australian Brendon Burns, for his "edgy and dangerous'' show, So I
Suppose This Is Offensive Now.

DEATHS NOTICED

* Alison Plowden, 75, BBC secretary turned historian, best known for her
"Elizabethan quartet''.

* Mark Birley, 77, founder-owner of Annabel's, London's snobbiest nightclub.

* Gaston Thorn, 78, Luxembourg's "honest broker'' president of the European
Commission (1981-84).

* Stephen Bicknell, 49, pipe organ designer and builder.

* Andrew Leeman, 61, restaurateur credited with introducing TexMex food to
Britain in 1980.

BUSINESS

The rich get richer

A third of Britain's 700 biggest businesses paid no corporation tax in 2006, the
National Audit Office revealed on Monday. Figures from the Office of National
Statistics showed that bonuses had risen 24 per cent to a record pounds 14bn
last year, more than half going to the financial services sector. And a study of
top executive pay revealed that directors of FTSE companies received pay rises
of 28 per cent last year.

AMERICA TAKES ACTION ON CREDIT

Stock markets in America rose on Friday after Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the
US Federal Reserve, told a gathering of central bankers at Jackson Hole that the
bank would "act as needed'' to shield the global economy from the effects of the
American housing slump. President Bush also announced plans to help a deserving
few (with a good credit history) to refinance their mortgages and stay in their
homes.

BAA MOVES TO COUNTER CRITICISM

Despite recent heavy criticism of poor service at its seven UK airports, BAA was
planning to cut 2,000 jobs, it was revealed on Thursday. Although security was
the only department to be spared, BAA's director of safety, security and
services, Donal Dowds, resigned. On Friday Sir Nigel Rudd, the deputy chairman
of Barclays, was appointed non-executive chairman, and Lord Stevens of
Kirkwhelpington, the former Metropolitan Police commis-sioner, also joined the
board.

SPORT

Tiger Tim goes out fighting

Tim Henman astonished pretty well everyone by not going out to his old nemesis
Dmitry Tursunov in the first round of the US Open, and he did not lose his
second round match on Friday without a fight, taking it to four sets. Andy
Murray made it through to the third round, but his brother Jamie and his doubles
partner Eric Butorac ended their last tournament together in a second-round
defeat.

SHOW THE FA THE MONEY

The football transfer window closed on Friday, and with it an era. New Football
Association rules governing payments to agents came into force yesterday.

Players of all sports were warned that careless talk about team performance
could cost them their liberty, under the new legislation on sports betting.

The most controversial signing of the week had to be that of Lee Hughes, newly
released from prison after serving half a six-year sentence for causing death by
dangerous driving, who joined Oldham Athletic on Tuesday.

RUSSIANS MOVE IN ON ARSENAL

David Dein, the former Arsenal vice-chairman, surprised many by selling his 14.5
per cent stake in the club to Red & White, a firm co-owned by the Russian
billionaire Alisher Usmanov, rather than to the American Stan Kroenke, who had
already 12.19 per cent.

THREE OF THE BEST IN OSAKA

Christine Ohuruogu won Britain's first gold at Osaka on Wednesday, in the 400m,
with team-mate Nicola Sanders claiming the silver medal. With Kelly Sotherton's
earlier bronze in the heptathlon, that brought Team GB's medal total within
target; the men chipped in with a bronze in yesterday's 4 x 100m relay. Ohuruogu
said she hoped her victory would further her appeal against her Olympics life
ban.

American Tyson Gay won the world championship sprint double when he took gold in
the 200m in Osaka on Thursday, having already won the 100m on Sunday, although
the effort left him too tired, he said, to put his arms up for his victory lap.
But not so tired he couldn't go for his third in the 4 x 100m relay.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday

Replacing the Tories after another defeat

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 110 words


SIR - The time for Gordon Brown to go to the polls is next May. Going this year
would only be seen as naked opportunism: a sort of "Let's get it over with
before the bad news arrives''.

David Cameron's problem is that he has been deceived into thinking that the
country wants another Tony Blair wearing a Tory rosette. In fact, the Blair
brand has been discredited. Mr Brown's appeal is that he is completely unlike Mr
Blair, even though he signed all the cheques.

Bring on the next election and the Tories' fourth defeat. They can divide
themselves up between UKIP, a new Christian Democrat Party of the Right, or join
the Lib Dems.

Ray Cobbett

Emsworth, Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday

Europhiles join campaign for a referendum

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 391 words


GORDON Brown was last night under intense pressure to give way over an EU
referendum after pro-Europeans joined with Eurosceptics to demand a vote.

Keith Vaz, the former europe minister, became the latest Labour MP to urge Mr
Brown to back down and hold a referendum. But the pro-Brussels Mr Vaz appealed
to the Prime Minister to widen the vote to include a question on Britain's
membership of the EU.

"The British people should have the chance to vote in a referendum on the treaty
which will enable us to continue our engagement with Europe,'' he said in an
open letter to a newspaper.

The intervention came as The Daily Telegraph's "Let the people decide'' petition
calling for a referendum passed the 76,000-signature mark.

Mr Brown and his ministers insist that the new treaty is substantially different
from the defeated EU draft constitution, on which Labour promised a referendum
in its 2005 manifesto and which was voted down by French and Dutch referendums
in 2005.

Jim Murphy, the Europe Minister, insisted again yesterday that the 2005 promise
was no longer necessary. He told the BBC that in the replacement treaty, the
"constitutional concept is abandoned''. He said: "Parliament is the right place
for ratification - just as it was for the Single European Act under Baroness
Thatcher, the Maastricht Treaty under Sir John Major, and the Nice and Amsterdam
Treaties under Tony Blair.''

However, there are growing claims that the revised treaty is essentially the
same as the defunct constitution. It contains the same proposals for a permanent
EU president and an EU foreign minister.

Yesterday, it emerged that an internal European Parliament minute referred to
"the Constitutional Treaty'' - a fact highlighted by Nigel Farage, leader of the
UK Independence Party.

Graham Stringer, the Eurosceptic former Cabinet Office minister, warned that it
would be more damaging for Mr Brown "not to hold a referendum than to hold a
referendum and lose it''.

Mr Stringer, Labour MP for Manchester Blackley, insisted the 2005 pledge
remained valid. "We made a commitment at the election to hold a referendum. I
think it is quite straightforward,'' he said.

Mr Brown already faces a potentially tricky vote on the issue at this month's
TUC conference. The GMB union yesterday accused Labour of "ducking and diving''
over the issue of the EU reform treaty.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
