
                               1 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             August 31, 2007 Friday

Spanish authorities

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 133  words


SPANISH authorities have refused to let a British military band play in a
charity concert. The Central Band of the RAF was due to perform in Torrevieja in
aid of Spanish charities last Sunday but was banned from taking part because
Whitehall officials had not sought permission for the band to cross the border
from Gibraltar. The British Embassy in Madrid was told they could enter
individually on their own passports but could be arrested as spies if they
formed a band and started to play. UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom, a member of the Armed
Forces Parliamentary Scheme, tells The Whip: "They were brassed off at not being
allowed to play. Spain should have abandoned the ban on the banned band. Perhaps
if our boys had dressed up as asylum seekers they would have had a better chance
of being allowed in."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             August 31, 2007 Friday

Vaz to Gord: EU must hold poll

BYLINE: Michael Lea Political Correspondent

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 401  words


Ex-Europe Minister boosts referendum call

LABOUR'S former Europe Minister Keith Vaz last night joined the mounting clamour
for a referendum on the re-jigged EU Constitution.

He called on Gordon Brown to stage a decisive once-and-for-all ballot on
Britain's future in Europe - at the same time as the next election.

In an open latter to The Sun, pro-EU Mr Vaz added that the Government had to
"trust the people". He said a public vote would "settle the Europe question for
a generation".

His call comes just days after dozens of Labour MPs backed a letter to the Prime
Minister, demanding he honours the party's manifesto pledge of a poll. Mr Vaz,
MP for Leicester East, wrote: "I believe in the European Union. And as a former
Minister for Europe I believe the time has come for the Government to hold a
referendum and decide once and for all Britain's place is at the heart of
Europe.

"The British people should have the chance to vote in a referendum on the Treaty
which will enable us to continue our engagement with Europe."

He suggests that the referendum is held on the same day as the General Election,
likely to be next spring. Under his plan, voters would get a separate ballot
paper with the question: "Do you support Britain's continuing membership of the
EU as set out under the terms of the Reform Treaty?"

Mr Vaz adds: "Gordon Brown has made a terrific start to his premiership. He is
trusted by the British public. It is time for the Government to trust the people
on this issue. We have nothing to fear."

But friends say Mr Vaz is privately worried the Government may LOSE any vote.

A Sun poll revealed four out of five voters want a say on Britain surrendering
some sovereignty.

Key union barons also back a referendum, as do some ministers - but they are not
prepared to put their careers on the line by going public.

Mr Brown claims the EU Reform Treaty - agreed by Tony Blair in June - is not as
far-reaching as the EU constitution originally proposed.

He says therefore it only needs approval in Parliament.

The row could spill over into the Labour Party Conference late next month - Mr
Brown's first as leader.

It comes as new research reveals that EU membership will this year cost the UK £
96,271 A MINUTE. In total, Britain will hand over £ 50.6billion - or £ 843 for
every man, woman and child, the study by UKIP claims.

Costs include £ 26billion on red tape and £ 15.6billion on farm subsidies.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

Down-grading

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: NEWS; Spy; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 92 words


Their members are renowned for being on the wrong side of 50, so it seems
curious that the UK Independence Party should want to draw attention to this.
Yet that is exactly what Annabelle Fuller, their press officer, did yesterday
when she sent journalists details of the Troxy Conference Centre in Limehouse,
east London, where the UKIP conference will take place in October. "The venue,
for those not familiar with it, is apparently a 'stunning 1930s Art Deco Grade
II listed building', which will suit our Grade II listed members,'' said her
missive.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 30, 2007 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 615 words


-A handsome turnout, we hear, for the unveiling of Nelson Mandela's statue in
Parliament Square yesterday morning, the highlight naturally being the presence,
in the flesh, of the great leader himself, frail but dignified as ever. Which is
more, regrettably, than can be said of one of Brian Haw's wretched peace
protesters, who took advantage of a brief pause as our own great leader was
being introduced by master of ceremonies Dickie Attenborough to bellow at the
Broon: "War criminal!" Have these people no shame?

-Falconer Flies With Golden Eagle, reported the BBC website yesterday. So that's
what sorely lamented St Tony's multi-chinned old chum has been up to! We had
been wondering.

-Our Headline of the Week So Far is at present a dead heat between the Watford
Observer's first-class Man With False Leg Hit With Toilet Lid, in which Stephen
Sweeney pleads guilty to attacking Paul Buttery, who is registered disabled,
with the top of a lavatory cistern in the Premier Inn Travel Lodge in February
last year, and World Science's equally winning Humans Not Just Big-Brained Apes,
Researcher Says, in which University of Pennsylvania psychologist David Premack
reveals that he has almost certainly never been to Watford on a Saturday night.

-Hats off, next, to new culture minister Margaret Hodge, who has dug deep into
our pockets to help the Natural History Museum at Tring, Hertfordshire. A cheque
for £87,000, it says 'ere, is even now on its way to (and we quote) "improve
access to the internationally significant collection of 88 stuffed domestic
dogs". And quite right too.

-Each day, it seems, brings fresh evidence of the scandalous incompetence and
overweening arrogance of the appallingly deceitful national treasure that is the
British Broadcasting Corporation. For instance, it seems that on Monday night a
caption appeared on screen halfway through that Test the Nation IQ test
informing the watching public that "No one in the audience have answered all the
questions correctly". Once again, this column (since no one else is) asks: how
much worse can things get

-Ooh but she's a cheeky one, that Annabelle Fuller. The chirpy Ukip press
officer concludes her latest enthralling pronouncement, concerning the date and
venue of the party's annual conference (October 5 and 6, Troxy Conference
Centre, Limehouse, should you be interested) with a very mischievous little
joke. "The venue, for those not familiar with it, is a 'stunning 1930s Art Deco
Grade II listed building'," writes Annabelle, "which will suit our Grade II
listed members." Laugh? We nearly etc.

-Alert reader Bill Pitt of Broadstairs, Kent, writes to say that he's recently
returned from an idyllic camping holiday at Camping les Ecureuils on France's
Atlantic coast. "The nearby town also boasted an Impasse des Ecureuils, as well
as a cafe bearing a similar name and numerous other references to same," says
Bill. "But not one of the bushy-tailed buggers did we see - nary even a stuffed
one! Have we been cheated?" No, Bill, we'd say you'd been very, very lucky. The
little sods are everywhere, and they do not mean you well.

-In other breaking news, reports reach us that Sigurdur Hjartarsohn, the curator
of Icelandic Phallological Museum in Husavik, believed (and we are not making
this up) to be the planet's only museum of penises and presently home to some
245 examples from an assortment of animals including hamsters, horses and
whales, is looking for a human specimen to complete its collection. Guys, sounds
like a eunuch opportunity to us.

-To the 2,648 (approx) alert readers who've said you'll miss us: we'll miss you,
too. And we'll have full details of that blog tomorrow.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           August 29, 2007 Wednesday

Britain - UKIP in hot water over dodgy donations

LENGTH: 238 words


The Electoral Commission announced plans on Tuesday to appeal against a ruling
that the far-right UK Independence Party should repay only a fraction of
£367,697 that it received in "impermissible donations."

Earlier this month, a district judge ruled that UKIP should pay back £18,481,
havingfound that the breach was accidental.

Retired bookmaker Alan Bown had donated most of the cash at a time when he was
not on the electoral roll. Mr Bown donated £363,697 between December 2004 and
January 2006.

A further £4,000 was donated by the firm Nightech, but, because it is registered
on the Isle of Man, it was considered a foreign donation and therefore
impermissible.

UKIP, which has 10 MEPs, admitted breaking the law, but it pleaded that this had
been due to a clerical error. The party fears financial ruin if it is forced to
hand back all the donations.

In a statement on Tuesday, the Electoral Commission said that it had lodged an
appeal against the ruling.

"We are disappointed that the court did not order forfeiture of all the
donations in question which, by UKIP own admission, were impermissible," it
said.

"As it is the first time that the law on forfeiture of impermissible donations
has been tested in court, we believe it is important to clarify the law in this
area.

It added: "We will continue to intervene when parties haven't complied with the
law to ensure public confidence in the integrity of the democratic process."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 27, 2007 Monday
                                 First Edition

A political party with a leader? How 20th century

BYLINE: JENNY JONES

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 752 words


What was it that changed Tony Blair from the reasonable, listening man we first
encountered into the staring-eyed control freak he became? Answer: too much
power in the hands of one person. It's obvious that when this happens, the party
becomes hostage to the character, behaviour and history of that individual.

This is just one of the reasons that, since its inception, the Green Party has
been philosophically against the concept of a single leader. Some now believe -
such as Caroline Lucas, writing in these pages last week - that having a leader
would make us more visible and more effective at a time when Greens must make
headway. But this is a false logic. Such a move would be damaging to the Green
Party and firmly root it in the politics of the 20th century rather than as a
forward-thinking, empowering party committed to ensuring that its membership has
real input into the decision-making process.

Hierarchies are recognised as inefficient because communication is slow and
decisions do not reflect people's experience or ideas. Business schools and
management consultants now argue that involving the workforce in decision-making
increases efficiency. They are moving in a green direction. It would be perverse
if the Green Party were now to move in the opposite direction.

For those who follow or support a leader there will be a tendency to look to
that person for approval, support and decisions. And this process, by its very
nature, entails an abdication of personal responsibility, and an erosion of the
autonomy and initiative that underpins an empowered community, whereas
empowerment involves the bringing out of leadership qualities in everyone.

To the media and the public, a leader is associated with authority and vision
over and above that of their members, someone who will batter the "idealists" of
their party into submission to the political "realities", which are wholly
defined by past political history and journalistic discourse. If leaders do not
"lead" in the established fashion, they will be seen, rightly or wrongly, as
weak.

The best way to see how having a leader might affect the Green Party is to look
at the effect it has on other smaller parties operating within our electoral
system. Has Nigel Farage boosted UKIP's vote? Did Robert Kilroy-Silk's vanity
help his party, Veritas? Has "pussycat" George Galloway helped Respect to a
breakthrough? And what about Tommy Sheridan, whose Scottish Socialist Party
splintered and crashed out of the Scottish Parliament? These are all examples,
in the real world, of parties which have followed the leader strategy.

Pro-single leader advocates believe the Green Party and its representatives
would somehow be immune to this process. But naivety is not the most helpful
quality in politics.

Politics and ideas are about symbols, direction and momentum. Creating a leader
would send a powerful signal that the party was rejecting participatory politics
and embracing a failing conventional model.

Even if the individual concerned was not trying to centralise power, there
would, nonetheless, be an inbuilt dynamic that would accrue power to that
person; he or she would be aggrandised. A persona would be created that would
inevitably be larger than life. And the individual living under the weight of
other people's expectations. What of them? Is this really a green way to treat
someone?

So what is the alternative? What is empowerment politics? And can it be made to
work better? Many people feel powerless, unable to influence the decisions that
control their lives. But we know that just two or three empowered individuals
can make a huge difference. That's why the Green Party has spent 25 years
evolving policies, strategies, tactics and techniques that seek to empower
people, both inside the party and in the wider community.

We Greens have an urgent and radical message for all levels of government and
society. Participatory democracy is a necessity, not a luxury if we want to
effect change.

Where we have elected Greens, the message does get out, through the media,
through council work, through budget negotiations with more powerful parties. We
are having an impact out of all proportion to the size of our membership. Green
politics is about creating real social and economic change to survive crises,
not a new face to administer apocalypse.

The writer is a London Assembly Member, a local councillor in Southwark, and a
former deputy mayor of London. David Taylor, a founder of the Green Party,
contributed to the article.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Alarm as EU demands we share secrets;
It even wants to know about nuclear stations

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 9

LENGTH: 599  words


SECRET information about the w ay our nuclear power stations and emergency
services are run is being demanded by Brussels.

Eurocrats want to force the UK to share vital security information about our
"critical infrastructure" w hich includes everything from w ater, gas and
electricity to radio and TV broadcasting systems.

The aim is to help member states deal with major crises such as nuclear fallout,
power cuts or terrorist attacks which can have a knock-on effect on neighbouring
countries.

The draft directive was approved by the European Parliament last month. But
critics claim the move w ill jeopardise our national security and allow key
information about our most vital services to fall into the hands of terrorists
or enemy states.

The Ministry of Defence is so concerned about the threat to national security
that it insisted all military information and installations were excluded from
the plans.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "Is there anything the EU can keep their noses
out of? There is absolutely no need for them to have anything to do with our
nuclear power supply and yet, like a nosy neighbour, they keep interfering.

The way I see it, the fewer people who know about the security of our nuclear
power the better. That way there is less chance of it falling into the wrong
hands."

The proposals were brought in under the umbrella of "prevention of terrorism" in
the wake of the Madrid bomb attacks.

While some aspects of critical infrastructure security are already shared
between European allies, critics are alarmed that the proposals will allow the
European Commission to decide what and how much information should be shared and
with whom.

A committee of MEPs has already criticised the plans. Its report said: "The
protection of critical infrastructure is plainly of key importance to national
security, but we do not find the advantages of Commission involvement in this
field to be self-evident."

There may also be problems with exchanging information since many of the
industries covered, including energy supplies, are in the hands of private
companies.

Patrick Mercer, former Tory homeland security spokesman, said: "The intention
behind this directive is very sensible but the bottom line is that the record of
the ability of each country to keep each other's secrets is not good.

"If you could guarantee that every recipient, every computer terminal and every
phone line where this information was being sent was secure, then fine, but you
can't."

Mike Granatt, former head of the Government's Civil Contingencies Secretariat,
said: "It would be wrong and dangerous if countries were forced to give away
every jot of information without considering the security risks.

"All governments would be wise to take a prudent view, especially of critical
information about control systems, that might make the country more vulnerable."

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "The proposed framework will support member
states in establishing and improving their own critical national infrastructure
protection programmes.

"All member states agree that the provision of protective security for critical
infrastructure is a national responsibility and must remain so.

It is clearly in our national interests to see levels of protection of critical
infrastructure increase.

"The directive is still under discussion, and is currently in a draft form. As
drafted, detailed security information would remain within each member state and
would not be available to Brussels.

"The European Commission's proposals will be debated fully both in the UK and at
an EU level before any agreement is reached."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 26, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Gordon severs his home ties;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 227  words


SUPPORTERS of an English Parliament will be up in arms over the revelation this
weekend that a whopping 60 per cent of the announcements made by Gordon Brown
since he became Prime Minister will not affect his own constituents in
Kirkcaldy.

Mr Brown has made 29 announcements since becoming PM. Of these, 17 have been on
matters that are devolved to the Scottish Parliament and only 12 have been on
matters that are reserved to Westminster, so his policies only affect people
living in English and Welsh constituencies.

The prospect of a Scottish MP, answerable only to Scottish voters, making policy
decisions on everything from the NHS to tuition fees to housing and the railways
that do not affect his own constituents has set the cat among the pigeons at
Westminster.

One Labour MP said: "It's all right for Gordon because he doesn't have to defend
these policies on the doorsteps of Kirkcaldy but the rest of us do."

The European Parliament's bid to ban smoking in all its buildings was met with
defiance by UKIP leader and MEP Nigel Farage.

After a widespread refusal to abide by the rules, EU officials overturned the
ban but are now planning a new ruling which will force MEPs to stub their butts
out once and for all.

In the meantime, Farage says he will carry on regardless of the rules they
impose, insisting: "They're not going to stop me smoking in my office."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             August 24, 2007 Friday

Labour's Euro rebellion;
More than 40 MPs ready to demand a referendum on new constitution

BYLINE: James Chapman

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 593 words


MORE than 40 Labour MPs are preparing to join a gathering rebellion in Labour
and trade union ranks over the Government's refusal to offer a referendum on the
revived EU constitution.

Already 16 have signed Commons motions calling for voters to have a say. Party
sources said at least 25 more were preparing to back the demands.

Union leaders, meanwhile, made clear the referendum campaign would be a key
issue at their annual conference next month.

The draft agenda for the TUC meeting includes a prominent motion, tabled by the
Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers Union, insisting the new treaty is
'substantially the same' as the previous EU constitution on which Labour
promised a referendum.

It claims the blueprint will transform the EU into a 'state with a single legal
personality', form a centralised EU government, reduce the power of member
states to block EU legislation, 'militarise' the EU and give the EU the power to
change itself without any further treaties or referendums.

Of 353 Labour MPs in Parliament, 170 are sponsored by the big three unions in
favour of a referendum - the T&G, the GMB and Unison.

More than half of the Cabinet - including Gordon Brown, Alistair Darling, Jack
Straw, Des Browne, John Hutton, Harriet Harman and Peter Hain - also have
backing from these unions.

Senior Labour backbencher David Taylor said he would be joining the referendum
campaign and urged the Prime Minister to think again. 'I admire Gordon Brown,'
said the Leicestershire North West MP. 'I have been encouraged by what he has
done so far but on Europe he now needs to recognise the wind of change blowing
through our party and the trade union movement.' Mr Taylor's declaration came as
Europe Minister Jim Murphy insisted Parliament - not voters - would decide
whether to sign up to the EU treaty. Claiming the deal would be 'good for
Britain', Mr 12 Cabinet members are backed by the three main pro-referendum
unions

Murphy said it would end 'navelgazing' over the EU's structures and
decision-making processes and allow it to forge ahead with the 'big issues'.

In an article for the Epolitix website, he insisted: 'Hyperbole and
misunderstanding aside, the reform treaty will not transfer power away from the
UK on issues of fundamental importance to our sovereignty.

'We will maintain national control over key areas including justice and home
affairs, social security, tax, foreign policy, and defence.' Mr Murphy firmly
rejected calls for a referendum, despite a Daily Mail poll this week showing
more than four in five voters want one.

He said: 'Our democratic system means that Parliament must ratify treaties.
Parliament will therefore make the final decision on whether the reform treaty
is in Britain's interests, just as it did with previous amending treaties under
Tony Blair, John Major and Baroness Thatcher.' Tory Europe spokesman Mark
Francois said: 'Jim Murphy needs to remember that 80 per cent of the British
people now want a referendum on the revived EU constitution.

'This includes his own trade union, the GMB, who helped him campaign at the
General Election.

He should honour the manifesto on which he and Gordon Brown were elected to
Parliament.' Nigel Farage, leader of the anti- EU UK Independence Party, said:
'Every other political leader in the EU has said that this is the constitution
in all but name.

'He (Gordon Brown) is doing a rather splendid impression of an ostrich,
surrounding himself with yes men who are trying to drown out the overwhelming
calls for the British people to have their say.' j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday

Truth is the first Casualty - again

BYLINE: Richard LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1494 words


GOOD morning, this is the news from the BBC. A group of animal rights activists
has hijacked four airliners and flown them into the World Trade Centre in New
York and the Pentagon in Washington.' I'm sorry, I'll just read that again.

'Four members of the anti-vivisection movement have blown themselves up on the
London Transport network, killing 52 people and injuring hundreds more.' I don't
think so.

'Two doctors have attempted a suicide car bomb attack on Glasgow airport. The
League Against Cruel Sports has claimed responsibility.' As the late Bill Deedes
might have said: shurely shome mishtake.

But it all makes about as much sense as the BBC's decision to can an episode of
Casualty which starts with a young Muslim blowing himself up in a crowded bus
station and rewrite it so that the bombing is carried out by animal rights
extremists.

The Casualty plotline was rejected by the Beeb's 'editorial and ethical
standards' commissars, who were worried that it was stereotyping young Muslims
as terrorists.

The BBC likes to boast about the gritty reality of its dramas. But if that were
the case, they'd have stuck with the original script.

In real life, it's Muslims committing all the terrorist atrocities in Britain
these days.

That's not to say that all Muslims are terrorists, far from it, but to pretend
that the bunny liberation brigade are bombing bus stations is preposterous.

Admittedly, the animal rights movement contains its fair share of violent
lunatics. But much as they love beagles and lab rats, there is no recorded
incident to my knowledge of any of them being prepared to lay down their own
lives for the cause although I do seem to remember one madwoman threw herself in
front of a lorryload of veal calves a few years ago.

Even if we concede that the decision to pull the Casualty episode was taken for
the most laudable of reasons, it is yet more evidence of the institutionalised
bias, cowardice and cultural cringe which runs through the entire bulletins, the
website.

Take good fun parcel Corporation like the lettering in a stick of rock.

The simple fact is that the BBC, like the police, like the CPS and so many other
of our public institutions, is scared to death of upsetting Muslims. N

NO SUCH self-censorship applies when it comes to offending other religious
groups. The BBC went to court to defend its right to 'free speech' when it was
determined to screen the appalling, puerile Jerry Springer: The Opera which
portrayed Christ as an infantilised, nappy-wearing copraphiliac who was 'a
little bit gay'.

The protests of 47,000 devout Christians counted for nothing. But, then, devout
Christians are unlikely to storm Broadcasting House demanding the beheading of
the director-general.

Let's say someone was daft enough to write a musical which featured the Prophet
Mohammed as an incontinent paedophile. Do you think the BBC would move heaven
and earth to broadcast it in the name of defending 'free speech'? Precisely.

The BBC groupthink permeates its entire output, from its news bulletins, through
drama and even the website.

Take the MI5 series, Spooks. It's good fun and well done, but it's a complete
parcel of nonsense designed to peddle the Guardianista worldview.

The last series featured a fundamentalist Christian sect, hellbent on killing
Muslims (yeah, right).

Then there was the bombing of an oil depot and a plot to blow up an airliner
over London. Jihadists? Nope, rogue elements in the security services and a
deranged, Torysupporting newspaper baron.

And a special two-parter centred on the takeover of the Saudi Embassy by
Islamist terrorists demanding the release of al-Qaeda prisoners.

Turns out you're ahead of me here, aren't you? that it wasn't Osama's boys after
all, it was the evil Izza-ra-ay-lees in disguise, trying to destabilise the
Saudis and blame it all on peace-loving Muslim freedom fighters.

So there you have it: the threat to life and limb in Britain today comes from,
in no particular order, the provisional wing of Fleet Street; renegade members
of MI6; Mossad; and genocidal Christian evangelicals.

I'm only surprised that they didn't rule that the bus station bombing in
Casualty should be carried out by 'militants' linked to UKIP, demanding a
referendum on the European Constitution.

There's a lot going on under the radar, too. The BBC website forums
automatically delete any criticism of Islam immediately. Yet a posting which
called Christ a 'B-A-S-T-A-R-D' was allowed to remain for a week until the Mail
on Sunday got on the case.

THIS comment came from someone called Colonelartist (not his real name, I
suspect) who has also written that the Jews in concentration camps enjoyed
better conditions and freedoms than the Palestinians, without incurring the
wrath of the editorial and ethical standards watchdogs.

After my recent TV documentary on anti-Semitism, someone called 'Iron Naz'
posted a comment on the BBC website which perpetrated the old, discredited and
utterly false libel that the Talmud legitimises Jewish supremacy over other
faiths.

Last time anyone looked, it was still there, despite protests from the Board of
Deputies and Jewish community groups.

I'm still not sure why there was a BBC forum devoted to the programme. After
all, the Beeb had turned it down flat and it went out on Channel 4.

Anyway, when did it become part of the remit for licence-payers to provide a
noticeboard for anonymous anti-Semites? Meanwhile, the BBC is still refusing to
publish a report it commissioned into whether or not there is systematic
anti-Israel bias in its news coverage from the Middle East.

So we'll take that as a 'yes' then.

I don't like to indulge in gratuitous Beeb-bashing, because there's so much good
about the organisation.

But it is too big, too unaccountable and too riddled with an institutionalised
mindset which holds that it's fine to heap scorn on Christians and Jews, but
cravenly appeases Muslims at every turn.

The BBC is a publicly-funded body which has a duty to be even-handed to all and
not pander to the political prejudices of those who work for it.

If it can't manage that, it should be broken up and sold off.

No offence..

AFTER halving rubbish collections, Portsmouth Council is now telling
householders not to stash their bags in wheelie bins.

Elf'n'safety has decided that the dustmen could hurt their backs lifting the
bags out of the bins.

'Oi, George, putcha back inta it. Second thoughts, best not, you might do
yerself a mischief.' Speaking of elf'n'safety, they've got a new target
children's trampolines. Apparently there have been 11,500 incidents of people
falling off and injuring themselves many of them adults who have been drinking.

How long before elf'n'safety insists that all trampolines must be fitted with
crash barriers and safety nets and all trampoliners must wear helmets and Mr
Blobby suits to break their fall?

Why still no Lord Mandy of Mortgage?

WHATEVER happened to the resignation honours list? I was looking forward to Lord
Richard of Cliff and Baron Bee Gee of Biscayne Bay.

But so far, zip.

Tony Blair has left it a bit late, you might have thought. If he had a lavender
list up his sleeve it should have been published by now.

After all, it's not as if they've stopped making peers. New Gordon elevated some
of his cronies in week one.

Could it be that following the refusal of the CPS to bring charges in the
cash-for-ermine investigation, there was a deal that Blair wouldn't get to
create any more Lords? Had it not been for Yates of the Yard there may well have
been a right old car boot sale.

That might explain why Mandelson is still plain Peter, not Lord Mandy of
Mortgage.

Either that or Gordon slammed down his clunking foot and refused to endorse any
of Blair's farewell nominees.

There could be a simpler explanation. Perhaps after Michael Levy had done the
rounds, there wasn't anyone left to send to the House of Lords..

THIS week's edition of You Couldn't Make It Up comes from the Foreign Office,
which has published the WAG's Guide To Travel, offering tips to the wives and
girlfriends of footballers going overseas on holiday.

I'd have thought there were only two pieces of advice to be offered to young
Englishwomen travelling abroad: Don't get drunk. And keep your knickers on

Different places, same old faces

AFTER Pete Townsend and Chris Langham, the history teacher of Fergie's daughter
Bea has got mixed up in kiddie porn on the net.

Richard Findley is facing jail for grooming a 12-year-old girl for sex. Except
it wasn't a girl, it was a police officer.

Won't they ever learn? I've always assumed that everyone in an internet chatroom
is either an undercover reporter pretending to be a paedophile or a policeman
pretending to be a child. Or vice versa.

Similarly, was there anyone at the climate change camp at Heathrow who wasn't an
undercover reporter or someone from Scotland Yard with dirty jeans and mung
beans round his neck pretending to be an anarchist? The paedophile chatrooms
must have been quiet over the weekend..

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            August 20, 2007, Monday

Lib Dems would gain the most in new system

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 169 words


The report calculates that had the last general election been run under a more
proportional system, the main beneficiaries would have been the Liberal
Democrats and the biggest losers would have been Labour. The Conservatives would
have been affected marginally by most systems.

In 2005 Labour won 356 seats, or 55.1 per cent, with 35.2 per cent of the vote.

The Conservatives won 198 seats (30.5 per cent) with 32.3 per cent of the votes.

The Liberal Democrats won 62 seats (9.6 per cent) with 22 per cent of the votes.

If the election had been run with the "alternative vote plus" system, Labour
would have won 307 seats in the Commons, the Conservatives 199 and the Lib Dems
74.

Under the "single transferable vote", Labour would have won 263 seats, the
Conservatives 200 and Liberal Democrats 147.

Smaller parties, such as the Greens, UKIP and the BNP would be unlikely to have
benefited from the alternative vote or single transferrable vote systems, which
have been the subject of serious consideration in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 19, 2007

Scotland's union

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 110 words


CUTTING TIES: At the Scottish parliament and council elections, Ukip (the UK
Independence party), with candidates in every constituency, received 1,641
votes.

The SNP (Scottish National party) had 980,700 for Holyrood and 1,020,451 for the
councils. The Scots couldn't give a damn about middle England's obsession with
the European Union; Scotland is moving towards becoming an independent,
sovereign state.

Since the introduction of the Scotland and Wales acts, and power-sharing in
Northern Ireland, the political landscape of the United Kingdom has changed
forever. It is now a federal state in everything but name. There is no going
back.

Lachie Todd Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 19, 2007

Final surrender to Brussels

SECTION: FEATURES; Scotland News; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 110 words


CUTTING TIES: At the Scottish parliament and council elections, Ukip (the UK
Independence party), with candidates in every constituency, received 1,641
votes.

The SNP (Scottish National party) had 980,700 for Holyrood and 1,020,451 for the
councils.

The Scots couldn't give a damn about middle England's obsession with the
European Union; Scotland is moving towards becoming an independent, sovereign
state.

Since the introduction of the Scotland and Wales acts, and power-sharing in
Northern Ireland, the political landscape of the United Kingdom has changed for
ever. It is now a federal state in everything but name. There is no going back.

Lachie Todd

Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

MEP faces prison for Â£73,000 benefit fraud

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 289 words


A BRITISH MEP is facing a jail sentence after being found guilty of benefit
fraud.

Ashley Mote, 71, a former Ukip representative, was convicted of 21 charges
involving false accounting, obtaining money by deception and failing to notify a
change of circumstances.

The MEP for South-East England was acquitted at Portsmouth Crown Court of a
further four charges in the case brought by the Department for Work and
Pensions.

The four-week trial heard Mote ran a successful business which collapsed in
1989. He then began to claim income support, housing benefits and council tax
benefits but failed to notify the benefits agency when he began earning money
through various enterprises.

These included spread betting on currency markets from February 1996 to
September 2002, during which he received Â£73,000 in benefits.

The court heard he used this money to pay off credit card debts which he had run
up funding an 'extravagant lifestyle' such as restaurant dinners, private health
care and holidays to the U.S., France and the Caribbean.

The married father of two was elected to the European Parliament in 2004 as a
member of Ukip which threw him out of the party days later when they discovered
the charges against him. He has continued to serve as an independent MEP.

After the verdict Ukip leader Nigel Farage said justice had been done.

'If we had discovered just 48 hours earlier this case was pending he would never
have been elected an MEP,' he added.

'Ukip and the voters of the South- East have been defrauded for three years.'
Mote, of Binsted, Hampshire, was released on bail on condition he surrender his
British and diplomatic passports and provides Â£50,000 in sureties.

Judge Richard Price warned him he faced a custodial sentence.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                                 Fourth Edition

Former Ukip MEP is convicted of benefit fraud;
Home News IN BRIEF

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 90 words


A British member of the European Parliament has been found guilty of 21 charges
of deception by falsely claiming benefits. Ashley Mote, 71, right, a former Ukip
representative, was found guilty of eight charges of false accounting, eight of
obtaining a money transfer by deception, four of evading liability and one of
failing to notify a change of circumstances. After his business collapsed in
1989, he began to claim many benefits, but then, as he went on to earn money
again, he did not inform the authorities and kept claiming the cash.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

ILLOGICAL, MR VULCAN;
TORY ODD-BOD'S TAX PLANS DISAPPEAR IN BLACK HOLE

BYLINE: BY ROSA PRINCE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 706 words


TAX cuts for the rich were unveiled by the Tories yesterday in a massive lurch
to the right.

Thatcherite John Redwood, nicknamed Vulcan after Star Trek's Mr Spock, put
forward a series of proposals after being asked by leader David Cameron to head
a competitiveness taskforce.

They include the bizarre suggestion that taxing the rich less would result in
them paying more.

But critics last night branded his economic blueprint illogical, warning that it
could open up a huge black hole in public finances.

And they say it is a sign the Tories are starting to show their true colours,
despite Mr Cameron's claims that they have changed.

Mr Redwood, who also suggests fitting trains with rubber wheels and switching
cycle lanes to the pavement, boasted: "We believe a lower tax economy would be a
more successful economy.

"If you have the courage to cut the rates, the rich pay more. Ironically, it is
the way to get more money out of the rich, but everybody benefits."

Mr Redwood proposed tax cuts of pounds 14billion - to be paid for from economic
growth. He said he would be able to save the same again by cutting waste and red
tape.

He also wants to abolish inheritance tax, give tax breaks to share-buyers and
opt out of European treaties in order to deny workers their rights.

But Labour chiefs slammed the proposals as "disastrous" and said the decision to
let Mr Redwood "off the leash" was a clear sign that Mr Cameron has lost control
of his party.

Chancellor Alistair Darling said: "What they're proposing is actually pounds
21billion of tax reductions, but they don't say how they are going to pay for
them.

"It would be like turning the clock back 10 or 20 years."

Andy Burnham, Chief Secretary to the Treasury, added: "The scale of these cuts
is so huge, they could only be paid for by savage reductions in public
spending."

The proposals were given a ringing endorsement by Mr Redwood's close pal, Shadow
Chancellor George Osborne.

He said: "I consider the publication of this report is an important moment in
the development our party's economic policy."

But he admitted: "Any reductions in specific taxes will have to be balanced by
tax increases elsewhere, most notably green taxes."

REDWOOD'S SPACED-OUT POLICIES

PLAN: A pounds 14billion tax cut - with inheritance tax, stamp duty, corporation
rates and income tax all slashed

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: Andy Burnham, Chief Secretary to the Treasury: These cuts
are so huge, they could only be paid for by savage cuts in public spending which
would damage schools, hospitals and police

WARPED FACTOR: 9

PLAN: Savings of pounds 13.8bn by slashing red tape and regulations

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: UKIP: "The proposals are wishful thinking. Since over
half of regulations applying to British businesses are from the EU, the Tories
would face huge legal problems

WARPED FACTOR: 7

PLAN: Repeal Working Time Directive, opt out of EU Social Chapter

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: TUC: "Opting out of the Social Chapter would end the
right for working parents to take emergency unpaid leave when a child is ill.
"Repealing the Working Time Regulations would end the right to take four weeks
paid holiday. "You cannot support these measures and also claim to back better
work/life balance

WARPED FACTOR: 7

PLAN: Pension deregulation

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: Lib Dems: "The Tories presided over the worst personal
pensions mis-selling scandal in history. We are still picking up the pieces of
"light touch"' regulation, leading to disasters such as Equitable Life

WARPED FACTOR: 8

PLAN: Scrapping inheritance tax

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: Chancellor Alistair Darling: "Six per cent of estates pay
inheritance tax. We have raised the threshold: it''s pounds 300,000. It will go
up to pounds 350,000

WARPED FACTOR: 8

PLAN: Financial services regulation, mortgage protection, data protection,
health and safety regulations and money laundering laws all scrapped

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: Andy Burnham: "They are turning the clock back 20 years
by proposing to end protection for mortgage payers, vulnerable elderly people in
homes and workers

WARPED FACTOR: 8

PLAN: Road and airport expansion

IT WON'T WORK BECAUSE: Lib Dems: "This will damage the environment and
communities

WARPED FACTOR: 5

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

r.prince@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEAM HIM UP: John Redwood; ATTACK: Darling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            August 18, 2007 Saturday

Brit MEP's fraud rap

LENGTH: 66  words


A BRITISH MEP was found guilty yesterday of falsely claiming benefits.

Former UKIP representative Ashley Mote, 71, claimed £ 73,000 in income support,
housing and council tax benefits after his firm collapsed.

Independent MEP Mote was convicted of 21 charges of deception at Portsmouth
Crown Court.

He was acquitted of a further four charges. Dad-of-two Mote was kicked out of
UKIP after being accused.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           August 18, 2007, Saturday

MEP found guilty of benefit fraud

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 170 words


A British Member of the European Parliament has been found guilty of 21 charges
of deception by falsely claiming benefits.

Ashley Mote, 71, was elected in 2004 as a member of the UK Independence Party,
which threw him out days later when it learnt about the charges against him. The
MEP for southeast England, who sits as an Independent, was acquitted at
Portsmouth Crown Court of a further four charges in the case, brought by the
Department of Work and Pensions.

The trial was told that, after Mote's business collapsed in 1989, he began to
claim income support, housing benefit and council tax benefit but failed to
notify the Benefits Agency when he began earning money through enterprises
including spread betting on currency markets in a six-year period during which
he received £ 73,000 in benefits.

The judge warned Mote, of Binsted, Hampshire, that he faced a custodial
sentence.

He was released on bail with the conditions that he surrender his British and
diplomatic passports. He is due to be sentenced on August 31.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

SHELLEY VISION: UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY MP OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: JIM SHELLEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 25 words


"TIME and time again, we've seen foreigners come to this country and looked at
them and they've been the wrong side of useless." - Alan Hansen (MOTD)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday

Grease is the word for utterly brainless;
Theatre

BYLINE: PATRICK MARMION

SECTION: FB; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 743 words


Grease

Piccadilly Theatre, London 2hrs 30mins (including interval)

Hobson's Choice

Festival Theatre, Chichester 2hrs 30mins (including interval)

In The Club

Hampstead Theatre, London 2hrs 5mins (including interval)

Fantastic Mr Fox

Open Air Theatre, Regent's Park, London 1hr 30mins (including interval)

Having trouble with your brain? Thinking too much? Then go get your grey matter
wiped out by Grease, which is now shaking masonry and blasting audiences at the
Piccadilly Theatre following its garish tenure on Saturday-night television.

Only two questions arise from that programme and the answers are 'not bad' and
'so-so'. That is to say, Susan McFadden, as Sandy the high-school new girl in
the stage version of the Seventies film, is not bad.

She is more decibel-busting Shirley Bassey than squeaky-clean Olivia
Newton-John. Yet when it comes to Hopelessly Devoted To You,she reveals a voice
sweeter than tooth-melting candy.

As for Danny Bayne, he will inevitably be compared to John Travolta and there
can hardly be a singer or dancer on the planet who wants to be compared to
Travolta in his prime. But, however luminous Bayne seemed on TV, he is only
so-so and not all that charming on stage.

There's no lovable vulnerability beneath Danny's macho bragging. Instead he
seems to have one eye on the audience and the other on Sandy's brassiere.

But if truth be told, you need no more talent to sing either of these parts than
you do to tackle the National Anthem.

What matters is being fit enough for the dancing, and on this score Bayne and
McFadden do keep up with the company in Arlene Phillips's tumultuous
choreography. Otherwise, David Gilmore's production is like staged karaoke: one
set piece after another.

Still, you can't help but marvel at the brainlessness of it all. The girls
aren't just airheads, they are vacuum-brains, and the boys are all slicked-back
automatons. Go if you must.

There's nowt finer than a pair of wellmade boots. Easy on the eye and snug on
the foot. And so it goes with the latest revival of Harold Brighouse's shoe-shop
comedy Hobson's Choice set in the Salford of 1880. The play is fast becoming a
regular in the theatrical repertoire with its yarn about a Lancastrian shoemaker
having trouble with his three 'uppish' daughters.

Jonathan Church's nicely-tailored production is a handsome spectacle on a Simon
Higlett set that recreates the shops, homes and fashions of the aspirant middle
classes in 19th Century Salford. In fact,the aspirant storyline that sees Maggie
transform the shoemaker's apprentice into the North West's top cobbler is surely
the key to the play's appeal today. Its other abiding feature is Brighouse's
caustic Lancashire wit.

There are good, strong characters, too, each of whom is given a bright shine.

Carolyn Backhouse is brisk and breezy as the bossy Maggie, who scrubs up a
timid, talented apprentice, played by Dylan Charles. But at the centre of it all
is John Savident as the big, beery father who deludes himself he's got a grip on
his girls. He is, moreover, a one-off mixture of Peter Ustinov and Brian Clough.

There's little more painful than farce that isn't working and before the
interval, Richard Bean's new play, In The Club, doesn't look as if it's going to
make it through the night. Mercifully, the story of a venal 'socialist' MEP
orchestrating sexual and political alliances in a Strasbourg hotel perks up
after the break.

The comedy is amusingly puerile, like all the best farce, and there are some
great gags. However, the play is also politically prim and you wish Bean had
gone further with comic stereotypes, including a Yorkshire-bred UK Independence
Party dinosaur whose roots are in pig-farming and gipsy-baiting.

Instead Bean goes all soft with James Fleet's Home-Counties MEP. Fleet was the
bumbling toff in Four Weddings And A Funeral. Here he is handed a Richard
Curtis-type romantic ending in which he has to confess true love to his deceived
girlfriend. Like most politicians trying to 'do' sincerity, it sounds phoney and
gives David Grindley's plodding production a needlessly sentimental finish.

If your youngsters need entertaining during the holidays, it's worth visiting
the Open Air Theatre in Regent's Park to see Roald Dahl's Fantastic Mr Fox. The
story isn't as clever as its bushytailed hero is meant to be as he defies a
bunch of pantomime farmers, but the costumes are good and there are a few
cheerful songs. Go for the sunshine at least.

Georgina Brown is away

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flirty dancing... Danny Bayne and Susan McFadden as Danny and Sandy in
Grease

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                August 12, 2007

Comment: Leading article: Europe's champions need to show conviction

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 630 words


THE GOVERNMENT has two reasons for not holding a referendum on the European
Union Reform Treaty, one public, one private.

The public reason is that the treaty is not the same as the constitution - on
which a referendum was promised - that was supposed to supersede all previous EU
deals, but which was killed off by hostile voters in France and the Netherlands.
While much of the constitution has been salvaged, the new treaty is a more
modest affair, one in a sequence of amendments to EU practice. Those amendments
have never, in the past, been put to a public vote.

The private reason is that the government would campaign for a 'yes' vote and
probably lose.

It is precisely because Gordon Brown can't admit his fear of defeat that the
Tories are pressing so hard for a plebiscite. They know that the official
argument distinguishing a constitution from an 'amending treaty', while
technically accurate, means precious little to a public deeply suspicious of
everything signed in Brussels. The more the government is forced to parrot that
line, the more it looks as if it has something to hide.

But while there are easy points to be scored, leading a charge against the EU is
dangerous for the Conservatives. They have to tread a line between standing up
for British interests and retreating to an anti-European comfort zone. They want
applause from sensible sceptics for talking about democratic accountability, but
their loudest cheers inevitably come from xenophobes who think Brussels is a
conspiracy against Old Albion.

The Tories have not said how they would change the treaty to make it acceptable.
And if they think no treaty would be acceptable, they might as well be lobbying
to quit the EU completely.

Any agreement on co-operation between governments - membership of Nato or the
World Trade Organisation, for example - requires some compromise on national
autonomy. The new EU treaty is no different, although the compromises are
smaller, as former Europe Minister Denis MacShane argues on these pages, than
the Tories are making out. They are certainly no bigger than those made in the
Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice treaties.

The Prime Ministers who signed those deals considered their passage through
Parliament to be a sufficient seal of democratic approval. The problem is that,
rather than be honest in public about the pros and cons of compromising
sovereignty for international co-operation, British governments have been
consistently cowardly. They don't make the political case for co-operation -
that united in a single market, Europe has enjoyed freedom and prosperity
unparalleled in its history, while divided, it lurched from insular nationalism
to military rivalry to epic bloodshed.

Instead, they pretend that the arguments and the treaties are purely technical
and economic. No one believes that, and the result is ill-informed scepticism.
Now the government is at it again, hoping that the debate over this treaty will
just go away.

Perhaps it will. If the Tories overplay their hand and sound too much like Ukip,
people might get impatient for discussion of policies that more directly affect
their lives. The Conservatives' electoral record as a single-issue Europhobic
party is not good. But the underlying public distrust will not have diminished.
The moment when a government has to ask the British people whether or not they
are on board with the European project will only have been deferred.

The fact that Gordon Brown is afraid to ask that question is testimony to a
systematic failure of courage and conviction in every government, Labour and
Tory, for the last 30 years. They all understood political reality - that the EU
requires compromise on sovereignty but serves Britain's national interest none
the less - and failed to admit it to the public.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 12, 2007

In the Club

BYLINE: Bridget Galton

SECTION: FEATURES; Culture; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 189 words


In the Club Hampstead

***

Comedy is famously about timing, but Richard Bean's "political sex farce"
miscues itself in Act I, when hasty explanations of EU power play slow the
frenetic door-slamming in a Strasbourg hotel. Indolent socialist MEP Philip
Wardrobe (James Fleet), bribed to smooth Turkey's early entrance into Europe, is
stymied from impregnating his ovulating girlfriend by an 'Allo 'Allo!-ish
assortment of Euro-types -a randy French feminist, a Belgian fraud investigator,
a gimlet-eyed German and Richard Moore's endearingly repugnant Yorkshire UKIP
member. Bean builds a more satisfyingly frenzied conclusion, with farcical
paraphernalia -a combustible sex toy, a one-legged bishop and pubic hair in the
Perrier. But the satirical thrust is blunt, and Fleet's bemused, downbeat
delivery makes it hard to buy Wardrobe's final heartfelt realisation that the
personal trumps the political. David Grindley proved his farce mastery directing
What the Butler Saw at Hampstead, but cannot re-create the magic with a script
that lacks Joe Orton's killer one-liners and the necessary internal logic amid
the loopy comic meltdown.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday

THEATRE

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: SEVEN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 938 words


Well-oiled nostalgia

Grease

In the Club

Almost 30 years since the film was released, Grease is still the word. Maybe it
is not also the way, the truth and the light, but it is certainly a deity of a
kind, at least as far as its hundreds of thousands of fans are concerned.

They were out in force for the first night of the much-hyped musical at the
Piccadilly Theatre in London, and, while a lot of them are now showing their
age, the production has kept not only its youthful good looks, but also its
exuberance and curious sense of innocence.

The fully-paid up members of the Grease cult will love this time capsule of a
show, with its painstaking recreation of the look and feel of the 1950s, but I
fancy a great many non-believers - and I am afraid I count myself among them -
will also come out smiling because it is all so deliriously and hilariously
camp.

One gets the impression that the viewers of the television talent series who
picked Danny Bayne and Susan McFadden to portray the star-cross'd lovers Danny
and Sandy had a sense of the preposterousness of the enterprise, and, in 2007,
their choices seem to me cleverly post-ironic.

One's first glimpse of the pair - suspended stage left and stage right - evoked
an audible intake of breath from the audience. Of shock or awe? That's
debatable. In his black leather jacket and tight jeans, he looks very much like
Dale Winton, and she, for her part, is a dead ringer for Bette Davis in Whatever
Happened to Baby Jane? - same hair, same dress and only marginally less make up.

Take it from me, it isn't just the printed programmes for this show that are
pink. Sandy's world-weary friend Rizzo - amusingly played by Jayde Westaby -
wonders out loud if the hero might by any chance be gay. I must confess that the
thought had crossed my mind, too, when I saw him greet the four members of his
all-male gang the T-Birds by tapping each of them in turn on the crotch.

One couldn't be sure who in the audience was in on the joke and who wasn't.
Certainly David Gilmore, the director, has made such a good job of the 1950s
that it is hard to believe that he doesn't arrive at the Piccadilly Theatre each
day directly from that decade by Tardis.

Miss McFadden's Sandy is so Legally Blonde that she can ask Rydell High's bad
girl Rizzo a question like: 'Doesn't it bother you that you are pregnant?'
without the slightest sense of self-awareness. She is, as Rizzo points out, a
'goody-goody', and that is why I don't think it is fair to criticise this show
for the lack of sexual chemistry between the two principals. In this setting it
would, of course, have seemed ludicrously out of place, because, as we all know,
sex didn't begin until 1963.

After all the hype, one had imagined this would be just another exercise in the
marketing and exploitation of a brand. It is that, of course, but also,
somewhere along the line, everyone in the production appears to have come to
believe in it all. Maybe there were times during the evening that I, too, felt
that I was a bona-fide resident of Pleasantville.

The clever, snobby, elitist riposte to Grease is to pronounce it no more than
downmarket mush for the masses. Well, maybe, but it is also technically
brilliant, the songs are irresistibly hummable, and Mr Bayne and Miss McFadden,
whatever else one might say about them, can certainly sing. The sense of
nostalgia it evokes is dreamily seductive, and after a while even this old cynic
stopped sniggering. I fear Grease might well turn out to be the one that
everyone wants this summer.

WITH A PHILANDERING HERO,

a number of nubile, pneumatic women and a set that has four doors, In the Club,
Richard Bean's new political sex farce at the Hampstead Theatre, looks on the
face of it very much like Boeing Boeing switched from Paris to Strasbourg.

Marc Camoletti recognised this when he wrote that truly great farce, now
enjoying a spirited revival in the West End - comedy is a damned serious
business. Mr Bean shows us what a mess can ensue when some clot goes into it
lightly, if not, one suspects, patronisingly.

The cast, headed by James Fleet as a Socialist Northamptonshire MEP named Philip
Wardrobe, Sian Brooke as his secretary and sometime lover Sasha, and Richard
Moore as his UKIP crony Eddie, do what they can with it, but they seem to be
painfully aware, along with the director David Grindley, that they are stirring
pretty thin gruel.

It's so hopelessly written that you know, right from the start, that when there
is a character named Wardrobe and another called Nicola Daws (played by Carla
Mendonca) that they will end up together and talk about a hyphenated married
name (Wardrobe-Daws, geddit?).

The painfully obvious jokes apart, Mr Bean doesn't seem to understand that the
sort of people who like to watch sex farces don't actually want to hear a great
deal about sex, and they certainly don't want its intricacies spelt out in
four-letter words. If there must also be jokes about Jews, Muslims and
homosexuals, among other groups, then they had better be very funny indeed, but
here they are simply teeth-grindingly embarrassing.

Suffice it to say that the charabancs of Daily Mail readers who make or break
this kind of show will be giving the Hampstead Theatre

a wide berth. The only person who

could conceivably regard this as profitable entertainment would be Keith Vaz's
libel lawyer. M'learned friend might well find the reference in this play to the
expenses of the Rt Hon Member for Leicester East very interesting indeed.

'Grease', Piccadilly, London W1 (0870 060 0123), booking to 23 February 2008

'In the Club', Hampstead, London NW3 (020 7722 9301) to 25 August

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday

Ukip's liquidity

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 54 words


You reported that donations to the UK Independence Party have dried up over the
past 18 months (News, July 29), when in fact the party received pounds 204,000
for the six months to June 30 and another pounds 45,000 was received in small
donations below the reporting limits. Drying up?

Bruce Lawson

Treasurer, Ukip

Montgomery, Powys

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday

That was the Week that Was...

BYLINE: Compiled by ANNE-MARIE CONWAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1545 words


HOME NEWS

Farm controls lifted

By the time a second case of foot and mouth was confirmed inside the
"sur-veillance zone'' on Tuesday, it seemed that its source was the Pirbright
research facility in Surrey, and that human activity was involved. Local
allotments were investigated after one lab worker admitted he had been recycling
chemical drums as planters. Fears of contamination at a third farm proved
unfounded, but not before 362 cows, sheep, pigs and goats had been slaughtered
there. A temporary control zone around another farm west of Dorking was lifted
yesterday. Evidence of Legionnaire's disease at Pirbright was deemed irrelevant.
By Friday, the Prime Minister was describing the risk of the disease spreading
outside the area as "negligible''.

BLUE-SKY THINKING AT TORY HQ

David Cameron set off on holiday amid yet more criticism of his leadership. Fed
up with the direction "the Old Etonians'' were taking the party - particularly
with regard to grammar schools - Sir Tom Cowie, founder of the Arriva transport
group and a former Conservative donor, said he would in future be giving his
money to the Prince's Trust. Still, the Tories were trying: they gave their
not-greatly-loved green oak tree logo a bit of a blue rinse: the scribbled tree
shape remains, but projected on to it is a blue sky with only a hint of cloud.

UK WANTS TERROR SUSPECTS BACK

The Government revealed it had asked the United States to release five
Guantanamo Bay detainees with UK resident status, reversing previous Labour
policy. Mr Brown agreed to "look again'' at asylum requirements for Iraqi
interpreters working with the Armed Forces, who claim they could be killed as
"collaborators'' when British troops leave. Meanwhile, a joint parliamentary
committee attacked "unfair and unlaw-ful'' changes to immigration rules that had
left 49,000 skilled migrants suddenly at risk of deportation.

UKIP BESTS ELECTORAL WATCHDOG

To much "delight'' within the UK Independence Party, a senior judge ruled on
Tuesday that although pounds 367,697 of Alan Bown's contributions did break the
rules on political donations, because he was not on the electoral roll at the
time, the breach was "accidental'', and Ukip would only have to pay back pounds
14,481. The Electoral Commission said it was considering an appeal.

GALLOWAY GOES FOR FAT CAT VOTE

"Every cat in the country will thank me,'' the Respect MP George Galloway said
last week - not because he was planning to stand against the transport minister,
Jim Fitzpatrick, at the next general election (although he was), but because he
wanted to introduce a Bill making it compulsory to muzzle dogs in public. But
how then would Britain's increasing numbers of obese felines get the exercise
they so urgently need?

INTERNATIONAL NEWS

No emergency in Pakistan. Yet

Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf failed to join his Afghan counterpart,
Hamid Karzai, for a "peace jirga'' with tribal leaders in Kabul on Thursday. He
was also reported to have been in power-sharing talks with the opposition leader
Benazir Bhutto, who is currently in self-imposed exile. But he denied claims by
one of his junior ministers that he was about to call a state of emergency.

MILITARY SOLUTIONS

In a week in which four British soldiers were killed in Iraq, and another in
Afghanistan, the United States revealed that 190,000 weapons issued to the Iraqi
security forces had gone missing since the 2003 invasion, along with 135,000
pieces of body armour. The UN Security Council agreed to double its team in
Baghdad, despite protests from its staff association on security grounds.

Canada announced plans to build two military bases in the Arctic, to counter-act
Russia's recent claims to the region. The United States condemned reports of an
alleged Russian missile strike against Georgia on Monday, and cannot have been
pleased at the "buzzing'' of a US military base in the Pacific by Russian bomber
planes on Wednesday, an apparent return to Cold War cat and mouse games.

MAURITANIA BANS SLAVERY

Owning slaves may have been illegal in Mauritania since 1981, but until
Thurs-day the crime, which was widespread in the West African desert country,
carried no penalty. Now, after a unanimous vote in the Nouakchott parliament,
slave-masters face up to 10 years in prison, with two-year sentences for
"apologists''.

PEOPLE

Booker judges name their baker's dozen

This year's Booker Prize longlist was shorter than usual with only 13 names,
ranging from four first novels to one very familiar name. Ian McEwan, who has
already won the prize once with Amsterdam (1998), was 3-1 favourite to win
again, with On Chesil Beach.

DEATHS NOTICED

* RD Wingfield, 79, radio dramatist and author of the Inspector Jack Frost
novels.

* Lee Hazlewood, 78, American singer, songwriter and record producer, who wrote
These Boots are Made for Walkin'.

* John Gardner, 80, thriller writer.

* Baron Elie de Rothschild, 90, French banker and former head of the family
premier cru vineyard, Château Lafite-Rothschild.

* Tony Wilson, 57, the Manchester music impresario who founded Factory Records
and the Hacienda nightclub.

BUSINESS

City hit by US housing crisis

Problems in the US mortgage sector pre-cipitated fears of a global stock market
meltdown. The European Central Bank and the US Federal Bank started pump-ing
cash into the money markets as institutions bailed out of risky investments. The
FTSE 100 dropped by 3.7 per cent on Friday, wiping almost pounds 56bn off the
value of London's leading firms. But the crisis was "manageable'', the
Inter-national Monetary Fund said yesterday.

BRANSON'S TAKE-OFF DELAYED

Virgin America Inc, the low-cost airline backed by Sir Richard Branson, launched
on Wednesday, but his claim to offer better service than the rest of the
"abys-mal'' US airline industry was undermined by a downpour that delayed its
inaugural flight by 30 minutes.

The Competition Commission said it would investigate BAA's monopoly of London
airports.

IT COULD BE YOU, AGAIN

Camelot's pounds 79bn sales forecast for 2009-19 might have been on the
"optimistic'' side, but it was still named "preferred bidder'' for the next
lottery licence. It now has to thrash out the details of its plans, which
include a world lottery draw creating 100 millionaires a month and games linked
to topical events.

BROADCASTERS TIGHTEN THEIR BELTS

ITV said it was considering ditching its late-night viewer quizzes after its
phone-in profits had dropped by 86 per cent. The chairman of the BBC Trust, Sir
Michael Lyons, warned that "radical changes'' could be expected when a pounds
18bn cost-saving exercise was finalised next month, and did not rule out the
possible demise of either BBC3 or BBC4.

DESIGNS ON BRITAIN'S POWER

Gazprom, the Russian gas monopoly, was revealed to be negotiating an asset swap
with E.ON, the German group that owns Powergen. The move could see Gazprom take
a stake in up to five British power stations, potentially a worry for late
payers recalling its tough treatment of Belarus, which paid off the rest of its
outstanding debt last week.

SPORT

Olympic smog forecast

Exactly one year before the start of the 2008 Olympiad, the IOC president
Jacques Rogge started the official countdown in Beijing on Wednesday. Although
building work seemed to be on target, he expressed concern at the level of air
pollution in Beijing. Some thought this might give the British team a
competitive advantage.

Simon Clegg, chief executive of the British Olympic Association, warned that any
team member who made a public protest in Beijing, over human rights or Tibet,
say, could be thrown off the squad.

MONTREAL MISERY FOR MURRAY BROS

Andy Murray made a brief comeback to competitive tennis on Tuesday after a
three-month absence due to a wrist injury, only to be defeated in the second
round of the Montreal Masters by Fabio Fognini, ranked No 139 in the world. The
Italian was himself quickly seen off 6-1 6-1 by Roger Federer on Thursday.

Montreal wasn't a great tournament for Murray's older brother, Jamie, either: he
and James Blake went out in the first round of the men's doubles.

MCLAREN DRIVERS 'NOT AT WAR'

Lewis Hamilton won the Hungarian Grand Prix on Sunday. He later had to deny
reports that he and his team-mate, the world champion Fernando Alonso, were no
longer on speaking terms, after some fairly robust jockeying for pole position
in the qualifier.

WINNING IS NOT EVERYTHING

Alberto Contador may have won this year's Tour de France, but he has not escaped
the fallout from the doping scandals. "The situation in the sport is so bad that
nobody wants to be involved with us,'' said Johan Bruyneel, manager of Tailwind
Sports, announcing that Contador's team would be disbanding at the end of the
season, because they could not find a sponsor for next year.

David Beckham made his long-awaited competitive debut for LA Galaxy, making it
off the bench in the 72nd minute of Thursday's game against DC United. Although
this raised a huge cheer from the crowd, he made no difference to the outcome: a
1-0 defeat for the LA team.

SWINGING ST ANDREWS

The 25-year-old Mexican golfer Lorena Ochoa won the Women's British Open at St
Andrews on Sunday, confirming her status as the world's best female player with
her first major title. Despite a good start, Scotland's Catriona Matthew
finished seventh.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 10, 2007 Friday

Damage that foot and mouth does, even when herds are not infected

SECTION: FEATURES; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 84 words


SIR - The EU Animal By-Products Regulations introduced in May 2003 ban on-farm
burial, the method traditionally used by farmers and recommended in the
Northumberland Report. Infected animals should be killed on site and quickly
buried in quicklime.

The regulations include provision for emergency exceptions from the ban,
including where transportation of carcasses poses a threat of spreading the
disease. It plainly does, and it is time for good farming sense to prevail.

Nigel Farage MEP (UKIP)

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                August 10, 2007

Respect holds off Labour challenge in east London by-election

LENGTH: 193 words



HIGHLIGHT: Respect coalition narrowly defends seat against strong Labour
challenge at by-election in Tower Hamlets.


The Respect coalition has narrowly defended a seat against a strong Labour
challenge at a by-election in Tower Hamlets.

The group, founded by George Galloway, who is MP for the neighbouring Bethnal
Green and Bow constituency, held on to its seat in the east London borough with
its candidate Harun Miah defeating Labour's Michael Keith by a reduced majority
of just 97 votes.The election, which Respect pitched as a "vital test of Brown's
leadership", saw a swing of 6.7% to Labour.

The ballot was called following the resignation of Respect's Shamim Ahmed
Chowdhury.

In this week's only other reported contest, the Tories defended a Walton
Ambleside seat at Surrey's Elmbridge borough, with a reduced margin of 58 votes
over the Walton Society.

RESULTS: Elmbridge Borough - Walton Ambleside: Con 310, Walton Society 252, Lab
60, Ukip 33, Lib Dem 26. (May 2007 - Con 431, Walton Society 281, Lib Dem 94,
Lab 90). Con hold. Swing 0.7% Con to Lab.

Tower Hamlets Borough - Shadwell: Respect 1512, Lab 1415, Con 476, Lib Dem 98.
(May 2006 - Three seats Respect 1851, 1789, 1707, Lab 1287, 1141, 1054, C 723,
670, 605, Lib Dem 226). Respect hold. Swing 6.7% Respect to Lab.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               28 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday

Millionaire cuts cash to 'arrogant' Cameron

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 307 words


DAVID Cameron suffered another blow yesterday when a millionaire party donor
withdrew his support and condemned his 'arrogant Old Etonian' style.

Sir Tom Cowie, 84, who has pumped at least £630,000 into party coffers since
2001, said he was 'very, very disappointed' by a series of blunders.

He was especially scathing about Mr Cameron's decision to end support for
grammar schools and criticised his visit to Rwanda while his Oxfordshire
constituency was suffering flooding.

Quizzed about the state of the party, Sir Tom said: 'Are you sure you don't want
to hear foul language? All I can say is I am very, very disappointed.

'I will not mince my words: I shan't send them any more money.' Instead, he will
donate it to the Prince's Trust.

Sir Tom, who was knighted when John Major was in No 10, blamed the Tory policy
of not building new grammar schools on the privileged educational background of
Mr Cameron and many of his inner circle. He said it proved the leader was out of
touch with grassroots supporters.

Even though he left school at 15 to join his father's motorcycle firm, Sir Tom
said his four years at a Sunderland grammar were hugely influential.

He said: 'I come from a very humble background and I passed my 11-plus which
means I got to grammar school. This made all the difference to my life.

'It took me into a different world, and to take this away from other people is
not right.' After taking over his father's business in 1948, Sir Tom built it up
over more than half a century into bus and train operator Arriva, now worth
£934million.

Mr Cameron shrugged off the criticism. His spokesman said: 'The party is
changing and as a result many new supporters and donors have been attracted.'
The UK Independence Party was ordered to pay back £18,400 yesterday to a
businessman who donated £367,000 while not on the electoral register..

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday

Millionaire donor turns off the cash to 'arrogant' Cameron

BYLINE: Ian Drury

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words


DAVID Cameron suffered another damaging blow yesterday when a millionaire
Conservative donor withdrew his support and condemned his 'arrogant Old Etonian'
style.

Sir Tom Cowie, 84, who has pumped at least £630,000 into party coffers since
2001, said he was 'very, very disappointed' by a series of blunders.

He was especially scathing about Mr Cameron's decision to end support for
grammar schools and criticised his visit to Rwanda while his Oxfordshire
constituency was suffering flooding.

Quizzed about the state of the party, Sir Tom said: 'Are you sure you don't want
to hear foul language? All I can say is I am very, very disappointed.

'I will not mince my words: I shan't send them any more money.' Instead, he will
donate money to the Prince's Trust.

Sir Tom, who was knighted when John Major was in No 10, blamed the Tory policy
of not building new grammar schools on the privileged educational background of
Mr Cameron and many of his inner circle.

He said it proved the leader was out of touch with grassroots supporters. Even
though he left school at 15 to join his father's motorcycle firm, Sir Tom said
his four years at a Sunderland grammar were hugely influential.

He said: 'I come from a very humble background and I passed my 11-plus which
means I got to grammar school. This made all the difference to my life.

'It took me into a different world, and to take this away from other people is
not right.

'The Tory party seems to be run now by Old Etonians and they don't seem to
understand how other people live.

'They seem to be very arrogant like I suppose Old Etonians can be. They
certainly don't understand about grammar schools.' After taking over his
father's business in 1948, Sir Tom built it up over more than half a century
into bus and train operator Arriva, now worth £934million.

Sir Tom, a former chairman of Sunderland Football Club, 'A very humble
background' said he was initially impressed by Mr Cameron and had agreed to
continue funding the party.

He said: 'He seemed very bright, very breezy, very confident.

But the direction he is taking the Tory party has left me feeling very
disappointed.' Sir Tom insisted he would not defect to Labour - and attacked
Gordon Brown's record on taxing pensioners.

Mr Cameron shrugged off the criticism. His spokesman said: 'The party is
changing under David Cameron and as a result many new supporters and donors have
been attracted.'

He added: 'Now is not the time to abandon our strategy but to re-affirm it.' Mr
Cameron was backed by William Hague. 'Whenever you embark on a process of very
serious change there are bound to be people who feel uncomfortable with it from
time to time,' the foreign affairs spokesman said.

But it is the latest in a long line of headaches for the beleaguered Tory
leader.

Last month, former Conservative treasurer Lord Stanley Kalms warned of 'a summer
of discontent' and said he was 'disillusioned to a substantial degree' with Mr
Cameron.

Former party chairman Lord Saatchi also warned that concentrating on 'nicey
nicey' politics would not win the next election.

Criticism intensified after the Tories came third in the Ealing Southall and
Sedgefield byelections and fell nine points behind Labour in the polls.

>The UK Independence Party was ordered to pay back £18,400 yesterday after it
admitted breaking rules on donations to parties.

The money is a fraction of the £367,000 given by businessman Alan Bown while he
was not on the electoral register.

But Westminster magistrates ruled that the breach of the law was accidental..

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Headaches: David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 8, 2007 Wednesday

Politics: Ukip escapes with fine for election law breach

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 99 words


The UK Independence party escaped with a slap on the wrist yesterday as a court
ruled it would have to forfeit only £18,000 of impermissible gifts totalling
£367,697 in the first judicial test of the law on donations. The Ukip leader,
Nigel Farage, said he was "absolutely delighted" after a judge at City of
Westminster magistrates court ruled that the breach of election law was
accidental. He had warned that forfeiting the donation from Alan Bown, who did
not realise he was not on the electoral register, could bankrupt the party. The
Electoral Commission said it would consider an appeal.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           August 8, 2007, Wednesday

The election watchdog suffered fresh embarrassment yesterday

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 169 words


The election watchdog suffered fresh embarrassment yesterday when a court
rejected its request that the United Kingdom Independence Party forfeit more
than £ 360,000 in donations. Instead the judge ordered UKIP to surrender only £
14,500 from the donor involved, plus a further £ 4,000 from a separate source.

The ruling was a blow to the Electoral Commission, which brought the case in an
attempt to demonstrate a more robust approach to its role in policing political
donations. It has faced criticism for failing to act more decisively once Labour
and the Conservatives were revealed to have bankrolled election campaigns using
secret loans.

The UKIP case centred on donations from Alan Bown, a retired bookmaker from
Kent, who has become the party's biggest financial supporter. Mr Bown moved
house but failed to add his name to the electoral register at his new address,
making several donations he made to UKIP before the previous general election
technically "impermissible". The breach was ruled to be accidental.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 7, 2007 Tuesday

When a joke-mountain isn't enough THEATRE

BYLINE: Dominic Cavendish

SECTION: FEATURES; The Arts; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 514 words


In the Club

HAMPSTEAD THEATRE

OH dear. Hélas! Wie schade! I

really wanted to flag-wave like crazy on behalf of this new Euro satire-cum-sex
farce by Richard Bean. At last, here's a dramatist of considerable comic ability
turning his attention to a subject that's big and important and doing so in a
way that's calculated to be populist and enjoyable rather than elitist and
earnest.

But despite the fact that In the Club contains more corking one-liners than a
whole season of new plays in London put together, there's no disguising the fact
that it doesn't quite hang together: the action becomes increasingly contrived
and knotty, the laughter ever more strained.

The main character, a socialist MEP called Philip Wardrobe, is an inspired
creation: a venal bounder and sleazebag who is somehow, thanks not least to the
shaggy charm of James Fleet's winning performance, brashly attractive. As
Wardrobe sees it, swanning round a deluxe Strasbourg hotel room, landing a seat
in the European Parliament is better than winning the lottery: "It's a win-win
situation. The people of Northamptonshire don't know who I am and I don't know
who they are.''

If only the plot could be as clear and simple as the aphorisms. Bean's gamble,
which doesn't quite pay off, is to raise the topical temperature by making a
motion of censure on the question of Turkish accession to the EU the means by
which Wardrobe could split the Christian Democrats and wangle his way to become
president of the Parliament. Built into this complex scenario, there's an
eavesdropping official from the fraud office, a curmudgeonly ally from UKIP, a
long-term partner flying over specifically to get impregnated, a French feminist
who demands bonking, plus the Turkish politico Wardrobe is taking backhanders
from, with several lesser figures besides.

It's a recipe for lots of comings and goings, ample door-slammings and a fair
bit of trouser-dropping, but trying to keep tabs on the multiple motives of
those involved, I began to feel that only reading the Common Agricultural Policy
in French would be more baffling.

One of the biggest laughs of the night comes with one of the few digs at Euro
jargon: the fraud squad don't have Wardrobe over a barrel, he's told, they've
got him "over a 50-litre non-elliptical container generally used for the
transportation or storage of wet goods''. You feel Bean could still have had a
real crowd pleaser on his hands and done more satirical damage if he'd simply
attacked the duller aspects of EU tyranny.

Still, I don't want to exceed my quota of complaints. The show is well worth a
look and David Grindley's production yields a high count of treasurable
performances, especially from Richard Moore as no-nonsense Yorkshireman and
staunch UKIP member Eddie, from Carol Macready as the formidable German
socialist whip Frau Flugelhammerlein and Sian Brooke as Wardrobe's pert Russian
PA Sasha. Unlike the architects of the EU constitution, Bean doesn't need to go
back to the drawing board, but if this is to warrant a West End transfer, a few
tweaks are required.

Tickets: 020 7722 9301.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             August 6, 2007, Monday

In the Club

BYLINE: Benedict Nightingale

SECTION: FEATURES; Times2; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 348 words


In the Club. Hampstead, NW3 **

The test of a good farce is brutally simple. Never mind its author's
pretensions, which may stretch beyond whizzing through doors and hiding in
cupboards. If the thing makes you laugh, it's good. If it doesn't, it isn't. So
Michael Frayn's thespian farce Noises Off is good, very good. For me, sitting
po-faced in row G, Richard Bean's In the Club wasn't.

Yet the situation is more topical than Frayn or Feydeau. Philip Wardrobe, a
Labour MEP, has a chance of becoming President of the European Parliament in
Strasbourg, where the piece is set. Even though the opposition is apparently
badly split, this is hard to credit, for James Fleet's Wardrobe (pictured, with
Sian Brooke as his PA Sasha) is a sex-obsessed ninny proud of receiving
million-euro bribes from the Turks, who hope he'll help them to EU membership.

Bean clearly thinks the EU an abysmally corrupt institution, which is fine. The
trouble is that the logic that farce needs often seems missing. An EU fraud
sleuth hides with his listening device in the cupboard but seems fazed, not by
sinister Turks and their bulging suitcases, but by the possibility that one of
Wardrobe's lovers may be making false claims on her farm. Anyway, this
investigator stays in situ while a caricature German whip offers the MEP high
office, his partner arrives from England begging him to make her pregnant, and
he has unwitting sex with an ardent French colleague.

Unwitting because the letter-bomb Wardrobe has whimsically sent himself has
spluttered off, doing him no apparent damage but, again illogically, getting a
doctor to blindfold him. As the strenuous antics escalated, I found myself
believing less and less and so laughing less and less. Also, there's a
coarseness here that David Grindley's production can't conceal. Never mind the
easy gibes: "I'm a Belgian"; "Bad luck". But you don't have to admire Peter
Mandelson to wince when Wardrobe's boorish UKIP chum compares him with a
celebrated dictator: "Stalin was a fascist and mass murderer but at least he
weren't a poof." Yuk.

Box office: 020-7722 9301

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 August 5, 2007

Business & Media: Media: Press and Broadcasting Balancing act is hard to pull
off

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 284 words


REMEMBER THAT 'the seesaw has been replaced by a wagon wheel' - but one, in the
modern mode, 'used for television coverage, where the wheel is not circular and
has a shifting centre with spokes that go in all directions'.

Yes, we're talking 'accuracy, balance, context, distance, even-handedness,
fairness, open-mindedness, transparency and truth', as enshrined in the new BBC
Trust report. And no, we're not totally clear.

The old wagon certainly hit a few bumps at the Live Earth concert a couple of
weeks ago. (Just because 40 per cent of the population is still in denial or
doesn't know about climate change, it doesn't mean you have to treat 98 per cent
of scientific opinion as a few spokes and a no-ball). But watch the beamers fly
now as the EU non-constitutional treaty debate starts to roll.

Thus, as the Daily Mail happily reports, the trust is thinking of
re-investigating Lord Pearson's claim of pro-EU bias on the Today programme.
(Only one in five Today interviewees are eurosceptic, says his lordship
balefully.) Thus Lord Young of Graffham and his non-financed, non-official
referendum on the non-treaty gets five minutes of airtime nonsense as if by
right.

How do 'accuracy' and 'balance' fit in here? Perhaps (because Lord P speaks for
Ukip) a one-in-five ratio is grotesquely generous to a minority view that no
major party espouses. Perhaps because too much 'context' and 'distance' at 7am
can send you straight back to sleep.

But don't give up yet. The full treaties, old and new, are up on the BBC website
now. Bridget Kendall did a notably cool Today job of describing the changes last
week. If only HMG would field a few ministers to put its case, we might even
have a proper debate.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Dear Dave: Here are 60 ways to beat Gordon;
As former Tory Party chairman Lord Saatchi criticises David Cameron for being
too 'nicey nicey' and senior figures have reportedly given him 60 days to prove
himself, DAN FIELDER compiles a list of 60 unusual suggestions to help the
Leader of the Opposition save the Conservatives

BYLINE: DAN FIELDER

SECTION: NEWS; 53

LENGTH: 887  words


1Find a flagship policy that truly differentiates y ou from Labour. Think of a
standout policy that Labour cannot, or will not, wish to adopt without straying
too far from the comfort of the centre ground. This will give the great
undecided a reason to vote for you, and reassure the undecided that they are not
taking a big risk.

2 Make a concrete promise. Blair gave a commitment to meet Tory spending plans
in the first two years of being elected - it eased the consciences of wary Tory
defectors and made it easy for them to vote Labour.

3 Be desperate for power. By 1995, Labour w as so hungry to govern that everyone
within the party managed to toe the line. Your recent wobbles, with MPs and
influential supporters openly briefing against you, suggest you're just not
hungry enough yet.

Convince everyone to stay in the tent and shut their mouths.

4 Think of a policy, any policy (really think, including all the tricky
financial details) and stick to it.

5 Kick out some rabid Right-wingers. Kinnock symbolically expelled Militant
Tendency - find a similarly extreme group that you can boot out to send a signal
to voters that you are not at home to extreme nationalists. (Not easy, we know,
as most have gone to UKIP already. ) 6 Introduce a flat rate of income taxation.

7 Incentivise working by increasing the lowest tax threshold so that people
earning, say, GBP 15,000 or less per year should not have to pay any income tax.

8 Pledge to deport all immigrants convicted of crimes.

9 Stop going on silly trips to the Arctic/ Rwanda/the latest area that doesn't
need your input and stay at home to work out some policies and serve your own
constituency.

10 Promise to do away with inheritance tax.

11 Ditto for Home Information Packs.

12 Sack any member of your team who uses words like "synergy", "delivering
solutions" or "strategic fit".

13 Hire them all back, but make them promise to talk properly.

14 Toughen the law on pitbull breeding.

15 Stop being so nice all the time. Throw a left hook at someone.

16 Abolish the final salary pension for civil servants.

17 Go and see Bin Laden and return with a "Peace in our time" document.

18 Then bring the Army home to win back the town centres on a Saturday night.

19 Introduce free sight tests, lower the age for free mammograms and reinstate
National Health dental care.

20 Tell us what you'd do about junior doctors.

21 Hire some Scottish, Welsh, black and/or working-class actors/celebrities to
appear in photos of the Shadow Cabinet to help you come across as a bit more
representative.

22 Start a war that only the Tories can finish (a tricky one in opposition, but
hey, no one said this would be easy).

23 Do something about the buy-to-rent market inflating house prices.

24 Put your wife in charge.

25 Become a Middle East peace envoy.

26 Introduce a private members' bill only allowing people to vote if they went
to private school.

27 Get a tattoo.

28 Come out.

29 Grow boobs, swap the ever-shifting parting for an iron-clad perm and start
calling yourself "Maggie".

30 Offer a CBE to every person who votes Tory at the next election.

31 Naked calendar?

32 Renounce the Devil and all his empty works and evil promises.

33 Employ Alastair Campbell.

34 Wear a hoodie and rename yourself D-Lo.

35 Announce that from now on your name is to be always and only represented by a
curious squiggle-like symbol.

36 Go on Celebrity Big Brother, dress as a cat in a leotard and drink milk out
of Rula Lenska's hands (now's that what you call a vote-winner).

37 Appoint the Bush election team to help make sure things. . . go your way.

38 Write a novel in which a muchmisunderstood, youthful party leader called
Donald Carrington wins over the hearts and minds of an entire nation and becomes
an inspirational statesman who leads them on to great things.

39 Conduct your campaign from a bendy bus.

40 Reassert our historic claim to Calais.

41 Join the Labour Party.

42 Get William Hague to write the gags.

43 Court the disenfranchised smokers' vote with promises of heated Portakabins
outside office buildings, complete with Sky Plus.

44 People love free stuff, so give people free stuff, like education and
healthcare. . .

er, no, hang on a minute. . .

45 We don't think trying to do a "King Canute" with the floods is such a good
idea.

46 Solve the Tevez and Princess Diana mysteries. Oh, and Shergar and Lord Lucan
while you're at it.

47 Turn the Falklands into an island prison, to overcome our crowded ones.

48 Bring back hanging. Bring back corporal punishment. Bring back Neil Kinnock.

49 Keep old people alive for a lot longer - we all get a bit more conservative
as we get older.

50 Marry Boris Johnson in a civil partnership ceremony.

51 Ban the word "grandee".

52 Get picked for the Olympics, and win the Nobel Peace Prize.

53 Get an allotment.

54 Lie about your age. Add 10 years.

55 Swim out and slay one of these Great Whites we hear are swimming off the
coast.

56 Get some more experience of the real world - get a part-time job as a
nightclub bouncer.

57 Cultivate the common touch - bag yourself a cameo role in the Christmas
edition of EastEnders.

58 Tow Britain to a vacant spot somewhere off the Maldives so you never have to
announce your line on Europe.

59 We love our animals. Depose the Royal Family, sell off all their assets and
hand over the funds to a donkey sanctuary.

60 Change your name to Gordon.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             August 5, 2007 Sunday

No more assemblies, but regions are here to stay

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 293 words


At a recent meeting, in Exeter, of the South-West Regional Assembly (SWRA),
several members were clearly in a state of shock at Gordon Brown's decision to
abolish these absurd bodies in the eight regions of England outside London. "The
Government cannot just shut down this assembly,'' wailed one delegate. But the
clunking fist has spoken.

Thus will disappear into oblivion what were intended to be the final pieces of
John Prescott's plan to divide up the once-United Kingdom under 12 regional
governments, each with its own elected "mini-parliament''. (His first four, in
Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and London, are still in place.)

As the SWRA members, mainly local councillors, were reminded by Graham Booth, a
local MEP for Ukip (which led the campaign to have the assemblies abolished),
this leaves one matter unresolved: who will be responsible for the pounds 1
million pensions liability the SWRA has incurred on behalf of its 50-odd
employees? As I reported in May, the SWRA tried to get round this by claiming to
have merged with two other regional bodies, one of which had the money. But
legally, as the Public Accounts Committee confirmed, there was no such
amalgamation. So Mr Booth took pleasure in pointing out that delegates could be
personally liable for the debt.

Mr Brown's decision to scrap the assemblies does not mean an end to Mr
Prescott's dream. Each region now has its own minister. Each still has its
"regional development agency'' and "government office'' (as is required under EU
rules to receive regional funding), costing between them some pounds 340 million
a year.

Mr Prescott's grand design for England is still very much in place. All that has
changed is the removal from it of any pretence of democratic accountability.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 4, 2007 Saturday 6:07 PM GMT

Make your voice heard on EU treaty

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 467 words


Visit our EU petition page

If I were Gordon Brown, I'd reckon that I'd got away with it. It's true that
reneging on the manifesto commitment can hardly have been how he wanted to
start. It's true, too, that he has been made to look much shiftier than he can
have liked. (There was a delicious moment when, in a telling slip of the tongue,
the Prime Minister told reporters that he and Bertie Ahern had been "discussing
the European constitution and how to take that forward".)

Anti-treaty demonstrators give their take on EU leaders

But, for all the howls of outrage in the right-wing press, for all the Lear-like
threats of retribution from columnists, the British people are unmoved. How can
Brown judge this? By looking at the statistics. Since the constitution was
revived as the "reform treaty", several petitions have been placed on the
Downing Street website, some by organisations, some by individuals. Most have
attracted a couple of hundred signatures. The most popular, organised by the UK
Independence Party, has got fewer than 3,000.

The only serious campaign is that run by this newspaper; yet even that is still
shy of 40,000 signatures. Now 40,000 is, in its way, an impressive figure. But
bear in mind that The Daily Telegraph sells the better part of a million copies
every day. It cannot have escaped Mr Brown's attention that fewer than one
reader in thirty  fewer than one registered voter in a thousand  has supported
the initiative.

What is going on? Have we become so fatalistic about closer European
integration, so convinced that the politicians will ignore us, that we no longer
even raise our voices in protest? Or do we genuinely not care?

This is our national independence we're talking about. Our fathers were prepared
to defend, with force of arms in the final analysis, our right to live under our
own laws. What does it say about our generation that we can't be bothered to
sign an electronic petition to the same effect?

If you care about honesty in politics, if you believe that our country is more
than just a province of a larger European state, if you have faith in our
capacity to thrive as an independent people, register your support here  and
email the site to your contacts. If you can't be bothered, then perhaps we don't
deserve to keep the freedoms we inherited.

Listen to John of Gaunt's prophetic description of how this country would
surrender itself by treaty:

England, bound in with the triumphant sea Whose rocky shore beats back the
envious siege Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame, With inky blots and
rotten parchment bonds: That England, that was wont to conquer others, Hath made
a shameful conquest of itself.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 4, 2007 Saturday 6:07 PM GMT

Make your voice heard on EU treaty

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 467 words


Visit our EU petition page

If I were Gordon Brown, I'd reckon that I'd got away with it. It's true that
reneging on the manifesto commitment can hardly have been how he wanted to
start. It's true, too, that he has been made to look much shiftier than he can
have liked. (There was a delicious moment when, in a telling slip of the tongue,
the Prime Minister told reporters that he and Bertie Ahern had been "discussing
the European constitution and how to take that forward".)

Anti-treaty demonstrators give their take on EU leaders

But, for all the howls of outrage in the right-wing press, for all the Lear-like
threats of retribution from columnists, the British people are unmoved. How can
Brown judge this? By looking at the statistics. Since the constitution was
revived as the "reform treaty", several petitions have been placed on the
Downing Street website, some by organisations, some by individuals. Most have
attracted a couple of hundred signatures. The most popular, organised by the UK
Independence Party, has got fewer than 3,000.

The only serious campaign is that run by this newspaper; yet even that is still
shy of 40,000 signatures. Now 40,000 is, in its way, an impressive figure. But
bear in mind that The Daily Telegraph sells the better part of a million copies
every day. It cannot have escaped Mr Brown's attention that fewer than one
reader in thirty  fewer than one registered voter in a thousand  has supported
the initiative.

What is going on? Have we become so fatalistic about closer European
integration, so convinced that the politicians will ignore us, that we no longer
even raise our voices in protest? Or do we genuinely not care?

This is our national independence we're talking about. Our fathers were prepared
to defend, with force of arms in the final analysis, our right to live under our
own laws. What does it say about our generation that we can't be bothered to
sign an electronic petition to the same effect?

If you care about honesty in politics, if you believe that our country is more
than just a province of a larger European state, if you have faith in our
capacity to thrive as an independent people, register your support here  and
email the site to your contacts. If you can't be bothered, then perhaps we don't
deserve to keep the freedoms we inherited.

Listen to John of Gaunt's prophetic description of how this country would
surrender itself by treaty:

England, bound in with the triumphant sea Whose rocky shore beats back the
envious siege Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame, With inky blots and
rotten parchment bonds: That England, that was wont to conquer others, Hath made
a shameful conquest of itself.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            August 2, 2007 Thursday

SPY

SECTION: NEWS; SPY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 592 words


It's simply not cricket

Much has been made of the mess Cherie Blair might have made of No 10 before
vacating the premises for Gordon Brown. Some had suggested that she might have
enjoyed sticking chewing gum beneath the tables or even sewing frozen prawns
into the curtain linings.

The truth, I hear, was more banal but none the less amusing. "Days before they
moved out Tony had some friends over for a game of cricket in the garden,'' says
a guest at the Paul Atherton summer party.

"A good few balls were hit into the flower beds which meant people had to keep
running into them. It's a landscape garden which isn't really used to cricket
and was left in a state.

"Someone even aimed a ball at a security camera and the windows,'' adds my
source.

"There was a demob happy feeling to it all - everyone thought it was very
amusing.''

Although perhaps not Gordon, who is still manning the secateurs.

A shed fit for a king

If only Prince Charles's plants could talk. Spy can only speculate what HRH has
told his foliaged friends over the years, but one writer has gained access to
the scene of the action - the royal potting shed.

The cookery guru Prue Leith talked her way into his leafy sanctum while
researching her book, The Gardener. But, says Leith, it's all very normal.

"I was gratified to find that the Highgrove potting shed, though full of
wonderful plants, was comfortingly ungrand,'' she tells me.

Leith did swoon over the dung pile. "His compost heaps,'' she confides, "are a
model of sweet-smelling perfection.''

Reid rage

The tightening of security around Parliament during the summer recess is causing
all sorts of traffic chaos nearby.

The roads in front of the Palace of Westminster have been closed to all
vehicles, so traffic is being diverted around the back streets - and not all
residents are happy.

"I was cycling along those back streets the other morning, when I saw John Reid,
the recently departed home secretary, outside his house,'' reports one reader.

"He was talking to a policeman and sounding distinctly displeased with the rush
hour traffic that was going down his road.''

Hunt for Kilroy-Silk

A couple of years ago, Chris Heaton-Harris, the East Midlands Tory Euro-MP,
launched a competition through this column. The prize was a bottle of champagne
to the first person to spot Robert Kilroy-Silk, his UKIP
-cum-Veritas-cum-Independent colleague, somewhere in the region he purports to
represent.

The prize was never claimed.

Two years on, and Heaton-Harris is again decrying Kilroy-Silk's alleged failure
to perform his duties.

Yesterday, he published figures which suggested that the Tango-tinted former
television presenter's record for participating in votes at the European
Parliament had slipped from 42.9 per cent in 2005-6 to 41.1 per cent in 2006-7.
He claimed that even when he is registering a vote, it is frequently an
abstention.

"I'm guessing he abstains because he has no idea what he's voting on,'' said
Heaton-Harris.

"He's paid to represent the people of the East Midlands.''

Kilroy-Silk did not return my calls.

Jaded party spirit

She has been a fixture on the party scene for years, with a string of celebrity
boyfriends in her wake - but Hannah Sandling admits to feeling a touch jaded
these days.

"I never go to parties any more,'' the 30-year-old stylist tells me. "I've
become really boring and literally haven't been out in three months. Every night
I'm in bed by 9.30 - ask anyone.

"The only thing I've been to this summer was the Cartier Polo at the weekend,
but even for that I only managed to stay a couple of hours.''

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
