
                               1 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday

News: Labour slips behind Tories as election delay harms Brown image: No sign of
Conservative recovery flagging: Prime minister damaged by apparent indecision

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


Labour's majority could have been threatened if Gordon Brown had pressed ahead
with plans to hold a general election tomorrow, according to a new Guardian/ICM
poll. Support for the party has fallen to its lowest level in any ICM survey
since Tony Blair left office.

Carried out last weekend, at a time when parties would have been scrambling for
real votes had a contest been called for November 1, the poll gives the
Conservatives a clear five-point lead over Labour.

It puts the Tory party on 40%, up two points since the last Guardian/ICM poll
which was carried out shortly before Mr Brown announced that there would be no
autumn election. Labour support now stands at 35%, down three points.

Liberal Democrats, who have suffered badly in recent polls, will be relieved by
a two-point climb to 18%, perhaps a consequence of the increased attention
caused by Sir Menzies Campbell's resignation.

The result, if it had occurred on polling day, would have left Labour as the
largest party in the House of Commons but well short of the 326 seats needed for
an overall majority. According to one academic estimate, the Conservatives could
have hoped to gain around 70 seats.

The poll underlines the change in political mood since the conference season and
the cancelled election that followed. Conservative support has remained at or
above 40% in the last seven opinion polls carried out using a range of
methodologies.

However, Labour support also stands close to the party's 2005 general election
score and is still stronger than in most polls carried out before Mr Brown took
office. A year ago, the Guardian/ICM poll saw Labour support dip to 29%, six
points lower than today's score.

It is widely thought that a strong Liberal Democrat recovery would reduce
support for the Conservatives and so narrow the gap between the two main
parties.

But the Conservatives have retained a solid lead in today's ICM poll despite
this month's reasonable Liberal Democrat performance. Although Conservative
support has fallen slightly since the most recent ICM poll, for the Sunday
Telegraph almost three weeks ago, which put the party on 43%, the party is still
attracting support from former Labour and Liberal Democrat voters in almost
equal numbers.

It has also squeezed smaller parties. This month's poll records no support for
the United Kingdom Independence party, perhaps because of Mr Cameron's emphasis
on the need for a referendum on the European reform treaty. Support for all
small parties has dropped to 7%, with the Scottish and Welsh nationalists on 4%
and the Greens on 2%.

Mr Brown may find it hard to shrug off the effect of his apparent indecision
over election timing: 29% of voters say their opinion of him has fallen in the
last month. Only 8% say it has improved, a net decline of 21 points.

A further 60% say their opinion has not changed much either way.

Attitudes to Mr Cameron do not show such a marked change. Although 21% of all
voters say their opinion of him has gone up, 17% say it has gone down. A further
58% say their view remains unchanged.

Voters also remain broadly in favour of a referendum on the European treaty. Of
those questioned, 53% said Mr Brown was wrong to rule it out, including 39% of
Labour supporters. Only 25% say he has made the right decision, including 47% of
Labour supporters.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,011 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
Oct-ober 26 and 28. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 29, 2007 Monday

Comment & Debate: A turbulent goodbye: Politicians aren't being honest: the
rules show getting out of the EU will be bruising not blithe

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 717 words


It was there at the heart of the so-called constitutional treaty, but almost
nobody noticed. It is there again in the reviled reform treaty, but no one has
mentioned that so far. Turn to clause 57 and article 35, then: "Voluntary
Withdrawal from the Union". Scan, for the first time, precisely how we'd get out
of Europe. You can (paragraph 1) decide to withdraw if you like. You must
(paragraph 2) negotiate with the council of ministers. You'll need to agree the
details of that withdrawal and a framework for future relationships with the EU.
The European parliament will want to approve this, too.

Thereafter, every dotted line signed, you're out. The treaties of membership
don't apply - unless (paragraph 3) there's still haggling to do over the small
print; in which case, you're free from those obligations after two years while
the argument goes on. But note (paragraph 4) that you're off the council the
moment you signal your intention to pull out. You have no voice in other
decisions the EU may take. The ministers who remain will use qualified voting.
No vetoes apply.

Simple and fair enough? Certainly clear enough. No member bar Greenland nearly
25 years ago has opted to quit; even then, it was bowing out just as Denmark
bowed in - just 50,000-plus people voting narrowly to go it alone. There hasn't
been withdrawal by a member state before. Nor has the means to that end ever
been laid out. So what you see in article 35 is what we're going to get.

Even this route to the exit is littered with obstacles: four decades' worth of
directives to unscramble and replace, funding promised or under way to be
reappraised, fishing and agriculture deals to be haggled afresh, trade and
immigration understandings to be understood again. This won't be like breaking
your tennis racket and storming off court. This has to be a long, deadly serious
business. The two years or more mentioned in paragraph three aren't there by
accident. They portend countless lost nights of sleep and disappointment with EU
negotiators who don't want to make it too easy (to discourage others). They show
us that getting out will be bruising, not blithe.

Why bother to contemplate that? Who, apart from those on the wilder shores of
Ukip, wants us to quit anyway? The talk - from David Cameron et al - is all
about negotiating something snugger, not taking our bat home. The cheery theory
rejectionists in parliament and press will run through the coming months at
Westminster is that we're too big and too important to wind up discommoded on
the outside. Johnny Foreigner would soon come to heel when he sees our
determination. QED.

Perhaps that's right. Perhaps a tolerable trade deal would eventually emerge.
But consider the stress of those two yacking years. Consider the City in a
constant dither as Frankfurt moves in. Consider industry uncertain how much of
its EU market will be left when the jawing stops. Consider an economy put on
hold whilst we discover which way to steer. Consider the millions of people here
- or settled in the EU - who may have their status utterly changed. Send the
Poles home? Bring the Brits back from Marbella? Consider the mess.

There are two sides to the argument we're having. One, the Gordon Brown side,
urges acceptance amid dour talk of red lines and national interests. The other
wants a referendum to ditch the whole thing and then miraculously reshape the EU
to our dreams. Neither is very honest or appealing. One doesn't make the
positive case for membership that governments of whatever big party are always
too craven too make. The other doesn't acknowledge that Britain might find the
rest of a much bigger Europe so fed up that there were no more contortions and
concessions left.

It's slippery slope time. It is also the moment when leaving the EU isn't merely
possible but laid out in practical steps. Why do that, if not for our benefit?
Why not realise that maybe getting out will be a matter of infinite detail
rather than woolly aspiration? Why not bring all the waiting and fretting and
slithering into play, so reality bites?

Maybe that's dour beyond Brown's glummest nightmares. But read article 35 and
see for yourself. Want out? Then add one more small factor to the mix: a
thoroughly turbulent interim time of indefinite duration.

p.preston@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

LETTER: UKIP YOURSELF TO YOURSELF..

BYLINE: DAVID SAWTELL

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 58 words


IT'S not difficult to see through anti-European hype. UKIP wants Britain out of
Europe by any means, which would hurt the UK but not Europe.

The Tories would pretend to be in Europe while sabotaging the EU and damaging
every state in the union. Both want a referendum, which appeals to the lowest
possible denominator.

David Sawtell Tydd St Giles, Cambs

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 37 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 28, 2007, Sunday

LETTER: MPS CAN'T BE TRUSTED TO RUN OUR COUNTRY

BYLINE: JACK AMER

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 81 words


THE Prime Minister's advisers may think he should model himself on Tory post-war
Premier Harold Macmillan.

But at least Supermac had a lot to be proud of. What has Gordon Brown got to be
proud of ? Selling Great Britain down the river at Brussels?

We have no say on what really matters, do we? If we had a halfdecent Opposition,
they would keep up the pressure. No wonder people voting for UKIP and the BNP
are at record levels.

Jack Amer, Great Yarmouth, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.

                               5 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 28, 2007

Let's forget Paris

BYLINE: Matt Rudd

SECTION: FEATURES; Travel; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1293 words


As they polish the Eurostars at St Pancras, Matt Rudd would like to suggest a
radical weekend alternative

What a hoopla this new Eurostar terminal has caused. Paris just got 20 minutes
closer! Hooray for Paris! Hooray for the Eiffel Tower! Hooray for steak frites
and graffiti and dog poo! Let's all go and order a pain au chocolat from a
grumpy waiter tout de suite!

This annoys me for two reasons. First, I live in a town conveniently situated
for Waterloo. So Paris just got an hour (or two, given the Northern Line)
further away. Second, who really wants Paris 20 minutes closer? I've seen it,
I've done it, I've slipped in the merde. I was quite happy with Paris where it
was, thank you very much.

But in the spirit of this inspirational travel section, I'm not here purely to
be negative. I'm here to offer a thrilling alternative. I'd like to propose a
place designed with the weekend-break-on-the-Continent-loving reader in mind, a
place that is also liberally coated in croissant and graffiti, but where the
croissant is better and the graffiti far more arty. And it, too, just got 20
minutes closer.

It's called Brussels.

Did someone say Brussels? Cue everyone looking aghast, grannies choking on false
teeth, children bursting into tears. Brussels? Oh, how simply horrid.

I JUST don't understand our aversion to this Belgian beauty, with its cobbled
streets, its civilised cafe culture, its relentless multiculturalism and its
elegant fur-coated women with their delinquent, fur-coated chihuahuas. Is it
because it's in Belgium, and Belgium mainly exists as an after-dinner party
game? Or that the city gave its name to a flatulence-inducing winter brassica?
No, I know the real reason: it's because it's the capital of the European Union
and we're all wannabe members of UKIP, who fear and loathe those crazy
Eurocrats. And who can blame us after what they tried to do to our weighing
scales?

But there's an element of nose-cutting, face-spiting silliness here. Because
Brussels is wonderful. Let me talk you through a Brussels weekend, and then you
can decide for yourselves which fork to take on Eurostar.

We'd start off on a Saturday morning. We could have started on a Friday night,
but that's rush hour and you're tired, and Brussels is just a blink away now, so
just chill out and take a nice morning train instead.

It's probably about elevenish, time for coffee and croissant, so head for the
Grand Place, which Victor Hugo described as the most beautiful square in the
world. He obviously hadn't been to Venice or Rome or Madrid or Newcastle when he
said it, but the Grand Place is pretty special. I won't tell anyone if you have
a demi-glass of Grimbergen beer instead. It's the sort of place in which you
should drink proper drinks.

Next, lunch. For me to prove that Belgian cooking can be as good as French, I
need you to have booked a table at Comme Chez Soi (00 32- 2 512 2921) on Place
Rouppe. Because of a change of chef, it lost a Michelin star this year (it now
has a mere two), and people tend to whinge about how cramped the tables are. I
loved it. Amazing service, truffles and foie gras all over the place, and a
great view of the disproportionately high amount of work going into each dish.

It will be about 4pm now, maybe five, and you'll be wondering what on earth
happened to the day (you sat in a charming restaurant stuffing your face, that's
what happened). You could race around looking at cathedrals and museums, but
you're probably feeling a bit warm and fuzzy. And this is a small city, so we
can do enough justice to the place when we're all bright and bushy tomorrow.
Either check in for a nap or do what I did: point your beloved wife in the
direction of glamorous shops and point yourself in the direction of a bar. Both
are perfectly justifiable ways of getting to know Brussels.

Compared with clone-town Britain, the shops in Brussels are refreshingly
eclectic.

Any spree should begin with the chocolate shops on Place du Grand Sablon:
Wittamer, established 1910, is the classic option; Pierre Marcolini, established
1996, looks like a Bond Street jeweller. The boutiques on Rue Antoine Dansaert
will spruce up the wardrobe nicely, and the print shops on Boulevard Anspach
will furnish you with all the Tintin artwork you will never need (caution:
Tintin prints are like ouzo and wooden giraffes -great in situ, not so great in
your home).

The bars are pretty eclectic too. I'm not going to name any names because
serendipity is the best strategy on a bar crawl. But don't walk past A La Mort
Subite on Rue des Montagnes aux Herbes Potageres (famous for its lethal fruit
beers), Goupil le Fol on Rue de la Violette (touristy but unique) or La Fleur en
Papier Dore on Rue des Alexiens (Magritte's haunt but not touristy at all).
Okay, so I named some names.

We got the Michelin stars out of the way at lunch. Phew. So dinner should be in
a clinking, clanking, flambeing type of place. The obvious choice is Restaurant
Vincent (2 511 2303). And this is what I really like about Brussels: in Paris,
you can never be sure that you're not walking into a gastronomic horror show;
here, it's the opposite. The closest you get to the hard sell is on Rue de
Bouchers - one street -so just avoid it. Vincent is 50 yards away, up Rue des
Dominicains.

Book a table in the tiled dining room and order the fish of the day... nice and
light before beddie-byes.

WELL, IT'S Sunday and we wasted yesterday on booze and food. Typical Brits
abroad.

So we must be very conscientiously cultural this morning. First, back to the
Place du Grand Sablon to mooch around the antiques market (my goodness, the
Belgians keep a lot of things in their attics). After that, the city's two
big-name art galleries -the Musee d'Art Ancien and the Musee d'Art Moderne -are
a hop away and helpfully linked by a tunnel on Place Royale. There's a Bosch, a
brace of Rubens and a murder of Bruegels in the old bit, and, in the not-so-old
bit, a new six-floor space devoted to the life of Magritte (opening shortly, so
don't blame me if it's rubbish).

Lunch? You would be very on the pulse if you went to M'Alain Tradition on Rue de
Flandre for ox cheek, but it isn't open on a Sunday. Maybe it's time for moules
frites at Le Pre Sale (2 513 6545) on the same street?

Or L'Esprit de Sel (2 230 6040) which isn't (it's on Place Jourdan).

And all done. Off goes the train. The only things we didn't do were the EU
quarter (which is fine because we've already established that we don't like
their banana-bending tricks) or the peeing boy, the city's urinary mascot (also
fine because it's just a peeing boy). If we were in Paris, would we have had
this much fun? Of course we might not have done.

Getting there: Eurostar (0870 518 6186, www. eurostar.com), imminently from
blooming St Pancras to Brussels Midi, costs from £ 59, from where you can hop on
a train into the centre (included in the price of your ticket) or take a cab for
£ 7. Airlines flying to Brussels include British Airways (0870 850 9850,
www.ba.com), Brussels Airlines (0905 609 5609, www.brusselsairlines.co.uk) and
Aer Lingus (0818 365000, www.aerlingus.com).

Where to stay: Hotel Amigo (2 547 4747, www.hotelamigo.com) is Rocco Forte's
plush five-star, just one street down from the Grand Place. During the week,
it's pricey, but you can get a weekend double for as little as £ 145. Ask for a
sixth-floor double -they come with balconies. Or there's Le Dixseptieme (2 517
1717, www.ledixseptieme.be), a 17th-century ambassador's residence turned
stylish boutique retreat. Doubles normally start at £ 135, but you can expect to
get 30% off this price at weekends.

Amantini Stefano/4 Corners Images NOT CONVINCED?

So it's Paris for you. Go to timesonline.co.uk/travel and follow the link to our
day-tripper special

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday

What a 'democratic deficit' costs us

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 284 words


TWICE LAST Tuesday we were given chilling glimpses of the workings of that
curious form of government Gordon Brown has just signed up to even more of.

The European Parliament was discussing a major new pesticides directive, with
enormous financial and other implications. A Tory MEP, Christopher
Heaton-Harris, protested that MEPs had been deluged with emails by a lobby group
which was apparently funded by the European Commission, the directive's
sponsors.

It emerged that the Commission pays out euro800 million a year - more than half
a billion pounds - to 10,000 lobby groups, such as Friends of the Earth.
According to the environment commissioner, Stavros Dimas, this is necessary to
remedy Europe's "democratic deficit'' by ensuring that their voices are heard
"at European level''. How strange that Mr Brown and his colleagues seem so
determined that our views on the EU treaty should not be heard "at European
level''.

Then MEPs came to vote on 700 amendments to the directive in an hour, mostly by
show of hands. Some, led by the UK Independence Party's Graham Booth, were
howled down when they protested that the chairman, Vidal Quadras, was not
reading the votes correctly, asking for them to be checked electronically. When
he occasionally allowed this, it confirmed that his readings were astonishingly
inaccurate. One amendment had in fact gone the opposite way to what he claimed,
by 499 votes to 136.

When Mr Booth then repeated his earlier plea that all votes should be
electronically counted, Mr Quadras waved this aside, saying that mistakes of
this kind "we have to accept''. In such a farcically cynical fashion are many of
the more important laws which govern our lives now being made.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday

EU vote: 'Prime Minister must honour pledge' referendum

BYLINE: BEN LEACH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 164 words


CALLS FOR an EU referendum gathered momentum yesterday as Parliament was
besieged by MPs, MEPs and campaigners.

A cross-party lobby of 63 politicians joined hundreds of protesters to urge the
Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, to "let the people decide''.

Speakers including Bob Spink, Conservative MP, Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip,
and Roger Helmer MEP, addressed protesters at the rally outside Parliament.

Mr Brown has come under pressure to offer a referendum on the Reform Treaty,
which some Eurosceptics fear would be tantamount to the European constitution
rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005. Organisers of yesterday's rally,
said a representative ballot of

votes already posted on behalf of constituents by MPs and MEPs showed that

89 per cent of people wanted

a referendum.

Dr Spink, the rally chairman, said "millions'' of Britons demanded a vote on the
latest treaty "which as everyone can see is no more than the discredited and
defeated EU constitution under another name''.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           October 25, 2007, Thursday

Exclusive: my golden secret about property prices

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 744 words


I am not the obvious stand-in for Chris Barrie, of Red Dwarf, but when an urgent
family problem forced the actor, impersonator and comedian to withdraw at the
last minute from an after-dinner speech to the Sunderland Echo annual business
awards at the Stadium of Light last Thursday, I flew in. I was the after-dinner
equivalent of an emergency call-out plumber.

They were nice people; there's always a good spirit at North Eastern dos.

Compering for the evening was a man with a deliciously caustic wit, Ray Spencer,
and it fell to him to introduce me as guest speaker.

"And I read here," said Ray, consulting his notes, "that Mr Parris has written
12 books. Twelve, ladies and gentlemen."

"Ooh!" exclaimed the 300-strong audience.

"So now be honest. Hands up any of you who have read one of Mr Parris's books -
any of them." Not a single hand went up.

"Well, Mr Parris," continued Ray, "I think the message from Sunderland is clear.

You're racing ahead of us. Slow down your book-writing until we've had time to
catch up."

I myself have not yet caught up with all 247 pages of the IMF's latest
twice-yearly report on the world economic outlook. Much would be beyond me,
anyway. Fortunately the gist was usefully summarised by headlines like "Property
prices in Britain to crash", and on Monday Anatole Kaletsky ("Black clouds loom
on horizon") thought serious price falls could be on their way. According to the
IMF, he said, 40 per cent of the recent price rises in British property cannot
be explained by "relative movements in incomes, population or interest rates"
which should be the building blocks of demand.

Well, I can explain that unexplained 40 per cent. It's all puff. I keep
repeating (but because I am not an economist nobody takes any notice) that, for
us British, real estate has become the ultimate reserve currency, like gold.
Talking about new home-seekers or extra housebuilding misses the point. Gold is
not held for its use, and housebuyers are not just seeking accommodation, but an
investment. A loss of public confidence in traditional pensions is part of the
cause. We trade up in the housing market (or buy second homes or homes to let)
as a kind of speculation.

We do so more than we used to.

Economic boffins are well aware this sometimes happens, of course, but I believe
they now overlook the likely scale. They prefer to deal in numbers and are
uncomfortable with discussions about things as imponderable as human motives,
especially in the non-business world.

But I am sure that among ordinary people there has been a motivational shift
over the past decade. It follows that if property begins to appear a sluggish
investment, it will lurch back and there will be an accelerating exit into other
forms of saving. The number of property owners in Britain now in the position to
trade down or divest themselves of real estate without much trouble is so
significant that -mark my words -a plateau will bring a tumble. Our economy
cannot float for ever on bidding up the price of each other's houses.

In a written answer last week, the junior minister Kevin Brennan told the Shadow
Commons Leader Theresa May that the Government has now held five of Gordon
Brown's vaunted "citizens' juries". And get this: the first in Bristol cost £
57,047.

The total cost of the four others, in London, Leeds, Portsmouth and Birmingham,
was £ 467,704.

That's £ 100k a shot. Had you, incidentally, realised that jury members are
paid? This has nothing to do with democracy: these are just glorified focus
groups, funded by the taxpayer, dreamt up so that at a party conference Mr Brown
could strut around, puffing himself up with something masquerading as an idea.

It's total bollocks, isn't it? Where and how are juries' findings to be
published? Who decides which questions they are to consider? Who frames the
briefing they are given for their deliberations? How are their verdicts to be
translated into action? We, who are paying for these things, deserve an answer.

A businessman who donated £ 8 million to the Tories was deluded, paranoid and
insane, a court decided last week. The party was ordered to return to his
children the money he bequeathed on his death.

Worrying news. Since when was insanity a bar to political patronage? Politics
has always had a special appeal to lunatics. How will our political parties keep
going if they are to be barred from accepting help from the paranoid, the
deluded and the insane? UKIP would be out of business tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday

Comment: What Gordon Brown could learn from this old communist

BYLINE: Denis MacShane

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 672 words


As Labour and the Liberal Democrats struggle to define a new politics that can
reconnect to the public, is it time to go to Rome, where the Italians are
quietly inventing a new post-socialist politics of the liberal-left? Last
Sunday, millions of Italians voted to elect the leader of a new party that fuses
all the main non-Conservative parties in Italy, save for the leftovers of the
communist-Trotskyist sects.

In Britain, the rough equivalent would be Labour and the Lib Dems merging and
bringing in pro-European and moderate Tories. The new centre-left party in Italy
is called the Democratic party. Its newly elected leader is Walter Veltroni, the
mayor of Rome, former editor of L'Unita , the daily newspaper of the Communist
party and a biographer of Robert Kennedy. It is a conscious copying of the name
of the American party in order to reach out to a broad coalition of voters.

Italy's Liberals have folded into the new Democratic party, as have former
Christian Democrats. More than three million Italians paid a euro each to take
part in the voting for a leader, with Veltroni getting 76 per cent of the vote.
Again, the contrast is striking with the tiny numbers who took part in Labour's
recent deputy leadership elections or the grouplet that urged an early election
that few Labour MPs wanted or thought wise.

The Tories are controlled by an old Etonian Notting Hill clique. The Lib Dems
look at seat meltdown as half a dozen jostle to control the party. Three or four
trade union leaders overturned two decades of TUC pro-Europeanism by deciding to
toe the Ukip-Tory line on an EU referendum at the TUC last month. In Italy,
millions have a stake in the new Democratic party and in electing its leader.

The driving force behind the new party is a generation of former communists who
realised in the Eighties that the game was up for statist socialism. Veltroni,
the journalist, was a key figure. So was the organising genius Piero Fassino. He
turned down a top ministerial job in order to devote his talent and energy to
party politics. Again, the contrast with Labour is striking. The only ambition
for a Labour MP is to become a minister. Party chairs such as Charles Clarke and
John Reid were only briefly in the job before moving on to run a Whitehall
department, leaving Labour's party organisation to wither.

In 1997, New Labour, in effect, fashioned a broad democratic political alliance.
Labour voters made tactical choices to oust Tories and replace them with Lib Dem
MPs. Today, Labour faces the danger of falling back into believing it needs no
allies, no help and no support from outside its traditional core vote, the
unions, and its northern heartland seats.

Italy suggests a different approach with a new party under a new name and a
pro-American leader in order to fashion new coalitions to defeat the right-wing
threats of Berlusconi and the ugly anti-EU separatists of the Northern League.

In the rest of Europe, democratic left politics are, to put it politely,
unhappy. The French socialists are tearing themselves apart with all the vigour
of Labour in the Eighties. The German Social Democrats are locked in all-out war
between defenders of the coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats and
those who want to promote a more classic leftism.

The left barely exists as a force in eastern Europe and the right runs
Scandinavia. As for Britain, the Brown-haters are looking for revenge on the
putsch that ousted Tony Blair. As with Labour's publicity-seeking Eurosceptics,
the only outcome will be to make Labour look like the Tories in the Nineties -
divided, badly led and engaged in a war of all against all that leads straight
to election defeat.

The Italian experiment is audacious and draws a line under the classic party
divisions of the 20th century. Will it work? And will it be the first of other
reorganisations of European progressive politics? No one else on the democratic
left in Europe has much of an answer.

Denis MacShane is Labour MP for Rotherham and serves on the Council of Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday

QUOTES of the week

SECTION: FB; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 287 words


QUOTES of the week

'The absurdity of a Government that allows thousands to become infected and die
from superbugs in filthy NHS hospitals, and then worries about how much wine we
drink at supper in our own homes, should be obvious.'

Rumpole creator and bon viveur John Mortimer, on a report that said middle-class
people drink too much

'I had just refined Ming's voice and he goes and resigns.'

Impressionist Rory Bremner, as Lib-Dem leader Sir Menzies Campbell quits

'I guarantee you they'll always buy a round when we go to the pub, so I know
they'll definitely be paying their way.'

Zara Phillips's rugby star partner Mike Tindall defends Princes William and
Harry after they were given free tickets to yesterday's World Cup final

'I feel naked without my tiara.'

Deborah Kerr, when rehearsing for her iconic beach clinch with Burt Lancaster in
From Here To Eternity. She died this week, aged 86

'Steve McClaren lost one football match in Europe and faces the sack. Gordon
Brown is about to lose a whole country to Europe and faces three more years in
power.'

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, as the Prime Minister gives the nod to the EU Treaty

'No matter how much money you have got, if you have no one to share it with,
then it's just numbers in the bank.'

Kerri Cartwright, on the true value of her [#xfffd]2.5million Lottery win

'All our social policies are based on the fact that their intelligence is the
same as ours - whereas all the testing says not really.'

Nobel Prize winner Dr James Watson causes outrage with a remark about Africans.
He later apologised

'My Lords, I am too fat - the word obese is a euphemism - because I eat too
much.'

The Earl of Onslow, calling for straight-talking in a Lords debate on Britain's
overweight masses

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Is the party finally over?;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 702  words


WHAT is the point of the Liberal Democrats? The question - once a tired joke for
Labour and Tory activists - has now taken on a terrible urgency for the Lib Dems
themselves as they choose their third leader in less than two years.

After a decade or more of unspectacular progress, the Lib Dems suddenly find
themselves in deep trouble. In recent weeks their poll ratings have slumped to a
dismal 11 per cent - half what they achieved at the last election.

According to one forecast, they w ould not win a single seat if an election were
held today. It is the kind of statistic that concentrates minds wonderfully.

Only the timing of Ming Campbell's departure should come as a surprise. When
Gordon Brown cancelled the autumn election, the party breathed a sigh of relief.

Suddenly there was a window of opportunity to change the leader.

It was only a matter of time before someone opened it up and shoved Ming out.

But if there are any Lib Dems naive enough to think their problems will be
solved simply by trading in Ming for a younger model, they are mistaken.

In the Eighties, the third party w as able to stake out its own territory in the
centre ground as Labour retreated to the lunatic Left. For the past decade the
Lib Dems have flourished as a succession of Tory leaders tacked to the Right.
But with the two main parties now fighting for the centre ground, the Lib Dems
now face a classic political "squeeze".

Voters are entitled to ask what the use is of a third party scrapping on the
same ground as the big two. Those genuinely looking for a "real alternative"
might well conclude they are better off opting for Ukip, the Greens, Respect or
even - God forbid - the BNP. Many more will decide to return to Labour or Tory.

In fairness, the main leadership challengers seem to recognise the scale of the
problem.

Home affairs spokesman Nick Clegg said the party had to "step up or risk falling
back for good".

His main rival, environment spokesman Chris Huhne, spoke of the need to tell
voters "what it means to be a Liberal Democrat".

Getting that message across is going to be an uphill struggle, whichever man
gets the job. The two challengers are talented individuals and can be expected
to press the Lib Dem case with more vigour than Sir Ming. But they are also very
inexperienced.

There is little sign yet that either knows how to get out of the hole in which
the party finds itself.

Mr Huhne's call for "a fairer and greener society with people in charge" could
just as well have come from either David Cameron or Mr Brown.

Mr Clegg ventured that the Lib Dems could be the "anti-establishment" party. But
the signs are that there will not be enough "protest votes" to go around.

One senior Lib Dem MP said:

"We need to give people a clear reason to vote for us, as we are in danger of
falling off the radar. We have to identify a unique selling point again and then
make sure we get that message out. There is still time to put things right."
There is still no consensus in the party about whether to lean Left and take on
the redistribution policies abandoned by Labour, or head Right and offer the tax
cuts for which many floating Tory voters yearn. The resurgent Conservatives are
the greatest threat in the Lib Dems' rural heartlands. The Labour vote could be
the greatest opportunity.

In 2001 the Lib Dems had a range of distinctive policies, such as putting a
penny on income tax to pay for schools funding, providing free care for the
elderly and replacing the council tax with a local income tax. Now they argue
for slashing income tax to 16p while increasing green taxes.

Voters have been left confused.

ON TOP of that, the party's image as the "nice guys" of British politics has
taken a serious battering. Many were appalled at the hounding of popular leader
Charles Kennedy over his drink problem.

The ditching of 66-year-old Ming Campbell has also left a nasty taste. He may
have jumped but only after persistent grumblings that his age was hindering the
party's performance. No one lifted a finger to stop him. It is hard to believe
the party's many older voters will be impressed.

Leaderless and lacking direction, if they are not careful the Lib Dems will
quickly find themselves on the road to oblivion.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 21, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Is the party finally over?;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 702  words


WHAT is the point of the Liberal Democrats? The question - once a tired joke for
Labour and Tory activists - has now taken on a terrible urgency for the Lib Dems
themselves as they choose their third leader in less than two years.

After a decade or more of unspectacular progress, the Lib Dems suddenly find
themselves in deep trouble. In recent weeks their poll ratings have slumped to a
dismal 11 per cent - half what they achieved at the last election.

According to one forecast, they w ould not win a single seat if an election were
held today. It is the kind of statistic that concentrates minds wonderfully.

Only the timing of Ming Campbell's departure should come as a surprise. When
Gordon Brown cancelled the autumn election, the party breathed a sigh of relief.

Suddenly there was a window of opportunity to change the leader.

It was only a matter of time before someone opened it up and shoved Ming out.

But if there are any Lib Dems naive enough to think their problems will be
solved simply by trading in Ming for a younger model, they are mistaken.

In the Eighties, the third party w as able to stake out its own territory in the
centre ground as Labour retreated to the lunatic Left. For the past decade the
Lib Dems have flourished as a succession of Tory leaders tacked to the Right.
But with the two main parties now fighting for the centre ground, the Lib Dems
now face a classic political "squeeze".

Voters are entitled to ask what the use is of a third party scrapping on the
same ground as the big two. Those genuinely looking for a "real alternative"
might well conclude they are better off opting for Ukip, the Greens, Respect or
even - God forbid - the BNP. Many more will decide to return to Labour or Tory.

In fairness, the main leadership challengers seem to recognise the scale of the
problem.

Home affairs spokesman Nick Clegg said the party had to "step up or risk falling
back for good".

His main rival, environment spokesman Chris Huhne, spoke of the need to tell
voters "what it means to be a Liberal Democrat".

Getting that message across is going to be an uphill struggle, whichever man
gets the job. The two challengers are talented individuals and can be expected
to press the Lib Dem case with more vigour than Sir Ming. But they are also very
inexperienced.

There is little sign yet that either knows how to get out of the hole in which
the party finds itself.

Mr Huhne's call for "a fairer and greener society with people in charge" could
just as well have come from either David Cameron or Mr Brown.

Mr Clegg ventured that the Lib Dems could be the "anti-establishment" party. But
the signs are that there will not be enough "protest votes" to go around.

One senior Lib Dem MP said:

"We need to give people a clear reason to vote for us, as we are in danger of
falling off the radar. We have to identify a unique selling point again and then
make sure we get that message out. There is still time to put things right."
There is still no consensus in the party about whether to lean Left and take on
the redistribution policies abandoned by Labour, or head Right and offer the tax
cuts for which many floating Tory voters yearn. The resurgent Conservatives are
the greatest threat in the Lib Dems' rural heartlands. The Labour vote could be
the greatest opportunity.

In 2001 the Lib Dems had a range of distinctive policies, such as putting a
penny on income tax to pay for schools funding, providing free care for the
elderly and replacing the council tax with a local income tax. Now they argue
for slashing income tax to 16p while increasing green taxes.

Voters have been left confused.

ON TOP of that, the party's image as the "nice guys" of British politics has
taken a serious battering. Many were appalled at the hounding of popular leader
Charles Kennedy over his drink problem.

The ditching of 66-year-old Ming Campbell has also left a nasty taste. He may
have jumped but only after persistent grumblings that his age was hindering the
party's performance. No one lifted a finger to stop him. It is hard to believe
the party's many older voters will be impressed.

Leaderless and lacking direction, if they are not careful the Lib Dems will
quickly find themselves on the road to oblivion.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 19, 2007 Friday

Daytime TV: where old county cricketers go to fry

BYLINE: Harry Pearson

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 772 words


After his side had played out a dull draw in London in the early 1980s the Stoke
manager Alan Durban reacted to a question about the drabness of the match by
replying: "If people want entertainment they should go to the circus."

Durban was wrong, of course. Sport has always been part of the entertainment
industry. It's just that he was speaking at a time when there was still a thick
line that separated The Krankies from West Ham United. Jimmy Hill might turn up
on The Batchelors' Show singing a comic song, but you can bet he never
considered auditioning to replace The Galloping Gourmet. Sport might have been
entertainment, but it wasn't show business.

The circus has moved on, however. On Tuesday afternoon I walked into the front
room where my daughter was watching television and eating biscuits and saw the
former Hampshire captain MCJ Nicholas getting excited about wasabi foam on the
ITV cookery show Britain's Best Dish.

I stood for a moment transfixed by the cricketer's profile. Now, it ill behoves
me to mock noses, my own snout being so pronounced that whenever I move house I
have to apply for planning permission for it (I have argued that it is, by
nature, a temporary structure more akin to a lean-to greenhouse than a
conservatory and that, besides, the face to which it is attached is of little or
no architectural merit, yet I fear it will not be long before the bulldozers
move in), but it must be said that MCJ Nicholas has a nose that by rights
belongs on a much larger head. Something from Easter Island, probably. While a
contestant was explaining that her line-caught wintergreen and organic cuckoo
clock creme brulee, or some such plated fiasco, was "fusing the traditional with
the edgy" the tip of the middle-order batsman's hooter kept popping into shot at
the top of the screen like a questing vole. "Good Lord," I said, after the shock
had worn off, "how have the mighty fallen."

"Yeah," my daughter responded wisely between mouthfuls of Tunnock's caramel
wafer, "I mean, he used to present Survivor."

This was not what I meant at all, obviously. Nicholas undoubtedly fulfils his
duties on Britain's Best Dish with smooth professionalism, chatting amiably with
the contestants like a Boden catalogue Bruce Forsyth. Yet it seems a poor state
of affairs when a man you watched hitting 76 not out for the MCC against the
champion county at Lord's during the Golden Age of DR Pringle is forced to earn
a crust by wearing ribald shirts and exchanging banter about sagging meringues
with Jilly Goolden.

When you reach my age it is easy to start looking backwards, sighing wistfully
and growling "You have to wonder what Ron Saunders would make of this lot". Such
urges are generally best avoided (especially when walking in the street unless
you want to fall in a pot hole and dislocate your hip, because the pavements are
in a shocking state and you write to the council and they don't even bother to
reply).

On the other hand, I don't recall DB Close striding away from Taunton for the
final time and straight into a job replacing Dorothy Sleightholme on Farmhouse
Kitchen. The fact that MCJ Nicholas is at a loose end now Channel 4 no longer
has the cricket is no excuse. Channel 4 no longer has American Football either,
but you won't find Mick Luckhurst and John Smith swapping quips about their
sweet williams on The Flying Gardener.

Some will say that daytime TV is the obvious place for county cricketers to go
at career's end. After all, they have spent most of their lives plying their
trade in front of a tiny afternoon audience of pensioners, schoolchildren,
idlers and students who are watching avidly, but only so that in 25 years' time
they'll be able to make everyone laugh at a dinner party by recalling great
moments from Dickinson's Real Deal or Northamptonshire v Sussex at
Wellingborough. The loveless, the lonely and the forlorn are their natural
constituency. They are the UKIP of sport.

Yet I still can't help finding the situation alarming. I have no idea what goes
on in the rest of the week, but if Tuesday's experience is anything to go by the
whole schedule may be filled with 1980s county captains. JRT Barclay making
regular appearances on Loose Women, G Cook offering tips on burnishing up a dado
rail on Room For Improvement and PM Roebuck swapping analysis with Claudia
Winkleman on Strictly Come Dancing: It Takes Two. And why not? After all, this
is an age when Jeremy Guscott can do a stint fronting City Hospital. If people
want entertainment they can go to the circus. Or they can sit at home and wait
for the day when Andrew Flintoff and Jonny Wilkinson front Family Xchange.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: We can't let the Euro-crazies drag us out of the club: Labour
must defy the fanatical press barons. The EU treaty needs no referendum, and
holding one could do real damage

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1071 words


Here we go, seatbelts on, the battle for Europe starts in earnest as Gordon
Brown heads off to Lisbon on Thursday. It will be deja vu all over again and it
will bore most people rigid, slogging through mud into the spring, debated
clause by clause in parliament. But boredom may be the treaty's best friend.

This marathon is the last thing Labour needs now. But if everyone keeps their
nerve, this relatively minor piece of EU good housekeeping will be forgotten by
the next election by all but Ukip. The EU will work better in ways Britain
urgently wants, however much during the next months ministers pretend they have
had a knockdown drag-out fight with the filthy federalising foreigners.

The government is now in for a perfect press storm. The dysfunctional dominance
of four newspaper groups, with four fanatical Europe-hating owners, will try to
force a referendum. Rupert Murdoch, owner of titles that claim more than 40% of
Britain's newspaper readership (plus Sky and part of ITV), was at Chequers last
week, yet already he is flirting with Cameron, swinging with the polls. But on
Europe he is immutable, because the EU is the one power that could check his
monopolistic impulses. Only Margaret Thatcher, by demanding an exemption,
allowed him to launch Sky on almost entirely US programming - against EU rules.

The question is, will Labour stand firm in the face of press bombardment?
Rumours of a wobble on holding a referendum are alarming - but almost certainly
wrong, or perhaps deliberately misleading, to frighten the Lisbon summit into
submission.

Nothing will be what it seems in the coming conflagration. Commission president
Jose Manuel Barroso, arriving for a final "red lines" session with the prime
minister, announces: "I am not happy." He probably isn't, since Britain,
behaving as badly as ever, itself put forward many of the proposals to improve
the EU's tackling of terror, crime, climate change and aid - and yet we now want
noisy opt-outs from our own ideas. But that's what Britain does, and Barroso is
resigned to British barbarism. Brown, however, is no doubt very happy to have
the emperor of the European superstate say he is "not happy" with Britain's red
lines. What's more, before the ink is dry in December, British ministers will
claim they have won even more red lines, opt-ins and opt-outs. We are obnoxious,
but it seems to be the only way we manage to stay in Europe, ducking and weaving
past a press that is as mendacious in its Euro-mythmaking as it is malevolent
and xenophobic.

There was never any need for a referendum. It is a legacy of Jack Straw, always
Euro-dubious, when he bounced Tony Blair into it before the 2005 election.
Although the noise and pressure was strong, Blair should have resisted: Howard
was not about to win, Hague had lost resoundingly on his 2001 Euro-panic
campaign. Nothing in the original constitution made any significant shift of
sovereignty from parliament to compare it with previous momentous UK referendums
- on staying in Europe or devolution for Scotland and Wales. Britain's red lines
and opt-outs toughened last June, and will be toughened again before signature.

The treaty shifts power back the other way. National parliaments have new powers
to pre-scrutinise EU legislation. They can send back legislation, if a third of
them oppose a new law with a yellow card warning or a red card veto. That's new.
Contrary to more outrageous myths, Britain loses no power over its foreign
policy, embassies or UN seat. With 27 members, qualified majority voting is
essential. But "qualified" means nothing passes without a majority of countries
that also represent a majority of EU citizens. At last, the European parliament
gets more power: until now it could only accept or reject the entire budget, but
now it can reject particular items. Watch it vote down the CAP it has always
opposed. And, for the first time, there is a mechanism for a country to quit the
EU.

Does anyone really want to keep a presidency that rotates every six months? At
the crucial Nairobi climate summit, it was a bad idea that the president of a
very small country represented all of Europe, and not very well.

To have influence, the EU's foreign diplomacy needs putting together under one
minister. Javier Solana can't at present put pressure on a foreign government
over, say, human rights, when trade, aid and defence belong to other
commissioners acting alone.

The truth Britain never hears is that between the foolishly grandiose federal
rhetoric of old Giscard d'Estaing and the reality of the constitution that
emerged, a wind of change blew. The Europe of 27 is now strongly
intergovernmental and not federalising by instinct. For better or worse, the old
federal dream is over. It was already dead in the constitution, but a final
stake was struck through its heart by French and Dutch voters. Times changed -
and Tony Blair was a key instrument of that change, together with the new
nations.

The irony is that this treaty marks the victory of the British vision - and yet
here we go again, pretending it is the work of devious foreigners from which our
valiant leaders will rescue us with red-line lifebelts. That is why if Britain
voted the treaty down in a referendum, it would lead rapidly to the EU exit
gate. Charles Grant, of the Centre for European Reform, points out that now we
have all our opt-outs from a treaty largely of our own flavour, what could the
other 26 do but tell us to go? We would have become incapable of participation,
even in basic practical reforms we support. We would join Switzerland and Norway
on the outside, subject to EU laws on the single market but unable to influence
them. That, of course, is what the Euro-crazies want.

Referendums can only work on matters of simple and profound principle. Since the
treaty is about many technicalities, the government can only reply to the
Euro-hysterics with dull technical explanations. This is not referendum material
but the stuff of representative democracy. The very word Europe in any vote is
toxic, thanks to Murdoch and company, who would ensure few ever knew what they
were voting on.

We need the treaty to act on terror, crime, climate change and foreign aid.
Europe needs an effective voice to stop any US madness in Iran. It is the only
collective voice on global warming. Now Labour has to make the positive case and
start to undo the damage of decades.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Pessimism is Brown's enemy on Europe

BYLINE: Dominic Lawson

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1120 words


Most of us are familiar with the situation: you are having a rather trivial
conversation at a party, when suddenly you become aware that a couple of other
people nearby are discussing something which interests you much more - and so
you somehow manage to continue with your own inconsequential chatter while
absorbing the gist of the neighbouring conversation.

On this occasion - it was almost four years ago - I had become transfixed by the
discussion between the then head of the Civil Service, Andrew Turnbull, and the
French Ambassador, Gerard Errera. It went something like this; Turnbull: I hope
that your Government will not bow to pressure to hold a referendum on the
Constitutional Treaty. It would make things difficult for us. Errera: Mmm, I do
see that.

There was a sort of threat - I hope that is not being too cynical - in the
British Cabinet Secretary's remark. I understood him to mean that if President
Chirac were to announce a referendum, then Mr Blair might have to do the same;
but we all must understand that the British wouldn't vote"yes". Result: collapse
of Constitutional Treaty.

As we now know, in April 2004 Mr Blair, having said"there will not be a
referendum"grandiloquently announced to Parliament that"the electorate should be
asked for their opinion ... Let the issue be put. Let the battle be joined."As
we also now know, this forced Chirac - furious at Blair's volte-face - to hold a
plebiscite in France on the Constitutional Treaty; the French voted no, as a
result of which the issue was not put to the British people, and the battle was
not joined.

In the short term, Mr Blair's pledge got him out of an awkward political hole. A
general election was about a year away, and the Murdoch press - in particular
the Sun - had signalled that it wouldfind it difficult to back Labour ifthere
was no referendum on the Constitutional Treaty. A friend who saw Mr Blair in the
week after he made his U-turn on a referendum told me that the then Prime
Minister was cock-a-hoop, not because he was completely convinced that he would
win such a referendum, but because he had dished the Conservatives. Not for the
first time, Mr Blair had shown that his main criterion for any domestic policy
was: would it steal territory from the Tories?

The Government's decision last week to double the inheritance tax threshold for
married couples demonstrates that this remains the fundamental characteristic of
New Labour ; indeed, those who study these matters say that the then Chancellor
Brown was one of those who had convinced Mr Blair to commit to a referendum on
the Constitutional Treaty. If so, then Gordon Brown is now paying the long-term
strategic price for his own short-term political fix.

I do not propose to engage in the almost talmudic discussions as to whether
the"EU Reform Treaty"is so close to the original Constitutional Treaty as to
make no difference. I am content to take the word of the admirably blunt German
Chancellor, Angela Merkel, that"the substance of the Constitution is preserved.
That is a fact."We might also note the remarks of the Belgian Foreign Minister,
Karel de Gucht:"The aim of the Constitutional Treaty was to be more readable;
the aim of this treaty is to be unreadable ... The Constitution aimed to be
clear, whereas this Treaty had to be unclear. It is a success."What both Merkel
and de Gucht seem to be saying is: we've cut out all the colourful headline
stuff about flags and anthems, but the small print is just as it was.

It is, of course, not identical, and the description of it by some Euro-sceptics
as"largely identical"is an assault on the English language: something either is
or is not identical - there's no such thing as"largely identical twins."Morally,
if not logically, however, Gordon Brown is obliged to honour the 2005 election
manifesto commitment:"The new Constitutional Treaty ensures the new Europe can
work effectively ... we will put it to the British people in a referendum".

Mr Brown now puts the argument that he is negotiating"red lines", which mean
that the revised Treaty would not make such inroads into British sovereignty as
to require a plebiscite. Bizarrely, he has declared that only"if the amending
Treaty was not what we wanted, then we would have a referendum."I'm sure that
other EU leaders will have laughed at this attempt at a threat: it is simply not
believable that this - or any other - Government would call for a referendum to
endorse a treaty which it has itself declared to be undesirable.

More to the point, the four opt-outs which the Government is negotiating - on
the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Home Affairs, Foreign Policy and Tax - are
the same guarantees that they gave over the original Constitutional Treaty, on
which a referendum was nevertheless promised.

It is true that there are some long-standing objections to having a referendum -
this is a parliamentary democracy (translation: mind your own business); or,
plebiscites tend to be votes on anything but the precise issue at stake
(translation: you lot are much too thick to understand what this is about). Yet
having backed a referendum during the last election, this particular Government
is in no position to make any of the"principled"arguments against one now.

Worst of all, if it continues to set its face against a popular vote on the
revised Treaty, then a party which claims to be fighting against what it
declares to be destructive euro-scepticism will be doing more to advance the
cause of such discontent than anything that UKIP or the Conservative Party could
dream up. That, presumably, is why some of the most passionate British
supporters ofthe EU are beseechingthe Labour Party to honour the pledge given at
the last General Election.

The problemfor Gordon Brown is, yet again, his innate pessimism. If he was too
apprehensive to call a General Election when he did not have a double-digit lead
in the opinion polls, how much more concerned the cautious Caledonian will be
about the prospects of winning a referendum in a country which has shown itself
to be profoundly sceptical about grand schemes of European integration,
especially since our humiliating exit from the European Monetary System.

The great calculator is probably right that such a referendum would be extremely
difficult to win. However Mr Brown will also be able to calculate that the
political damage caused by continued refusal to hold a popular vote on this
issue could be even greater than that caused by losing such a vote.

Still, we mustn't sympathise unduly with Gordon in this predicament. He wanted
to be Prime Minister more than anything else in the world. How he conducts
himself over this will tell us if he is up to the job.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Keep your word on referendum or you'll lose all trust , Cameron warns Brown;
Is 'Bottler' Brown about to become. . .the man who gave Great Britain away?

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 1684  words


DAVID Cameron last night warned Gordon Brown that he faced a crisis of trust if
he signed up to the revived EU constitution without holding a referendum.

In a letter to the Prime Minister on the eve of new EU talks, the Tory leader
reminded Mr Brown of Labour's 2005 manifesto pledge to hold a referendum on the
treaty which will scrap the British veto in 60 policy areas.

Although Mr Brown has pledged to "honour that manifesto" he has repeatedly
refused to agree to a referendum on the EU reform treaty, which experts say is
almost identical to the constitution.

In his letter, Mr Cameron warned the Tories would make trust a key election
issue if Mr Brown tried to force through the EU treaty without the promised
referendum.

Mr Cameron said: "This is indeed a matter of trust with the electorate. So will
you now honour the promise you made to the British people to hold a referendum?"
The letter comes as Mr Brown prepares for crunch talks in Lisbon, Portugal, this
week on the detail of the new treaty.

Labour sources insist Mr Brown will not sign unless he secures a series of "red
lines" designed to protect British interests in crime, immigration and foreign
policy. But despite the tough rhetoric, most observers expect him to sign up to
a deal which critics warn will hand over a huge amount of British sovereignty to
Brussels.

If, as expected, a deal is agreed this week, it will be formally signed by EU
leaders in December. All 27 member states will then have to ratify it before it
becomes law, probably some time in 2009.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, last night warned that latest
drafts of the treaty were even worse for Britain. He said French attempts to
remove the EU's commitment to "free and undistorted competition" - the
cornerstone of the Common Market - had succeeded despite British protests. And
he warned Britain's lines were "turning to dust".

Mr Farage said: "I cannot see anything emerging this week which could be
described as a good deal for Britain. It even removes the original goal of the
Common Market which Britain signed up to. This is yet another massive transfer
of power.

"This is a big move towards a common judicial system and when you look at the
mess made by the Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy you
have to say, 'God help us'." The right-wing Bruges Group yesterday said the new
treaty would blow Britain's borders "wide open" and give the EU control over
immigration policy. Spokesman Dr Lee Rotherham said: "Once again, the renamed EU
Constitution proves to be a Trojan Horse.

When we pick at the details, the Government's case for downplaying the text
endlessly unravels. We must have a vote." Mr Brown's claim that no referendum is
needed because the treaty is different from the constitution was demolished this
week by a report from the Commons' Labour-dominated European Scrutiny Committee.

The report, first revealed in the Sunday Express last week, said the two
treaties were "substantially equivalent". The committee found that just two of
the 440 provisions in the two treaties were different. And it said the
Government's claim that the "constitutional concept" had been abandoned was
"likely to be misleading in so far as it might suggest the reform treaty is of
lesser significance than the constitutional treaty".

Ministers have since attempted to claim that although the two treaties are
similar, the way the new treaty will apply in Britain is different because of a
series of "red lines" negotiated to protect British interests. But Michael
Connarty, Labour chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee, warned the red
lines would "leak like a sieve".

He added: "We believe the red lines will not be sustainable. Looking at the
legalities and use of the European Court of Justice we believe these will be
challenged bit by bit until the UK will be in a position where all the treaty
eventually applies to the UK." Foreign Secretary David Miliband faces a bruising
session with the committee this week before flying to Portugal with Mr Brown.
The original EU constitution was abandoned after defeats in referendums in
France and the Netherlands. As a result the promised UK referendum was never
held.

But this year the treaty was revived by the German Chancellor Angela Merkel who
renamed it the EU reform treaty in a bid to avoid further national referendums.

Like its predecessor it will create a powerful new EU president and foreign
minister and lead to a huge increase in qualified majority voting. Brussels will
also gain the right to sign international treaties on behalf of the whole EU and
there will be further moves towards a European army.

Britain will lose its veto in 60 areas, including energy, social security and
border checks.The loss of sovereignty is twice that seen in the 1992 Maastricht
Treaty, when 30 vetoes were surrendered. France has ruled out a referendum this
time, but the governments in the Netherlands and Denmark are both under pressure
to concede a vote.

Polls here suggest more than 70 per cent of the public want a referendum. Treaty
opponents believe that - as with the constitution - a weakened PM could concede
a referendum if there is enough public pressure.

But Downing Street has again indicated Mr Brown will ignore demands and instead
use his Commons majority of 69 to force the treaty through Parliament. Ministers
claim there is little public demand for a referendum, with one saying that
Europe was "nine or 10" on the list of voters' priorities.

But in a sign that public pressure is beginning to tell, Mr Brown has authorised
a marathon Commons scrutiny session for next year in a bid to persuade people
the treaty is not being rushed through.

Some 120 Labour MPs are said to harbour doubts about the treaty and about Mr
Brown's decision not to hold a referendum.

MPs in marginal seats are expected to come under pressure to back a vote. But
only a handful have voiced their concerns in public so far and Labour whips
remain optimistic that they can win key votes.

Ministers believe a long drawn-out debate will expose the "isolationist" views
of many Tory MPs and lead to the kind of divisions seen in Tory ranks during the
debates on the Maastricht Treaty 15 years ago.

But the Tories insist they are in tune with growing public scepticism. "People
are tired of having the wool pulled over their eyes on Europe, " said one Tory
aide. "As for divisions, the party is more united than it has ever been on this
issue."

How 'red lines' will be rubbed out

MINISTERS claim that Britain's national interest will be protected from the
effects of the new EU treaty by a series of so-called "red lines". But a new
study by the think tank Open Europe last night suggested the protections would
be of little use. The key areas are:

Justice and Home Affairs

MINISTERS claim the new treaty will maintain Britain's right to "opt in" to
areas of crime, security and immigration policy where a Europe-wide solution is
in the national interest.

But the latest wording of the treaty suggests this opt-in would last for only
five years. After this time the UK would have to either pull out of all
co-operation on justice and home affairs policy or accept everything.

Pulling out would affect Britain's ability to extradite criminals from other EU
countries and could affect our ability to return bogus asylum seekers to their
countries of origin.

But opting in fully would give the EU a say over a massive area of crime and
immigration policy for the first time.

Open Europe said the protocol "puts a gun to the head of member states which
want to opt out of future developments in justice and home affairs". The new
treaty would also give the European Court of Justice jurisdiction over justice
and home affairs policy for the first time - a move ministers have previously
resisted as "a significant extension of the court's responsibilities".

The Charter of Fundamental Rights

TONY BLAIR initially claimed that Britain had an opt-out from this controversial
new charter which would enshrine 50 "human rights" in law.

The Europe Minister Jim Murphy has now admitted this is not true. Instead he
says a special "protocol" means it will not apply in the UK. He also claims it
contains no new rights.

But legal experts have warned there is little to stop the European Court of
Justice extending its jurisdiction to apply the charter in Britain by the back
door. The charter contains a raft of new rights, which could give the court a
say over vast areas of policy, including abortion, immigration and the way
public services are run.

The charter could also ban very lengthy jail sentences for serious criminals
like Soham murderer Ian Huntley.

Foreign Policy and Defence

THE Government claims it has secured a red line which will protect national
sovereignty over foreign policy. In reality this consists only of a non-binding
"declaration".

The bulk of the treaty runs in exactly the opposite direction. The treaty
creates a powerful new EU foreign minister and a dedicated EU diplomatic service
to promote European foreign policy around the globe.

The treaty also scraps the British veto in 11 new areas of foreign policy,
including terrorism and mutual defence and humanitarian aid. On defence, the
treaty commits the EU to the "progressive framing of a common Union defence
policy".

Social Security

MINISTERS claim to have secured an "emergency brake" that will give Britain a
veto over matters of welfare payments to migrant workers.

But legal experts question whether it will work. The Open Europe study says any
protection is likely to be overriden by new powers for the European Court of
Justice to ensure equality for migrants.

Parts of the Charter of Fundamental Rights suggest member states will not be
allowed to discriminate against migrant workers on issues like benefits and
social housing even if they have travelled here illegally and have no right to
stay.

Tax

THE Government sometimes claims to be "defending" the red line on tax.

But the claim is largely a scare story to make British negotiators look tough
back home. In fact the national veto on tax issues has not been under
discussion.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 14, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Keep your word on referendum or you'll lose all trust , Cameron warns Brown;
Is 'Bottler' Brown about to become. . .the man who gave Great Britain away?

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 1684  words


DAVID Cameron last night warned Gordon Brown that he faced a crisis of trust if
he signed up to the revived EU constitution without holding a referendum.

In a letter to the Prime Minister on the eve of new EU talks, the Tory leader
reminded Mr Brown of Labour's 2005 manifesto pledge to hold a referendum on the
treaty which will scrap the British veto in 60 policy areas.

Although Mr Brown has pledged to "honour that manifesto" he has repeatedly
refused to agree to a referendum on the EU reform treaty, which experts say is
almost identical to the constitution.

In his letter, Mr Cameron warned the Tories would make trust a key election
issue if Mr Brown tried to force through the EU treaty without the promised
referendum.

Mr Cameron said: "This is indeed a matter of trust with the electorate. So will
you now honour the promise you made to the British people to hold a referendum?"
The letter comes as Mr Brown prepares for crunch talks in Lisbon, Portugal, this
week on the detail of the new treaty.

Labour sources insist Mr Brown will not sign unless he secures a series of "red
lines" designed to protect British interests in crime, immigration and foreign
policy. But despite the tough rhetoric, most observers expect him to sign up to
a deal which critics warn will hand over a huge amount of British sovereignty to
Brussels.

If, as expected, a deal is agreed this week, it will be formally signed by EU
leaders in December. All 27 member states will then have to ratify it before it
becomes law, probably some time in 2009.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, last night warned that latest
drafts of the treaty were even worse for Britain. He said French attempts to
remove the EU's commitment to "free and undistorted competition" - the
cornerstone of the Common Market - had succeeded despite British protests. And
he warned Britain's lines were "turning to dust".

Mr Farage said: "I cannot see anything emerging this week which could be
described as a good deal for Britain. It even removes the original goal of the
Common Market which Britain signed up to. This is yet another massive transfer
of power.

"This is a big move towards a common judicial system and when you look at the
mess made by the Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy you
have to say, 'God help us'." The right-wing Bruges Group yesterday said the new
treaty would blow Britain's borders "wide open" and give the EU control over
immigration policy. Spokesman Dr Lee Rotherham said: "Once again, the renamed EU
Constitution proves to be a Trojan Horse.

When we pick at the details, the Government's case for downplaying the text
endlessly unravels. We must have a vote." Mr Brown's claim that no referendum is
needed because the treaty is different from the constitution was demolished this
week by a report from the Commons' Labour-dominated European Scrutiny Committee.

The report, first revealed in the Sunday Express last week, said the two
treaties were "substantially equivalent". The committee found that just two of
the 440 provisions in the two treaties were different. And it said the
Government's claim that the "constitutional concept" had been abandoned was
"likely to be misleading in so far as it might suggest the reform treaty is of
lesser significance than the constitutional treaty".

Ministers have since attempted to claim that although the two treaties are
similar, the way the new treaty will apply in Britain is different because of a
series of "red lines" negotiated to protect British interests. But Michael
Connarty, Labour chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee, warned the red
lines would "leak like a sieve".

He added: "We believe the red lines will not be sustainable. Looking at the
legalities and use of the European Court of Justice we believe these will be
challenged bit by bit until the UK will be in a position where all the treaty
eventually applies to the UK." Foreign Secretary David Miliband faces a bruising
session with the committee this week before flying to Portugal with Mr Brown.
The original EU constitution was abandoned after defeats in referendums in
France and the Netherlands. As a result the promised UK referendum was never
held.

But this year the treaty was revived by the German Chancellor Angela Merkel who
renamed it the EU reform treaty in a bid to avoid further national referendums.

Like its predecessor it will create a powerful new EU president and foreign
minister and lead to a huge increase in qualified majority voting. Brussels will
also gain the right to sign international treaties on behalf of the whole EU and
there will be further moves towards a European army.

Britain will lose its veto in 60 areas, including energy, social security and
border checks.The loss of sovereignty is twice that seen in the 1992 Maastricht
Treaty, when 30 vetoes were surrendered. France has ruled out a referendum this
time, but the governments in the Netherlands and Denmark are both under pressure
to concede a vote.

Polls here suggest more than 70 per cent of the public want a referendum. Treaty
opponents believe that - as with the constitution - a weakened PM could concede
a referendum if there is enough public pressure.

But Downing Street has again indicated Mr Brown will ignore demands and instead
use his Commons majority of 69 to force the treaty through Parliament. Ministers
claim there is little public demand for a referendum, with one saying that
Europe was "nine or 10" on the list of voters' priorities.

But in a sign that public pressure is beginning to tell, Mr Brown has authorised
a marathon Commons scrutiny session for next year in a bid to persuade people
the treaty is not being rushed through.

Some 120 Labour MPs are said to harbour doubts about the treaty and about Mr
Brown's decision not to hold a referendum.

MPs in marginal seats are expected to come under pressure to back a vote. But
only a handful have voiced their concerns in public so far and Labour whips
remain optimistic that they can win key votes.

Ministers believe a long drawn-out debate will expose the "isolationist" views
of many Tory MPs and lead to the kind of divisions seen in Tory ranks during the
debates on the Maastricht Treaty 15 years ago.

But the Tories insist they are in tune with growing public scepticism. "People
are tired of having the wool pulled over their eyes on Europe, " said one Tory
aide. "As for divisions, the party is more united than it has ever been on this
issue."

How 'red lines' will be rubbed out

MINISTERS claim that Britain's national interest will be protected from the
effects of the new EU treaty by a series of so-called "red lines". But a new
study by the think tank Open Europe last night suggested the protections would
be of little use. The key areas are:

Justice and Home Affairs

MINISTERS claim the new treaty will maintain Britain's right to "opt in" to
areas of crime, security and immigration policy where a Europe-wide solution is
in the national interest.

But the latest wording of the treaty suggests this opt-in would last for only
five years. After this time the UK would have to either pull out of all
co-operation on justice and home affairs policy or accept everything.

Pulling out would affect Britain's ability to extradite criminals from other EU
countries and could affect our ability to return bogus asylum seekers to their
countries of origin.

But opting in fully would give the EU a say over a massive area of crime and
immigration policy for the first time.

Open Europe said the protocol "puts a gun to the head of member states which
want to opt out of future developments in justice and home affairs". The new
treaty would also give the European Court of Justice jurisdiction over justice
and home affairs policy for the first time - a move ministers have previously
resisted as "a significant extension of the court's responsibilities".

The Charter of Fundamental Rights

TONY BLAIR initially claimed that Britain had an opt-out from this controversial
new charter which would enshrine 50 "human rights" in law.

The Europe Minister Jim Murphy has now admitted this is not true. Instead he
says a special "protocol" means it will not apply in the UK. He also claims it
contains no new rights.

But legal experts have warned there is little to stop the European Court of
Justice extending its jurisdiction to apply the charter in Britain by the back
door. The charter contains a raft of new rights, which could give the court a
say over vast areas of policy, including abortion, immigration and the way
public services are run.

The charter could also ban very lengthy jail sentences for serious criminals
like Soham murderer Ian Huntley.

Foreign Policy and Defence

THE Government claims it has secured a red line which will protect national
sovereignty over foreign policy. In reality this consists only of a non-binding
"declaration".

The bulk of the treaty runs in exactly the opposite direction. The treaty
creates a powerful new EU foreign minister and a dedicated EU diplomatic service
to promote European foreign policy around the globe.

The treaty also scraps the British veto in 11 new areas of foreign policy,
including terrorism and mutual defence and humanitarian aid. On defence, the
treaty commits the EU to the "progressive framing of a common Union defence
policy".

Social Security

MINISTERS claim to have secured an "emergency brake" that will give Britain a
veto over matters of welfare payments to migrant workers.

But legal experts question whether it will work. The Open Europe study says any
protection is likely to be overriden by new powers for the European Court of
Justice to ensure equality for migrants.

Parts of the Charter of Fundamental Rights suggest member states will not be
allowed to discriminate against migrant workers on issues like benefits and
social housing even if they have travelled here illegally and have no right to
stay.

Tax

THE Government sometimes claims to be "defending" the red line on tax.

But the claim is largely a scare story to make British negotiators look tough
back home. In fact the national veto on tax issues has not been under
discussion.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 12, 2007 Friday

Revised EU treaty leaves Britain even worse off, say MPs

BYLINE: James Chapman

SECTION: 2ND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words


GORDON Brown is facing fresh pressure over the revived EU constitution after a
Labour-dominated committee of MPs warned that the latest draft was even worse
for Britain.

Michael Connarty, chairman of the Commons European Scrutiny Committee, wrote to
Foreign Secretary David Miliband protesting that the Government's 'red lines'
appeared to be unravelling.

He warned that Brussels was plotting to start meddling in the Britain's criminal
justice system after five years, despite repeated Government claims that it was
totally protected from EU interference.

The Labour MP, whose committee has pored over every line of the new 'Reform
Treaty', claimed Britain would be forced to pay massive fines if it refused to
co-operate.

And he said Mr Miliband and Mr Brown appeared to be unaware that their 'red
lines' were being chipped away. Mr

Connarty said: 'It's a fierce movement in the wrong direction for the
Government. I'm not sure the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister are even
aware of it, from the comments they are making.' The Prime Minister insisted
yesterday that he was ready to veto the controversial treaty if opt-outs over
areas including foreign policy and tax are not maintained at a summit in Lisbon
next week.

After talks with European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso in Downing

Street, Mr Brown suggested he was close to victory - and again ruled out a
referendum.

'I have got to be absolutely sure that the British national interest has been
safeguarded in every one of the issues that we have raised,' he said.

'When we look at the detail of it, I believe that we have succeeded.' Mr Brown
said it was 'well known' that he would not agree to the treaty if it breached
any of his 'red lines'.

He added: 'I'm a cautious man and I will wait until we see the discussion which
takes place in the council next week before I make a judgment on this.' Speaking
later, Mr Barroso bluntly insisted that it was time to ratify the treaty and
'move on'.

'Your Foreign Secretary quite rightly pointed out recently that the UK does not
have a bilateral relationship with the EU,' he said. 'It is part of the EU. We
are all in the same boat. It is now time to end this debate.

'The treaty does its job. We need to put it behind us and move on.' Tory Europe
spokesman Mark Francois said: 'Michael Connarty's letter blows a hole in Gordon
Brown's cynical spin strategy in the run up to Lisbon.

'While Brown is telling us his red lines remain intact this letter implies they
are actually weakening instead.

'David Miliband recently admitted the Government is losing the argument over the
referendum and given letters like this you can see why.' He added: 'Eighty per
cent of the British people want a vote, as do the trade unions and MPs from all
parties, and Brown should honour his manifesto pledge and let the people have
their say.' UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: 'The treaty is now
set in stone.

Britain's much vaunted red lines are so much dust.

'Mr Barroso knows this and is merely trying to bolster Gordon Brown's massive
deception on the British people.' j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk 'Let the people have
their say'

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Connarty said: 'It's a fierceDavid Miliband: 'Unaware'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Diary: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 683 words


Farewell then, Moira Stewart. Thanks for the memories and all the best. You will
know that many people, including a lot of BBC staff, cite your departure as
further proof that Aunty is less careful with the careers of its black employees
than the white ones. Hard for us to say. But executives may one day have to
explain what happened to the producers and technicians who worked with you on
the award-winning documentary In Search of Wilberforce, which was screened in
March and lauded by the Beeb itself as a highlight of its season marking the
200th anniversary of the abolition of the slave trade. The black ones -
including yourself - don't appear to be working for the corporation any more.
The white ones remain. This phenomenon, unearthed by the internet broadcaster
Colourful Radio, probably doesn't amount to ethnic cleansing, as some are
claiming. But if anyone sends you an explanation, don't be a stranger.

So did Mr Brown bottle it or was he "frit"? The Tories wheeled out Margaret
Thatcher's ancient jibe when the prime minister blinked this weekend. But what
is frit and where does it come from? This from Richard Heller, who was Denis
Healey's political adviser. "Frit was applied by Margaret Thatcher to Denis
during Prime Minister's Questions just before the 1983 election," he says.
"Denis rolled in after a refreshing lunch, listened to her reply to a question
by Michael Foot about the prospect of an election and then said in a stage
murmur - 'Cut and run'. Thatcher was furious and in a semi-coherent stream of
language said: 'Oh, the right honourable gentleman is frit. He's frit . . .'"
Healey, in tribute to Spoonerisms, called it "The Day the Frit Hit the Shan".
And later, Heller tells us, he "referred to 'Mrs T screaming like a fishwife'."
This attracted complaints from fishwives, "to whom he apologised".

Was Mr Brown "frit" yesterday as he met the press? Not obviously so. But it must
have been scary. All those faces. All those bared teeth. Few harried him more
purposefully than Andrew Porter, the new political editor of the Daily
Telegraph, but was this just an attempt to show that there is no particular
cosiness between the two. The talk inside the Tel's Victoria HQ and among media
commentators such as Stephen Glover is of a new warmth between the prime
minister and the paper. Mr Glover writes of an arrangement in which the Tel is
nicer to Labour and thus receives juicy titbits by dint of being "in the loop" -
and this may explain, he says, why the Tel dropped plans to stage an unhelpful
EU referendum debate at the Labour party conference. Certainly the postponement
surprised those scheduled to appear, for the event had long been mooted. This
fuels the Glover theory. But one implicated, rueful figure also claims that the
Tel "just couldn't get it together", which scientists routinely call the
"piss-up in a brewery" theory. Either way, Gordon seems quids in.

Are things any better at Ukip, whose annual conference seemed so overshadowed by
the election fiasco. Even the bitter row between the chairwoman, Petrina
Holdsworth, and the deputy leader, Mike Nattrass - which led the former to
resign - failed to excite the public. One wonders if the party is making best
use of the available talent, and our eye is taken by Tom Wise, the MEP for the
East of England, who, asked by a voter whether he will take a stand over the
recent catastrophe in Burma, wrote back: "The correct approach is to the British
government for British subjects and National governments. The EU has no
authority to intervene, neither do I want it to." It's the touchy-feely
approach. He probably learned it from Bill Clinton.

Let's end on a happy, caring note, because there were genuine fears that, after
a multimillion-pound restoration, something essential would be lost at St
Martin-in-the-Fields, in central London, which does so much work with down and
outs. Concerns persisted until the first evensong. So when one of the regulars
made his way to the back of the church and threw up, the relief was palpable.
Three cheers for them. Three cheers for him.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2007 Wednesday



CORRECTION: The much-loved broadcaster mentioned in the Diary, page 31, October
9, is Moira Stuart, not Stewart.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday

UKIP want a five-year ban on all immigration if elected

BYLINE: Jon Gaunt

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 21  words


UKIP want a five-year ban on all immigration if elected.I want a Jaguar XKR.

Guess who's got most chance of living their dream.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             October 8, 2007 Monday
                                 First Edition

Poland threatens to block reformed EU treaty in dispute over voting

BYLINE: John Lichfieldin Paris and Katherine Butler

SECTION: EUROPE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 502 words


The Polish President, Lech Kaczynski, flew to Paris yesterday for talks that
could decide the fate of the proposed new European Union "reform" treaty. The
twin brothers who rule Poland are still haggling over the small print of the
deal which they accepted at the Brussels summit in June.

It remains unclear whether this amounts to a genuine threat to the revised
treaty or electoral brinkmanship. Poland has a parliamentary election three days
after EU leaders are due to meet in Lisbon, on 18 October, to approve the
treaty's final text, published in Brussels on Friday.

Mr Kaczynski will have talks today with the French President, Nicolas Sarkozy,
who played a leading role in persuading Warsaw to accept the draft treaty in
June. The Polish President will also have talks later in the week with the
German Chancellor, Angela Merkel. Warsaw has protested that the text produced by
the Portuguese EU presidency does not include some important details of a
late-night deal on voting rights, which prevented a collapse of the EU summit in
June.

Instead of the old system of votes weighted vaguely according to a nation's
size, it has now been agreed that majority decisions in the EU Council of
Ministers should require approval by 55 per cent of states, representing 65 per
cent of the EU's population.

Warsaw had initially protested that this gave too much weight to Germany, the
EU's largest country. Jaroslaw Kaczynski even complained that Germany was
responsible for decimating the Polish population during the Second World War and
should not be allowed to profit politically from its greater population.

Finally, the twins agreed that the new voting rules could apply from 2014 and
that the Poles could insist on using the old system until 2017. They also won
agreement to revive an old mechanism which allows one member state to delay a
vote that it seems likely to lose.This delay mechanism was not included in the
text published by Brussels last week.

Gordon Brown, meanwhile, facing a Commons debate on European reform on
Wednesday, insisted yesterday that he too would block the new treaty if it does
not meet Britain's so-called "red lines".

British negotiators, however, indicated on Friday that they were happy with the
text, which solidifies an opt-out promised to Britain on police and judicial
co-operation. "It delivers our red lines on justice and home affairs. We will
now read the treaty carefully to check that it contains all of our red lines in
full," said one high-ranking official.

EU leaders will be relieved that the Prime Minister's decision to rule out an
early election means he is less vulnerable to political pressure for a
referendum on the treaty. The Conservatives, who say the new treaty is 90 per
cent the same as the text rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005, UKIP and
some Labour MPs argue that, regardless of the "red lines", a referendum is
needed.

Of the 27 EU nations, only Ireland is compelled by its constitution to hold a
referendum before it can ratify the new treaty.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                October 7, 2007
                                 First Edition

The BNP: should its supporters be heard?;
Message Board;
Our report on the shadow minister who claimed BNP sympathisers had 'legitimate
views' drew a heated response from visitors to independent.co.uk/IoSblogs

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 265 words


"""

D Whittaker

How long will the BNP be frozen out by media vilification? Even the comments of
ethnic minority figures recognising that BNP voters have legitimate concerns are
slammed by the out-of-touch liberal establishment.

"""

Mike

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi is deluded if she believes the nitwits vote BNP because
they're upset about inadequate tracking of immigrants. She ensures yet another
electoral disaster for the Tories

"""

Guessedworker

Mike, are we under some special moral obligation to immerse ourselves in the
bottomless seas of the Third World? Or can we assert the right of the English to
England?

"""

Bob

Shocking. Imagine it, freedom of speech in this country! The Tories are so far
right now that soon they'll be intoning that old BNP mantra, "British jobs for
British workers".

"""

Chris

You've only got to look at the amount of racism on any blog to see that it needs
fighting. The Conservative Party has been taken over by racist entryists from
the BNP and Ukip. Ordinary British people aren't racist .

"""

Lee

According to modern morals, it was wrong for the white man to take America away
from the Native Indians and South Africa from the Africans. Anyone who champions
the ANC yet calls the BNP "racist" is a hypocrite.

"""

Peter Gardner

When Britain has no right under EU law to restrict migration from 26 other EU
countries with a combined population of 450 million, Lady Warsi's comment
doesn't seem unreasonable.

"""

Charon Jacobs

The world belongs to us all and we have a responsibility to learn tolerance and
live in harmony. What is the alternative? Discord and futile hatred of others.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 7, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Riled Samantha shows her roots;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 477  words


SAMANTHA Cameron received some gentle teasing about her privileged background
when she claimed to have been brought up "near Scunthorpe" - without mentioning
that this meant her family's 300-acre Normanby Hall estate.

But it seems the wife of the Tory leader, and daughter of baronet Sir Reginald
Sheffield, may have the common touch after all.

After being caught on a live microphone lamenting the performance of the Tory
football team in a 10-0 thrashing by the press this week, Samantha launched a
foul-mouthed tirade against the hapless television producer responsible. "The
air turned blue, " said one startled onlooker. "It was more Grimsby fishwife
than lady of the manor."

.HEALTH Secretary Alan Johnson reveals he was a huge fan of David Bowie during
the star's glam rock heyday in the Seventies. "I was a Bowie freak for a while
but I didn't paint my face because, married with three kids, it would not have
looked right, " he says. Shame!

THE UK Independence Party was forced to change the venue of its annual
conference this week after organisers found they would be next door to the Skin
Two Expo, billed as the world's biggest showcase for fetish and S&M gear. A
party spokesman said: "We didn't want our more sensitive members turning right
instead of left and buying a whip instead of a Ukip umbrella."

MUCH merriment at Tory HQ this week about the Guardian newspaper's attempt to
name the party's 142strong election "war machine". Genial press chief Henry
Macrory became Henry Macrony, while research head Oliver Dowden was rechristened
Olive. "It's the second time he has been the victim of a spelling mistake, "
says one insider. "Even David Cameron calls him Olive now."

LIB DEM MP Mark Oaten is keeping his chin up despite being forced to quit
front-line politics over revelations of an affair with a rent boy. He explains:
"Scandal once meant ruin - you simply had to disappear. Now, the cult of
celebrity has allowed victims to transform their notoriety into fame in order to
survive. My wife Belinda and I have been offered every reality TV show under the
sun. With the very large sums of money involved it can be very tempting." You'd
have thought he'd have learned his lesson about temptation. . .

FORMER Home Secretary David Blunkett has been having trouble with "racist"
letters from a 75-year-old woman. "How do you deal with someone like that except
to thump them? And you can't do that to a 75-year-old, " he fumes. "Although I
am not ageist, " he adds quickly.

STRATEGISTS plotting David Cameron's election tour have now been stood down.
However they'd already decided not to hire the helicopter enjoyed by Michael
Howard during the 2005 campaign because it could tarnish Cameron's "green"
credentials. "Even the hire company described it as the Chelsea Tractor of the
skies, " explains one.

"That's not quite the image we're looking for."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 7, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Riled Samantha shows her roots;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 477  words


SAMANTHA Cameron received some gentle teasing about her privileged background
when she claimed to have been brought up "near Scunthorpe" - without mentioning
that this meant her family's 300-acre Normanby Hall estate.

But it seems the wife of the Tory leader, and daughter of baronet Sir Reginald
Sheffield, may have the common touch after all.

After being caught on a live microphone lamenting the performance of the Tory
football team in a 10-0 thrashing by the press this week, Samantha launched a
foul-mouthed tirade against the hapless television producer responsible. "The
air turned blue, " said one startled onlooker. "It was more Grimsby fishwife
than lady of the manor."

.HEALTH Secretary Alan Johnson reveals he was a huge fan of David Bowie during
the star's glam rock heyday in the Seventies. "I was a Bowie freak for a while
but I didn't paint my face because, married with three kids, it would not have
looked right, " he says. Shame!

THE UK Independence Party was forced to change the venue of its annual
conference this week after organisers found they would be next door to the Skin
Two Expo, billed as the world's biggest showcase for fetish and S&M gear. A
party spokesman said: "We didn't want our more sensitive members turning right
instead of left and buying a whip instead of a Ukip umbrella."

MUCH merriment at Tory HQ this week about the Guardian newspaper's attempt to
name the party's 142strong election "war machine". Genial press chief Henry
Macrory became Henry Macrony, while research head Oliver Dowden was rechristened
Olive. "It's the second time he has been the victim of a spelling mistake, "
says one insider. "Even David Cameron calls him Olive now."

LIB DEM MP Mark Oaten is keeping his chin up despite being forced to quit
front-line politics over revelations of an affair with a rent boy. He explains:
"Scandal once meant ruin - you simply had to disappear. Now, the cult of
celebrity has allowed victims to transform their notoriety into fame in order to
survive. My wife Belinda and I have been offered every reality TV show under the
sun. With the very large sums of money involved it can be very tempting." You'd
have thought he'd have learned his lesson about temptation. . .

FORMER Home Secretary David Blunkett has been having trouble with "racist"
letters from a 75-year-old woman. "How do you deal with someone like that except
to thump them? And you can't do that to a 75-year-old, " he fumes. "Although I
am not ageist, " he adds quickly.

STRATEGISTS plotting David Cameron's election tour have now been stood down.
However they'd already decided not to hire the helicopter enjoyed by Michael
Howard during the 2005 campaign because it could tarnish Cameron's "green"
credentials. "Even the hire company described it as the Chelsea Tractor of the
skies, " explains one.

"That's not quite the image we're looking for."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday

UKIP wants f ive-year migrant ban

SECTION: 2ND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words


THE UK Independence Party would introduce a five-year moratorium on all
immigration if elected, its leader said yesterday.

Nigel Farage said the move would give Britain much-needed breathing space from
current levels of immigration, which he called an 'absolute mess'.

He added that a freeze would allow officials to address the issue of illegal
immigrants without being overwhelmed.

Mr Farage told the UKIP conference in Limehouse, East London, that waves of
migration - especially from Eastern Europe - were putting too much pressure on
public services, as well as leading to an increase in tension within
communities.

He added that the situation was 'putting an unfair burden on the citizen'. The
UKIP Your Daily Mail EuroMillions leader said: 'Most worryingly, what we are now
seeing is a sharp increase in social tension between the different ethnic
groups. We have long been the country that has been tolerant, we have long been
the country that has easily absorbed different migrations, but the scale of what
has happened over the last three years dwarfs anything that has ever happened in
our history.' In a 22-minute speech delivered in the unscripted style used by
David Cameron at the Tory Party conference earlier this week, Mr Farage
declared: 'That is why we believe that there now needs to be a five-year
moratorium on any new immigration to this country.

'We need that time to assess who is here legally and who is here illegally.'

The UKIP leader conceded that his party was probably not prepared for a possible
snap autumn general election but said it had a duty to fight, accusing the
mainstream parties of perpetuating the 'charade' that the UK was still governed
from Westminster, rather than Brussels.

He sounded a warning over the revived EU Constitution, cautioning that the Prime
Minister could seek an alternative referendum to sneak the treaty though.

The UKIP leader said: 'It may well be that we do get a referendum. But we may
not get a referendum on this treaty.

'Brown may well think, if he is forced into giving us a referendum, he'll have
to give us one on whether we stay in the EU.

'At that moment in time ... fair-weather friends will melt away ... and we will
find that the only political party around...to fight that campaign will be the
UK Independence Party.' Other motions to be voted on at the conference include
plans for National Service for 17-year-olds and a tax on foreign lorry drivers
entering the UK..

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP's going against flow

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 74 words


UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage set immigration at the heart of his
agenda for a possible November General Election.

The MEP wants immigration halted for five years to take the strain off public
services.

At UKIP's conference in Limehouse, east London, Farage warned: "The UK has been
tolerant for years but we now need a fiveyear moratorium on new immigration.

"We need that time to assess who is here legally and who is here illegally."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP's going against flow

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 74 words


UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage set immigration at the heart of his
agenda for a possible November General Election.

The MEP wants immigration halted for five years to take the strain off public
services.

At UKIP's conference in Limehouse, east London, Farage warned: "The UK has been
tolerant for years but we now need a fiveyear moratorium on new immigration.

"We need that time to assess who is here legally and who is here illegally."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday

Britain - UKIP leader looks to end immigration

LENGTH: 102 words


UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage placed hostility to immigrants at the
heart of his party's policy agenda on Friday, at the far-right party's annual
conference.

Mr Farage said that he wanted to see all immigration halted for the next five
years to take the strain off public services.

Addressing the conference in Limehouse, east London, he claimed that immigration
was an "absolute mess" and was leading to an increase in community tension.

Mr Farage also attacked those outside UKIP calling for a referendum on the EU
treaty. He claimed that such people were "fair-weather friends" who would "melt
away."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday

Ukip appoints sacked EU whistleblower as treasurer

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Politics; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 159 words


THE Brussels whistleblower sacked in 2004 for exposing an alleged lack of
control over EU finances was last night given a key role in the UK Independence
Party.

Marta Andreasen, who famously described the EU's pounds 63 billion budget as "an
open till waiting to be robbed'', was appointed as the new treasurer of the
anti-Brussels party.

The move - ahead of Ukip's annual conference - is designed to restore confidence
in the party and encourage donors to fund it in the wake of an embarrassing row
with the Electoral Commission.

The watchdog ruled that more than pounds 360,000 of donations to the party were
"impermissible''. A court later decided that Ukip need only repay pounds 18,481,
although the commission is now seeking

a judicial review of the ruling.

Mrs Andreasen, a Spanish citizen and former chief accountant, caused a huge
storm by condemning the EU's "Enron-style'' book-keeping.

Yesterday, she said: "The European dream has become a nightmare.''

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

TOM WISE, the Eastern region;
Sports Agenda

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: 2ND; Pg. 95

LENGTH: 68 words


TOM WISE, the Eastern region MEP for the UK Independence Party, who made the
'gangster and racketeer' allegations against Usmanov, is himself under
investigation by the European Parliament over allegedly fiddling his expenses
after he was said to have claimed an allowance of £36,000 for a researcher whom
he was paying only £6,000. He is suspended from making comments on behalf of
UKIP.

c.sale@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 95

LENGTH: 64 words


TOM WISE, the Eastern region MEP for the UK Independence Party, who made the
'gangster and racketeer' allegations against Usmanov, is himself under
investigation by the European Parliament over allegedly fiddling his expenses
after he was said to have claimed an allowance of £36,000 for a researcher whom
he was paying only £6,000. He is suspended from making comments on behalf of
UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 4, 2007 Thursday 10:43 PM GMT

EU Whistleblower gives UKIP a boost

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 318 words


I've just heard an intriguing rumour. Marta Andreasen, who was sacked as the
EU's chief accountant after exposing some dodgy accounting practices, has
apparently agreed to become treasurer of UKIP.

Marta Andreasen will bring integrity to UKIP's accounts

If true, it's a huge boost for the anti-Brussels party, which has been subjected
to a series of allegations about its money over the past six months. One of its
MEPs, Tom Wise (or, as I now think of him, Tom Fool) is being investigated over
accusations of having improperly trousered thousands of pounds from his
allowances: quite a feat when Euro-allowances are generally handed over
unconditionally and without any need for receipts. At the same time, the party
has been in court over a donation.

Now I hold no brief for UKIP, which threatens to do Brown's work for him by
splitting the Euro-sceptic vote. But it is hard not to feel that the party has
been badly treated by the authorities. The funding rules were introduced to
discourage secret donations by dodgy businessmen; but the UKIP donor made no
attempt to disguise either his identity or the fact of his gift. He was nabbed,
rather, on a technicality: having moved house, he was late in registering to
vote, and was therefore not on the rolls when the payment was made. That the
Electoral Commission should spend so much time pursuing this case, while
presiding over an unprecedented increase in electoral fraud, reveals a strange
sense of priorities.

Still, Marta Andreasen's appointment ought to put an end to any suspicions. She
is, like all whistleblowers, a person of huge integrity. A bit angular,
sometimes, even prickly; but fundamentally a good and high-minded woman. That's
why the Kinnocks hated her so much. If she says that the UKIP accounts are in
order, that'll be good enough for me and, I suspect, for Fleet Street.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 4, 2007 Thursday 4:27 AM GMT

Cameron proves he's got what it takes

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 449 words


Come on, guys. What do you mean it was oratory rather than substance? Weren't
you listening?

David Cameron set out realistic goals

People sometimes complain that politicians go in for gimmicks and clichs. But
how much truer this can be of commentators. The two points that have so far
drawn pundits to David Cameron's speech are that he used the word "pissed" and
that he spoke without notes. (Some of us in politics wonder at the patience and
thoroughness of those who manage to make speeches with notes, but never mind.)

The really interesting thing is surely what Cameron was saying , a point made by
the perspicacious Tim Montgomerie on ConservativeHome. Here was a thorough,
balanced election-winning and, yes, moral appeal. It worked as a speech, too: I
detected the deft hand of Danny Kruger more than once.

Never mind the apparently extraordinary feat of being able to talk without
reading. Focus instead on the picture of how life might improve under a
Conservative government. David Cameron promised to empower local government, to
end the state monopoly in education, to tackle the terrorist menace, to
strengthen the Atlantic alliance, to let the country vote on the
Euro-constitution, to tackle family breakdown. He spoke in a modest,
matter-of-fact way, not promising the stars, but holding out realistic goals. I
refuse to believe that any fair-minded person could have sat through this speech
and through the Broon's dreich dirge last week, and not concluded that Cameron
would make the better leader.

I can already hear the comments of the UKIP supporters who occasionally post on
this blog: Hannan is going soft, he's selling out, he's sucking up to his leader
in the hope of preferment. Well, heaven knows I've had my differences with David
Cameron, as Tim Montgomerie has. And, although I admire what he is now doing,
the admiration is, as far as I can tell, wholly unreciprocated. Nor am I in the
market for jobs: I am determined to stay on the back benches, free to advance
such outr ideas as the notion that Britain might prosper outside the EU. All I
ask is that you look fair-mindedly at what the chap is actually saying, rather
than what you might have expected him to say.

The idea has got about that David Cameron is callow and publicity-obsessed,
while Gordon Brown is a heavyweight. Yet it is now becoming clear that, in
policy terms, the reverse is true. It is Cameron who has a plan for the
amelioration of the country, while the Broon is revealed as petty, jobbing and
partisan. Only one of these two men can be Prime Minister. Really, even for you
Ukippers out there, it ought to be a no-brainer.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday

Usmanov fears Dein's role in Arsenal dream

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 813 words


ALISHER Usmanov, the Uzbekistanborn Russian billionaire stalking Arsenal, saved
his most hostile message in Moscow yesterday for his own business partner, David
Dein.

Usmanov, who has spent £120million in 28 days building a 23 per cent stake in
Arsenal through the Dein-chaired Red and White holdings, said he does not want
to be a 'hostage' to the former Arsenal vicechairman's hugely acrimonious fight
with the board.

Dein's relationship with the London club's hierarchy broke down beyond repair
when he helped American Stan Kroenke buy Granada's shareholding in Arsenal.

Dein left the club and sold his 14.58 per cent stake to Usmanov, which was just
the start of the Russian's aggressive acquisition of shares. The Arsenal board
feared that Usmanov was planning to take over as soon as possible.

But Usmanov, in a wideranging charm offensive at the From the Moscow offices of
his business empire, Alisher Usmanov tells CHARLES SALE why he paid £120million
for a stake in Arsenal...

Moscow headquarters of his iron and steel, media and sports empires, stressed
not only that he had told Dein not to upset his increasingly friendly
relationship with Arsenal, but also said he had no immediate plans to mount a
bid for the club.

Following Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood's assertion that 'business is murky
in Uzbekistan', Usmanov also wanted to dispel fears about the way he has amassed
his fortune as he talked to a party of journalists, whom he had flown to and
from Moscow by private jet and put up at the five-star Kempinski Hotel.

Usmanov, whose sizeable girth demonstrated his love of 'Guinness, lager and
English pubs', explained, while sitting behind his wood-panelled desk in an
office that contained a huge map of the world, why he does not want Dein
destroying his love affair with Arsenal.

But, confusingly, Usmanov -- who has had negotiations to buy into Liverpool and
Tottenham and has a private box at Chelsea as well as the Emirates Stadium --
also said he would have stopped being an Arsenal fan if he could have bought
Manchester United.

'I'm grateful that David Dein sold his shares to me,' he said.

'But I don't want his relationship with the board affecting my relationship with
them.

'What we found with David and the board are two different pictures and we don't
want to end up between a rock and a hard place. We gave David the full market
value for his shares and made him non-executive chairman out of respect for his
love of Arsenal and because it was his life for 24 years. But we don't want to
be hostage to any hostilities that exist between him and the board.

'We don't have any central role for him because there isn't one but we will be
loyal to David and very respectful of the Arsenal board.' Relationships between
the club and Usmanov have improved since his right-hand man Farhad Moshiri met
with managing director Keith Edelman and chairman Peter Hill-Wood last week.

Usmanov said: 'We are very comfortable with the board and the shareholders. We
are happy with our 23 per cent, which maybe we will increase to 25 per cent.
However, the dynamic changes if one of the significant shareholders sell.

'The club is in an excellent state and there is an understanding between us. Now
we are planning a meeting between Mr Edelman and myself and issuing a joint
communique. Maybe we agree a lock-in (agreeing not to sell shares) with the
board ourselves.

'I really fell in love with Arsenal when Arsene Wenger took over as manager.
He's the best manager in the world and has a real clear knowledge of the
direction that British football is going.' Usmanov, who has made one visit to
the Emirates Stadium to watch Arsenal beat Manchester United 2-1 in January, has
a sketchy knowledge of football at best.

He described the 1966 England World Cup winning side as the 'Great British
national team', while his memories of Wenger's two Double-winning sides at
Arsenal included goalkeeper Jens Lehmann, full back Gael Clichy and Brazil
midfielder Gilberto, none of whom were at the club during that time.

But Usmanov, who dislikes being called a Russian oligarch, having had no
Government assistance in building up his huge business portfolio, has no doubt
that he has been wrongly portrayed in Britain.

'There has been a big amount of prejudicial material,' he said.

'Some of it going into open libel and insult. I'm not a whipping boy, I expect
to be treated with the same respect that I show other people. All my life I have
been trying to prove that I am worthy of the same surname as my parents.'
Usmanov added that Tom Wise, the UKIP MEP who had described him as a gangster
and racketeer, would have those comments 'on his conscience'.

He also insisted his six-year jail sentence set down by a military tribunal in
Uzbekistan was politically motivated and he was innocent of all charges.

He was pardoned by former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.

c.sale@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Don't worry: Usmanov insists he is not planning a takeover ... for now

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday

Usmanov fears Dein's role in Arsenal dream

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 813 words


From the Moscow offices of his business empire, Alisher Usmanov tells CHARLES
SALE why he paid £120million for a stake in Arsenal...

ALISHER Usmanov, the Uzbekistanborn Russian billionaire stalking Arsenal, saved
his most hostile message in Moscow yesterday for his own business partner, David
Dein.

Usmanov, who has spent £120million in 28 days building a 23 per cent stake in
Arsenal through the Dein-chaired Red and White holdings, said he does not want
to be a 'hostage' to the former Arsenal vicechairman's hugely acrimonious fight
with the board.

Dein's relationship with the London club's hierarchy broke down beyond repair
when he helped American Stan Kroenke buy Granada's shareholding in Arsenal.

Dein left the club and sold his 14.58 per cent stake to Usmanov, which was just
the start of the Russian's aggressive acquisition of shares. The Arsenal board
feared that Usmanov was planning to take over as soon as possible.

But Usmanov, in a wideranging charm offensive at the Moscow headquarters of his
iron and steel, media and sports empires, stressed not only that he had told
Dein not to upset his increasingly friendly relationship with Arsenal, but also
said he had no immediate plans to mount a bid for the club.

FOLLOWING Arsenal chairman Peter Hill- Wood's assertion that 'business is murky
in Uzbekistan', Usmanov also wanted to dispel fears about the way he has amassed
his fortune as he talked to a party of journalists, whom he had flown to and
from Moscow by private jet and put up at the five-star Kempinski Hotel.

Usmanov, whose sizeable girth demonstrated his love of 'Guinness, lager and
English pubs', explained, while sitting behind his wood-panelled desk in an
office that contained a huge map of the world, why he does not want Dein
destroying his love affair with Arsenal.

But, confusingly, Usmanov who has had negotiations to buy into Liverpool and
Tottenham and has a private box at Chelsea as well as the Emirates Stadium also
said he would have stopped being an Arsenal fan if he could have bought
Manchester United.

'I'm grateful that David Dein sold his shares to me,' he said.

'But I don't want his relationship with the board affecting my relationship with
them.

'What we found with David and the board are two different pictures and we don't
want to end up between a rock and a hard place. We gave David the full market
value for his shares and made him non-executive chairman out of respect for his
love of Arsenal and because it was his life for 24 years. But we don't want to
be hostage to any hostilities that exist between him and the board.

'We don't have any central role for him because there isn't one but we will be
loyal to David and very respectful of the Arsenal board.' Relationships between
the club and Usmanov have improved since his right-hand man Farhad Moshiri met
with managing director Keith Edelman and chairman Peter Hill-Wood last week.

Usmanov said: 'We are very comfortable with the board and the shareholders. We
are happy with our 23 per cent, which maybe we will increase to 25 per cent.
However, the dynamic changes if one of the significant shareholders sell.

'The club is in an excellent state and there is an understanding between us. Now
we are planning a meeting between Mr Edelman and myself and issuing a joint
communique. Maybe we agree a lock-in (agreeing not to sell shares) with the
board ourselves.

'I really fell in love with Arsenal when Arsene Wenger took over as manager.
He's the best manager in the world and has a real clear knowledge of the
direction that British football is going.'

USMANOV, who has made one visit to the Emirates Stadium to watch Arsenal beat
Manchester United 2-1 in January, has a sketchy knowledge of football at best.

He described the 1966 England World Cup winning side as the 'Great British
national team', while his memories of Wenger's two Double-winning sides at
Arsenal included goalkeeper Jens Lehmann, full back Gael Clichy and Brazil
midfielder Gilberto, none of whom were at the club during that time.

But Usmanov, who dislikes being called a Russian oligarch, having had no
Government assistance in building up his huge business portfolio, has no doubt
that he has been wrongly portrayed in Britain.

'There has been a big amount of prejudicial material,' he said.

'Some of it going into open libel and insult. I'm not a whipping boy, I expect
to be treated with the same respect that I show other people. All my life I have
been trying to prove that I am worthy of the same surname as my parents.'
Usmanov added that Tom Wise, the UKIP MEP who had described him as a gangster
and racketeer, would have those comments 'on his conscience'.

He also insisted his six-year jail sentence set down by a military tribunal in
Uzbekistan was politically motivated and he was innocent of all charges.

He was pardoned by former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.

c.sale@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Don't worry: Usmanov insists he is not planning a takeover ... for now

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 3, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Hague condemns 'political deceit' of new EU treaty

BYLINE: Colin Brown and Ben Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 558 words


David Cameron staked out his position on Europe yesterday by guaranteeing a
referendum on any future transfers of power to the European Union if the Tories
are elected.

The Tory leader has already committed to holding a referendum on the current
negotiations if he wins power, but he went a step further yesterday by vowing
that a Conservative government would change the 1972 European Communities Act
that paved the way for Britain's entry to the EU as a means of forcing future
governments to hold a referendum on further transfers of power.

The commitment was also seen by many as a move to counter the appeal of Ukip in
winning over Eurosceptic Tories at the next general election.

However, Mr Cameron has privately admitted he is concerned that Tory polling has
shown most people believe the issue of Europe is more important to the
Conservative Party than it is to ordinary voters.

Mr Brown is facing a difficult EU summit on 18 October at which the Portuguese
presidency is hoping to win approval for the new EU treaty. If he calls a
general election before that date, the referendum debate is sure to become one
of the major dividing lines in the campaign.

William Hague, the shadow Foreign Secretary, won rapturous applause yesterday
from Tories at their annual conference in Blackpool by saying the party would be
the only one of three main parties fighting the election on a pledge to hold a
referendum.

"A Conservative government elected this autumn will hold a referendum on any EU
treaty which emerges from the current negotiations," said Mr Hague. "I can tell
you today that we will go further: the next Conservative government will amend
the 1972 European Communities Act so that if any future government agrees any
treaty that transfers further competences from Britain to the EU a national
referendum before it could be ratified would be required by law."

Accusing Labour and the Liberal Democrats of reneging on promises to hold a
referendum, Mr Hague branded attempts to portray the EU treaty as fundamentally
different from the earlier constitution "one of the most bare-faced and
deliberate misrepresentations in the modern annals of political deceit".

In a preview of the Tory election campaign, he said: "Labour promised a
referendum on the constitution at the last election. Without holding one on a
treaty so similar, Gordon Brown has no democratic mandate to surrender the
rights and powers of ... this country."

But he stressed the Tories would not be offering to pull out of the EU. "Our
commitment to the EU lies in our friendship with our neighbours, our belief in
an open common market and our determination to make it a force for good," he
said.

Calls for a referendum on the treaty were rejected yesterday by Jim Murphy, the
minister for Europe. MPs called for the deal to be delayed to allow greater
scrutiny, but Mr Murphy insisted that MPs would be able to go through the treaty
"in detail" after it was formally approved in December. He said: "The Prime
Minister has said again that if we achieve our red lines we see no need for a
referendum."

Replying to a plea by the Labour MP Kelvin Hopkins for the negotiations to be
put back by a year Mr Murphy said: "I'm not sure there is a compelling case for
a delay. It will ultimately be up to Parliament whether it wishes to pass or to
delay or to amend or reject the treaty."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 2, 2007 Tuesday

Influential 100 Big hitters who shape thinking and policy on the Right

SECTION: NEWS; Conservatives at Blackpool; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1967 words


A Liberal Democrat and a civil liberties campaigner often associated with the
Left also carry surprising clout on the Right of British politics, The Daily
Telegraph reveals today.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, and Shami
Chakrabarti, director of the campaigning group Liberty, appear in the latest
instalment of the top 100 most influential figures on the Right, compiled and
published to coincide with the Conservative conference in Blackpool.

50 SIR ANDREW GREEN

Director, MigrationWatch

Castigated by the Left, Sir Andrew has ploughed a sometimes lonely furrow in
alerting the country to the dangers of excessive

immigration. He has been a powerful advocate of managed immigration and had a
genuine influence on a controversial debate.

It drives the Left wild that they cannot lay the badge of 'racist' on him.

49 JOHN

MAPLES MP

Deputy chairman (candidates), Conservative Party

Whoever is in charge of party candidates has not only influence but power -
power to break political careers and promote individual candidates.

Maples operates in a quiet, discreet way but is adamant on continuing the drive
to select more female candidates. He inherited the controversial A-list but has
skilfully ditched it, to all intents and purposes.

48 NIGEL

FARAGE MEP

Leader, United Kingdom Independence Party

Charismatic and unfailingly ebullient, Farage was seen as the man to take UKIP
onto the next stage. Instead, he's presided over a party that has leaked
members, is virtually bankrupt and failed in its stated aim to attract large
numbers of Tories disaffected by Cameron's soft approach to hard core issues. If
Farage was doing well, he'd be in the top 30.

47 STEPHEN GILBERT

Director, Target Seats Campaign

A former chief executive of the party, Gilbert is now Michael Ashcroft's
right-hand man in planning and delivering the Tories' campaign in marginal
seats. Party agents were delighted when he returned to Central Office to direct
the general election effort, along with another party stalwart, Gavin Barwell.
Gilbert knows everyone there is to know in the party, hence his influence.

46 SIR MICHAEL SPICER MP

Chairman, 1922 Committee

Sir Michael is standing down at the next election but until then his influence
remains. A shrewd tester of the political tea leaves, he has now had to preside
over three leadership changes. He knew Iain Duncan Smith was in trouble before
IDS himself did. One of the few politicians able to keep a secret. We can think
of no higher praise.

45 DOMINIC

GRIEVE MP

Shadow attorney general

If there was any justice in politics Dominic Grieve would have

been promoted to the shadow cabinet long ago. He is said to clash with David
Cameron over his powerful advocacy of civil liberties.

Grieve's work on 'diversity' issues has made him the most influential
Conservatives among many ethnic minority groups.

44 NICK CLEGG MP

Home affairs spokesman, Liberal Democrats

What's a LibDem doing on a list like this? Clegg is the leading Right of centre
disciple of 'Orange Book' politics. He's the antithesis of the stereotype 'beard
and sandals' LibDems, who mutter about him being a 'closet' Tory. He's the sort
of liberal who actually understands the historic meaning of the word and is
likely to become even more influential when he takes on Chris Huhne for the
LibDem leadership.

43 LORD HARRIS OF PECKHAM

Party donor

After David Cameron endorsed his City Academies, Philip Harris became a major
funder of his leadership campaign, giving pounds 90,000. He promised to raise
pounds 100 million for the party if Cameron became leader but party treasurers
are wondering when they will see it. He made his money from his carpets empire
and is said to be worth nearly pounds 1 billion.

42 ANDREW LANSLEY MP

Shadow health secretary

Said to be a favourite of the Tory leader, Lansley was Cameron's boss in the
party research department in the early 1990s. The recent attack on A & E and
maternity closures which backfired spectacularly in the media has done little to
help Lansley reinforce his position in the top echelons of the shadow cabinet.

41 MICHAEL HOWARD MP

Former Conservative leader

Without Michael Howard's patronage, David Cameron might still be an obscure
junior frontbencher. Having done all he could to ensure the Cameron succession,
Howard remains a key 'wise old owl' adviser to the leader. He was incandescent
about the grammar schools debacle but (just) managed to keep his temper in
check.

40 DAVID WILLETTS MP

Shadow secretary of state for innovations, universities and skills

David Willetts's influence has been on the wane ever since the Tory leadership
campaign where he lost credibility with both the Davis and Cameron camps for
trying to defect and then changing his mind. The blame for the grammar school
debacle in May was also placed at his door. An incredibly nice and clever man,
his time will surely come again. A thinker, the Rab Butler of the modern party.

39 SHAMI CHAKRABARTI

Director, Liberty

It is a measure of Shami Chakrabarti's growing influence that she is the only
person featured on this list and the Left-wing equivalent. She would be on a
Lib-Dem list too. She, more than anyone, has influenced Conservative civil
liberties policies. As long as there's a Home Office, her advice will be sought
by both David Davis and Nick Clegg. A huge influence on Davis.

38 LORD BRUCE-LOCKHART

Chairman, English Heritage

Sandy Bruce-Lockhart made his name as leader of Kent County Council and then as
chairman of the Local Government Association. Recently appointed chairman of
English Heritage, he may have bowed out of overt party politics but his
influence in the area of local government is still felt.

37 SIMON WOLFSON

Managing director, Next

At the age of 38, Simon Wolfson is one of the youngest MDs of a national chain
retailer. A donor to David Cameron's leadership campaign, he recently co-chaired
the party's economic competitiveness policy group alongside John Redwood.

36 RUTH LEA

Director of Studies, Centre for Policy Studies

Possibly the brainiest woman on this list, Ruth Lea positively bubbles with
policy ideas. Under her direction the CPS has again been at the forefront of
policy development on the Right after a slightly barren period. However, the CPS
still operates in the shadow of the bolder Policy Exchange, who seem better
equipped to gain media coverage. If they joined forces they would be truly
formidable.

35 CAROLINE SPELMAN

Chairman, Conservative Party

Spelman has only been in the job less than three months, hence her comparatively
low position.

Her influence is diminished by the power held by Michael Ashcroft and the
appointment of George Osborne as general election co-ordinator. Liked by
everyone, Spelman needs to carve out a new role for herself, which ought to
involve a much higher media profile.

34 LORD TRIMBLE

Former First Minister of Northern Ireland

When David Trimble took the Conservative whip last year many people assumed he
would be appointed to the front bench almost immediately. Instead he has taken
his time to learn the ropes. David Cameron knows his shadow cabinet lacks
experience and it would be surprising if Trimble didn't join it before too long.

33 ANTHONY BROWNE

Director, Policy Exchange

An ex-BBC and Times journalist, Anthony Browne took over the reins from Policy
Exchange's founder, Nicholas Boles, in May - a very tough act to follow. Policy
Exchange has established itself not only as the largest, but also the most
influential think-tank on the Right. Browne's task is to keep it there.

32 LORD HURD OF WESTWELL

Former foreign secretary

His steady stream of books (the latest a biography of Sir Robert Peel) keep him
in the limelight, but his influence is mainly on David Cameron who he advises
behind the scenes on foreign affairs. He is part of a group of 'wise men' who
meet monthly with Cameron to discuss international issues.

31 STUART

POLAK

Director, Conservative Friends of Israel

CFI has established itself as a highly effective lobby group. Polak regularly
takes leading Conservatives on trips to Israel to educate them. The sceptics
invariably return, if not indoctrinated, fully onside. A familiar face around
the corridors of the Houses of Parliament, he has done more than anyone else to
promote Israel's case to the Right of British politics.

30 KENNETH CLARKE MP

Former Chancellor

of the Exchequer

Every now and then he rears his head to show the Conservative Party what they
have missed. His piercing analysis of Gordon Brown's weaknesses in his Commons
speeches makes him one of the few MPs who are able to draw an audience into the
House of Commons chamber.

His presence on the Tory front bench is still sorely missed.

29 IAIN DUNCAN SMITH MP

Former Leader of the Conservative Party

IDS has slowly resurrected his reputation since his fall from the leadership and
has become the party's conscience on social justice.

His Social Justice Commission policy report this year was by far the most
comprehensive of the six commissions launched by David Cameron when he became
leader. It's as if IDS has got religion on the issue and his Centre for Social
Justice

has become a leader in its

field.

28 JONATHAN SACKS

Chief Rabbi

Jonathan Sacks is one of the few genuinely spiritual leaders to have an
influence on modern day politics - especially thinking on the Right.

He is the only religious representative in this list.

27 LORD STRATHCLYDE

Leader of the Conservatives in the House of Lords

The ebullient Tom Strathclyde is a hugely popular figure and has steadied the
uncertain ship left by Lord Cranborne (now Salisbury) when he struck a deal with
Tony Blair over Lords reform.

Strathclyde has managed to keep their Lordships on an even keel when the rest of
the party entered into its periodic bouts of internecine warfare. But there are
those who are muttering that perhaps he might soon move on to pastures new.

26 ROBERT EDMISTON

Conservative Party donor

A Christian evangelist, Robert Edmiston raised huge amounts of money for the
Conservative Party through the Midlands Industrial Council. He made his money
importing cars and is a keen funder of Solihull City Academy. Proposed for a
peerage in 2006, he was turned down by the Lords Appointments Commission.

75 LADY HODGSON

Chairman, Conservative Womens' Organisation

Under Fiona Hodgson's leadership, the Conservative Women's Organisation has
transformed into a more political body. Shadow cabinet ministers are now
required to consult the CWO on new policies, meaning that it has influence like
never before.

74 DAMIAN GREEN MP

Shadow minister for immigration

His career stalled under Michael Howard but his thoughtful approach to the
immigration brief has won him plaudits. He is a sure candidate for promotion.

73 LORD SHEIKH

Chairman, Conservative Muslim Forum

Mohamed Sheikh is a Conservative Party donor and runs the influential
Conservative Muslim Forum. He made his money in insurance and is now a key voice
in the Conservatives' drive to formulate policies on social cohesion.

72 ED VAIZEY MP

Shadow minister for culture, media & sport

A former barrister and lobbyist, Ed Vaizey is one of the Tory front bench's most
effective media performers. A university friend of David Cameron, he is part of
the leader's close circle of advisers - but his rise up the "greasy pole'' has
been a little too easy in the view of some.

71 JESSE NORMAN

Conservative candidate for Hereford

Jesse Norman is one of the leading lights in the new wave of thinkers in the
Conservative Party and his writings give some philosophical ballast to David
Cameron's policy agenda. A key figure in Policy Exchange, he is now
concentrating on winning back the marginal seat of Hereford from the Liberal
Democrats. If he succeeds, bet on him joining the shadow cabinet within three
years.

70 ANNE JENKIN

Treasurer, Women2Win

Anne Jenkin, wife of Tory MP Bernard Jenkin, is the driving force behind
Women2Win, a

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
