
                               1 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

The Tories talk tough on Europe

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 103 words


SHADOW Chancellor George Osborne last night pledged to block any attempt to
usher in the European Constitution by the back door.

The hardline stance is part of an attempt to prevent Eurosceptic Tories
deserting to the UK Independence Party.

Next week David Cameron will unveil an alliance with the Czech prime minister
Mirek Topolanek to stand up to Brussels' attempts to railroad through a new EU
blueprint.

In his first speech on Europe last night, Mr Osborne told the Centre for
European Reform that the EU needed a ' complete change of direction' to be more
competitive with burgeoning economies such as China and India.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          February 28, 2007 Wednesday

Tories talking tough on Europe

SECTION: ED 2ND; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 310 words


SHADOW Chancellor George Osborne last night pledged to block a bid by Tony Blair
to usher in the European Constitution by the back door.

The hardline stance was part of a new attempt by the Tory leadership to prevent
Eurosceptic MPs deserting to the UK Independence Party.

David Cameron will next week unveil an alliance with the Czech prime minister to
stand up to attempts by Brussels to railroad through a new EU blueprint.

In his first speech on Europe last night, Mr Osborne told the Centre for
European Reform the EU needed a 'complete change of direction' to be more
competitive with burgeoning economies such as China and India.

He warned that a revived EU constitution would threaten the ability of nation
states to compete with the rest of the world.

Quoting Bill Clinton's famous phrase, Mr Osborne said: 'With close to 20million
people unemployed, millions more economically inactive, our competitiveness
falling and economic power shifting east Europe has to wake up and realise: it's
the economy, stupid.

'The EU has not understood that it needs a complete change of direction. It
hasn't understood that today the primary challenge we face is an economic one
not a political one.' German chancellor Angela Merkel, who holds the current
six-month presidency, is trying to resurrect the constitution, which would force
Britain to surrender voting rights on justice and home affairs and create an EU
foreign minister.

There was speculation last weekend that Mr Blair will sign a declaration of
intent at a meeting in Berlin next month.

The Daily Mail led calls for a referendum four years ago. In the end the
constitution was rejected by voters in France and the Netherlands two years ago.

Mr Osborne added: 'We will oppose those attempts to revive the constitution . .
. we will demand a referendum here in the UK just as we did so successfully back
in 2004.'

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 28, 2007

Ukip may split over suspension of MEP

LENGTH: 847 words



HIGHLIGHT: At least three MEPs on verge of walking outTwist in disabled
candidate row as party releases threatening email


At least three of Ukip's 10 MEPs are on the verge of walking out of the party,
in yet another blow for the beleaguered organisation, the Guardian has learned.

The pending split comes amid increasing discontentment about Nigel Farage's
leadership and is prompted by the United Kingdom Independence party's decision
to suspend an MEP this morning after the European Anti-Fraud Office said it was
investigating his use of European parliament money.

The party faced further embarrassment this afternoon as it became embroiled in a
row with a disabled would-be candidate.

Last week the Electoral Commission announced that it was applying for the party
to forfeit a third of a million pounds in "impermissible" donations -
potentially bankrupting it.

The money was given by a British man who was resident in the UK but not on the
electoral register at the time of his gift.

Roger Knapman, a former leader the party, said: "A number of Ukip MEPs are
appalled at the prejudicial decision to suspend Tom Wise and will be meeting
within the next few days to discuss the future of the group."

Mr Wise could not be reached today, but a spokesman for Ukip had previously said
that both a European parliament inquiry and an internal party review into his
use of public money, which focuses on how he paid a researcher, had found no
evidence that Mr Wise had sought to benefit personally from the arrangement.

Mike Nattrass, a third MEP, is also said to be considering quitting. The
Guardian could not contact him today.

In a statement, Ukip said: "The decision has been made today to suspend Tom Wise
from the UK Independence party group in the European parliament, for failure to
provide information regarding alleged financial irregularities that are now
under investigation by OLAF [the European Anti-Fraud Office]."

John Whittaker, the party's chairman, said, "This decision should in no way be
interpreted as prejudicial to the outcome of that inquiry.

"The decision was taken at a meeting of the MEPs in Brussels which was the first
opportunity we have had to discuss this matter."

It was revealed this afternoon that the party had told a man he could not be a
full Ukip candidate because he was disabled.

Instead it offered to make him a "paper" candidate - a phrase normally regarded
as indicating someone who does not run a proper campaign because he or she has
no hope of winning the seat.

But the party hit back by releasing an email it said it had received from Jack
Biggs, in which he threatened to tell the press about their remarks unless they
withdrew a candidate who is running against his daughter, a councilor in another
council ward.

He added: "I have been special forces. I am a very good friend but a very bad
enemy."

The saga began when Vicki Sharp, chair of the South Dorset Constituency
Association, wrote to would-be councillor Mr Biggs: "Unfortunately, I have to
tell you that, in view of your being registered disabled you will not be able to
stand as a full candidate for Ukip.

"We would however like you to be a paper candidate."

She added: "You say in your letter that as a consequence of your disability you
are 'useless' at leafleting.

"This is why we are delivering leaflets now that will find people who will put
posters in their windows and hopefully help you with your campaign.

"Far from being, as you say, 'a waste of effort', this has proved very effective
in many areas in the past."

Mr Biggs took the letter to his local paper, the Dorset Echo, saying he was
furious at the "disgusting" decision.

He added: "I said I could canvass in slow time but not post leaflets because of
my legs.

"I told the 650 people who voted for me that I would not stand again for the
council but Ukip talked me into standing for them.

"Ukip withdrew its support when they found out I was registered disabled
following a double knee replacement.

"I'm very angry at this discrimination so I'll be standing as an independent."

But Ukip has now released an email exchange in which Mr Biggs - who could not be
contacted by the Guardian - wrote: "If you stay on track, ignoring me, but
trying to unseat my Ukip-minded daughter I will take the story for the Echo, ref
you do not want disabled candidates for Ukip.

"You have 24 hours to reconsider your position before I see one of my friend
reporters on the Echo with the disability story."

A spokesman said: "The party have bent over backwards to help Mr Biggs, who
wanted to stand for the party but admitted that he could not take on the
responsibility of being a full candidate.

"The decision was taken to offer Mr Biggs a paper candidacy, meaning that he
would not be expected to do all the work himself, but that party members would
help him in his campaign.

"Indeed, the ward he was offered had already been completely leafleted by local
branch members.

"Unfortunately, this story has been spun on its head.

"Mr Biggs found out shortly afterwards that the party were putting a candidate
against his daughter, who is a sitting, independent councillor, and he wanted to
force the party to take their candidate out of contention."

Read the email correspondence here

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               4 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 26, 2007 Monday

Selective treatment

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 129 words


SIR - I find it alarming that millions of dodgy pounds can be donated to the
three major parties with little noise or action from the Electoral Commission,
yet mention donations of pounds 360,000 to Ukip and the commission arrives with
all guns blazing (report, February 24).

It will apply for the forfeiture of these donations because the donor, Alan
Bown, was not on the electoral register between December 2004 and January 2006.
Surely such a heinous crime deserves life imprisonment.

It is doubtful that the commission, in different circumstances, would have had
the bottle to advocate such a draconian penalty had the political party been the
Scottish National Party or Plaid Cymru. The decision records a new low on the
British political scene.

Bob Wydell

Oswestry, Shropshire

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 26, 2007 Monday

Ukip is facing fresh allegations over finances

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin and Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words


THE UK Independence Party was confronted by fresh allegations over its finances
yesterday.

Tom Wise, one of Ukip's 10 Euro-MPs, is facing an inquiry by anti-fraud
watchdogs over European Parliament money.

Regulators are also being urged to investigate whether the fiercely
anti-Brussels party is wrongly using EU money to prop up its UK operations.

Ukip claims that it is experiencing a revival, due in part to the defection of
Conservative activists unhappy at David Cameron's leadership. But the party now
faces legal action from the Electoral Commission to confiscate more than pounds
360,000 of "impermissible'' donations.

The donor, Alan Bown, a retired bookmaker, was not on the electoral register
when he gave the money, the commission says.

Ukip insists that the affair is a "clerical error'' and will contest the case.

However, the commission is also fining Ukip pounds 1,500 for late filing of
accounts and is launching a "full review'' of the party's internal financial
management.

It was also disclosed yesterday that European anti-fraud watchdogs are to
investigate Mr Wise over staff salary irregularities. More than a year ago, The
Sunday Telegraph reported that Mr Wise was claiming pounds 3,000 a month in
wages for a researcher, but paying her only a fraction of that.

He subsequently refunded the difference and admitted breaching rules specifying
that payments to Euro-MPs' assistants must go directly to the employees or a
third-party "service provider''.

Mr Wise was not available for comment yesterday.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader and a Euro-MP, confirmed that fraud inspectors
were looking at the case. But he said that both a previous European Parliament
inquiry and an internal party review had found no evidence that Mr Wise had
sought to benefit personally from the arrangement.

While stressing that the party would abide by the outcome of the new inquiry, Mr
Farage said: "We did not believe there had been any intent of fraud.''

Tony Scholefield, a former Ukip party secretary, raised fears that allowances
for Euro-MPs were being used to fund Ukip activities in Britain. Ukip's 10
representatives in Brussels get combined staffing and office cost allowances of
more than pounds 1.75 million a year but the cash is supposed to be spent on
Euro MPs' activities - not to fund the party's national campaigns or officials.

Mr Scholefield told The Sunday Telegraph that watchdogs should examine
allegations that Ukip was using EU money to fund "such activities as its press
officer, website and other areas''.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 26, 2007

Tory donations outstrip rivals by two to one

LENGTH: 756 words



HIGHLIGHT: Donations to David Cameron's Conservative party are running at more
than double those to Labour and the Liberal Democrats, new figures today
revealed.


Donations to David Cameron's Conservative party are running at more than double
those to Labour and the Liberal Democrats, new figures today revealed.

The Tories attracted more than 5m in donations in the last three months of 2006,
compared with only around 2.5m each for either of the other two main parties.

The new sets of figures from the independent Electoral Commission also show that
the two nationalist parties, Plaid Cymru and the SNP, have received their
biggest ever donations - in the run-up to May's elections in Cardiff and
Edinburgh.

A total of 11.9m was donated to all political parties in the final quarter of
last year.

The Tories received 5,285,440, dwarfing the 2,642,667 given to Labour and the
2,318,624 given to the Liberal Democrats.

Labour's low figure is likely to be a direct fallout from the "cash-for-honours"
row, which has now been the subject of a police investigation for almost a year.

Curry tycoon Sir Gulam Noon - one of the central figures in the
loans-for-peerages controversy - gave Labour 2,500.

Sir Gulam previously lent the party 250,000 and was later nominated for a
peerage.

He alleged to police that Labour's chief fundraiser, Lord Levy, said he should
not disclose the loan to the House of Lords appointments commission when it
vetted his case.

He withdrew his name from consideration for the honour.

The SNP and Plaid received their largest ever one-off donations since the
commission began keeping records in 2001. Alex Salmond's Scottish nationalists
received 183,142, while Plaid were given 330,000. Both were individual bequests.

The party's total donations were 402,282 for Plaid and 550,518 for the SNP.

Of the smaller parties, Ukip - which was last week ordered by the Electoral
Commission to repay 367,697 of "impermissible donations" - declared a further
23,695 in donations, the Greens just 4,896, while the far-right British National
party were given 22,263.

Meanwhile, outstanding loans to parties, declarable for the first time last
year, totalled 60.7m - little changed from those declared in September.

The Conservatives, who owed 35.5m, were the biggest debtors, while Labour owed
23.4m and the Liberal Democrats 1.03m.

Among Labour's donations were three 250,000 contributions from financiers Nigel
Doughty, Sir Ronald Cohen and Jonathan Aisbitt.

Mr Doughty, 49, is chairman of Doughty Hanson, a leading UK-based private equity
firm. He has a personal fortune estimated at 120m.

Mr Aisbitt is thought to be worth 98m - much of which he made in the flotation
of merchant bank Goldman Sachs, where he was a partner. He is now reportedly a
director at hedge fund Man Group plc.

Sir Ronald, meanwhile, a leading supporter of the chancellor, Gordon Brown,
started the private equity vehicle Apax with three friends in the 1970s. He is
believed to be worth 260m.

The GMB are currently campaigning against private-equity firms and their
millionaire backers.

The GMB general secretary, Paul Kenny, said: "Only in the last few weeks has the
GMB campaigning put names and faces to the multi-millionaire elite who run the
private equity industry and made clear what they do.

"Until that time most people in the Labour party will not have been clear about
where this money was coming from.

"Maybe it is now time for the NEC to look into the background of where this
money is coming from."

Labour described the three as "long-standing supporters of and regular donors to
the Labour party".

"The Labour party receives support from many individuals and organisations that
share our values of economic prosperity coupled with social justice and we
welcome all their contributions," a spokesman said.

The Conservatives' coffers were boosted by a 500,000 donation in October from a
little-known unincorporated association called the Scottish Business Groups
Focus On Scotland.

This is the largest gift yet from the group, which previously gave 200,000 in
August 2006 and 225,000 in 2004. It comes ahead of this May's vital elections to
the Scottish Parliament.

Labour has complained that groups such as Focus On Scotland or the Midlands
Industrial Council - which has given 1.3m since 2003 - afford donors a measure
of anonymity, as the names of members providing the funds do not have to be
published by the Electoral Commission.

A large chunk of the Liberal Democrats' gifts came from the Joseph Rowntree
Reform Trust Ltd, which gave a total of 685,034 in three separate donations.

Rules require all contributions to central party funds of more than 5,000 to be
declared as well as donations above 1,000 to local branches.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               7 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            February 26, 2007 Monday

UKIP gripped with in-fighting

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 94  words


SCANDAL-hit UKIP -the Eurosceptic party accused of funding activities in this
country with money that should only be spent in Brussels -has also been gripped
by in-fighting. David Noakes, a former party leadership contender, resigned last
week and attacked the current leader, Nigel Farage, and others in a letter
criticising the party. UKIP spokesman Mark Croucher has replied, calling Noakes:
"A swivel-eyed loon whose insane conspiracy theories make the rest of us look as
mad as a box of frogs...so good riddance. He should really be locked up in a
secure unit."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 25, 2007

Opinion: Weclome to Eastbourne, Sodom and Gomorrah by the sea

BYLINE: Jasper Gerard

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 289 words


Our youngsters are the worst-behaved in the world, but what of our oldsters?
More than 55 per cent of Asbos in Eastbourne are reportedly slapped on the
elderly. I'd assumed the nearest this arthritic town came to crime was seagulls
dive-bombing pensioners' Eccles cake. Asbos? Surely less a problem than IBS
(irritable bowel syndrome)?

Now we learn the lives of Eastbourne's upstanding young are blighted by
marauding gangs of Saga louts. Are pensioners forgoing meals on wheels for
wheelies in nicked Cosworths? Or at least joyriding on other's stair-lifts,
before legging it on their Zimmers? David Cameron will be visiting to launch his
latest crime initiative: hug a granny. Hell, Eastbourne suddenly sounds so
exciting, I might move there.

But bro', before you check out the 'hood, a warning: this is antisocial
behaviour Eastbourne style. One Asbo was imposed for 'blasting out Des O'Connor
at four in the morning', which should surely carry a custodial sentence. Another
went to a grandad sunbathing in a 'seethrough, heart-shaped ladies thong', which
sounds more Brighton but is a half-cogent argument for castration.

Typically, crime is not black on black but Black & Decker on patio extensions,
which kills hope of hearing The Archers

You can probably cop an Asbo in Eastbourne for not being a member of Ukip. The
ambience is more Tring than bling, with fights not over mobile phones but the
siting of mobile homes. And threats to slap a bitch? That will be because a
labrador has been hangin' with a neighbour's shih-tzu.

Still, John Reid should remind these feral grannies about the respect agenda.
Where are their role-models? The elderly of today need a good clip round the
ear. It's the only language they understand, squire.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 25, 2007

UKIP in embezzlement scandal

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words


An MEP from the UK Independence party (UKIP) is under investigation for fraud
after embezzling tens of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money by pretending
to be someone else.

Bank documents show that Tom Wise channelled nearly £ 40,000 of public funds
into his personal account after claiming it was for an assistant's salary. He is
now being investigated by a European anti-fraud watchdog, which has asked to
interview him and others in connection with the case.

This is potentially the most serious crisis to hit UKIP, which has always held
itself up as the party opposed to the European Union "gravy train".

The development comes as the Electoral Commission announced it was launching a
full inquiry into UKIP's finances after its repeated failures to keep within the
rules. EU rules state that MEPs can claim up to £ 125,000 a year for assistants'
wages but the money must be paid either directly to the employees or through a
third-party "agent". To avoid fraud, MEPs are not allowed to handle the money
themselves.

Instead Wise, a former policeman, pretended that his own bank account was
actually that of Lindsay Jenkins, his researcher.

From November 2004 until October 2005 he funnelled £ 39,100 of taxpayers' money
into his own account with the Co-operative Bank from which he paid Jenkins just
£ 13,555, according to bank statements obtained by The Sunday Times.

They show that the only money coming into the account was from the EU,
ostensibly for Jenkins.

In another breach of the EU rules, some of the £ 13,555 paid to her was actually
for work done on behalf of other party members, including the UKIP leader Nigel
Farage who had agreed to fund the publication of a Eurosceptic book written by
Jenkins.

During the same timespan, more than £ 19,000 of the money was steadily paid out
from Wise's account to other destinations, some of them apparently credit cards.
One disbursement alone, made via a transfer to somebody other than Jenkins, was
for £ 6,500.

Last night Wise, who describes himself as a bon viveur and wine-lover, refused
to reveal what the money had been used for. When questioned by The Sunday Times
on the ultimate destination of the cash, he went silent before putting down the
telephone. He failed to respond to further messages.

Wise, 58, an MEP for Eastern England since 2004, also applied for other
assistants' salaries to be paid through his bank account before the period
involving Jenkins.

Despite an internal UKIP inquiry into Wise's behaviour, launched after the EU
became aware of his scam, no action has been taken against him and the results
of the investigation have been kept secret.

Three days after the EU was alerted, and to head off a scandal, Wise began
repaying £ 25,530.

If Olaf, the anti-fraud watchdog, establishes fraud, the evidence will be passed
to British and Belgian police for a possible prosecution.

Last week the Electoral Commission said it was taking legal action to recover
more than £ 360,000 in donations to UKIP, which allegedly breach rules governing
party funding. The demand, which threatens to make the party bankrupt, comes
after this newspaper revealed that the commission is also looking at donations
totalling £ 118,000 which were not put through any of UKIP's main bank accounts.

An e-mail, sent last April by Andrew Smith, then the party's treasurer, to
various senior members, reveals the degree to which it intended to mislead the
commission.

"We need to give the Electoral Commission every reason to believe we are serious
about compliance, in order to provide the next party treasurer with a good story
to tell when we next fail to meet the statutory requirements," he wrote.

The commission said: "We are going to launch a full review of UKIP's internal
systems for dealing with their financial affairs and handling their statutory
reporting requirements. We are taking it very seriously."

UKIP systematically flouts the spirit of EU rules, which forbid party workers
from being paid with taxpayers' money.

The party has been paying its regional organisers by designating them "advisers"
and "assistants" to its 10 MEPs, thereby allowing them to draw salaries of up to
£ 40,000 a year from the EU, while they do their actual jobs "in their spare
time".

Further details are set to be exposed because Denis Brookes, one of the party's
former officials, issued industrial tribunal proceedings against Mike Nattrass,
the party's MEP for the West Midlands region.

It is understood that Brookes has stated in his claim for unfair dismissal that
he was being paid to do one job while actually employed to do another one
entirely, so that the party could secure EU funding for him.

"Some people in the party have a cavalier and even contemptuous attitude to
taking what is actually taxpayers' money and using it for their own ends," a
UKIP source said.

Within months of his election Wise was attempting to channel public funds into
his own bank account. In October 2004 he applied to the EU payments office for
Jenkins, a freelance researcher as well as a candidate at the time for selection
to fight a parliamentary seat for the Conservatives, to be paid £ 36,000 a year.

He had, however, no intention of paying her such an amount. His actual agreement
with her was that she would be given monthly "retainer" payments of £ 500 in
return for her advice and statistical research, with any additional work being
paid for on top.

Wise's method was simple. He supplied the EU payments office with a contract,
obtained by The Sunday Times, which included Jenkins's name and details and
stipulated that she apparently wanted her money to be paid into her account,
entitled "Stags".

In fact, this account, the full name of which was "T Wise trading as Stags", was
a business account run by the MEP himself.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Stop whingeing: get out and push

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 94 words


The answer to your correspondent who asked: "How much longer is this moribund
administration going to carry on?'' (Letters, February 18) is until the
electorate gets involved at grass-roots level with the only party that can form
an alternative government: the Conservatives.

It is totally self-indulgent to whinge on the sidelines yet do nothing to help
create the alternative. And it would be sheer lunacy to vote for minor parties
like Ukip, the BNP, or the Lib-Dems, because that would only prolong this
government in office.

Alan Carcas

Liversedge, West Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

The cost of giving

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 175 words


Your report that I said "only 15 per cent of funds donated to Ukip through a
call centre in Kent has been paid into the party's head office accounts''
misrepresents me (News, February 18). Towards the end of the life of the party's
call centre in Ashford, I told a meeting that the costs had become too high.

The 85 per cent was not missing but was the proportion - and only at that late
stage - required to meet the centre's staff and office costs before contributing
the surplus to party funds. I considered this unacceptable, and actioned the
closure of the centre and the move to more volunteer-driven centres. This was
done with the support of what you say were "outraged'' senior members.

The income and expenditure is included in the party's accounts. The delays in
getting accounts to the Electoral Commission were because there was a change of
treasurer at the same time as a senior financial assistant became dangerously
ill. This year we intend to be one of the first parties to file accounts.

David Campbell Bannerman

Deputy Leader, Ukip

London W3

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

The cost of giving

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 23 words


Long delays in submitting accounts; accusations of budgetary mismanagement; what
does Ukip think it is? The EU?

G E G Galletly

Halstead, Kent

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Don't mention the Commonwealth

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 441 words


My son, returning from a business trip to India, was amazed how little coverage
was given here to the expulsion of 16,000 Indian doctors working in the NHS. In
India this remarkable decision, based on the recent upholding of a High Court
judgment of last November, has made front-page news for the past two weeks. It
is widely interpreted as blatant and racist discrimination against Commonwealth
citizens.

Not so widely understood was why Mr Justice Stanley Burton had little choice,
last year, in ordering the Indians' expulsion. He was merely enforcing the
Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2006, implementing EU directive
2004/38. This made illegal a system set up by the 1971 Immigration Act, under
which thousands of Commonwealth doctors every year could complete their
post-graduate training in British hospitals, without a work permit, before
returning to their own countries.

The new law has meant intense hardship for thousands of Indians, many of whom
made great sacrifices to get here, and more than 5,000 of whom have already been
forced to return home. One, Dr Imran Yousaf, who challenged the legality of the
ban with the British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin, committed
suicide shortly before this month's ruling. Among those who have spoken out
strongly against the judgment are the British Medical Association and Lyn
Nazemi-Afshar, the UK Independence Party's candidate in Birmingham Ladywood, who
described it as "EU discrimination against the Queen's Commonwealth''.

The EU's gradual removal of the rights of citizens of the Commonwealth to work
and live in the UK has long been a cause of surprise and distress in the
Commonwealth. It was a few years back that Australian and New Zealand doctors
and nurses wishing to work in the UK were startled to learn that, under another
directive, they now had to demonstrate, among other conditions, their ability to
speak English. To Poles, Latvians, Slovaks, Romanians and other EU citizens no
such requirement applies.

The latest restrictions follow those I reported last year by which many
Commonwealth and US citizens who had lived in Britain for many years, given
"indefinite leave to remain'', were told that, under new EU rules (even if they
had married British citizens), this was now suspended.

It is not generally grasped just how consistently, ever since Britain joined the
European Community in 1973, the need for us to turn our back on the Commonwealth
has been regarded as a litmus test of our desire to become "good Europeans''.
But, of course, anyone who points this out is likely to be branded a
"xenophobe'', including no doubt Mrs Nazemi-Afshar.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Ukip 'spent cash meant for MEPs' As scandal-hit party plunges towards meltdown,
the man who could save it is sunning himself in the Canaries

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS AND ANDREW ALDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words


AN INVESTIGATION has been demanded into claims that the euro-sceptic UK
Independence Party has been funding activities in this country with money that
should only be spent in Brussels.

Tony Scholefield, a former Ukip party secretary who served on its ruling
committee for 11 years, is one of several senior figures who want an inquiry
into allegations that group allowances paid by the European Parliament to
support MEP activities in Brussels have been spent on a range of UK activities.
Such spending would breach European Parliament laws.

Mr Scholefield said: "There should be an investigation by the Electoral
Commission and the European Commission into whether monies used by Ukip out of
its European Parliament allowances are funding such activities as its press
officer, website and other areas. Much of Ukip's problems stem from the failure
of party leaders to adhere to the constitution and use proper party
governance.''

The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that a written complaint from another ex-Ukip
official has been sent to the Electoral Commission detailing these latest
allegations. Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, admitted that the party had been
investigated about the misuse of these funds before, but that no wrongdoing has
been proved. "These accusations are malicious,'' he said.

The Electoral Commission revealed last week that Ukip must forfeit more than
pounds 367,697 in donations. The election watchdog announced that it is taking
legal action to recover 68 separate donations made to the party by its biggest
donor, Alan Bown, between December 2004 and January last year.

The commission has also confirmed that it will oblige Ukip to undergo a
humiliating "compliance programme''. Such programmes are only launched against
parties with a track record of struggling to comply with election law.

The move follows a series of stories by this newspaper in which we disclosed
that Ukip was at the centre of an inquiry by the commission into its financial
affairs, had filed its annual accounts late, and that hundreds of thousands of
pounds donated to Ukip never reached central party accounts.

This weekend the future of Ukip appears to lie with a man who, as dark clouds
gather over the party, is staying at the five-star Playa Meloneras Palace Hotel
in the sunny south of Gran Canaria. Mr Bown, a former bookmaker, spent yesterday
by the swimming pool as the party he has funded almost single-handedly in recent
years faced a crippling cash crisis at its Devon headquarters.

In the past, Mr Bown, 64, has been more than willing to talk about his passion
for the 14-year-old party that he has given more than pounds 1million to. He
has, it is claimed, provided 40per cent of the party's declared donations in the
past four years. Yesterday, the man the dwindling membership hopes will save the
party from extinction was not saying whether he would bail it out.

His donations must be handed to the Exchequer because he was not on the
electoral register at the time, as required by law. But Mr Bown, who is now on
the register, said he would help Ukip to fight the ruling. "The offence is a
minor one,'' he insisted. "When you think of what goes on [in politics], why
should a small party like ours be taken to the cleaners?''

He made his fortune with a chain of 17 bookmakers which he sold to Coral Racing
five years ago, netting several million pounds. He has a substantial property
empire and other business interests. He is a director of Margate Football Club
and runs a firm in Ramsgate, Kent, that sells Turkish nightwear.

Recently, however, Mr Bown has devoted most of his energies to Ukip. He sits on
its national executive committee and is the leading organiser of the party's
campaigns, taking responsibility for leaflets, billboards and other promotional
literature. But his beloved party appears close to meltdown. It can be revealed
that Ukip is gripped by infighting after a former party leadership contender
resigned last week, criticising the "lies'' of senior colleagues. David Noakes
attacked Mr Farage and others in a letter spelling out his animosity towards the
party he joined four years ago.

Responding, Mark Croucher, a senior activist and former Ukip director of
communications, described Mr Noakes as "a swivel-eyed loon whose insane
conspiracy theories make the rest of us look as mad as a box of frogs... so good
riddance. He should really be locked up in a secure unit.''

Mr Noakes, who was a Ukip candidate in the 2005 General Election before he
challenged Mr Farage for the leadership last summer, wrote in his resignation
letter last week: "Members have been betrayed: used for donations and as cannon
fodder to get our leaders elected to huge EU incomes, only to find their efforts
wasted by a leadership that we had thought was just incompetent.''

Last week, Lord Kalms, the founder of the Dixons electrical chain who had
suggested that he might switch his support from the Tories to Ukip, ended his
flirtation with the euro-sceptics. He described Ukip as a "red herring'' and
said he would not be funding it.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                               February 24, 2007

Strange days at Westminster as ëthe others join the circus;
ëTypically, MPs are judged by who is the least unpopular as almost everyones
ratings are below zero

LENGTH: 853 words


Was it something David Cameron said? This time a year ago he was easily the most
popular figure in Westminster with an enviable net approval rating of 18 points.
When he spoke about the environment, or about shops selling too much chocolate,
people listened. But since then his personal rating, measured as the difference
between people who approve of him minus those who disapprove, has taken a steady
nosedive, and

is now at minus 9. In other words, more people people disapprove of him than
approve.

This is, of course, usual for a politician. Typically, MPs are judged by who is
the least unpopular as almost everyones ratings are below zero. Those who score
highest tend to be those least known to the public. A few politicians ñ notably
Charles Kennedy when he was leader of the Liberal Democrats ñ stay in positive
territory and appear to have the gift of likeability. Not, it seems, Cameron.

Francis Maude, the party chairman and resident gloom-monger, often has trouble
keeping everyones spirits down in central office. An ICM poll for The Guardian
this week put the Tories (the party as a whole, not just Cameron)

at 42% ñ their highest for 15 years ñ with a lead of 13 points, which would be
enough to form a majority. The prospect of a Gordon Brown-led government does
not inspire Britain. Labour has never been less popular since the days of
Michael Foot.

But Maude has reasons to be sceptical. ICM has long given the Tories the best
result, and this certainly scares the bejesus out of Guardian readers. Other
polls disagree. I have come to rely only on YouGov, whose internet-based
techniques iron out the imbalances introduced by clipboard or telephone polling.
Last weekend YouGov was showing the Tories on 37%, not much more than the 36%
figure seen at this stage in the last parliament. This suggests very little
progress, contrary to Tuesdays headline figures.

Alan Duncan, the Tory energy spokesman, put it well last week. There has been a
turn of the tide to the Tories, he said, but by no means a flood. Labour has
lost much more than the Tories have gained, and the Liberal Democrats have
collapsed from 22% to 18%. This takes us to what is the biggest untold story in
British politics.

The votes Cameron is chasing seem to be going to a group which pollsters
describe only as the others ñ eurosceptics, nationalists, greens, anti-war
groups, the far-left Respect party and far-right British National Party.
Together these now command 12% in the polls, up from 8% little over a year ago.
It reflects a trend of disenchantment about what is offered on the Westminster
menu, with a premium placed on any party which can claim to be an outsider.

Once, Cameron looked like an outsider to his own party ñ which partly explained
his appeal. But he is now recognised as the leader of the Conservative Party,
and this has contaminated his personal brand. Anthony Wells, YouGov analyst and
host of ukpollingreport.co.uk, says Camerons popularity plunge is nothing
unusual. He is just adjusting to the usual hostility with which Conservative
leaders are normally viewed by the British public.

For as long as Labour is even less popular (the devil himself would fare not
much worse than Tony Blair, who is on a personal rating of -38) then the Tory
lead will be commanding. But if Cameron wishes to achieve the support indicated
by the ICM poll, then he will have to do something about the others and start to
ask serious questions about the toxic flea bite which could be inflicted upon
him by the UK Independence Party.

At present, Camerons lieutenants are not overly bothered. The party has
conducted internal polling suggesting just 1.2% of their voters will defect to
the UK Independence Party. In less guarded moments, shadow cabinet members wish
good riddance to them. A strategic decision has been taken not to defend the
Tory right flank, on the grounds that doing so would make the party more
repugnant to the centre.

Yet even at these low levels, UKIP can hurt. For all its great

success in the 2004 European Parliament election, it barely blipped on the radar
in the 2005 general election, scoring just 2.3% of the vote. Yet in 23 seats,
the Conservatives would have won had all UKIP voters voted Tory.

Last election night, Bob Marshall-Andrews ñ a veteran Labour rebel ñ was
convinced he had lost his Medway constituency seat.

Yet when the votes were counted, he was amazed to have fended

off his Tory challenger. The reason was UKIP, which had split

the Tory vote.

If Gordon Brown wants more bewildered Labour victors next election night, he
knows what to do. Take Britain to the polls on 11 June 2009 ñ the date of the
European elections. This could multiply the UKIP effect two or three times over
and leave the Conservatives most exposed to an enemy they have decided not to
fight.

These are strange times. The tide has turned against Labour ñ but the water may
lift minority parties rather than the Conservatives, thus saving Browns bacon. A
No 10 adviser once told me his fears about a carnival of the animals if
parliament is full of single-issue MPs. Now such a show could be Browns best
hope for survival.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Are Ukip not criminal enough?

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER ON SATURDAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 167 words


Discretion in applying the law always seems to be exercised to help the most
dangerous and criminal elements in our society - rarely to those who have done
no harm. Ukip is being ordered to hand over pounds 363,000 because the donor,
Alan Bown, had forgotten to go on the electoral register at the time. This
sensible rule is designed to prevent foreigners buying influence in our
politics. Mr Bown is English, lives in England, pays taxes in England, and, when
he remembers to get on the roll, votes here, too.

I am sure the Electoral Commission is not in the pocket of the main political
parties and has no agenda where an upstart, populist party like Ukip is
concerned. Why, then, doesn't it simply reprimand Ukip for what was clearly an
oversight, rather than act as if there has just been another Great Train
Robbery? Such a confiscation would look anti-democratic, as it would close Ukip
down to punish Mr Bown for being inert, not for an act of crookery. Is that what
the commission really wants?

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Ukip told it cannot change its name

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 305 words


THE UK Independence Party's plight deepened yesterday when election watchdogs
signalled that they would veto its plans to rebrand itself.

In a further blow, Lord Kalms, a former Tory treasurer who had been sympathetic
to Ukip, turned his back on the party, which now faces financial ruin.

The Electoral Commission confirmed that it was going to court to force the party
to forfeit pounds 360,000 of donations. It says 68 separate sums from Alan Bown,
a retired bookmaker, were "impermissible'' as he was not on the electoral
register when he gave the money. It is also fining Ukip pounds 1,500 for filing
accounts late and is to review its financial management.

The forfeit action - the first mounted under the Political Parties, Elections
and Referendums Act 2000 - would leave the party penniless.

The commission played down speculation that it was tipped off by a disaffected
Ukip member about the contributions, insisting that it ran "compliance checks''
when "practically all'' new donations to any party were registered.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said the commission was acting
disproportionately, adding that the "Establishment'' was out to kill off the
little anti-Brussels party.

Ukip has shown signs of revival in recent months, apparently fuelled by David
Cameron's effort to drive the Tories to the centre ground.

Only last month, Lord Kalms fuelled that revival by suggesting that he would
consider voting for them. But yesterday he told the Financial Times that he
thought Ukip "a bit of a red herring. I'm not going to give them money''.

Last month The Daily Telegraph revealed that Ukip was hoping to change its
campaigning name to the Independence Party in an effort to broaden its appeal.

But the commission said yesterday that it had already informally warned Ukip
that such a change was "very unlikely'' to be accepted

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Reply Letters and emails: French betters

BYLINE: Simon Wastling

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 25 words


* So Ukip may have to forfeit £363,697 in "impermissible donations" (Politics,
February 23). How much is that in euros?

Simon Wastling

Tring, Hertfordshire

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

Refusal to help deepens Ukip financial woes

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 222 words


The UK Independence party's financial woes deepened yesterday as a
multi-millionaire sympathiser signalled he would not bankroll the Eurosceptics,
the day after the Electoral Commission ordered repayment of more than £300,000
in impermissible donations.

Lord Kalms, one of the Conservatives' biggest donors, had said he would consider
backing the party but made clear yesterday that Ukip was "a bit of a red
herring". He said: "I'm not going to give them money." He added that he was
confident the Tories would pursue a more radical Eurosceptic stance in the
run-up to the next election.

His remarks came as Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, pledged to fight the Electoral
Commission in court and accused it of attempting to put Ukip out of business to
"justify (its) existence".

Alan Bown, the party's biggest donor, has lived, worked and paid tax in the UK
all his life but was not on the electoral roll when he gave the money, although
he was registered before December 2004 and from January 2006.

Ukip says he did not even realise he had been removed and that he was angry that
the £367,697 would go to the Treasury instead of being returned to him.

The problem appears to have come to light because of routine checks by the
commission, which said that it vets all new and some existing donors, including
all those who give more than £50,000.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday
                                 Fourth Edition

Ukip may face bankruptcy over return of £360,000 donation

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 532 words


The leader of the UK Independence Party has accused the elections watchdog of
trying to bankrupt it after it was ordered to hand over more than £360,000 in
"impermissible donations".

In a second blow for the anti-European Union party, a millionaire Tory donor
said he was withdrawing support for Ukip and backing the new-look Conservative
Party under David Cameron.

The Electoral Commission announced it was beginning court proceedings to recover
the £367,697 Ukip received from a businessman while his name was missing from
the electoral register.

The party, which said it had only a "few thousand" pounds in its coffers,
acknowledges the mistake, which it describes as a technicality. But it argues
the punishment is disproportionate and says it will fight the Electoral
Commission in the courts.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, claimed the party had been singled out as an
"easy target" unlike Labour, the Tories or the Liberal Democrats. He added: "I
feel a deliberate attempt is being made by the authorities to put us out of
business." He accused the commission of desperately trying to "save their own
skins over their inaction on the cash-for-peerages affair".

But a spokeswoman for the commission said: "As a regulatory body, we treat all
the parties the same. That's our job."

The controversy centres on Alan Bown, who ran a chain of bookmakers before
retiring. He has bankrolled Ukip over the past four years. But between December
2004 and January 2006, when he handed over £367,697 in 68 separate donations, he
was not registered as a British voter.

Under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act of 2000, parties are
forbidden from accepting cash from "impermissible donors", such as people not
registered to vote in this country.

But, Mr Farage said: "This legislation was designed to stop foreign dodgy money
coming into Britain - it was not designed to penalise people like Alan Bown who
make a simple slip with a piece of paperwork."

The party also faces fines totalling £1,500 for filing accounts from the year
2005 late, which it will pay.

The row came as a former Tory treasurer said he changed his mind about giving
cash to Ukip.

Lord Kalms, the founder of Dixons, had said he and other Eurosceptics were
considering deserting the Tories unless they took a tougher approach to
Brussels. But he said he now regarded Ukip as "a bit of a red herring", and
added: "I'm not going to give them money."

Lord Kalms said he was now convinced the Tories would adopt a more radical
stance on Europe ahead of the next election.

His decision will come as a relief to Tory strategists, who are anxious that
Ukip's hardline policies could attract right-wing supporters disillusioned with
the party under Mr Cameron.

Although Ukip, which has 18,000 members and 240 branches, is only registering
between 1 and 2 per cent in opinion polls, that could be enough to prevent the
Tories picking up several marginal seats at the next election. According to one
analysis, the Ukip vote may have cost the Conservatives up to 16 seats at the
previous election.

Ukip's electoral high-point came in the 2004 elections to the European
Parliament, when it picked up 16.8 per cent of the vote and won 12 seats.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

POUNDS 360K 'FINE' A BID TO WRECK US, SAYS UKIP

BYLINE: BY ROSA PRINCE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 177 words


THE UK Independence Party yesterday accused a watchdog of deliberately trying to
put it out of business.

The Electoral Commission ordered the anti-Europe party to repay a pounds 367,000
donation, saying it was illegal because donor Alan Brown was not on the
electoral roll at the time.

Party leader Nigel Farage said: "It feels to us like there's an attempt by the
establishment to close us down."

He told Radio 4's Today the "disproportionate" measure would leave Ukip bankrupt
and added: "We don't have a third of a million to hand right at this moment."

He promised the party would have "one hell of a whipround to try to sort this
out".

Ukip insist retired bookie Mr Brown just forgot to register to vote one year due
to a "simple error".

It was also fined pounds 1,500 for filing its accounts late. The commission is
launching a full review of party finances.

A spokeswoman said: "The onus is on the party to check its donations are
acceptable."

The pounds 367,697 must be paid to the Treasury, not Mr Brown, who has given
Ukip more than pounds 1million in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROTEST: Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2007, Saturday

UKIP fears

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 63 words


Sir, In eight of the 17 general elections since the Second World War, the
winning party achieved a margin of less that 3.5 per cent over its closest
rival. In 1997 UKIP gained 0.3 per cent of the vote, in 2001 1.5 per cent, and
in 2005 2.3 per cent. Where the (probably increased) UKIP vote comes from next
time could well determine who wins the election.

John Harvey

Rodmell, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2007, Saturday

UKIP fears

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 114 words


Sir, I share Peter Riddell's view that UKIP is not a serious party, but I
disagree that the "Tories have little to fear from UKIP protest vote" (political
briefing, Feb 22). There are very active UKIP "fifth columnists" in many
Conservative associations who are as damaging as were the far Left that kept
Labour out of office from 1979 until 1997.

Their influence is clear from the number of newly elected Conservarive MPs in
2005 who proudly proclaimed themselves to be Eurosceptics.

David Cameron has been trying to drag the party away from its eurosceptism, but
with little success.

Bryan Cassidy

Chairman, Mid Dorset and North Poole Conservative Association 1999-2002

Bere Regis, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2007, Saturday

Illegal cash ruling is threat to UKIP

BYLINE: Anthony Browne Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 456 words


* Leader suspects political motivation

* Watchdog says rules were broken

The UK Independence Party has accused the main electoral watchdog of being
politically motivated after it began an unprecedented legal action to reclaim £
367,697 in allegedly banned donations. Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP, which wants
Britain to leave the European Union, said that the Electoral Commission was
trying to restore its reputation after failing to act in earlier scandals,
including cash for peerages.

"Given its track record with Labour and the Liberal Democrats, it's difficult
not to see (this action) as being politically motivated. They clearly feel they
have to justify their actions, and they are doing that by kicking the small
boys," he said.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who recently defected to UKIP, accused the commission
of "grotesque jobsworthiness" and of misinterpreting the law.

The party is threatened with collapse after the commission applied to a
magistrate to confiscate donations by Alan Bown, a millionaire businessman. If
the commission is successful, the party must pay the donations to the Treasury,
rather than back to the original donor.

The commission says that the donations were inadmissible because Mr Bown was not
on the electoral register when he made them. However, Mr Bown had a right to be
on the electoral register, and he was listed before and after the donations.
UKIP insists that he was absent from the register only because of a clerical
error.

Lord Pearson said that the explanatory notes to the Political Parties, Elections
and Referendums Act 2000 made clear that the commission was misapplying the law.

The Government's notes -used by courts when interpreting laws -said that the
legislation was aimed at "imposing restrictions on the sources of donations so
as to inhibit foreign and anonymous donations to political parties".

"Mr Bown isn't a foreign donor, and he wasn't anonymous. This is grotesque
jobsworthiness from the Electoral Commission," Lord Pearson told The Times.

Mr Farage said: "This is entirely disproportionate and contrary to the
intentions of the legislation. The Establishment wants to see us closed."

The commission insists that it is applying the law objectively. "The legislation
is clear," a spokesman said.

Even if UKIP wins the case, the furore over the state of its finances could turn
off potential donors. Lord Kalms, the founder of the Dixons electrical chain and
a former treasurer of the Conservative Party, had hinted recently that he may
support UKIP, but yesterday was keen to distance himself from the party.

"I can rule out absolutely and definitely giving any money at this stage. I have
never been involved with UKIP. I know nothing about it," he told The Times.

Letters, page 22

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2007, Saturday

UKIP alleges foul play as donations are ruled illegal

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 587 words


* Leader suspects political motivation

* Watchdog says rules were broken

The UK Independence Party has accused the main electoral watchdog of being
politically motivated after it began an unprecedented legal action to reclaim £
367,697 in allegedly banned donations.

Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, said that the Electoral Commission was trying
to restore its reputation after failing to act in a series of earlier scandals,
including cash for peerages. "Given its track record with Labour and the Liberal
Democrats, it's difficult not to see (this action) as being politically
motivated.

They clearly feel they have to justify their actions, and they are doing that by
kicking the small boys," he said.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who recently defected to UKIP, accused the commission
of "grotesque jobsworthiness" and of misinterpreting the law.

The Eurosceptic party is threatened with collapse after the commission applied
to a magistrate to confiscate donations made by Alan Bown, a millionaire
businessman.

If the commission is successful, the party must pay the donations to the
Treasury, rather than back to the original donor.

The commission says that the donations were inadmissible because Mr Bown was not
on the electoral register when he made them. However, Mr Bown had a right to be
on the electoral register, and he was listed before and after the donations.
UKIP insists that he was absent from the register only because of a clerical
error.

Lord Pearson said that the explanatory notes to the Political Parties, Elections
and Referendums Act 2000 made clear that the commission was misapplying the law.

The Government's notes -used by courts when interpreting laws -said that the
legislation was aimed at "imposing restrictions on the sources of donations so
as to inhibit foreign and anonymous donations to political parties".

"Mr Bown isn't a foreign donor, and he wasn't anonymous. This is grotesque
jobsworthiness from the Electoral Commission," Lord Pearson told The Times.

Mr Farage said: "This is entirely disproportionate and contrary to the
intentions of the legislation. The establishment wants to see us closed."

The commission insists that it is applying the law objectively. "The legislation
is clear," a spokesman said.

Even if UKIP wins the case, the furore over the state of its finances could turn
off potential donors. Lord Kalms, the founder of the Dixons electrical chain and
a former treasurer of the Conservative Party, had recently hinted that he might
support UKIP, but was keen yesterday to distance himself from the party.

"I can rule out absolutely and definitely giving any money at this stage. I have
never been involved with UKIP. I know nothing about it," he told The Times.

PEAKS AND TROUGHS

1993 The United Kingdom Independence Party is founded by Alan Sked and other
members of the Anti-Federalist League

1997 The party fails to win any seats in the general election. Mr Sked resigns
as leader and leaves the party

1999 UKIP wins three seats in the European Parliament with 7 per cent of the
vote

2000 Michael Holmes is ousted as leader in a power struggle and leaves the party

2002 The former Conservative minister Roger Knapman is elected leader

2004 Robert Kilroy-Silk joins UKIP. The party wins 12 seats in the European
election with 16.8 per cent of vote

2005 Mr Kilroy-Silk resigns after failing to become leader

2006 Nigel Farage MEP is elected as leader

2007 UKIP gets its first foothold in Parliament when two peers defect

2007 The Electoral Commission demands the return of £ 367,697 donations

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Analysis Tories aren't racing ahead but people are warming to Cameron

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 954 words


AN OLD rule of politics holds that the more unexpected and implausible an
opinion poll's findings, the more publicity they receive.

Earlier this week another newspaper headlined a poll claiming that the
Conservatives would surge into a 13-point lead over Labour if Gordon Brown
became Prime Minister. That poll was based on a sample of fewer than a thousand
electors.

YouGov's monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph, based on a sample of 2,292
electors, detects no such surge. The Tories remain ahead but by a stubbornly
narrow margin. In the event that Mr Brown became Labour leader, the
Conservatives would pull further ahead - but only by a limited amount.

According to YouGov, the Tories are now on 37 per cent, down a single point
since last month, and Labour is on 32 per cent, up a single point since January.
Support for the Liberal Democrats and the smaller parties remains virtually
unchanged.

Findings along these lines, reproduced at a general election, would probably
leave the Conservatives as the largest single party in the House of Commons but
without anything approaching an overall Commons majority.

YouGov's results suggest that David Cameron finds himself in a quandary. On the
one hand, the Conservatives under his leadership have undoubtedly picked up
support from the Left-leaning Liberal Democrats. On the other hand, they have
clearly lost support to the Right-wing BNP, currently on three per cent, and the
UK Independence Party, now on four per cent.

The good news for Mr Cameron is that the BNP and Ukip are most unlikely to gain
any Westminster seats at the next election. The most they can hope to do is
deprive the Conservatives of, at most, half a dozen seats. The new-look
Conservatives stand to gain far more seats from the Liberal Democrats many of
whose 62 seats are highly vulnerable to the Tories.

YouGov's findings contain three other pieces of good news from the
Conservatives' point of view. One is the Labour Government's gradual but
apparently inexorable loss of its reputation for economic competence.

As the figures in the chart show, whereas in May 2005, at the time of the last
election, 49 per cent of voters thought Labour was the party "more likely to run
Britain's economy well'', that number has now shrivelled to a mere 27 per cent.

Another piece of good news for the Tories is that a large majority of voters has
clearly come to regard Gordon Brown as virtually a Tony Blair clone. Asked who
would "make the best Prime Minister'', YouGov's respondents prefer Mr Cameron to
both Mr Blair and Mr Brown by almost identical margins.

Yet another hopeful sign for the Tories comes in the responses, set out in the
chart, to YouGov's standard "forced choice'' question. Asked that question in
May 2005, more than half of those questioned, 52 per cent, said that, if they
had to choose, they would prefer a Labour government led by Tony Blair. Far
fewer, only 35 per cent, said they would prefer the Tories under Michael Howard.

Now those figures have gone a long way to being reversed. Asked to choose, 43
per cent of voters now lean towards the Conservatives under David Cameron.

Only 34 per cent opt for a Gordon Brown-led Labour administration. Since last
month, the Conservatives on this measure have increased their lead from six to
nine points.

Even so, it must be a source of concern - and also a challenge - to the leaders
of all the main parties that so many voters month after month say they cannot
choose, or have no desire to choose, among the major parties.

The fervent applause and also the derision that were so evident when Tony Blair
trounced John Major a decade ago have been largely replaced by shoulder
shrugging and grimacing.

Who would make the best Prime Minister? No fewer than 40 per cent now say they
don't know - far more than the proportions who opt for any one of the three
existing party leaders. Which major party would do a better job of running the
economy? A massive 43 per cent respond "Neither'' or else "Don't know'' - again,
considerably more than plump for either party. The Liberal Democrats, for
decades the main beneficiaries of public discontent with the two major parties,
no longer play that role. Support for the Lib Dems has fallen from 23 per cent
at the time of the last election to 17 per cent now - fully a quarter.

Part of the explanation undoubtedly lies in David Cameron's appeal to erstwhile
Lib Dem supporters but part of it must also lie in Sir Ming Campbell's failure
to impress either himself or his ideas on the electorate.

One problem for Labour appears to be that Tony Blair, once so in tune with
"middle England'', seems to have lost the capacity to communicate with that
portion of the electorate.

In the wake of recent gun killings in London and elsewhere, YouGov offered
respondents - without mentioning either party leader - a choice between Mr
Blair's analysis and Mr Cameron's of the core problem now facing the country. As
the figures in the chart show, the Cameron analysis is preferred by a very wide
margin.

Well over half of YouGov's sample, 57 per cent, agree with Mr Cameron that "the
shootings reflect a wide malaise'' and that "our society is broken, with a
marked decline in the culture of responsibility, especially among children
without fathers''.

Only 33 per cent agree with Mr Blair that the shootings reflect only "a specific
problem with a specific criminal culture to do with guns and gangs''.

It is probably the fate of every Prime Minister and Government to lose touch
with popular sentiment but Mr Blair and his colleagues seem to have lost almost
completely that sensitivity to the public mood that they demonstrated so
conspicuously a decade ago.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Ukip faces ruin over demand to forfeit donations

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words


THE UK Independence Party faces a crippling demand from election watchdogs to
forfeit more than pounds 360,000 of donations.

The Electoral Commission is due to announce today that it is launching legal
action to recover 68 separate donations made to the anti-Brussels party by one
of its main backers.

Alan Bown, a retired bookmaker, gave the cash between December 2004 and January
2006.

However, election watchdogs have apparently discovered that Mr Bown, who also
runs a bathrobe company, was not on the electoral register during that period.

Under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, individual
donations are invalid if the donor is not registered as a voter when the money
is given.

In a letter sent last night to Bruce Lawson, the Ukip treasurer, the Commission
confirmed that it "will be proceeding to apply to court for the forfeiture of
pounds 363,697 in respect of 68 donations from Mr Bown made during the period
December 2004 to January 2006''.

A separate donation of pounds 4,000 from a company called Nightech Ltd in May
2005 is also being pursued. Under the law, any forfeited donations go straight
to the Treasury and are not returned to the donor.

The threat has stunned Ukip's leadership, which admitted yesterday that
forfeiting the money would effectively leave the party penniless.

John Whittaker, the party chairman, said: "Have we got this sort of money? Of
course, we haven't.''

He and Nigel Farage, the party leader, are furious at what they say is
over-reaction to a "simple clerical error''. Mr Farage, who said Ukip's annual
income was about pounds 250,000, said: "I would have expected a rap on the
knuckles.''

Ukip said last night that Mr Bown was away on holiday and was not contactable.
However, Mr Whittaker said that the donor was on the electoral register at his
Kent address before the period in question and has been since January 2006.

"Mr Bown was entitled to be on the electoral register throughout the period in
question and has been a permanent resident and taxpayer in the UK all his
working life,'' he said.

"I don't believe the law was designed to catch out this sort of donor; it was
intended to prevent dodgy overseas money being given to UK political parties.

"The UK Independence Party regrets this error. However, we point out that there
was obviously no intent to breach or evade Section 54 of the Act.''

The party's chairman said that the Electoral Commission's decision to
"confiscate this money based on nothing more than an honest mistake is
astonishing''.

A Commission spokesman declined to comment on the case last night.

The Daily Telegraph understands that Ukip will fight the case in court, partly
because it stands to lose so much money if the donations have to be forfeited.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 23, 2007 Friday

Politics: Watchdog tells Ukip to return £363,000 in donations

BYLINE: Tania Branigan, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 317 words


The Electoral Commission is launching legal action to force the UK Independence
party to forfeit hundreds of thousands of pounds in "impermissible donations",
it announced last night. The election watchdog is also holding a full review of
the anti-EU and anti-immigration party's financial organisation, it said.

In a statement, it said it would also fine Ukip £1,500 for filing its accounts
unacceptably late - six months after an already extended deadline. A spokesman
for Ukip said the demand to hand over £363,697 was wholly disproportionate,
blaming a "simple clerical error". He added that Alan Bown, a retired bookmaker,
was not on the electoral register between December 2004 and January 2006, when
he gave the money, because his name had been removed without him realising. All
his donations were declared.

The 2000 Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act forbids parties from
taking money from individuals who are not registered to vote in the UK. They
have 30 days to return impermissible gifts.

Ukip's chairman, John Whittaker, said: "Mr Bown was entitled to be on the
electoral register throughout the period in question and has been a permanent
resident and taxpayer in the UK all his working life. I don't believe the law
was designed to catch out this sort of donor; it was intended to prevent dodgy
overseas money being given to UK parties. There was no intent to breach or
evade."

The commission is also preparing to take legal action against the Socialist
Labour party over £5,090 of donations.

It also emerged last night that Lord Kalms, the wealthy Tory donor who had
warned earlier this year that he was considering switching his allegiance to
Ukip, has decided to back the Conservatives under David Cameron.

He told the Financial Times that he considered Ukip "a bit of a red herring" and
"had no doubt" that Mr Cameron would take a harder Eurosceptic line at the next
election.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 23, 2007, Friday

Legal action over donations to UKIP

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words


The UK Independence Party faces legal action to force it to pay back almost £
370,000 of "impermissible donations", the Electoral Commission has said. This
usually means donations from people or organisations that are not registered in
Britain.

The Commission will initiate proceedings under the Political Parties, Elections
and Referendums Act 2000. The donations are said to date back to 2004. The party
also faces fines totalling £ 1,500 for filing its accounts "unacceptably late".

Meanwhile, the Electoral Commission is preparing to take legal action against
the Socialist Labour Party over £ 5,090 of donations.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 23, 2007, Friday

Join the debate online today

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 83 words


UKIP anarchy

People are so fed up with the controlling antics of the party leadership that
they are leaving the UK Independence Party in droves

Janet Girsman, St Albans

Harry's tour

I understand the concern Britain is expressing about Prince Harry's deployment,
and I wish him a safe tour of duty

Richard Johnson, Burlington, Iowa

Animal rights

I wish the people who get so het up about foie gras would turn their attention
to the conditions involved in the factory farming of chickens

Jane Roed, Luxembourg

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

EU history book is planned for schools

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 307 words


BRITISH school pupils could soon be learning history from a European Union
textbook under a new proposal from Berlin to be tabled next week.

Germany is to urge the drawing up of a "European history book'', to be taught in
all schools to foster a common cultural identity across the EU.

The idea, said to have the backing of Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, is
to be the flagship education proposal of Berlin's EU presidency. Annette
Schavan, the federal education minister, will set out her plans at a meeting of
EU education ministers in Heidelberg.

"A common history book could contribute to a common European identity and
knowledge about what is important for European culture and history,'' said a
German education ministry spokesman.

But the project faces opposition. Graham Brady, the Tory Europe spokesman,
described the move as "typical bureaucratic mission creep''.

"The teaching of our history is vitally important for any nation and
particularly so for Britain, which has so much to be proud of,'' he said. "We
should not under any circumstances lose control of our educational
responsibilities.''

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, asked: "Do we really want
our children being brainwashed by Eurocrats and politicians into believing an
EU-style history where politicians saved the day? Euro-history will tell our
children that peace in Europe has been kept by the EU and that Britain was never
a global power.''

The European Commission is backing Berlin's suggestion to model an EU history
textbook on an existing French-German project.

The Franco-German Histoire Geschichte was launched last May, with a first
edition covering history since the end of the Second World War. The text is
taught as part of the higher curriculum in both French and German schools and
has the expressed aim of overcoming old enmities.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

Plan to have one history book in EU

SECTION: ED 4TH; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 185 words


GERMANY wants to unify European history by creating a common text book for
children.

The country's education minister, Annette Schavan, claimed schools needed more
knowledge about the EU and its benefits.

She said youngsters should have a ' European historical book' based on a
controversial French-German text which already exists.

Mrs Schavan, whose country currently holds the EU presidency, said she will
unveil the idea at a meeting of education ministers in Germany next month.

'Only if the hearts and minds of humans are won over can the European success
story move forward,' she said. Her comments, reported in the German news
magazine Focus, were made on the sidelines of a meeting in Brussels this week.

The idea has received the backing of the Brussels education commissioner, Jan
Figel.

Ukip MEP Tom Wise said: 'A nation is forged in its common history, and for the
EU to try and create such a thing is a form of EU cultural imperialism.

Recognising that they cannot convince adults the EU is the promised land, it is
obvious that they see the vulnerable minds of children as the only chance they
have got.'

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

LETTERS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 1870 words


LETTERS

A smart move?

I BELIEVE the Government knows that allegations that peerages have been given
for loans will be difficult to prove, and it has encouraged these investigations
to deflect attention from other related alleged offences which would be much
easier to prove.

When the allegations were originally made, the Labour Party treasurer said he
was unaware of the loans. Since then, the implications of that statement have
not been followed up.

If the treasurer knew nothing of the loans, the loans weren't agreed by the
Labour Party's normal procedure for raising money.

Any loan agreed outside the formal procedures would be unauthorised - and any
Labour Party member who arranged such a loan would be liable for disciplinary
action and might even have committed a criminal offence.

It wouldn't take two minutes to check whether the details of the loans are
formally recorded in the minutes of the appropriate Labour Party finance
committee and on Labour Party accounts. If they were not, the loans were
unauthorised and illegal, and the implications for those members of the Labour
Party involved in arranging them would be very grave indeed.

RICHARD CHAPMAN, Runcorn, Cheshire.

UKIP double standards IN ITS election material, UKIP constantly attacks the EU,
stating

that its 'open-border policy' has led to a flood of migrants and is bad for
Britain.

Last year, former UKIP leader Roger Knapman saved himself a few bob by employing
cut-price Polish labourers to restore his country mansion. Now it's revealed
that another senior UKIP member is cashing in on cheap migrant labour at his
shopping complex in the West Country.

Bruce Robertson, owner of Trago Mills shopping complex in Newton Abbot, has
drawn 10 per cent of his 360 workforce from Poland, leaving local people on the
dole.

Mr Robertson's claim that 'it was easier to hire foreign workers than local
people' has angered UKIP members in Plymouth and led to a spate of resignations
from the party.

One posting on the UKIP website seems to sum up the feelings of many.

'How can he look voters in the eye and claim it's easier to hire someone from
Poland than someone from Newton Abbot? He's simply taking advantage of cheap,
imported labour to save himself a few quid. Robertson is cashing in on the very
EU regulations he claims to condemn.' Makes you wonder what UKIP really stands
for.

H. H. J. WILLIAMS, Hythe, Kent.

I'm not Camilla,but ...

IN 1943, I was in the Army and posted to Montgomery's HQ. In summer 1944, I went
over to Normandy with the first girls to go after D-Day.

After 'roughing' it under canvas in Bayeux, I went forward with a detachment of
Royal Engineers and was billeted with civilians in Rouen and Amiens, after which
I caught up with the main HQ in Brussels and then flew to Bad Oeynhausen,
Germany, directly after VE Day.

I was obviously showing signs of being unwell, but although I was seen at
Millbank Military Hospital in London before being demobbed, nothing was
diagnosed. It wasn't until after I'd married and had two sons that it was found
that one of my kidneys was diseased, resulting in the removal of my left kidney,
a Fallopian tube and an ovary. I later had a hysterectomy.

I've since had a major mastectomy for cancer, but I can honestly say that at no
time have I suffered all the traumas reported these days as associated with
these conditions.

The results of blood tests taken last year were, in my GP's words, what would be
expected of a 21-year-old. I am now 83, and apart from problems with my legs, I
feel as good as ever. My husband died 18 years ago and I just get on with life.

So please - not too much of the daytoday bulletins on Camilla.

Mrs SYLVIA WILD, Cardiff.

Don't forget good homes

WE READ almost daily of the elderly having bad experiences in care homes.

We rarely hear of the good homes, where the elderly are treated with respect in
a clean and happy environment.

In 1988, my daughter, an SRN, took me to visit a care home she hoped to buy.

I felt absolute horror as we entered: it was cold, stark and the smell was
unbearable. But all the time my daughter was reassuring me that these problems
could be dealt with.

She went ahead and bought the home.

Within days the smell had gone and within three months it had become a warm and
happy place to be. In later years many visitors remarked that there was 'no
smell here'.

In 2005, having devoted 20 years to the care of the elderly, my daughter sold
the home. She misses her life of caring very much, but twice a week she returns
to do 'activities' with the residents.

I am sure there must be other, happier, homes than the ones we read about daily.

PAT CARPENTER, Windsor, Berks.

The eyes do have it

FURTHER to the findings of Orebro University about telling people's character by
their eyes (Mail), as a pigeon fancier for 40 years, like many other fanciers I
use what we call 'eye signs' to judge a pigeon's potential for breeding and
racing, in a way not dissimilar to that which those scientists describe.

To my knowledge, this method has been used for 50 years or more. Not everyone
agrees with it, but in my experience, pigeons which breed and race well
invariably have what is called a 'good eye'.

R. D. BINGLEY, Newport, Essex.

Visits from angels

DR DANNY PENMAN'S description of so- called Angels of Death (Mail) reminded me
of a time years ago when I would visit my sick father-in-law in hospital.

I often found it difficult finding something new to say.

This all changed one day when I was greeted with a huge smile of welcome.

As I took my seat, my father-in-law said excitedly: 'Ma came to see me last
night.' He always referred to my mother-in-law, his wife who had been dead for
three years, as 'Ma'.

Somewhat alarmed, I waited, uncertain what to say, but he carried on: 'We talked
about Jack.' Jack was his son who had been killed on a convoy to Russia in 1942.

He rambled on happily until the effort made him drowsy and I crept away.

That night he died peacefully in his sleep.

Do I believe in life after death? Yes, I think I do.

NELL PRICE, Alcombe, Somerset.

AS MY husband lay dying of lung cancer, his friends surrounded his bed, talking
and laughing with him. He was obviously enjoying their company and laughing with
them. In high good humour, he looked at the bottom of his bed, where there was
nobody there that we could see, saying: 'Isn't that so, David?' and, 'Isn't that
so, Billy?' His best friends, David and Billy, keen motorcyclists like him, had
been killed in the Winter Hall Disaster, near Bolton, in 1958. My husband would
also have been on that plane but for the fact that we had just got married. He
died that night.

The priest who came to see me afterwards told me that my husband's friends,
David and Billy, had surely come to ease him into the next life. In a strange
way, that was a comfort to me.

LESLEY BOYDE, Kirk Michael, IoM.

Heavenly aroma

SMELLS certainly do influence what we buy (Letters). Years ago, my husband was a
market trader, in the days of open markets which operated whatever the weather.

One very cold Friday, the stall next to my husband's brought a paraffin heater
to try to keep warm. This stall sold bacon and sausages, and someone suggested
buying a frying pan and bread and making bacon sandwiches.

They did just that.

Before long, the stall had a queue of people waiting to buy bacon, all attracted
by the wonderful aroma.

Takings doubled that day. Every market day after that saw the heating and frying
pan working from morning till night.

This was long before the days of health and safety and hygiene rules - and very
happy days they were, too.

Mrs MILDRED KENT, Darwen, Lancs.

A lost art

FOR 30 tough years, I taught in London classrooms, and there was never an 'easy'
day. There were always several hours of sport to break up the week, and music
was a must. Drama, crafts, sewing and knitting were considered useful skills to
gain for those

who might not have been so capable at more taxing lessons.

But best of all was art.

The heavy desks were grouped together and spread with newspapers. Large sheets
of paper were cut up; messy powder-paints were mixed.

Buckets full of water were carried into classrooms to be poured into water pots.
Proud 'paint monitors' helped to distribute pencils, brushes and paint as the
bell rang and the children entered with enthusiasm.

It was an attempt to inspire those children into making an effort, combining a
teacher's interest and inspiration with a natural school response.

Almost before they were dry, artistic efforts - flowers, dragons, rabbits etc -
were up on the wall for all to admire. We took pleasure in the colourful
creations.

A few days ago, I was sad to learn that painting lessons no longer exist at the
school where I once worked because there is no 'classroom assistant', without
whom no one can carry a bucketful of water.

No assistant, no enthusiasm, no encouragement. No water, no painting, no
brushes, no paint - no wonderful, colourful, heart-filling compositions to hang
on the classroom wall.

What else will be lost along the way? How many children will never know if they
have a feeling or inclination towards art - let alone an ability towards it? How
sad.

DOROTHY RAMONELL DAVIES, Esporlas, Mallorca.

Risk worth taking

I FEEL sorry for Anita Roddick and anyone else who has contracted an infection
via a blood transfusion, but no one has a right to a blood transfusion.

The fact that such an opportunity exists is solely because donors choose to make
a gift of their blood to help others.

Life has an unfortunate habit of launching various unforeseen infections at us,
and even now scientists might be discovering a new problem. You can't screen for
something when you don't even know what it is.

If you told desperately ill people awaiting a transfusion that the blood might
harbour some as yet undetected infection, most would go ahead rather than do
without and die.

I'm sorry if people become infected, but they should look at what the
alternative might have been and stop complaining and, above all, stop trying to
claim compensation.

Without the transfusion, they probably wouldn't be in a position to make a claim
anyway.

MOYA CHERRINGTON DAY, Frant, Kent.

Amin's victims

ON THE day before the BAFTA awards, a friend invited me to see The Last King Of
Scotland. I was reluctant: I'm from Uganda and lost many close friends -
lawyers, doctors, politicians, engineers.

One was Anil Clerk. We were at school together in Kampala and came over to
England at the same time to study law.

Anil later became Idi Amin's legal adviser, but one night during the tyrant's
evil reign, a jeepload of drunken soldiers smashed into Anil's house and took
him away. He was never seen again.

After seeing the movie, I was convinced Forest Whitaker, who played Amin, would
win not only a BAFTA but also an Oscar. His portrayal of the mad dictator is
stunning.

The difference is that whereas Amin was a buffoon and a madman, Whitaker came
over as a charismatic, sophisticated and charming character.

I hope I'm wrong, but my impression is that most of the film audience will leave
the cinemas full of admiration for Whitaker's acting, not disgust at the
brutality of Amin, perpetrated over a long period and which resulted in the
death of nearly half a million people.

SAEED MALIK, Ruislip, Middx.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ZE WAR IS OVER;
Germany's new history book starts from 1945. . .

BYLINE: by JAMES WICKHAM

SECTION: NEWS; 30

LENGTH: 265 words


DOUBLE World War losers Germany want to rewrite history - and ditch Britain's
greatest triumphs.

German leaders have taken over the presidency of the European Union.

And they are planning to use their new-found power to change the way history is
taught in schools across Europe. They want every child in Britain to forget
about World War Two and the horrors of the Nazis.

Instead, they will be taught all about the formation of the EU.

There will be no place for Winston Churchill, the British Empire or William
Shakespeare, but plenty of detail about how France and Germany teamed up to
create a trade zone and tried to stop Britain joining.

A new textbook, called Histoire-Geschichte - the French and German words for
history - has already been printed and will be dished out to every school in
Britain if the Germans get their way.

It manages to skip the two World Wars by starting its list of events in 1945. A
second book is planned - which critics fear will ignore British triumphs such as
the battles of Trafalgar and Waterloo, and concentrate instead on France's
Napoleon.

A spokesman for the EU commissioner for education, Slovakia's Jan Figel, said:
"The commissioner supports this idea from the presidency. In the UK it might be
a problem, but in other nations like Italy I am sure it will be very positive."

But critics have blasted the idea. UKIP Euro-MP Tom Wise, 58, accused the
Germans of "cultural imperialism".

He said: "They cannot convince adults that the EU is the promised land, so they
see the vulnerable minds of children as the only chance they have got."

Top 10 things to alter

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRITTEN OUT: There will be no room for Hitler, Churchill or Britain's
1966 World Cup triumph in the new textbook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ZE WAR IS OVER;
Germany's new history book starts from 1945. . .

BYLINE: by JAMES WICKHAM

SECTION: NEWS; 30

LENGTH: 265 words


DOUBLE World War losers Germany want to rewrite history - and ditch Britain's
greatest triumphs.

German leaders have taken over the presidency of the European Union.

And they are planning to use their new-found power to change the way history is
taught in schools across Europe. They want every child in Britain to forget
about World War Two and the horrors of the Nazis.

Instead, they will be taught all about the formation of the EU.

There will be no place for Winston Churchill, the British Empire or William
Shakespeare, but plenty of detail about how France and Germany teamed up to
create a trade zone and tried to stop Britain joining.

A new textbook, called Histoire-Geschichte - the French and German words for
history - has already been printed and will be dished out to every school in
Britain if the Germans get their way.

It manages to skip the two World Wars by starting its list of events in 1945. A
second book is planned - which critics fear will ignore British triumphs such as
the battles of Trafalgar and Waterloo, and concentrate instead on France's
Napoleon.

A spokesman for the EU commissioner for education, Slovakia's Jan Figel, said:
"The commissioner supports this idea from the presidency. In the UK it might be
a problem, but in other nations like Italy I am sure it will be very positive."

But critics have blasted the idea. UKIP Euro-MP Tom Wise, 58, accused the
Germans of "cultural imperialism".

He said: "They cannot convince adults that the EU is the promised land, so they
see the vulnerable minds of children as the only chance they have got."

Top 10 things to alter

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRITTEN OUT: There will be no room for Hitler, Churchill or Britain's
1966 World Cup triumph in the new textbook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           February 22, 2007 Thursday

Er, don't mention the war

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 200  words


German bid to rewrite history

GERMANY wants to rewrite the history of Europe -and force kids in Britain to
learn it.

Eurocrats have backed the move claiming it will bring member states closer
together.

Schoolkids across the EU would be taught from the same text book.

But there are fears authors might airbrush out the shameful past -not least the
world wars. The book may also view the EU through rose-tinted spectacles.

German education minister Annette Schavan is using her country's stint as EU
President to push the idea.

She wants a book similar to a German-French history book produced for ALL EU
schools.

The plan has already won the backing of EU education commissioner Jan Figel and
German leader Angela Merkel.

But last night it was fiercely opposed by British MEPs.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "If the EU gets its way, our
children will be learning about European civil wars not the two world wars."

Shadow Europe Minister Graham Brady said: "The EU has no business interfering.
It is not part of its purpose."

Ms Schavan's European history book will be discussed next month. Ms Merkel said:
"More knowledge about Europe in schools is worth thinking
about."d.wooding@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 22, 2007 Thursday 6:48 PM GMT

N.O. to the EU

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 310 words


Loonies, fruitcakes and worse is David Cameron's colourful description of the UK
Independence Party.

All on board the EU train? No thanks, says Steve

But top Tory Steve Norris has just endorsed their brand of thinking, if
decidedly not the anti-Brussels party itself.

Speaking on the 18 Doughty Street online television station last night, Mr
Norris backed Britain formally withdrawing from Europe.

The ex-Government minister and former London mayoral candidate told interviewer
Iain Dale that Britain "just doesn't belong in the same institutions" as other
European countries.

Mr Norris told the programme that he would back the Conservative under David
Cameron if they made a decision to withdraw from the EU.

He also re-affirmed his ambitions to be once again the Tory candidate for London
mayor - a position still unfilled despite much apparent wooing by the party of
celebrities and well-known types to knock Ken Livingstone off his perch.

On Europe, Mr Norris declared:"The institution of the European Union which I
think is corrupted and corrupting and largely redundant...if it were put to me
that it were practicable the intention of Cameron's Conservative party to
withdraw ourselves formally from the European Union that wouldn't cause me a
single moment's distress."

And if there was a referendum on EU membership today, he'd be voting 'No'.

"I would say...we have a completely different tradition in terms of democracy,
in terms of institutions, in terms of economy, in terms of our use of English
language, our transatlantic connections...We just don't belong in the same
institutions...We want a relationship that is constructive in Europe and will
continue to be, you need us, we need you, but what we don't need is the
institution of the European Union of which I'm profoundly suspicious."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 22, 2007, Thursday

A view to a kill

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: FEATURES; Times2; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2164 words


David Aaronovitch watched a lamb called Freckles being slaughtered, butchered,
cooked with butter and garlic, then put on a plate in front of him. Did the
experience change his views on eating meat?

Only a surrealist novelist -or a British TV company -could have thought of
creating a swish new restaurant in the grounds of an abattoir, with large
picture windows overlooking the scene of slaughter. So here we are, a hundred of
us, figments of nobody's imagination, sitting in comfort in what was the yard of
Mettrick's slaughterhouse in the Derbyshire town of Glossop, waiting to watch
our dinner being killed.

I made the journey to the Peak district (passing through the Hyde of Dr Harold
Shipman), suspiciously. The same channel making this programme was also about to
transmit Fat Men Can't Hunt, a fairly typical late-era reality show in which
eight fatties are tortured in the Kalahari by not being fed unless they catch
and kill their own suppers. As ever this had been given the "this is really
meaningful television" gloss by the publicists, just as today's effort -Kill it,
Cook it, Eat it -had been declared an attempt to re-authenticate the process of
animal consumption by reconnecting people "with those shrink-wrapped packets of
meats they buy in the supermarket and show the whole journey from farm to fork,
from pasture to plate".

That question, I agreed, was a good one. You don't have to be a Marxist or a
dark Green to see that there is something to the argument that we are too
alienated from the natural world, and from the processes that support our
existences. Of course, some aspects of this alienation seem more problematic
than others. Not many argue, as Gandhi did, that you should make your own
clothes, and we all (except devotees of colonic irrigation) welcome elaborate
arrangements to ensure that we are speedily alienated from the consequences of
our own bodily functions.

There's also the problem that this can easily be seen as part of the whole
countryside schtick, a way of beating up townies for their loss of real
connection with the world of pasture and Range Rovers. But I think children and
adults should experience fields, seasons, woods and animals, should understand
where sustenance comes from and -above all -what it costs in something other
than monetary terms, for us to live the lives we do. So if BBC Three is serious
about the intention behind Kill it, Cook it, Eat it, then I'll be serious about
it too.

What the producers have noticed, as have the food experts and the more
thoughtful chefs, is that today's heightened interest in the authenticity of our
food presents an opportunity to discuss these things more seriously than ever.
Some of this interest arises from concerns about food safety and about food
standards, some of it is due to greater knowledge of how other cultures look at
food, and some of it reflects the popularity of cooking as a hobby. Far more
than 30 years ago, we now regard what we eat (rather than having enough to eat)
as being important.

But, I wondered, on the slow train up to Glossop, did the people from the meat
and farming industries mean it when they said that we all ought to know how
animals were raised, looked after, died and were butchered? Weren't they at all
afraid that -horrified -we would turn, en masse, to vegetarianism?

The restaurant studio set up, complete with roving cameras and roving
presenters, consisted of a seating area in the middle, with 80-odd people
sitting eight to a table, a reassuring pots-and-pans TV cooking area on one
side, and a decidedly un-TV butchery area on the other. Large windows and the
door gave on to the muddy yard, and a sharp Peak District wind whistled in
whenever the door was opened.

On one table was a collection of TV chefs and food writers. On mine were a
career magician and UKip parliamentary candidate, whose last TV appearance, aged
72, was to take all his clothes off on The Russell Brand Show; a Liverpudlian
woman vegetarian who regularly manages appearances on the daytime confessionals;
and - thank goodness -five employees of the National Trust, who between them
managed much of the farming on the Hardwick Estate, in Derbyshire, and who knew
a sheep from an extra. Our roles were the same: to talk about how we felt about
watching our dinners being killed, to eat the meat, and then to talk about how
we felt.

Before that day not one of us around the table had ever seen an animal being
slaughtered -not even the farmers.

From time to time an expert would address us on one or other aspect of lamb
production. Today's lamb would come from the High Peak moors, up on The Nabb,
where they lived on the heather shoots that would flavour their meat. Local
origination, I was told, was far more important than whether something was
organic, and this meat would be local. Though this was impressive, I thought the
sentiment would be of limited utility in the great conurbations, unless we were
to begin mass grazing on Richmond Park.

The moment of the slaughtering was approaching. One woman, who had brought her
children along, said that she had taught them that "if you're not prepared to
know where it comes from, to see it, and if you're not comfortable with it,
don't eat it". Another commented, rather piously, that "a lot of people think
meat comes in a box with a bit of sponge underneath it". Perversely, I begin to
think about the fact that I didn't know where the bit of sponge came from. Just
before the killing began TV screens in the restaurant carried a prerecorded
interview with Sally Hobson, the owner of the about-to-be-silenced lambs. Filmed
on her hillside pasture, Hobson exhibited that strange mixture of toughness and
sentimentality that seems to characterise the farming industry. She explained,
briefly, the life cycle of the lambs, from the moment the ram was introduced to
(as she unearthily put it) "do his business" to the moment that they were
rounded up and carted off.

"You see them thinking, 'Please keep me'," said Sally, "but you know they're
going to a good home."

Heaven knows how she works this out. Last year 14 million British sheep and
lambs -almost double the population of London -went to "good homes". In all we
consumed 364,000 tonnes of sheep and lamb meat. Looking at her surrounded by her
woolly friends, and anticipating the deaths to come, I was feeling something
like dread. And, yes, a little nausea. At which point we were instructed to exit
the comfy restaurant and to get ready to file past the slaughtering, as though
viewing an art installation, in which -say -the Chapman brothers did meat. "We
must be completely silent," said someone from the TV company, "because we don't
want to stress the animals." No, kill them, cut them up, eat their flesh and
drink their blood, but never stress them.

There they were, in Room 1, the pen, lambs to the slaughter, all fleecy and
cute.

Eight months old, black-faced and docile, born last April, with a season's
gambolling, a winter and then death to look forward to. I thought -though I
didn't want to -of my Kerry blue terrier, Ruby.

One lamb emerged from the pen to be held in the next stainless-steel room
between the chunky thighs of Brian, the literally stunning slaughterer, who
clamped its head between the yellow ends of a gigantic pair of pliers, passed
the electricity through its brain, and then -gently -pushed it to the floor.
Thus began the journey from animal to meat.

The stunned animal was lifted, hooked by one leg to a rising conveyor system,
and taken on a slow 45-degree angle trip upwards until it hung, neck down. It
then passed up and through a door to a third long steel room, where the
knifeman, in a red apron was waiting. A single deft sweep of the blade cut the
beast's throat, releasing a curtain of dark crimson blood to gush away into the
cattle grid underneath. One back leg twitched. In some animals, we saw, there
was no movement at all, in others you'd swear they were trying to run away.
"It's all right," we were reassured, "if you look at the eyes, you can see
there's no reflex. It's dead." The conveyor moved again. Another man skinned the
animal, removing the head. Two delicate nicks of the knife took off the lower
legs at the knee. Now the woolless lamb was opened up and a great tumble of
wobbling, multicoloured guts was removed and laid on one side. I noticed the men
weren't wearing gloves; the relationship of the slaughtermen to the meat was
surprisingly intimate.

There it was, our lamb, Freckles or whatever it might have been called -sans
fur, sans feet, sans guts, sans everything, turned in ten minutes into a carcass
and a pile of offal. From silly, woolly, noisy, sh****** animal to a series of
bits, stamped in seven places by the ever-present quality inspector and ready
for consumption. As for us, by lamb No 4 some of us had become almost blase, and
even the proper sense of awe had almost gone. Was this a demonstration of an
evolutionary trait, this speed with which we can conquer scruple in order to
feed? We filed back into the restaurant, leaving the workers to go on killing.
We were a bit more sombre. One large man told us how the experience had been
traumatic for him and he had nearly broken into tears. There was no gallows
humour, and an obvious respect for the men who had done the killing. It had (we
agreed) all been a bit draining. But the second great test was yet to come. The
very animals we had seen in their pen, being stunned, being killed, whose blood
had run off in sheets, would now be cooked in front of us and served up to us in
a sort of mass culinary post mortem.

The smell of garlic and melted butter filled the Slaughterhouse Cafe, and within
minutes we were each presented with a little pink lamb chop. Mine was chewy and
warm and I didn't want to eat it. Behind me the presenter had a conversation
with the chef.

"The meat," he pointed out, "has a gelatinous texture."

"Yes," she replied, "that's because rigor mortis hasn't yet set in."

Rigor mortis in a lamb chop? I can barely cope with the idea of rigor mortis in
a dead human being (that could, of course, be next week's programme -we set up a
studio inside a hospice and all watch someone die), let alone in my dinner. The
question was, with this thought in my mind, with the image of the kicking back
legs of a dying lamb still in my head, would it make any difference at all to
the way that I experienced meat in the future? I wasn't going to become a
vegetarian.

The speed with which I had assimilated and become used to the deaths of these
animals had told me that. True, if I had, like the BBC Three fatties, to kill
all my meat myself, I'd probably stick to carrots -just so long as someone else
grew them -but that wasn't the proposition. The question was whether seeing the
process altered in any fashion (how can I put it?) the stupid quality of the way
in which I'd been used to eating meat. Whether it would stop the denial involved
in pretending that this thing on my plate was something other than part of an
animal killed by someone else to feed me.

Yes, it did, to an extent. I don't mean that, since that day in Glossop, I have
gone around mentally separating out the mince in the bolognese sauce and trying
to reconstitute it as Henrietta the Hereford. But I have taken to looking more
carefully -more thoughtfully, if you like -at what's on the shelves, in the
freezers, or hanging on the butcher's hook. Where's it from? What part of the
animal was it, the pig that was that package of bacon, or even contributed to
the Parma ham, or the fowl, part of whose breast is now speared on the tines of
my fork? It was born, it lived, it was killed. That makes it deserving of some
small regard, some atom of thought. This doesn't mean that every time I have
some (organic, free range, local) nuggets I am going to don feathers and do a
dance to honour the chicken spirits. Though maybe I should, for though seeing my
lambs killed didn't change my desire for meat in the least, I think it may have
altered for some time my appreciation of what has to happen for that desire to
be realised. Isn't that a bit good? And doesn't it make me a better home for
Freckles?

Kill It, Cook It, Eat It begins on March 5 on BBC Three, 10.30pm

HOW FRESH SHOULD MEAT BE?

Meat is actually not at its most flavoursome or with an ideal texture when eaten
straight away.

It needs time for the muscles to set and then relax, and for the flavour to
intensify -except with pork and poultry, where the flavour remains the same.

Ideal time for which meat should be hung before cooking:

Beef Four weeks

Spring lamb Four days

Mutton Two weeks

Game Depends on personal preference -can be hung for up to three weeks but
current trend is for one week

Poultry If it's scalded to remove feathers, as most chickens are: four days. If
it's dry-plucked: ten days

Pork Five days

TIM WILSON owns a farm in Yorkshire and the Ginger Pig butcher in Marylebone,
which has a stall in Borough Market. He supplies meat to the River Cafe in West
London

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 22, 2007, Thursday

Why Tories have little to fear from UKIP protest vote

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 568 words


The UK Independence Party is a phantom threat to the Conservative Party. It
presents no serious electoral challenge. Insofar as UKIP is a threat, it is in
the minds, and attitudes, of Conservative activists, and a few MPs, not voters.

The polling data is unambiguous. If you aggregate the last four monthly Populus
polls for The Times, to produce a reasonable sized sample, UKIP is on 1.5 per
cent, half the support for the Greens. Polls can understate support for small
parties, but UKIP achieved only 2.3 per cent at the 2005 general election. At
the same time, Tory support has risen by five to six points since David Cameron
took over as leader. The fall in UKIP support and rise in the Tory rating
contradicts the underlying fears of the Tory Right.

Moreover, if you look at shifts in support between the parties shown by Populus
polls, there may have been a loss of about one percentage point from the Tories
to UKIP since 2005. Indeed, most 2005 Tory voters who dislike Mr Cameron's
approach, and are attracted to UKIP, have probably already gone.

This limited splintering has been much more than offset by the big gain from
people who voted Labour or Liberal Democrat at the 2005 election switching to
the Tories. Moreover, other published polls suggest that current Tory supporters
are much firmer in their commitment, and less likely to defect between now and
the next election, than backers of other parties. And if they switch, they are
much more likely to go to Labour or the Lib Dems than to UKIP.

So the potential scale of defection from the Tories to UKIP is probably very
small, maybe no more than one percentage point or so. The real danger for the
Tories is among former Labour and Lib Dem supporters who may return to their
earlier party loyalties if they conclude that Mr Cameron is not providing a
strong enough lead or clear enough direction. The real possibility at the next
election, for the first time since 1992, of defeating or substantially weakening
Labour is likely to keep most Tories in line. So the real battleground remains
against Labour and the Lib Dems, with UKIP mattering only in a handful of
constituencies.

UKIP has a tiny membership and its finances have been examined by the Electoral
Commission. The party is still taken seriously, however, by many on the Tory
Right. Admittedly, Nigel Farage, its leader, is more personable, and sharper on
the media, than the party's other MEPs, and he is trying to broaden its appeal.

Meanwhile, the creation of a phone box-sized UKIP group in the Lords and the
defection of local activists has created ripples, if not waves, amongst hardline
Eurosceptics.

The Tories' big error is to treat UKIP as misguided people who share the same
basic values as themselves.

For instance, while trying to persuade Tory supporters not to vote UKIP, Liam
Fox, the Tory defence spokesman, recently said: "Many Conservatives would
sympathise with the UKIP general view in terms of European policy." This is very
dangerous ground for the Tories. They should not seek to appease UKIP by hinting
at possible withdrawal or disengagement from the EU.

Mr Cameron has said that Britain should remain within the EU, at the same time
as urging a more decentralised union. But he needs to make the dividing line
with UKIP more explicit to all in his party. The Tories can damage only
themselves by indulging UKIP. They have nothing to fear from Mr Farage's party.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday

Tories' champagne should stay on ice

BYLINE: Iain Dale

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1006 words


Following years of flatlining, you could forgive Tory strategists if they had
all got blind drunk after hearing of their nine-point lead in yesterday's ICM
poll. But there's a good reason why the champagne glasses were still dry in the
pine dressers of Notting Hill yesterday. Opinion polls are one thing, but the
real test will come in May when actual votes are up for grabs - and the Cameron
camp knows this only too well.

In the 15 months of his leadership, David Cameron has had two priorities - to
"decontaminate'' the Tory brand and to build a "big tent''. He wanted to make
Lib Dem voters feel that they could come home to the Conservatives without being
embarrassed to tell their friends they had done so.

It was a strategy aimed at two groups: those who had deserted the Tories in
1997, 2001 and 2005, and young, aspirational voters whose sense of idealism
hasn't been tapped for some time by any of the mainstream political parties. The
strategy always ran the risk of running into the sand once the Right of the
party realised what Cameron was up to.

Last week, the chairman of the Right-wing Cornerstone Group, Edward Leigh,
warned that the party was haemorrhaging support to UKIP. It was the first time a
leading figure had broken cover and criticised Cameron's strategy publicly. It
was a spectacularly ill-timed intervention. Cameron has always taken the view
that there are two groups of people you can never appease: the "headbanging
Right'' of the party, and UKIP. So when Leigh launched his spluttering attack,
Cameron did what he always does. He ignored it. His strategists were also
singularly unperturbed. Indeed, they took their usual view that whenever Cameron
sidesteps a few Scud missiles from the Right, it proves to the electorate that
the Tories are changing. They're not looking for a single major confrontation or
a Clause 4 moment. The Cameroons are quite happy with a series of Clause 2½s.

One poll does not a summer make - besides, ICM is traditionally favourable to
the Tories - but yesterday's results confirm trends in other recent polls.
Cameron has broken out of the 34-37 per cent bracket and is now consistently
polling 37-40 per cent. When put up against Gordon Brown, his lead expands. He's
also winning back the female vote. So the Cameron camp is right to point to the
psychological barrier of 40 per cent being breached regularly now - something
unthinkable in recent Conservative memory.

But the second phase of the Cameron project is going to be much trickier. Having
at least partially decontaminated the Conservative "brand'', Cameron now has to
rebuild the party in his image.

On the premise that political leaders should play to their strengths, Cameron
has to be the public face of Phase 2, just as he was in Phase 1. This shameless
exploitation of the cult of personality may not be popular among some of the
shadow cabinet's lesser lights, but, as someone once said, There Is No
Alternative.

So what exactly is Phase 2? If Phase 1 was "decontamination'', Phase 2 is about
"rebuilding''. It will be based on rebuilding a philosophical identity as well
as rebuilding the Conservative Party organisation in the country.

Since Christmas, Cameron's speeches have taken on a slightly harder edge with
more "beef'' - last week's excellent speech on the family has gone down
particularly well. The media have noticed and barely a week goes by without the
24-hour news channels covering his speeches live - something they rarely did
with Michael Howard or Iain Duncan Smith.

As the policy groups roll out their proposals, they will provide the ideological
ballast to mix with the rhetoric that Cameron's speechwriting team seem very
capable of providing. The task will be to translate the policy proposals, not
into a manifesto, but into an interim document which will reassure the troops on
the ground that there is a coherent theme.

The Cameron strategists would do well to familiarise themselves with a book by
Sir John Hoskyns called Just In Time, which outlined how the Thatcher opposition
developed its thinking from 1975 to 1979. The aim of Thatcher's advisers was to
develop policies without giving too much away and making too many hostages to
fortune - a mirror image of Cameron's priorities today.

If anyone has a harder task than Cameron over the next 12 months, it is his
party chairman, Francis Maude. Maude's top priority is to rebuild the
Conservative Party organisation in the northern cities. He fears that while the
party may be stacking up votes in its southern heartlands, it is in the north
where the election may be won or lost.

Maude learnt a painful lesson when the party voted down his reorganisation plans
in the summer of 2005. He tried to move too quickly and suffered the
consequences. Since then he has adopted a softer, more persuasive approach that
is now paying dividends. He's playing Mr Nice Guy, while his deputy, Lord
Ashcroft, plays the nasty cop. Ashcroft has told constituency associations that
unless they meet their part of the bargain, and build up their campaigning
capabilities, they won't get any support from Central Office. Not a bean. His
aim is to concentrate their minds on why they exist.

Cameron may not have the rhetorical ability of Ronald Reagan, but he matches him
in the Teflon stakes. He brushes off Labour attacks with apparent ease, and to
emerge unscathed from a week full of headlines related to his alleged use of
cannabis as a schoolboy is something few political leaders could have achieved.
It's something his political enemies rather admire him for. Even in adversity,
the more the public see of Cameron, the more they seem to like him.

Reagan's other great asset was that he was transparently in touch with the mood
and aspirations of the American people. Tony Blair captured the mood of the
British people in 1997, but has sadly lost it since. David Cameron's challenge
over the next 12 months is to recapture that mood, play to it and lead it.

Iain Dale is a former Conservative parliamentary candidate and a leading
Westminster blogger

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Tired and emotional Nigel's night out in Strasbourg;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 260 words


Ukip leader Nigel Farage works too hard. Rival Euro MPs were enjoying an evening
of Guinness and Celtic muzak in Strasbourg's Irish-themed pub Murphy's House,
behind the cathedral, when they discovered an "extremely weary" Farage at the
bar.

They rushed to help their stricken colleague, or, as one eyewitness put it,
"fell over each other taking pictures on their mobile phones". Farage's minders
fended off the amateur paparazzi. His group wobbled home. "He was in a state
when he got there and kept nodding off," says a witness.

"He was 'assisted' out of the place by two of his staff. The last time I saw him
he was being dragged down the road. I don't know how he got in [the bar] in the
first place, let alone how he got home."

Pandora rang Farage to ask if he had a good night out, and to promise to obtain
and publish the pictures, to make sure his hard work becomes a matter of public
record. "Ha ha, er, thank you."

Farage explains: "I had got up at three o'clock that morning. I was doing
something the night before and hardly had any sleep. It had been a long day and
then I'd been for dinner." Once at Murphy's, "I ordered one drink and didn't
even touch it by that point. Discretion played the better part of valour."

But were you carried out by your colleagues, Nigel? "Ha ha, I, er, think that's
a bit of an exaggeration ??? I had absolutely had it, certainly. I was dead meat
by that stage of the day. It was an error to have walked into there in the first
place. I was completely gone. I had a couple of drinks and I was done for."

Happens to us all!

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday

Front: Brown v Cameron - exclusive poll puts Labour 13 points adrift

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words


Gordon Brown is failing to persuade the public that he would make a better prime
minister than David Cameron, according to a Guardian/ICM poll published today
which suggests the Conservatives could win a working majority at the next
general election.

Voters give the Tories a clear 13-point lead when asked which party they would
back in a likely contest between Mr Brown, Mr Cameron and Sir Menzies Campbell.

The result would give the party 42% of the vote against Labour on 29%, similar
to its performance under Michael Foot in 1983. The Liberal Democrats would drop
to 17%. The result is the highest that the Conservatives have scored in any ICM
poll since July 1992, just after their last general election victory.

The question, which names all three major party leaders, asks voters to think
about politics in a different way from the standard ICM question about voting
intentions, which only names parties. As such, it is a greater test of the
personality of each party leader, or potential leader.

The question emphasises the role they play in the decision voters take on which
party to support. The chancellor has fared badly in almost all such surveys
carried out by ICM and other polling firms.

This month's ICM result is the most striking yet as it is the first to indicate
that Labour may be forced into opposition under Mr Brown.

A month ago, the same question put Conservative support on 39%, Labour on 31%
and the Liberal Democrats on 19%. There is already concern among some Labour MPs
about the impact of a Brown leadership, especially if it happens without a
contest that could allow Mr Brown to set out a fresh programme and identity.
Writing in the Guardian last week, the former minister Frank Field asked: "What
new directions can be offered when the architect of current policies has merely
moved up one place?"

The result suggests that Labour hopes that recent stories about Mr Cameron's
past would drive voters away from the Conservatives have come to nothing.

The poll was carried out last weekend, after press reports about the Tory
leader's use of cannabis at school and suggestions in some quarters that he had
used hard drugs. The poll also follows the publi cation of a photograph of Mr
Cameron dressed as a member of Oxford's exclusive Bullingdon dining club, which
prompted suggestions that the Tory leader, an old Etonian, would be seen as a
elitist toff who could afford dress up in £1,000 jackets.

The findings underline the difficulty facing Mr Brown as he waits for the prime
minister, Tony Blair, to announce his departure from office.

He needs to stay loyal to Mr Blair and has been limited in what he can say about
policy areas that are beyond his Treasury brief. But the silence has given
opponents such as Mr Cameron, as well as Labour MPs running for the deputy
leadership, a clear run to make their mark. It is widely expected that Mr
Brown's likely arrival in office will give Labour a bounce in the polls, not
least because attention will shift on to the government. Mr Brown has already
mapped out an agenda for his first months in office.

But he cannot break with significant policies he endorsed as chancellor, such as
the Iraq war. The risk is that expectations of a dramatic plan for his first 100
days are running well ahead of what it is actually possible to offer.

Much will depend on what he can announce in the budget later this spring, and
the comprehensive spending review that will follow in the summer.

If Mr Brown has more money for serv ices, or tax cuts, he could undermine the
Tory strategy of matching Labour spending plans.

In the regular state-of-the-parties survey, the Conservatives rise three points
on last month to 40%, Labour are unchanged on 31% and the Lib Dems drop 4 points
to 19%. Since the question naming likely leaders is worded differently from the
regular ICM survey of voting intention, direct comparisons can be misleading.
But the mention of Mr Brown's name appears to reduce Labour support by 2 points.

Falling Lib Dem support is part of the reason that the Conservatives have
climbed in both sets of results. The fact that the party's support drops further
when Sir Menzies' name is mentioned suggests that, as with Mr Brown, he is not
attracting support to his party.

The poll also shows voters remain interested in smaller parties, which climb one
point overall to 10% and reach 12% in the question naming likely party leaders.

But there is no evidence that the UK Independence party is eroding Conservative
support from the right. The newly-rebranded Independence party scores 1%,
against 2% for the Green party and 4% for the combined SNP and Plaid Cymru vote
in Scotland and Wales.

Poll findings cannot be translated easily into seats at Westminster, since many
factors including boundary changes, tactical voting and the popularity of some
local MPs complicates the picture.

But two informal calculators, the UK Polling Report and Electoral Calculus,
estimate that with Mr Brown in charge voters might give the Conservatives a lead
that could give them a majority of more than 50.

The standard state-of-the-parties figures suggest that the Conservatives could
hope to become the largest party at Westminster, but short of a majority.

The result is the 11th month in a row that the Conservatives have led in an
ICM/Guardian poll.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,000 adults aged 18+ by telephone between
February 16 and 18 2007. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules. Further information at
www.icmresearch.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 19, 2007 Monday

Failure to enforce gun laws humbles Blair

BYLINE: George Jones Political Editor and Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


TONY Blair's promise to introduce long prison sentences for teenagers carrying
guns was thrown into confusion last night after it emerged that tougher gun laws
introduced four years ago were not being enforced by the courts.

Announcing a firearms law review, Mr Blair said he wanted to lower from 21 to 17
the age at which a mandatory five-year jail term for carrying a gun could be
imposed.

Gang membership would be criminalised and measures would be taken to protect
people giving evidence against gangs.

Mr Blair's intervention followed four fatal shootings in South London in 11
days, three of them teenagers. Over the weekend, a 28-year-old man was shot dead
in Hackney, east London, while four other men were in hospital after shootings
in Manchester and London.

The Prime Minister has called a summit of ministers and the police this week to
talk about how to challenge gun violence.

Interviewed on BBC television's Sunday AM programme he denied that it was a
"knee-jerk response'' to the recent killings.

"There is a particular problem, which is that the minimum five-year sentence we
have introduced for illegal possession of a firearm does not apply to those
under the age of 21. We've got to lower that age, as the police are suggesting,
down to 17,'' Mr Blair said.

A Home Office spokesman later disclosed that a five-year minimum sentence was
introduced for all offenders over the age of 18 in England and Wales, and in
Scotland for those over 21, under the 2003 Criminal Justice Act.

In England and Wales juveniles - those under 18 - face a mandatory three-year
sentence for possessing an illegal gun under the Act.

According to the Home Office, courts did not always enforce the five-year
minimum sentence for offenders aged 18 to 20 following a recent Court of Appeal
judgment that they could be sentenced only to detention.

Downing Street acknowledged that the law already covered those between 18 and 21
but said Mr Blair "wanted to ensure it was applied''.

David Davis, the Conservative home affairs spokesman, accused Mr Blair of
"another rapid reaction to headlines''. He said the tougher sentencing should
have happened after the legislation on mandatory sentences was introduced in
2003.

It would be Mr Blair's fourth summit on gun crimes and gangsters, but after each
one the problem continued to get worse. "Another summit won't fix this. Tony
Blair needs to realise he cannot put right in two months what the Government has
got wrong in 10 years,'' Mr Davis said.

John Whittaker, the chairman of the UK Independence Party, said that when the
mandatory term was introduced in 2003 it was framed in such a way as to allow
for only a prison term, which could only be imposed on those 21 and over.

"It has been obvious for years that many of those carrying guns are teenagers,
but in Labour's insatiable thirst for the populist sound-bite, insufficient
thought was given to the details of the Act,'' said Mr Whittaker.

Mr Blair said the Government was looking at how to "clamp down'' on young people
who got into gangs at an early age and used guns, and US-style surveillance of
the homes of people suspected of possessing guns or trading in them would be
considered.

Mr Blair's comments followed a weekend of gun-related violence that left four
men injured and one dead.

At 5.20am on Saturday in Hackney, east London, two gunmen shot a 28-year-old man
in his car after he pulled up at a bar. He was shot again as he tried to reverse
the car and died later in hospital.

At 9pm on Saturday in Moss Side, Manchester, an 18-year-old man was hit in the
back in a drive-by shooting while standing with friends outside the Millennium
Powerhouse Youth Club. The bullet lodged in his sternum, although his injuries
were not thought to be life-threatening.

In an unrelated attack hours later, two men were shot as they sat in their car
at traffic lights in Longsight, Manchester. The pair, aged 19 and 27, suffered
wounds to the arm and back but their injuries were not thought to be
life-threatening.

Just after 2am on Sunday police were called to reports of shots being fired in
Harlesden, north-west London. Two men were seen running away from the scene, one
carrying a handgun. Twenty minutes later police were called to a west London
hospital where a man was being treated for gunshot wounds to his leg.

The weekend's shootings follow three unrelated murders in 11 days in south
London, culminating in that of Billy Cox, 15, who was shot dead in his bedroom
in Clapham on Valentine's Day.

His death followed those of James Andre Smartt-Ford, 16, at Streatham ice rink
and Michael Dosunmu, 15, in his bedroom in Peckham.

Sources on the estate have suggested that Billy was running drugs for a gang but
the motive for the killing was still unclear.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 19, 2007 Monday

Ukip funds properly handled, says Farage

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 250 words


CLAIMS that pounds 118,000 of donations to the UK Independence Party had not
been properly handled were angrily denied last night by Nigel Farage, the
party's leader.

Mr Farage also insisted that there had been no impropriety over money paid into
a now-closed Ukip call centre.

Ukip, which is thinking of rebranding itself for some elections as the
Independence Party, has also been hit by questions over its failure to submit
its annual accounts on time. The 2005 accounts, due to be filed to the Electoral
Commission by July 7 last year, were only submitted on Jan 24.

Yesterday, there were suggestions that part of the delay was due to concerns
over the handling of pounds 118,000 of donations. The Sunday Times reported
that, although the cheques were declared to the Electoral Commission, they did
not pass through the party's four main bank accounts.

But both Mr Farage and John Whittaker, the party chairman, insisted yesterday
that the money had been properly processed.

Mr Farage said the money had gone into a fifth bank account set up to fight the
2005 general election campaign in "certain areas''. "The money is not missing.
It never was. That pounds 118,000 had already been reported to the Electoral
Commission and was all valid.''

Mr Farage also insisted that a party call centre in Ashford, Kent, had been
properly run.

The centre had been fully audited and donations were shown in Ukip's south-east
accounts rather than the national ones with the approval of the ruling
executive, he added.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 18, 2007

MEPs' cigarette ban goes up in smoke

BYLINE: Nicola Smith

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 411 words


IT WAS a ban that left even the politicians who issued it gasping. After 43 days
without lighting up, the members of the European parliament have reversed a
decision forbidding smoking in their buildings.

Despite backing smoking bans in countries from Sweden to Ireland, when it came
to sticking to their own new year's resolution MEPs proved that they lacked
willpower.

A 12-member committee of MEPs, which included some smokers, decided that the
ban, which had been in place at the parliament's premises in Brussels and
Strasbourg since the start of last month, was "unenforceable". Politicians and
bureaucrats from Poland, Malta and Greece were among those who helped force the
reversal.

Critics and anti-smoking lobbyists condemned the move as an "absolute disgrace"
and hypocritical when the European Union is promoting smoking bans across the
continent.

Deborah Arnott, director of the anti-smoking charity Ash, described the latest
decision as "scandalous".

"There can be no justification for politicians to place themselves above the law
and it makes a mockery of the commission's proposals for an EU-wide smoking
ban," she said.

Smoking bans have been introduced in Scotland, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Belgium
and Sweden. France joined the smoke-free club this month and smoking in enclosed
public areas will be illegal in England from July 1.

The European parliament has long been a champion of the anti-smoking lobby,
hosting events and issuing frequent statements about the dangers.

However, senior officials said the U-turn was necessary after a revolt by MEPs
and staff who began smoking everywhere in protest at the restrictions.

"They are adapting the decision to reality. After January 1 people started to
smoke all over the building and we had more smoke and problems for non-smokers
than before," said one senior parliamentary source.

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence party leader, said he had been one of the MEP
rebels flouting the ban.

"I have been ignoring it since January 1," he said, "and I have smoked in more
places than before.

I don't want to be told by PC people what I can and cannot do."

Philip Bradbourn, a Conservative MEP for the West Midlands and an avid smoker,
also helped galvanise the pro-smoking activists. Last week he said it was the
right of MEPs to smoke in their own private offices and not "any business of the
EU" to rule on smoking bans.

The solution to the problem is likely to be separate smoking rooms on the
parliament's premises.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 18, 2007

'Lost' £ 118,000 donations shake UKIP

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 508 words


THE United Kingdom Independence party (UKIP) is being investigated over
donations totalling £ 118,000 that apparently disappeared.

The Electoral Commission is looking at why the donations, made by individuals in
five instalments, the biggest of which was £ 50,000, never appeared in any of
its four main bank accounts and bypassed UKIP's treasurer.

The commission was notified of the discrepancy after it was leaked in a letter
written by Bruce Lawson, the treasurer, in which he threatened to resign, while
warning that the matter could "haunt us for years" and create difficulties with
the authorities.

"I joined UKIP because I thought we were different to the other parties but even
on the grounds of expediency I will not be associated with this sort of
behaviour," he wrote in the letter, which was sent to Nigel Farage, the party
leader, and David Campbell Bannerman, his deputy.

Describing the missing £ 118,000 as a "very serious situation", he added: "I
fear that my faith in the transparency of party dealings is greatly diminished."

The money consisted of five cheques: £ 50,000 and £ 23,000 from Alan Bown, a
bookmaker, whose registered donations total £ 219,000 over the past three years;
£ 20,000 from Charles Robertson, a private donor; and £ 15,000 and £ 10,000
respectively from the UKIP MEPs Roger Knapman and Derek Clark.

The five cheques, donated in March and April 2005, for use in the general
election campaign, were declared to the Electoral Commission but did not pass
through the party's main bank accounts. "This £ 118,000 does not appear to have
been entered into the books," Lawson wrote in the letter, dated October 6 last
year. "These five cheques were not banked in any of the four Royal Bank of
Scotland accounts ...

I have been badly misled."

Lawson, whose concerns contributed to the accounts being filed with the
commission six months late, said that unless "full disclosure" was made of the
secret account he would resign. "The Electoral Commission could quite rightly be
very difficult if they knew the full circumstances and they are already pursuing
us."

This weekend, Lawson declined to answer whether he was given access to the
account that received the money.

Farage said he could not say whether Lawson had been given access to the
account.

"The money was declared but I don't think the internal book-keeping on it was as
good as it could have been," he said.

"There had been an account set up for the general election out in the west
country and intitially Bruce just could not find where this money was and that
was the reason for his letter.

"Bruce refused to submit our accounts to the Electoral Commission until he was
100% sure he could stake his professional reputation on the quality of the
accounts.

"He felt the information was not, and I think rightly, up to the sufficient
standard, so he made bloody sure that it was before it was submitted."

The Electoral Commission declined to comment other than to state : "We have
written to the party on a number of issues including the late submission of the
accounts."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 18, 2007

It's the family, stupid

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 663 words


David Cameron set about destroying another Conservative sacred cow last week by
declaring that family life was of far greater significance than creating wealth.

In the aftermath of a spate of cold-blooded killings of teenage boys in south
London and a Unicef report that portrayed Britain as a kind of Dickensian
underworld for juveniles, it had the ring of opportunistic timing. But Mr
Cameron does have a point.

No civilised society should abandon children to an upbringing in which their
parents relentlessly pursue material wealth. Maybe there is an imbalance between
work and private life, with more couples working and children seemingly
abandoned to nurseries, child minders and the streets. But few outside left-wing
sociology departments would suggest that these children are materially deprived,
whatever Unicef says about relative poverty. British, American and Irish
children are better off than Czechs and Hungarians. And pace Mr Cameron, life is
not going to get better for our children if this country stops growing richer.
What our children appear to lack is emotional support, close family structures
and a sense of purpose. (Just to rub it in for those Tories who were thinking of
defecting to Ukip, Mr Cameron said his views on the family had been influenced
by a recent trip to Sweden.)

He is not, however, about to announce a batch of new policies. If anything, his
ideas were inchoate: something about being tougher on fathers who had abandoned
children and unspecified financial support for married couples. He will know
that the Child Support Agency, an unloved orphan child of Tory rule, has been in
chaos since its inception. Financial inducements to prop up marriage, however
welcome, will work at the margins. There is no political panacea. Critics of
Unicef will also have noted that a survey based on the subjective remarks of
libertarian British children was likely to produce findings more critical about
schools and society than their continental counterparts. Yet Mr Cameron,
although he is exaggerating when he talks about "our broken society", is right
to speak out for marriage as a valuable institution and the importance of
personal responsibility.

That first proposition ought to be a truism. Sadly, it is not. Until recently
the liberal Establishment and the generation of "progressive" politicians who
have come to power since the 1960s have either been hostile or at best neutral
about the family.

For nearly a decade the prime minister has been almost alone in his cabinet in
speaking out for the family, if only sotto voce. Gordon Brown, the chancellor,
likes to project himself as a family man yet his fiscal policies have helped to
undermine marriage. Nobody is suggesting a return to a puritanical, Victorian
never-never land. But the chances of children leading a better life,
particularly those of the poor, are greatly improved if they are brought up in
stable relationships within marriage. The evidence supports this and it bears
repeating from the top.

The problem for politicians has been lecturing us about morality and the
valuable role that society can take in stigmatising bad behaviour. Fearful of it
backfiring, we instead get a raft of kneejerk policies curtailing access to
replica guns or measures to attack gang culture. There is nothing wrong with
these steps, but they will not work unless the affected communities somehow
prevent their young men getting involved in drugs and with gangs. Some of the
more encouraging signs recently have been the self-help groups in black
communities - often associated with churches - who are engaged in remoralising
society from the bottom up. Representatives of minority groups last Friday were
also looking to the police to lead the fight against gun culture, a move that
would have been unthinkable not so long ago. But it is only the beginning of a
long journey and we should not despair. As Tony Blair said, these awful events
are not a metaphor for the state of British society.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday

Ukip keeps its finances above board

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 110 words


Your coverage of the UK Independence Party suggests doubts about our finances
(News, February 11). The reason why a large number of donations to Ukip were not
reported is that they were under reportable limits. This shows how much of our
funding comes from small donations from ordinary members and supporters -
something we are proud of. You claim an "investigation'' found that Mr Alan Bown
donated over pounds 1 million - but all his funding has been openly declared.

Finally, contrary to your assertion that our membership is falling, it has in
the past few months been rising nicely.

(Dr) John Whittaker MEP

Chairman, UK Independence Party

Newton Abbot, Devon

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday

Leading Ukip members quit after donations 'fail to get to party HQ'

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 431 words


HUNDREDS OF thousands of pounds donated to the UK Independence Party failed to
make it into the central accounts, a senior Ukip official has confirmed.

David Campbell-Bannerman, the party's deputy leader, said that only 15 per cent
of funds donated to Ukip through a call centre in Kent had been paid into the
party's head office accounts.

Outrage over the Ashford call centre has been blamed for the resignations of at
least six senior officials over the past 18 months. Five former members of the
national executive committee, Ukip's governing body, said they believed that
about pounds 500,000 was not accounted for in head office accounts.

These claims are disputed by Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage. "All the money raised
by Ashford can be seen in the accounts for the south-east unit - no money has
disappeared,'' he said.

"The Ashford call centre was something that I opened up. It doubled the party's
membership and it made a very substantial profit. It's the single most
successful thing Ukip has ever done.''

The centre was set up in 2003 by Mr Farage, who then ran Ukip's south-east
regional office. Staff processed donations and membership subscriptions.
However, even though the staff processed donations from across the country, the
money was paid into the accounts controlled by the south-east office.

Members of the NEC at the time said they were appalled that this allowed Mr
Farage to control the majority of donations to the party. They also said that,
for a nine-month period in 2004 and 2005, he declined to provide the NEC with
details of how much money the call centre generated.

Mr Farage said the south-east unit controlled the office because the central
party did not want to. "The NEC did not want to have any responsibility or risk
for Ashford because we had run call centres in the past at a substantial loss,''
he said. "We ran call centres in London and they lost pounds 5,000 to pounds
6,000 every month. I said, 'This is ludicrous - let's do this professionally.'
The NEC refused to take responsibility.''

Mr Farage said that the call centre raised at least pounds 400,000 over three
years. Most of this money was spent on promotional DVDs, videos, postage and
leaflets.

Last week, The Sunday Telegraph revealed that Ukip filed its latest head office
accounts more than six months late. It is understood that over the past few days
some party donors have sought assurance from the Electoral Commission before
they give any more.

However, disgruntled party insiders said questions about the call centre, which
closed last year, were a "running sore that won't stop''.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 16, 2007 Friday

DNA data deal 'will create Big Brother Europe'

BYLINE: Philip Johnston and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 685 words


POLICE across the EU are to be given free access to Britain's DNA, fingerprint
and car registration databases in a move denounced last night as the creation of
''Big Brother Europe''.

At a meeting in Brussels, the Home Office agreed to a deal that will set up a
network of national crime records across 27 states.

All member states will have access to other countries' DNA and fingerprint data,
as well as direct online access to vehicle registries.

The exchanges could be up and running as early as next year and might eventually
lead to the creation of a single Euro-wide database.

Police in one country will be able to find out whether another has data matching
the profile of a suspected offender.

But critics last night questioned whether access to the databases would have the
same security safeguards throughout the EU.

They also said British tourists fingerprinted in the UK as witnesses may find
themselves sucked into foreign police investigations after innocently leaving
prints, or DNA, at a location that later becomes a crime scene.

British police have millions of fingerprints on file - and this number will grow
when they are taken for passport applications from 2009.

Britain also has by far the largest criminal DNA database in the world - 50
times the size of the French equivalent.

When Labour took office in 1997, it held only 700,000 samples. By next year, it
will hold the samples of some 4.2 million people - seven per cent of the
population - and is growing by about half a million a year.

The next largest DNA database in the EU is in Austria, where less than one per
cent of the population is included. Coverage in Germany is half of that.

Britain gives its police greater freedom to obtain, use and store genetic
information than other countries, who remove the profiles if the person is
acquitted or not charged.

Civil liberties campaigners complain that the British database has effectively
become a "permanent list of suspects''. It includes at least 140,000 samples
from people never charged with any offence.

The DNA from nearly one million juveniles has been added over the past decade.

David Heath, the Liberal Democrat spokesman, said: "While sharing information
about convicted criminals is obviously helpful to crime prevention, it is quite
another thing to be sharing information about innocent citizens, and worse still
to be sharing it without the approval of either the UK or European
parliaments.''

David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: ''The decision to share broad
categories of information across the enlarged EU is deeply troubling. The
information includes personal data, it is not limited to criminals and there are
no reliable means to guarantee the safeguards on the use of that information by
criminals gangs or those not entitled to use that data.''

He added: ''At a time when the Government's failure to ensure the proper
registration of criminal convictions by British nationals in the EU is the
subject of investigation, it is astonishing that ministers are proceeding with
such a risky scheme without properly thinking through the consequences or
debating it properly in Parliament.''

Syed Kamall, a Conservative member of the European Parliament's justice and home
affairs committee, said: "This convention may be useful for landlocked countries
that have relaxed their border controls, but it is an unnecessary erosion of
civil liberties for Britain''.

He added: ''Not content with a Big Brother Britain, our government is allowing
the creation of a Big Brother Europe. ''

Gerald Batten, a London UKIP MEP, said: ''This is the thin end of the wedge and
will lead to a European-wide database including all personal details including
DNA. It is the beginning of an Euro-wide, Big Brother state.''

However, the Government says the database is an invaluable detection tool that
should be shared.

Last year, Britain provided some 5,000 DNA profiles to the Dutch authorities in
a special programme.

Wolfgang Schäuble, Germany's federal interior minister, said: ''Our aim is to
create a modern police information network for more effective crime control
throughout Europe.''

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

Wheeler taken to task over Ukip 'dithering';
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 244 words


While the Labour Party's accountants might justifiably drink each evening away
in a Millbank boozer, Tory bean counters can toast recent successes - notably
the £30m sale of their old HQ, filling a chasm in the books, and last week's
Black and White Ball, which raised £600,000.

The Conservatives' uberdonor Stuart Wheeler has recently given them cause for
jitters, however. Last month it was reported that the spread-betting
squillionaire, who previously enriched the Conservative coffers to the tune of
about £5m, was considering decamping to the Eurosceptics at Ukip.

I hear that his politically minded youngest daughter, Charlotte, 22, was so
concerned this week that Dad was about to disembark from the David Cameron
express that she held an emergency dinner summit at the family home in Mayfair,
wheeling in a crowd of New Blues to persuade Wheeler to stick with Dave C.

"Charlotte is at LSE and she brought a few of her friends from there around for
supper on Tuesday evening," Wheeler tells me. "Some were Europhile, some were
Eurosceptics. [Tory donor] Rodney Leach was also there, and we had a civilised
debate.

"Unfortunately, however, I am still dithering over what to do. This has
absolutely nothing to do with David Cameron. In fact, I would very much want him
to be prime minister. It's just I am keen to see us taking a tougher stand over
Europe." Ukip leader Nigel Farage, with whom Wheeler dined two months ago, is
"highly impressive and articulate".

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Women are 'made to look slimmer' by M&S mirrors

BYLINE: George Jones and Amy Iggulden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 474 words


MARKS and Spencer was accused yesterday of using "distorting'' mirrors in its
changing rooms to make women look slimmer when they try on clothes.

Robert Kilroy-Silk, a member of the European Parliament, called for the mirrors
to be withdrawn after his wife and daughter claimed that they were misleading.

The former chat show host said he had written to M&S's chief executive, Stuart
Rose, asking that the mirrors be withdrawn before they are outlawed later this
year under new EU consumer protection rules.

M&S immediately denied the allegation, insisting that its mirrors were
"bog-standard''.

Nevertheless, the matter was elevated to the European Parliament.

Mr Kilroy-Silk raised the issue in a written question after his wife Jan and
daughter Natasha said that mirrors in their local M&S stores in Windsor and
Maidenhead were deliberately tilted or angled to make them look slimmer.

In his question, Mr Kilroy-Silk asked if, among the millions of EU regulations
"covering virtually every aspect of life in the EU'', there was not one that
made it illegal for M&S to have mirrors that distorted women's body shapes.

Meglena Kuneva, EU commissioner for consumer protection, replied that the
alleged practice "may fall under the scope of the Unfair Commercial Practices
Directive''.

"Under the directive, a commercial practice will be considered unfair if it is
contrary to the requirements of professional diligence and if it materially
distorts the economic behaviour of the average member of the group of consumers
to whom the practice is addressed,'' she said.

But she advised Mr Kilroy-Silk to take up the issue with the "national
authorities''.

An M&S spokesman was mystified by Mr Kilroy-Silk's allegations. "The mirrors in
our stores and changing rooms are perfectly normal, bog-standard,
run-of-the-mill mirrors.

"We are at a loss as to what he might be referring to,'' he said.

When The Daily Telegraph road-tested the claim, no slimming effect was detected.

In fact, the brightly-lit mirrors, which appear to be tilted, emphasise emerging
wrinkles and bags under the eyes.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former television personality who quit the UK Independence
Party in 2004 following disagreements with its leadership, sits as an
independent.

He said the Department of Trade and Industry told him it was consulting
businesses on the implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive,
and expected it to come into force at the end of the autumn.

Mr Kilroy-Silk said: "The whole practice tarnishes the image of M&S and its
reputation for integrity. I have asked him to take out the offending mirrors and
apologise to women customers for deceiving them.''

Mr Kilroy-Slik said the issue was relevant because of the current controversy
over the refusal of the British fashion industry to ban the use of skinny, "size
zero'' models on the London catwalks.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Jon Henley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 666 words


It has long been this column's contention that the much underrated Mr Robert
Kilroy-Silk, our favourite former daytime TV host, is one of this great nation's
foremost political thinkers, a man whose superficially bland, permatanned
features in fact conceal a brain of such extraordinary originality that no
single party, be it Labour, Ukip, or even the mighty Veritas, can long contain
it. So imagine our surprise on finding that the idea for his latest written
question in the European parliament - on the vital topic of the changing-room
mirrors in Marks & Sparks, which he claims "deliberately distort women's shapes"
to make them look slimmer - was quite plainly nicked from episode nine, series
six of Seinfeld, wherein (you will recall) Elaine successfully returns a dress
on the grounds that she had been tricked into buying it by the "skinny mirrors"
in Barney's department store. We're devastated.

Should we, do you think, be in any way concerned by the fact that the head of
the Metropolitan police's diversity and citizen focus directorate is none other
than deputy assistant commissioner Alf Hitchcock?

Meanwhile, we may just have stumbled across a reason for the increasingly
worrying levels of squirrel activism so faithfully recorded by this column (and,
oddly, no other). According to Mammals Trust UK, 50,000 squirrels are killed on
British roads each year. Revenge attacks, therefore, begin to look like a
plausible motive. However, the trust paints an even more worrying picture for
other species: 25,000 foxes, 50,000 deer, 800,000 rabbits and 3m pheasants are
also killed by drivers each year. Terrorist squirrels, we submit, may be just
the tip of the iceberg.

"Is the Coventry Sainsbury's the only one in the country to be selling Adult
Cereals?" asks alarmed reader Julian Gardner. "What are they, Pornflakes?" A
very good question, Julian. Can anyone enlighten him?

In possibly life-changing Valentine's Day news, we are pleased to report that
the many and varied attractions of Birmingham have just been enhanced by the
addition of all-male belly-dancing classes. According to the Birmingham Mail,
belly-dancing for blokes helps "trim porky stomachs, achieve ramrod straight
backs and turn themselves into sex gods", and while there are drawbacks - you
have to wear a "tight top" so the teacher "can see your belly rolls" - we can,
at this late juncture, think of few better ways to show her you really love her.

God, how embarrassing. When we said David Mills was spotted going to see Notes
On a Scandal, a film about immoral behaviour among the upper middle classes of
north London, he was in fact going to see The Last King of Scotland, a film
about a naive Brit's adventures with a deranged foreign head of state. A
thousand apologies. Also, when we said BBC2's Party Animals was a "fine" new
series, we were being ironic. And Jeffrey Archer's missing statues have been
recovered; he'd like to "thank the national media for the publicity they gave to
the theft". That must mean us! Gosh, we're chuffed.

Hats off, now, to the Daily Mail for its sensational if confusing scoop
yesterday revealing the blossoming relationship between married Sir Ken McDonald
QC, director of public prosecutions, and "vivacious barrister" Kirsty Brimelow.
This undeniably uplifting expos e is very much in the public interest, the Mail
carefully explained, because "Cherie croney" Sir Ken will shortly be deciding
"whether anyone should be prosecuted in the cash for honours affair", and a
close friendship with a crown court barrister could well lead to claims that he
is "compromising his position". Oddly it was the Mail itself which revealed last
September that the DPP had stood down from the case precisely because he knew
Mrs Tony so well (they co-founded Matrix Chambers). Still, all water under the
bridge, eh?

"I still believe there were WMD in pre-war Iraq," insists clinically sane Mel
Phillips. "Read the evidence, rather than the propaganda, and go figure." Bless.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          February 14, 2007 Wednesday

UKIP are having a huge publicity drive

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 67  words


UKIP are having a huge publicity drive at the moment and are making great play
about the handful of Conservatives who have joined forces with them. Leader
Nigel Farage has been on TV almost every day and is flirting with the idea of
changing his party's identity to the grandly named Independence Party. For all
this, in last week's council by-election at Nuneaton and Bedworth they polled
just eight votes.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 12, 2007 Monday

Blue moan;
LETTERS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 167 words


I'VE just received a request to renew my annual subscription to the Conservative
Party. The minimum payment is Pounds 25 for an individual member, up from Pounds
15 - an increase of 66.6 per cent. Are they serious?

I've been a member for more than 40 years and proud of it - but no longer. I
suggest the Conservative Party calls for an immediate 66.6 per cent increase in
the state pension, along with addressing a few other critical issues. It may
then start to be taken seriously.

I'm a 62-year-old pensioner: my latest heating bill was more than Pounds 200
higher than for the equivalent quarter last year, and my council tax? Well, I
can only wait in dread for the new demand this April.

None of this is the fault of the Conservatives, but when the present crowd is
bringing our country to its knees, why do the Conservatives hardly have a voice?
When I read that UKIP and the BNP are doing well, are we surprised?

This once green and pleasant land is fast becoming very unpleasant.

Mrs R. SELLERS, Oxford.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 12, 2007, Monday

This is no smoking gun for Cameron

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 948 words


William Rees-Mogg on the real challenge facing the Tory leader

There might, I think, be something wrong with any teenager who went through his
sixteenth year without committing some forbidden or foolish act. I remember at
that age, when I was at Charterhouse, sitting in the stalls of the Farmcombe
Cinema, smoking a large but cheap cigar, watching Humphrey Bogart and Lauren
Bacall. I was committing two school offences; I was smoking and I was out of
bounds. My motivation was to demonstrate to myself that I was not the scholarly
wimp I half suspected myself of being. I needed to find a rule to break, if only
to demonstrate my independence.

Cannabis is a more serious drug than tobacco, since it can disorientate one's
brain, but I refuse to blame the adult David Cameron for anything he may have
smoked as a student. However, Mr Cameron does have a real problem, more serious
than Etonian gossip. The Conservative figures in the opinion polls are not good
enough. I largely rely on the YouGov poll, which uses an internet methodology
that eliminates the bias of person-to-person questions. Yesterday's Sunday Times
has the latest and in it the Conservatives are on 37 per cent, Labour 32, the
Liberal Democrats 18 and the others, who include nationalists, greens, the BNP
and the United Kingdom Independence Party, are on 13 per cent together.

Compared with the outcome of the last general election these are good figures
for the Conservatives, but they are nevertheless disappointing. The
Conservatives are still failing to break through the 40 per cent mark, which
they would need to win a general election. The figures would produce a 4 per
cent swing from Labour to the Conservatives, but that would probably leave
Labour as the largest party in terms of seats. The Conservatives might pick up
some 60 to 70 marginals, but they would be the second largest party in a hung
Parliament; a long way from power.

Normally, one might regard the last year's improvement in the Tory position as
satisfactory. Under Mr Cameron the Conservatives have moved up from the 30-35
per cent zone to the 35-40 per cent zone, and are ahead of Labour.

But the present circumstances are abnormal, and exceptionally favourable to the
Conservatives. The Government is a shambles, the Iraq war is unpopular, the
Labour Party is split, the Prime Minister is waiting to retire, Gordon Brown,
though heir apparent, is not in charge, the police are in Downing Street. Apart
from the later years of the Major Government, which were followed by a Labour
landslide, there has been no situation quite so discouraging.

In these circumstances the Conservatives could expect to have moved well into
the lead, as the Labour Party was for most of the 1990s. Indeed, they need to
have a substantial lead. If the Labour Party can survive its disastrous
situation, it may reasonably expect to recover when it has pulled itself
together under a new leader.

No one can be sure how the country will respond to Gordon Brown as Prime
Minister.

It is possible that he will seem too Scottish, too grim and too severe, but he
is certainly not a negligible figure. He has greater intellectual force than
David Cameron or than Tony Blair. For the Conservatives, the most disturbing
YouGov figures are that 26 per cent of voters regard Mr Cameron as a
lightweight, while 21 per cent think the same of Tony Blair. Only 9 per cent see
Mr Brown in that way.

British political fashions tend to be influenced by American campaigns, partly
because of the alliance and partly because the British media find American
politics much more exciting than European. In 1962 the Macmillan Government was
swamped by the cult of the Kennedys, which was a cult of youth and idealism,
though President Kennedy himself was a pretty ironic idealist.

We can be almost sure about one thing that will affect the next general
election.

President Bush will no longer be in the White House. He will retire in January
2009; the most likely date for our election is May of that year. By the time of
the British election the new President will be moving towards the end of his, or
her, honeymoon period. Unless there has been a strategic victory for the present
American reinforcement in Iraq and the situation in that country has improved,
it is probable that the next American President will be a Democrat. Only once
since 1950 has the incumbent party won a third term, and President Bush has
already lost the midterm elections for both Houses of Congress.

Senator Barack Obama has started his campaign in the Kennedy style. He speaks of
his ideals, of his desire to represent the "generation of change". If his
campaign gains more momentum, that will have its own impact on British politics.
If the United States does elect another charismatic President, modelled on
Lincoln or Kennedy, we shall want one of our own. Charisma works in Britain,
too. Remember the rubbish many of us talked about Tony Blair in 1997?

This is a challenge and an opportunity for David Cameron. He is young, he is an
ironic idealist, he still has his hair. If he could lay claim to the same
underlying theme of change he could make the Conservative Party seem new and
radical.

At present, he seems to be over-cautious, too anxious to avoid the mistakes made
by previous Conservative leaders. The British are entranced by charismatic
American Presidents; they even fell for Bill Clinton. I would not be surprised
if Barack Obama -if he survives the primaries -becomes one of our favourites. Mr
Cameron may then need some of the Obama gold dust to get him above the magic 40
per cent in the polls. Perhaps the Tories can become the party of our
"generation of change". It would not be a bad idea.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 11, 2007

Liberal Democrat History Group

BYLINE: Roland Ehite

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 65 words


The Liberal Democrats, short of celebrity endorsement, are now recruiting
support from beyond the grave. The Liberal Democrat History Group last week
claimed Alfred the Great would have voted Lib Dem. Actually Alfred, with his
record of opposition to European immigration, would have felt more at home in
UKIP. If any Saxon king voted Lib Dem, it would have been Ethelred the Never
Quite Ready.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday

UKIP in GBP 1m quiz

SECTION: NEWS; 36

LENGTH: 133  words


BRITAIN'S election watchdog is investigating the funding of the UK Independence
Party amid claims of financial irregularities.

The anti-European Union party is under investigation by the Electoral Commission
after filing its accounts more than six months late.

The Commission is also said to be looking at the unusually large number of
donations received by the party that are too small to be registered.

Party leader Nigel Farage acknowledged that the late filing of accounts was
"unacceptable" and promised it would not happen again.

Donations of less than GBP 5,000 to a party's head office and less than GBP
1,000 to a regional office do not have to be declared.

UKIP is reported to have received more than GBP 1million in small donations of
this kind in the past three years - an unusually high figure.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday

A 'democratic' watchdog that likes to keep itself secret

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 521 words


An internal inquiry has been launched by a Commons committee into how its
confidential documents came to be leaked to a member of the Lords. It is another
vivid illlustration of the extraordinary secrecy and lack of democracy pervading
the way that laws that cost our economy billions of pounds a year are imposed on
Britain by the European Union.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, a former Tory peer who recently joined the UK
Independence Party, has been challenging the Government about documents supplied
to MPs on the Commons European Scrutiny Committee. This body is meant to examine
every law proposed by the EU before it can be approved by British ministers and
civil servants in Brussels.

Under the terms of a Resolution passed by the Commons as long ago as 1990, no
minister is permitted to agree to an EU law until it has first been
"scrutinised'' by MPs, a task delegated by the House to this all-party
committee.

It is well known that the Council of Ministers, which gives the final approval
to EU legislation on behalf of the 27 member states, meets in secret (giving
rise to the charge that the only countries in the world that are as secretive as
the EU about the way their laws are made are Cuba and North Korea). But,
astonishingly, the Commons Scrutiny Committee, which examines those laws on
behalf of Parliament, itself meets in secret, so that the vast majority of MPs
(let alone us members of the public) are not allowed to know what legal
proposals it is considering or what it has advised.

Now, after it emerged that Lord Pearson had seen documents supplied to the
committee (which often come complete with trenchant comments by its staff and
weaselly letters from ministers), it is holding an urgent inquiry into how these
"secret papers'' came into his hands.

The significance of this row is that, whenever ministers are asked why the EU's
lawmaking process has to be so undemocratic and unaccountable, their stock
response is that nothing goes through without first being "scrutinised''. But,
since no one outside the Scrutiny Committee is meant to know what it is up to,
when its papers fall into the hands of another member of Parliament, albeit from
the Lords, this provokes uproar and a full inquiry into how such a dreadful
thing has happened.

The farce does not end there. It has long been scandalous how often British
ministers and civil servants do approve laws in Brussels, either before the
Scrutiny Committee has had time to study them at all, or in defiance of its
considered views. Lord Pearson recently asked how many times ministers have
overridden the wishes of the committee in this way. The shocking answer given by
Lord Triesman for the Foreign Office on January 30 was that, in the latest
period for which figures are available, between 2003 and 2006, it happened on no
fewer than 180 occasions.

We may no longer be surprised that our ministers and officials treat Parliament
with such contempt. But can they please never again pretend either that this
system whereby our laws are made is democratic, or that, to use another of their
favourite words, it is in the slightest sense "transparent''.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday

Checking out of Europe

BYLINE: Nigel Farndale

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 770 words


Imagine Brian Walden as a check-out girl. An arresting image, I trust you will
agree. He was the one who came up with it, actually, in a conversation the other
day.

"Imagine I am a check-out girl, Nigel,'' he said. He was going somewhere with
this, I could tell. We were talking about how off-putting European integration
is, as a subject for voters. "If you explained to me [Walden, the check-out
girl] that 80 per cent of our regulations are made in Brussels I would be
interested. But no one ever does.''

My admiration for this sage man is unconfined. But I'm not sure he's right about
this. I think the only way check-out girls like him will become interested in
Europe is if they are shown how inherently funny it is. Amusing books such as
Ross Clark's How to Label a Goat: the Silly Rules and Regulations That Are
Strangling Britain help. My favourite example is of the council that spent
pounds 5,000 planting yew trees to screen a new children's play area. It then
dug them up again after Health and Safety advised that children could fall ill
if they gobbled "several handfuls'' of leaves. In The Trial of Tony Blair,
meanwhile, the satirist Alistair Beaton imagined what this country would be like
in 2010. Britain has so little sovereignty left, Prime Minister Gordon Brown is
powerless to prevent Blair being extradited for war crimes - not that he wants
to prevent it, of course.

The truth is that Europe, as a subject, leaves the British electorate cold. I
saw evidence of this in 2001 when I spent a week with William Hague, then the
Tory leader, covering his election campaign. He was touring the country making
speeches in shopping centres about how that election would decide the future of
sterling. He handed out "Save the Pound'' balloons, stickers and pencils. He
even wheeled out a van with a clock showing how many days, hours and minutes
were left to "save the pound''. Wherever he went he met with blank faces. A
haunting sight.

Next month is the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. In anticipation of
this, the Tory party is stepping up its campaign on European reform - arguing,
as David Cameron did in these pages last week, that the EU does not need a new
constitution. But the party would do well to remember those blank faces. The
Tories should do their lobbying behind the scenes, without drawing attention to
themselves; otherwise they will look as if they are still fixated on Europe, a
sure way to lose votes. Worse, they will look like they are trying to compete
with Ukip, the party that David Cameron memorably dismissed as "a bunch of
fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists''.

The more ideological distance he can put between the Conservatives and Ukip the
better. As the wise Mr Walden says, Tories who talk about withdrawal from Europe
are wasting their energy and ensuring that their party will never be re-elected.
They should accept that we are in Europe to stay. The deed is done. But he added
this: if you don't like the idea of the EU, simply bide your time. Eventually
its own internal contradictions and absurdities will make it implode.

The other day I parked my car at the station car park and went to the ticket
machine. It wouldn't let me have a pounds 1.40 ticket, a slightly cheaper rate
for those who park after 10am. I checked my watch. It was 10am. I checked the
machine: its clock was two minutes slow. A businessman in a suit queued up
behind me. I said he could go first as I was waiting for the machine to reach
10am. He said he would wait, too. Another suit joined us and also waited. We all
rocked back and forth on our heels, anxiously checking our watches; all clearly
worried we would miss the 10.05 train.

For 16 years I went to the same barber, a Cypriot called Tony who spoke hardly
any English and who, following a misunderstanding, thought I worked on the show
Kilroy. "How is Kilroy?'' he would always ask. I gave up trying to explain that
I didn't have a clue and so would invent elaborate Kilroy-related anecdotes.

Now I have moved from Tony's catchment area and rather miss him. Potential
replacements often looked promising from the outside, a red-and-white striped
pole and the words "Gentlemen's Barber'' on a sign, but once inside there were
always three bored-looking teenage girls with scissors in hand and gum in their
mouths. They always want to wash your hair first, which I can't be doing with.

Anyway, I have finally found one. Grumpy and monosyllabic, he smells of
Brylcreem and has a cigarette permanently stuck in the corner of his mouth.
Perfect. I won't mention his name because Health and Safety would have him
closed down in an instant.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday

A financial probe and pounds 1m from an ex bookie: the truth behind Ukip With
elections looming and party's membership falling, Electoral Commission
investigates donor lists. Andrew Alderson and Robert Watts report

BYLINE: Andrew Alderson and Robert Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1521 words


Bolstered by defections from the Tories, and with his party's vote rising
election by election, Nigel Farage struck a confident note as he announced plans
for the future of the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) last week.

Behind the scenes, however, the party he leads faces a series of questions over
funding. The euro-sceptic Ukip is being investigated by the Electoral
Commission, which says that it is concerned that its most recent accounts were
filed more than six months late. It is also investigating a series of "separate
issues''.

An investigation by this newspaper has also revealed that Alan Bown, a former
bookmaker, has bankrolled Ukip with more than pounds 1million. He has provided
40per cent of the party's declared donations in the past four years.

Mr Bown, 64, made his fortune with a chain of 17 bookmakers, which he sold to
Coral Racing five years ago. The sale netted him several million pounds, but he
still owns a substantial property empire and has numerous other business
interests. He is also a director of Margate Football Club and runs a company in
Ramsgate, Kent, that sells Turkish nightwear to 800 clothes shops.

Today, however, the businessman devotes most of his energies to Ukip. Whereas
most political donors take a back-seat role, Mr Bown sits on the party's
15-strong national executive committee and is the leading organiser of the
party's campaigns, taking responsibility for leaflets, billboards and other
promotional literature.

As well as vast cash donations to Ukip's bank accounts, Mr Bown also pays for
the day-to-day running costs, such as hotel bills, printing costs,
advertisements, telephone bills and even staff wages out of his own pocket. Two
years ago he spent pounds 6,500 on Ukip beer mats and nearly pounds 800 on
branded balloons. "I will continue to donate large chunks,'' said Mr Bown. "It's
the only party that is telling the truth about the EU.''

Although his donations have been properly recorded, more than pounds 1million
has been given to Ukip in three years which is not recorded on the Electoral
Commission's central register because Ukip say these payments are "under the
reportable limit''.

This is entirely legal; however, it allowed 96per cent of nearly pounds 300,000
paid to the party's south-east office in 2004 not to be published on the
register. Any donation of more than pounds 5,000 to a party's headquarters must
be declared. The same is true of any payment of more than pounds 1,000 made to a
party's regional office. If an individual donor breaches this limit within a
calendar year, the donation must be declared to the Electoral Commission. The
commission refused to provide details of its inquiries.

Mr Farage confirmed the Electoral Commission investigation. "Look, the accounts
were late, very late and that was clearly unacceptable. It will never happen
again.

"We are discussing three or four other compliance issues with the Electoral
Commission, concerning the validity of donors and how we have listed them. I am
confident we can resolve these issues.''

Mr Farage blamed the late filing of the accounts on Ukip not being able to
afford a full-time treasurer.

Ukip was formed in 1993 by a group of patriots who wanted to field candidates
opposed to the Maastricht Treaty. Within a year, it put up candidates in 24 out
of 87 seats at the European elections and secured 157,000 votes. In 2004, the
party won 12 seats, polling 2.6million votes: two Euro-MPs have since left the
party to become independents.

The party's vote at the general election has risen from just over 100,000 in
1997 to just over 600,000 in 2005.

Yet Ukip's membership is falling. It currently has around 18,000 members, down
from a peak of more than 26,000 two years ago. Ukip revealed last week that, as
part of a fresh assault on the Conservative Party, it is likely to be renamed
the Independence Party ahead of the May local government elections.

Mr Farage said the party wanted to appeal to voters who had been "abandoned by
David Cameron''. This was perhaps retaliation for an earlier claim from the Tory
leader that many of Ukip's members were "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists''.

Ukip leaders are determined to be seen as more than just an anti-EU party. Ukip
has pledged to "develop a full range of domestic and foreign policies''. Its
logo of "Ukip'' running across a giant " pounds '' and its slogan "Let's Get Our
Country Back'' show only too well, however, where the party's true priority
lies.

Ukip's headquarters are close to Newton Abbot in Devon. Supporters might expect
some "Beware Brussels'' road signs on the approach road, but not for the first
time the political group throws up a surprise. Instead, visitors to the party's
new home arrive on a beech tree-lined road that leads to one of the few
industrial estates in the world where motorists are warned to watch out for
stray deer.

Furthermore, little more than a stone's throw from Ukip's Lexdrum House is the
site of one of the fiercest battles during the English Civil War, where
Royalists held out against the Roundheads three and a half centuries ago.

Given Ukip's own propensity for bitter in-fighting, this makes the choice of the
party's headquarters - not far from the Dartmoor National Park - seem a more
appropriate location.

It is from this unlikely base that Ukip is plotting a 21st century rebellion of
its own in the shape of a carefully-orchestrated campaign to elevate itself to
the status of one of the country's major political parties rather than a quirky
also ran.

But why have the headquarters in Newton Abbot? An official said: "If our HQ was
in Birmingham, our supporters wouldn't be so prepared to pop up in their Morris
Minors. We can summon up an army of crusties (elderly people) to stuff
envelopes. We can whistle up 100 people in 24 hours flat.''

Despite its modest electoral successes, the party has found it difficult to
shake off an image that it is run and supported by "little Englanders'', largely
chauvinistic men who live in the past.

Even more disturbing for Ukip's chances of electoral progress are suggestions
from critics that the party is racist.

Ukip insists such criticism is unfair. It claims it protects itself from
extremists by insisting that all members sign a pledge supporting the party's
principles. Prospective candidates must state they have no past association with
extremists groups.

Yet men such as Ashley Mote, the former Ukip Euro-MP suspended from the party in
2004, have done little to suggest that Ukip is all embracing.

Mr Mote, 71, has become a vice-president of the far-Right group Identity,
Tradition, Sovereignty. It is led by Bruno Gollnisch, of France's National
Front, who is awaiting a court verdict on charges of Holocaust denial.

Geoffrey Bloom, the Ukip Euro-MP for Yorkshire and Humber, hardly emerged as a
champion of women's rights when he said three years ago: "No self-respecting
small businessman with a brain would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age.''

Since then, the party has done little to counter criticisms of sexism. None of
its Euro-MPs is a woman and Ukip was unable to say this weekend how many of its
members are female. "We have our share of women,'' said one senior official,
adding: "And it's right that we should.''

Ukip has a well-earned reputation for internal feuding. Many of its leading
figures, including Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former television presenter, have had
short-lived associations with the party.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who resigned from the party two years ago after losing a power
struggle, said: "The party is regarded by those outside it as a joke. I am
ashamed to be a member. I cannot ask people to vote for it because it has no
policies, no spokesmen, no energy, no vision and no idea how Britain should be
governed.''

Mr Farage, 42, the party's fourth leader, is a formidable orator, but has often
made headlines for the wrong reasons. In 2004, it was for allegedly quaffing
pounds 100 bottles of champagne at lap-dancing bars. Last year, the married
father of four appeared in the News of the World when his alleged lover accused
him of wanting to be spanked during their romps. Mr Farage denied a sexual
relationship but admitted he was in the "dog house'' with his wife for staying
overnight with a 25-year-old.

Mr Farage is not the first leader to have had embarrassing disclosures made
about him. It was revealed last year that Roger Knapman, then leader and a
supporter of the party's strict immigration policy, had used cheap eastern
European labourers to renovate his West Country mansion.

He insisted, however, there was "no contradiction'' between what he was doing
and the objectives of the party, which had warned that "a flood of migrants''
from east European states joining the EU would be "bad for Britain''.

Although two Tory peers have defected to Ukip in recent months, many senior
Tories remain sceptical that Mr Farage can lead his party to greatness.

One former Tory minister attended a Ukip meeting and was unimpressed by him.

"He harangued us,'' the grandee said. "He speaks to people like they are all
idiots. In fact, on listening to him, I was reminded of Hitler.''

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday

pounds 1m of Ukip donations not registered with watchdog

BYLINE: ROBERT WATTS AND ANDREW ALDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 471 words


THE UNITED Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) is being investigated by the
election watchdog over alleged financial irregularities.

The Electoral Commission is concerned that the euro-sceptic party has filed its
most recent accounts more than six months late. It is also probing a series of
"separate issues''.

The commission refused to provide details of its inquiries, but more than pounds
1 million has been given to Ukip in three years which is not recorded on the
watchdog's register.

Donations of less than pounds 5,000 to any party's head office and those of less
than pounds 1,000 to a regional office do not need to be declared. All major
parties receive funds below these thresholds, but Ukip appears to have received
a disproportionately high amount of "below the radar'' donations.

For instance, Ukip's south-east office received donations of pounds 291,000 in
2004, more than twice as much as the party's head office. Yet some pounds
280,000 did not need to be declared because it consisted of individual donations
of less than pounds 1,000 each.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, confirmed the Electoral Commission investigation.
"Look, the accounts were late, very late and that was clearly unacceptable. It
will never happen again. We are discussing three or four other compliance issues
with the Electoral Commission, concerning the validity of donors and how we have
listed them. I am confident we can resolve these issues.''

An investigation by this newspaper has also revealed that Alan Bown, a former
bookmaker, has bankrolled Ukip with more than pounds 1million. He has provided
40per cent of the party's declared donations in the past four years.

Mr Bown, 64, a Kent businessman, has not done anything improper and has been
open about his funding. "I will continue to donate large chunks,'' he said.
"It's the only party that is telling the truth about the EU.'' Today, Mr Bown
has a property portfolio, runs a business selling bathrobes and is a director of
Margate Football Club.

Last week Ukip revealed that, as part of a new assault on the Conservative
Party, it is likely to be renamed the Independence Party ahead of the May local
government elections. Mr Farage came out with fighting talk about appealing to
right-wing voters who had been "abandoned by David Cameron''.

Ukip was formed in 1993. It currently has around 18,000 members, down from a
peak of more than 26,000 two years ago. The party is seeking to prove it has a
wide range of policies in order to persuade traditional Tory voters to defect.

Senior Conservative officials have vowed to maintain a "robust'' stand against
Ukip. But Lord Pearson, a former fundraiser for the Conservatives who defected
earlier this year, recently urged Tory donors to give money to Ukip instead. "If
we organise properly, Cameron can't win the next election,'' he warned.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 10, 2007 Saturday 4:27 PM GMT

A Tory pledge to show they care

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 295 words


The love affair continues. David Cameron has just taken another leaf out of the
New Labour political manual.

John Prescott proudly displays his pledge card

It's only a few weeks since Mr Cameron told this newspaper that he was more the
heir to Margaret Thatcher than to Tony Blair. But the Tory leader can't hide his
admiration for Mr Blair's triple election-winning record.

As I said earlier this week, Tory MPs summoned to a private session at
Conservative Campaign HQ on Tuesday got an upbeat message about how Ukip wasn't
really a threat. But it's now emerged that the MPs left with a little present
from Dave - a plastic pledge card.

What? Like the one made famous by Tony Blair and John Prescott in 1997?
Something like that. With a raft of elections looming on May 3, the Cameron card
announces the ambition to "increase our support in the North of England" and to
"win the 2007 local elections in England and meet our goals in Scotland and
Wales". Notice the absence of the verb "win" in Scotland and Wales.

But Mr Cameron also urged his troops to roll their sleeves up and get involved
in local community projects to show that Tories actually care. Just like they
did at last year's annual conference in Bournemouth when MPs took time out to
turn a disused church into a community centre.

However, the DIY message - just ahead of the parliamentary half-term break next
week - has not gone down well with some backbenchers. "This sort of thing
doesn't necessarily endear us to the public," moaned one.

MPs already did a lot of work for charities "because they're decent human beings
- not because they want to increase their majorities", he said. MPs - decent
human beings? Put me through to the news desk!

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday

g2: STATE OF THE UNION: Across the great divide: What is it really like for an
Englishman living in Glasgow or a Scot working in London? Kirsty Scott and
Patrick Barkham talk to the migrants in search of a better life

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2244 words


'Many English here see themselves as new Scots'

Twelve years in Glasgow has done little to modify Claire Robertson's accent. The
31-year-old principal dancer for Scottish Ballet still talks with more than a
hint of Hertfordshire, the county in which she was raised. But since 1995, home
for the ballerina has been Scotland's largest city. "One day I will probably
move nearer my family but I know I will miss Glasgow," she says. "It's such a
wonderful city. If my family lived closer, I would stay here. I have become
really settled."

It was work that brought Robertson north of the border. She was studying at the
London Studio Centre when she was spotted by Scottish Ballet talent scouts and
offered a place with the company at the age of 18. "It was a big change because
I came from a small country town to living in a city. Although I do remember
thinking how small the Glasgow underground was. The Smartie tube, we used to
call it. You can't get lost on it. You just stay on and it'll bring you right
back to where you started."

Robertson is typical of the English who have settled in Scotland. They make up
Scotland's largest migrant group - 408,000 at the last census count. A study
found that the bulk of them are not retirees seeking free personal care, or
families escaping to remote islands, but people coming largely to work, who
settle in the central belt and whose social composition matches that of the
Scots. About one in eight of the MSPs in the first Scottish parliament were born
in England.

The author of the survey, Dr Murray Watson of Dundee University, says one of the
most notable things to emerge from his research was the way that most English
settlers worked hard to integrate themselves into Scottish society and how many
came to prefer living north of the border. "It would be wrong to generalise," he
says, "but I would say that they did merge into the community and many of them
began to see themselves as new Scots or as British and Scots."

That is certainly true of Peter MacKenzie. Born in Spalding, Lincolnshire, to a
Scottish father and an English mother, MacKenzie, a contemporary of David
Blunkett's at Sheffield University, moved to Scotland in 1974 to study teaching
and never left. Ten years ago he joined the Scottish National party. "My father
was of that generation who despised their roots, who thought that the most
marvellous thing was to live in the English suburbs," says MacKenzie, 56. "It
wasn't until I was about seven or eight that my dad told me my grandfather had
spoken a different language."

Intrigued, MacKenzie got hold of a Gaelic Bible and started to teach himself.
Last year, he passed his native speakers Gaelic higher. He had always felt a
kinship with the Scots and the notion of independence.

"When I got here at the age of 22 I kept thinking, I'm just going to be quiet
about these feelings; look and watch and listen and learn. At the age of 46, I
shook myself down and said I will never understand this and I joined the SNP. It
is the normal state of historic nations to rule themselves."

Kieran Tempest would not go so far as to consider himself a new Scot, but since
the 37-year-old business travel executive and his family moved from London to a
small Stirlingshire village just under two years ago, they have felt settled and
included. "There is a feeling of belonging within Scotland," says Tempest.
"Being in the community. I do feel part of it. But I do consider myself
English."

It was when his son, Brodie, was born that Tempest and his Scots-born wife,
Sarah Jane, considered moving north. "I spoke to my work and they said as long
as you are near an airport we have no issue with it whatsoever." The Tempests
ended up in Thornhill and have never regretted the move. "The people here make a
big difference. When we were living in London, we knew maybe three sets of
neighbours. In Thornhill, everyone says hello to you. They would do anything for
you. We find that whole community support great."

Tempest also finds commuting to and from London and mainland Europe easier than
he imagined. "If I get the 6.30am flight from Edinburgh, I can be at the office
before everyone else."

It was quality of life that also brought Julia Thomson and her family north.
Thomson, 40, and her husband had been working in high-powered financial jobs in
London. "We just didn't have time to smell the flowers; we were just on this
merry-go-round. Kids born, back to work. I felt all I was doing was writing out
cheques; cheques for the nanny, cheques for this class, that class." When her
husband fell ill, the couple took stock. "It was time to go, 'Whoa!' It just
made us assess everything."

They came to Scotland because Thomson had spotted an old barn in Aberdeenshire
and fell in love with it. The family moved north in 2001. More recently they
relocated to Perthshire to get a better choice of schools for their two
daughters, aged 10 and 11. "We like the slower pace up here," says Thomson.
"Even in Edinburgh people are much more friendly. It's not so aggressive.
There's less crime. Clean air, better atmosphere." Downsides include the lack of
infrastructure, in particular fast, frequent trains from Perth to Edinburgh, and
the dearth of dentists. Thomson is also concerned about job opportunities for
younger people. "You see these kids doing really well at school and university
and then they can't get a well-paid professional job here. So they have to go to
London or the south."

But Thomson insists she would not move back south. "We're very happy. If we did
move again, we would probably move abroad."

James McKean is also considering staying in Scotland. The 23-year-old from
Oldham is in his third year of a business management course at Stirling
University. "If it was a choice now to live in Scotland or Manchester, I would
choose here," he says. He has not come up against any overt anti-English bias, a
sentiment echoed by the others the Guardian spoke to: "The worst I have had is
people taking the mick when thefootball's on."

Watson's study found that nine out of 10 English migrants had experienced
nothing more than teasing or banter. Peter MacKenzie and Claire Robertson can
both think of the odd comment, but nothing of any significance. "I think it's
more of a football thing," says Robertson.

Watson, meanwhile, has been wondering if the recent debate on what it means to
be English might have changed the views of English people living in Scotland.
But where they might have different thoughts on the notion of Englishness,
Watson doubts that their feelings will have changed about living north of the
border. "My guess is that they will still feel at home in Scotland," he says.

Kirsty Scott

'The English warm to us because we're friendly'

When Andrew Orr moved south to study in London, he probably did not imagine he
would be in the first wave of a mini exodus of Orrs from Scotland. His older
sister was already working in the capital, but during the next decade his
journey into England was repeated by his three brothers and, finally, his mother
and father.

"When I was growing up in Scotland, I saw London as this great big city. It felt
like a dangerous, scary, alien place," he says. Another reason not to move there
was that it was full of English folk. "In the 70s and 80s, you were identified
by not liking English people. It was ingrained in me - English people were
arrogant." Now 36 and a scientist working for a meteorological company in
Reading, Orr thinks that English-hating as part of the boyhood Scottish psyche
could have been magnified by Margaret Thatcher. (More than one expat Scot in
their 30s mentions Thatcher.)

After university in Edinburgh, however, Orr felt confined by a city where he
kept bumping into familiar faces and sought a fresh start, and a PhD, in London.
"It's this myth of Dick Whittington - that the streets are paved with gold," he
says.

Anna Murphy, 42, a theatre producer, had similar visions of England, growing up
in the east end of Glasgow, where almost no one owned their own home. At 18, she
went to Reading University, thinking it was in London. "I had an image of people
in England all with their own houses and gardens. It was a class thing - I
thought it would all be a lot posher but I was very impressed to start with."

The 2001 census recorded 819,000 people born in Scotland living in England and
Wales. Thousands flock to career opportunities in London, but more actually set
up home in the border counties of Cumbria and Northumberland. Alnwick, Carlisle,
Berwick-upon-Tweed, Blackpool, Richmondshire and Corby are hotspots, with more
than 4% of the population Scots-born, according to census data.

When Orr moved south he says that he found the English nothing like his
childhood prejudice. "They didn't walk around thinking 'Bloody Scots'," he says.
"In fact, once they find out that you're Scottish, people are so friendly to
you."

It is a point picked up by John Macnab, 67, founder of the London Kilt Maker
company, which provided all the kilts donned in the Oscar-nominated film the
Queen. "In London, people warm to those who are Scottish because they consider
us a bit more friendly. It's nice to have that given to one on a plate," he
says. "Then, of course, you are more likely to be friendly. In a way, political
correctness is a shame because we all had such fun having a dig at each other. I
still enjoy some of the jokes about how mean Scots are."

Every expat Scot is either an accountant or a teacher, reckons Forbes Hodge, who
relocated from Glasgow to Yorkshire with his chartered accountancy firm when he
was 28 in 1974, bringing his wife and one-year-old child with him.

Andy Breckenridge, 41, is an English teacher who lives in Brighton with his
English partner and two young children. He moved south because there were no
teaching jobs in Glasgow and his partner wanted to be closer to her family.
Sounding Scottish, he says, has not done him any harm, although he says that
even after 12 years in England people ask him to repeat things because they
don't understand. What does he miss about Scotland? "Opening your mouth and not
being unusual," he says. "Blending in is something I miss."

Despite a bit of accent angst, most Scots seem very comfortably integrated in
England without fearing their identity is under threat. Despite growing up in
England, Hodge's son is still a patriotic Scot. "When he got married he wore a
kilt," says Hodge. "I play the pipes in a band and taught him to play."
Breckenridge and Orr, who both have young children with English partners, also
do not seem unduly worried that they might lose their Scottish roots, although
Orr confesses to alarm when his daughter, Alabama, seven, announced that she was
supporting England during last summer's World Cup. All say that they have a mix
of Scottish and English friends, and usually more of the latter. Murphy's best
friend is Scottish but her partner is English, and almost all their friends are
English too. "There's not a Scottish network," says Breckenridge.

Hodge believes that the lack of English nationalism helps English-Scottish
integration. "The English lack of nationalistic feeling that us Scots all have
makes it easier for the English to welcome us," he says.

Asked about differences, Scots in England tend to point out that the English
lack their national pride. Breckenridge's teaching colleagues, who are English,
"seem in their minds to have a clear idea of what Scottishness means. But they
have a crisis about Englishness, because it's not the image of the village green
and nor is it the BNP stuff. If I was English I think there is a lot I could
find to be happy about like the Smiths, Mark E Smith, Billy Bragg and George
Orwell - the radical tradition."

Expat Scots in England seem close enough to home not to be misty-eyed about
where they come from. "There are many things I miss about Scotland but the
weather isn't one of them," says Hodge. "We miss friends and family, hills and
mountains and the seaside. Although we live in the country in Rutland, space is
something we would enjoy more of in Scotland." Breckenridge says he could
imagine moving back north later, "when the kids have grown up", although "that
might be a typical expat thing of hankering to go back and never going back".
While Hodge says that he knows of older Scots who return to their homeland when
they retire, he says he does not plan to.

Expat Scots have mixed feelings about independence. "I think it would help
Scotland a lot," says Orr. But he fears that division would foster anti-Scottish
prejudice among the English, which he detects in media coverage of Gordon Brown
as Tony Blair's successor. "Suddenly you saw all these stereotypes of Scottish
people being very dour. It was quite unpleasant," he says.

Hodge was always against independence but is not so sure now after seeing
Ireland thrive within the EU. "That suggests maybe for the first time in my
lifetime that there's a serious opportunity to go it alone."

For Breckenridge, the Act of Union was "a few fairly opportunistic Scottish
lords" who flogged off their country. He is not sure, however, that Scottish
independence will come about until the English locate the very thing that Scots
seem baffled they lack - a sense of their national identity. If a home-rule
movement mobilised in England, says Breckenridge, perhaps independence would be
sparked by a Ukip/Daily Mail-led faction "and Scotland would get chucked out of
the union by disgruntled Radio 5 Live listeners" *

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 8, 2007 Thursday
                                 3_Star Edition

RESULT!: DON'T DEPEND ON INDEPENDENT..;
IN ASSOCIATION WITH BETFAIR

BYLINE: DEREK MCGOVERN

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 92 words


IT'S often said that American politicians will do anything for money while
English politicians take the money and still won't do anything.

It must be worrying for the Tories that despite Labour's troubled circumstances
the Conservatives are only slender 4-5 favourites to be the largest single party
at the next General Election.

One party you can forget about is Ukip or rather the Independent Party, which is
what they're calling themselves now.

Hills make them 14-1 to get one MP. It's 66-1 for two. None is a 1-66 shot.

Additional reporting by John Shaw

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 8, 2007 Thursday 9:02 PM GMT

Cameron entertains his troops

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 542 words


Conservative politicians, donors and activists - not to mention a sprinkling of
celebrities such as Cilla Black and Kirstie Allsopp - were out in force last
night for the party's Black and White Ball in Battersea Park.

Funny man Cameron, minus the tie...

And a tieless David Cameron was in very good spirits as he spoke to the 1,200
people attending the 300-a-ticket event, which raised over 600,000 for party
coffers. Many of the party's recently-selected candidates were also in
attendance, with David Bull (Brighton Pavilion) compering the evening and Priti
Patel (Witham) making the financial appeal.

A large number of the other female high-flyers tipped to enter the Commons at
the next election were also there, including Andrea Leadsom (South
Northamptonshire), Harriett Baldwin (West Worcestershire), Lorraine Fullbrook
(South Ribble), Angie Bray (Ealing Central), Laura Sandys (Thanet South), Joanne
Cash (Westminster North), Nicky Morgan (Loughborough) and Jane Ellison, who was
on her home turf of Battersea itself.

"This party gets bigger every year," Cameron said as he addressed his audience.
"If it gets any bigger we'll have to hold it in an EU grain store - I can't
think of anywhere else where we could fit everyone in," he added, in a joke
aimed at the eurosceptics present.

But conversely, he also had strong words for those in the party who want to
respond to the threat from the UK Independence Party by taking a more stridently
eurosceptic line.

"Some say we'd win Sittingbourne in Kent if we hadn't lost 1,000 votes to Ukip,"
he said. "Well I say, if only Labour hadn't got 17,000 votes."

This could be interpreted as a sideswipe at Gordon Henderson, the man who has
been selected to fight the Sittingbourne and Sheppey constituency for the Tories
at the next election: he is the only Conservative prospective candidate so far
to have signed up to the Freedom Association's Better Off Out campaign to
withdraw from the European Union.

But otherwise it was all smiles from Cameron - and he even did his impersonation
of William Hague. Recounting the visit the pair of them made to an Iraqi field
hospital recently, he remembered what his predecessor-but-two said as they met a
wounded soldier who was awkwardly lying on his front.

"It's an extraordinary thing: one minute you've got shrapnel lodged in your
backside and the next minute you're meeting the leader of the Con-ser-va-tive
Party," he mimicked.

And the soldier's reponse? "For me the two things are on a par."

Cameron then recalled a recent meeting with the new President of Mexico. "I said
to him: 'You're the leader of a centre-right party, how did you win?' And he
replied: 'I said my opponents were in league with foreign Communists'. I can't
do that here. Well, I don't know, it might be worth a try."

And now that the party has abandoned the "priority list" which allowed only
certain approved candidates to apply for the best constituency vacancies,
Cameron even felt able to joke about that. "I phoned Zac Goldsmith to ask what
he'd organised for the cabaret this evening and he told me there'd be a porn
star, a stripper and a transvestite. 'Enough about the A-List,' I said, what
about the cabaret?"

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday

Broker PWS delayed probe for six months

BYLINE: KARL WEST

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 348 words


MANAGEMENT of a leading Lloyds of London reinsurance broker waited for six
months after authorities in Costa Rica launched an investigation into claims it
operated a Pounds 800,000 slush fund before mounting its own internal probe.

Four past and present employees of PWS were last week arrested by the Serious
Fraud Office (SFO).

They are currently bailed until April, pending further investigation into claims
that they played a part in setting up the fund.

The men, aged 46, 39, 60, and 45, have not been charged. City police said
officers last week raided addresses in Kent, Middlesex, Gloucestershire, and
Buckinghamshire.

The investigation centres on allegations that reinsurance premiums paid by a
previous Costa Rican government to PWS were inflated to create a slush fund to
pay for 'travel and training expenditures' for employees of the Costa Rican
insurance monopoly, National Insurance Institute.

It is thought the fund was created as far back as 1997.

PWS is chaired and was founded in 1964 by former Conservative peer Lord Malcolm
Pearson of Rannoch, who is now one of the leading lights in the rightwing UK
Independence Party.

The company claims its own fraud probe was started at the behest of the its top
brass, led by managing director Stephen Card.

It called in lawyers from Freshfields last June to conduct a forensic
examination of its operation in Costa Rica because there were 'quite a lot of
rumours' about how business in the country was being conducted.

Early findings were then reported to City regulator, the Financial Services
Authority, which in turn informed the SFO.

However, the company did not say that the Costa Rican Prosecutor's Office was
already investigating the issue as far back as January 2006, a full six months
before PWS's management in London moved.

Asked why it had taken so long the spokesman replied: 'I don't know.' The
investigation by the SFO and the City of London police's new economic crime
department follows a similar, but much bigger, probe into claims that defence
giant BAE Systems operated a slush fund to bribe officials in Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

THE 2007 GOOD PEER GUIDE;
Legends in their own ermine;
As Jack Straw announces reforms of the House of Lords, Andy McSmith and Cahal
Milmo pay tribute to some of the more interesting members of the upper chamber

BYLINE: Andy McSmith and Cahal Milmo

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1865 words


Lord Adebowale

CROSSBENCH

Background: Housing administrator and charity executive

Best known for: Became one of the first "people's peers" to be nominated for the
Lords as part of the Labour Government's reform package. A former housing
administrator in Newham, east London, Victor Adebowale, 44, went on to to run
Centre Point, the youth social exclusion charity before becoming chief executive
of Turning Point, the UK's biggest social care charity in 2001. Now also a
member of the Government's New Deal Task Force.

Voting record: 2.9 per cent

Lord Lloyd-Webber

CONSERVATIVE

Background: As Andrew Lloyd Webber, he is responsible for a series of popular
musicals.

Best known for: Hugely successful musicals. Beginning with Joseph and the
Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat (co-written with Tim Rice) in the late 1960s,
Lloyd Webber produced shows such as Evita, Cats and Phantom of the Opera, which
have been extremely popular - though not always critically acclaimed - with
middlebrow audiences, ensuring lengthy West End runs. He is also a collector of
sentimental Victorian art.

Voting record: 0.9 per cent

Baroness Falkender

LABOUR

Background: A builder's daughter educated at Northampton High School, and London
University and former secretary working for the Labour Party.

Best known as: Marcia Williams, secretary, gatekeeper and political adviser to
Harold Wilson. Her alliance with him began when his career was in the doldrums
in 1956, and lasted 20 years. She personally wrote the "lavender list" -
Wilson's resignation honours list. In her 32 years in the Lords, the 74-year-old
has never made a speech, but she does occasionally vote.

Voting record: 12 per cent

Lord Pearson of Rannoch

UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY

Background: Old Etonian son of a senior Army officer. Founder and chairman of
PWS holdings, a group of reinsurance brokers.

Best known as: a maverick exTory opponent of the EU. Well known for berating the
BBC for its alleged pro-EU bias, he was one of two peers who defected to Ukip
last month, giving the tiny party its first foothold in Parliament, undeterred
by the words of his former leader, David Cameron, who described Ukip's members
as "fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists."

Voting record: 32.2 per cent

The Marquess of Cholmondeley

CROSSBENCH

Background: Page of honour to the Queen at age 14. Eton and Sorbonne, with
family seat at Houghton Hall, King's Lynn. The name is pronounced "Chumly".

Best known as: Aged 46, now head of an old, super-rich family. When most
hereditary peers lost their seats in 1999, only two - the Duke of Norfolk, and
Lord Cholmondeley - kept their places as of right, the latter because of his
hereditary role as Lord Great Chamberlain. He does not speak or vote in the
Lords.

Voting record: 0 per cent

Lord Ramsbotham

CROSSBENCH

Background: Haileybury and Cambridge University, the son of a former bishop of
Wakefield, and a career soldier, aged 72.

Best known as: Chief inspector of prisons, 1995-2001. Clashed frequently with
Home Office ministers over jail conditions. He became a general in Northern
Ireland and then ran Hillingdon Hospital Trust for a year. This week, he led a
successful stand against the-Government over exemptions in prisons for deaths
due to corporate manslaughter.

Voting record: 32 per cent

Lord Archer of Weston-super-Mare

CONSERVATIVE

Background: Public school and Oxford. Conservative MP for Louth, 1969-74. Deputy
Chairman of the Tories, 1985-86.

Best known as: The millionaire thriller writer Jeffrey Archer. He has benefited
from a rule that not even a jail sentence for perjury disqualifies a peer from
membership of the Lords. If he had been an MP, he would have been forced to
leave Parliament. Indeed, he felt he had to quit the Commons in 1974 after
running up financial problems, although he had committed no offence. He does not
speak or vote.

Voting record: 0 per cent

Lord Snowdon

CROSSBENCH

Background: As Tony Armstrong Jones, he was a photographer who married Princess
Margaret in 1960. They divorced in 1978.

Best known for: Marrying the Queen's sister - but this did not detract from his
career as a photographer, for which he was critically acclaimed. He also
designed the aviary at London Zoo. His title of Earl of Snowdon was changed to a
life peerage in November 1999 under a device designed to allow first-generation
heredi-taries to retain their seats. Aged 77.

Voting Record: 0 per cent

Lord Strathclyde

CONSERVATIVE

Background: A Scottish landowner, aged 46, educated at Wellington College, and
universities in England and France, he was the son of Sir Thomas Galbraith, Tory
MP for Glasgow Hillhead.

Best known as: Conservative leader in the Lords since 1998. Likes to be called
Tom, though his full name is Thomas Galloway Dunlop du Roy Blicquy Galbraith. He
became Tory leader just before the passing of the 1999 Reform Act, and so was
one of the original batch of 92 hereditary peers elected by fellow heredi-taries
to remain in the Lords.

Voting record: 46.7 per cent

Baroness Thatcher

CONSERVATIVE

Background: Now 81, she is the daughter of a grocer from Grantham.

Best known as: Maggie Thatcher, the longest serving prime minister of the 20th
century. It is assumed that part of the reason why she left the Commons in 1992
and accepted a peerage was to avoid replicating the later career of her
predecessor and arch foe Sir Edward Heath, who lurked on the sidelines for
years. Her successor, John Major, left the Commons but did not take a peerage,
perhaps he did not want to see either of them ever again.

Voting record: 21.6 per cent

Lord Winston

LABOUR

Background: Robert Winston, the 67-year-old surgeon, scientist and fertility
expert, has also made regular appearances as a television presenter.

Best known as: A pioneering gynaecologist who led the way in the use of IVF
techniques. His media-friendly manner led to him graduating to television,
presenting critically acclaimed series such as Child of Our Time, Human Instinct
and Walking With Cavemen. Active on behalf of Labour, he is a serial member of
committees and speaks regularly in the Lords on arts, sciences and education.

Voting record: 16.5 per cent

Baroness Williams of Crosby

LIBERAL DEMOCRAT

Background: Daughter of the feminist writer Vera Brittain, and Professor Sir
George Catlin. Educated at private school and at Oxford University.

Best known as: Shirley Williams, the only woman apart from Barbara Castle to sit
in the Labour cabinets of the 1970s. She was one of the most popular figures in
the government, despite being part of the minority who supported entry to the
EU. She was a founder of the SDP in 1981, and led the Liberal Democrats in the
Lords in 2001-04. She is still an active politician at age 76.

Voting record: 59.4 per cent

Lord Ashcroft

CONSERVATIVE

Background: The son of a colonial civil servant, who spent part of his childhood
and most of his business career in Belize, in central America.

Best known as: The self-made billionaire who bankrolled the Tories in the bleak
years after 1997. He was nominated for peerage by William Hague - showing that
Tony Blair is not alone in awarding peerages to party donors. As a condition of
taking his peerage, he promised to give up his tax exile status and return to
the UK. Knighted on recommendation of Belize government.

Voting record: 15.3 per cent

Lord Deedes

CONSERVATIVE

Background: Harrow-educated journalist. His once wealthy family hit hard times
and had to sell their home to Kenneth Clark, father of the Tory MP Alan Clark.

Best known as: The veteran Daily Telegraph journalist Bill Deedes, and reputed
model for John Boot in Evelyn Waugh's novel Scoop. Deedes, 93, was MP for
Ashford in 1950-74, and a junior minister under Anthony Eden. He was a friend of
Denis Thatcher. Margaret Thatcher gave him a peerage when he stepped down from
the editorship of The Daily Telegraph in 1986.

Voting record: 7.8 per cent

Lord Falconer of Thoroton

LABOUR

Background: Public school- and Cambridge-educated barrister, aged 46. A QC since
1991.

Best known as: "Tony's crony". His big career break was to share a flat with
Tony Blair 30 years ago. He was in line for a safe Labour seat in Dudley in
1997, but the local Labour Party rejected him when they found out that he had
sent his children to public schools. Blair then gave him a peerage, and a
sequence of Government posts, including a period running the Greenwich Dome. He
has been Lord Chancellor since 2003.

Voting record: 57.7 per cent

Lord Williamson of Horton

CROSSBENCHER

Background: Tonbridge School, then Oxford University.

Best known as: "Convenor" of the crossbench group of peers. This is not the same
as being a party leader, because he does not try to tell the crossbenchers how
to vote, but he keeps them up to date with parliamentary business and handles
negotiations. The 72-year-old learnt this skill as a career diplomat and civil
servant. He is a more assiduous attender at the Lords than other crossbenchers,
who include quite a number of permanently absent or silent members.

Voting record: 60 per cent

Baroness Jay of Paddington

LABOUR

Background: Blackheath High School, Somerville College, Oxford. Her father,
James Callaghan, was Prime Minister from 1976 to 79.

Best known as: Callaghan's daughter, and first woman to be appointed Leader of
the Lords. Lady Jay, 66, was not a hereditary, though it could be said that she
was born into Labour aristocracy. When her former husband was ambassador in
Washington, she had an affair with the journalist Carl Bernstein, of Watergate
fame, whose wife Nora Ephron wrote a novel about it.

Voting record: 50.4 per cent

Lord Alli

LABOUR

Background: A television production executive, 42.

Best known for: Founding Planet 24, the production company that created the Big
Breakfast, The Word and Survivor, with his long-term business and life partner,
Charlie Parsons, and Sir Bob Geldof. The company was later bought by Carlton.
Now part- owner of Shine Limited, a media production company he co-founded with
Elisabeth Murdoch, the daughter of Rupert Murdoch. He became the youngest and
first openly gay peer when he entered the Lords in 1998.

Voting record: 50.8 per cent.

Lord Randall of St Budeaux

LABOUR

Background: The son of a teacher, as a teenager he started as an electrical
fitter in a Plymouth dockyard, rising to manager.

Best known as: He is barely known at all. Now 68, he was Labour MP for Hull West
in 1983-97, rising to a second-rank job on the opposition front bench, then gave
up his seat, which went to Blair's favourite trade-union leader, Alan Johnson,
now Education Secretary. MPs are sometimes offered peerages in exchange for
giving up their seats, but we do not know whether Randall did a deal.

Voting record: 55.8 per cent.

Baroness James of Holland Park

CONSERVATIVE

Background: Phyllis Dorothy James, known to everyone as P D James, is a former
Home Office civil servant .

Best known for: Her series of crime novels, beginning with Cover Her Face,
published in 1962, featuring her best known character, the detective/poet Adam
Dalgliesh. Many were dramatised on television. The 87-year-old also wrote The
Children of Men, a futuristic novel recently made into a film starring Clive
Owen and Michael Caine. Can appear slightly formidable in interviews.

Voting record:10.2 per cent

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 7, 2007 Wednesday 2:09 AM GMT

No sneaky weekend, Mr and Mrs Hague

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 287 words


Don't panic  Ukip isn't a threat. Or so Tory MPs and peers were privately told
today.

Where are you two going?!

The anti-Brussels party may boast of disaffected Tories flooding over to Ukip
like herds of wildebeest sweeping majestically across the plain.

But according to a hush-hush, behind-closed-doors briefing at Tory campaign HQ
today, there's no real danger.

Lord Ashcroft, the party's polling guru and key seats expert, told the assembled
Tory MPs and peers that banging on about Ukip was reserved to some party
activists - not Tory voters at large.

I'm told that Harwich MP Douglas Carswell heard the analysis wearing a
disbelieving expression on his face.

Mr Carswell has already unburdened himself on Radio 4 this week on the very real
dangers posed by Ukip.

But the reassuring, steady-as-she-goes, message was continued by the Tory leader
himself albeit with the promise to get out more.

David Cameron announced that he would be roaming far and wide across the Kingdom
ahead of the May local elections.

Whenever there's a Tory announcement to be made in Bristol, Bath or Basingstoke,
our Dave will be there in person to do it  not hiding away in metrosexual
London.

But up North, William Hague's your man.

The former Tory leader and professional Yorkshireman, now heading up the party's
drive to resurrection north of the Watford Gap, will be everywhere, MPs were
told.

All Mr Hague's regional party visits will now be in the North, a party spokesman
later said.

Brilliant.

This sounds a bit like being told you can only take your holidays in
Bridlington.

If anyone spots the Hagues deserting their post for a sneaky weekend in
Bournemouth, we must be told.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

Right-winger warns Cameron as UKIP targets core Tory voters

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


DAVID Cameron's leadership has come under the most outspoken attack yet from the
Right of the Tory party.

Senior MP Edward Leigh accused Mr Cameron of 'turning down the volume' on the
party's core beliefs to the point that they were ' inaudible'.

Mr Leigh, chairman of the rightwing Cornerstone Group of 40 MPs, said the party
appeared to have been 'terrified into silence' on fundamental reform of schools
and hospitals, where it had now accepted the dominant New Labour orthodoxy.

He warned core Tory voters could not be 'taken for granted' and were
increasingly in danger of defecting to single-issue parties such as the UK
Independence Party.

Yesterday it emerged that UKIP plans to rebrand itself as the Independence Party
and campaign on more than just Europe and immigration in an attempt to woo Tory
voters.

Mr Leigh, a trade minister under John Major and now chairman of the Commons
public accounts committee, said: 'Is it any wonder that there is a steady drift
of voters to UKIP and the BNP?

Indeed, UKIP is cleverly making a bid for these votes by espousing a Thatcherite
agenda across the whole field of issues.' Mr Leigh argued the two main parties
are now so close together that many senior Conservatives could happily serve in
a New Labour Cabinet.

The MP for Gainsborough in Lincolnshire said Mr Cameron had 'charm, intellect
and compassion' and was obviously sincerely committed to the NHS and to tackling
global warming.

But he added: 'Why, after a year of his leadership, are we only one point ahead
of where we were at the start?

'Why are we not cruising ahead in the opinion polls, certain of victory in the
face of a discredited government enmeshed in an unpopular war, spending and
wasting our money at record levels?' By contrast, Margaret Thatcher had opened
up a 'much more dominant position' by the same stage of her leadership of the
Opposition, he said.

Mr Leigh's attack gives voice to mounting frustration among some MPs on the
Right of the Conservative Party at Mr Cameron's approach.

The Cornerstone Group, which is made up of Eurosceptics, supporters of the
social justice' agenda and Rightwing Christian MPs, fears that the party's core
vote is being alienated.

One senior MP, who asked not to be named, said: 'People are feeling pretty
peeved.

They need some assurances, quickly.' Cornerstone plans a series of submissions
to Mr Cameron's policy reviews in the hope of influencing his pitch for power at
the next election. It may also produce its own 'mini-manifesto' next month.

Comment Page 12

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EDWARD LEIGH: 'SILENCE'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

COMMENT

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 583 words


Cameron and the threat from UKIP

NOT so long ago, David Cameron was spoiling for a fight with the UK Independence
Party, branding its members 'fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'.

This was part of his strategy to rid the Conservatives of their reputation as
the 'nasty party'. And though many traditional Tories had grave reservations
about his scramble for the middle ground, there was no denying that it seemed to
be paying rich dividends in the opinion polls.

All credit to Mr Cameron for that.

But how much longer can he go on dismissing UKIP and its supporters as part of
the lunatic fringe?

Today, there are signs that the younger party is making real inroads into the
Tories' support, as traditionalists find themselves exasperated by Mr Cameron's
apparent contempt for their beliefs.

Meanwhile, UKIP is showing growing sophistication in its attempt to attract Tory
defectors as witness its latest plan to change its name to the Independence
Party in the hope of broadening its appeal beyond the single issue of Europe.

As Tory Right-wingers warn, UKIP with its commitment to old Tory principles of
national self-government, tax cuts, deregulation and proper immigration control
could seriously damage the Conservatives' chances next time.

The good news for the Tories is that Mr Cameron seems to be waking up to that
fact. At the weekend, he wrote a strongly worded attack on the EU's 'obsession'
with creating a new centralising constitution, calling it 'not just wrongheaded
but perverse'.

If Mr Cameron is as shrewd a political operator as he appears, he will realise
that the great majority of the British people are sceptical about ever
increasing federalism. He will accept there is nothing 'nasty' about being
worried about an ever more centralising and unaccountable bureaucracy imposing
its edicts on more and more lives.

He will realise, too, that it is possible to be a good European who loves Europe
and EU free trade while at the same time believing in British sovereignty.

Propaganda lessons

YET again the Government wades in to tell our schools what they should teach.

Never mind that five million British adults are functionally illiterate and
17million can't add up.

With breathtaking optimism, the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority now
wants our children to learn Mandarin, Arabic and Urdu, alongside such 'subjects'
as devolution, citizenship and human rights.

Put to one side the question that if schools are struggling with the three Rs,
how can they hope to teach languages.

No. The real worry is that central government is imposing its own values on
education at the expense of subjects that demand rigorous academic discipline.

In history, facts are to go by the wayside, while fashionable political opinions
take their place in other words, broad themes showing Britain in a bad light.

So the QCA says nothing about the battles of Hastings, Agincourt or Waterloo.
But it does recommend close study of the slave trade, the bad effects of the
British Empire, and the conflicts resolved by the UN and the EU (a short list,
by the way).

The same goes for geography: out go facts about the world's physical makeup; in
come theories about global warming.

Admittedly this is only a consultation paper. But it provides a disturbing
insight into the way ministers are thinking.

A child's precious years at school must not be wasted on mindlessly digesting
the slanted political fads of the day.

Instead they should be devoted to eternal truths from which they can form their
own opinions.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

Achievements, Mr Blair? You're having a laugh;
lITTLEJOHN

BYLINE: RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1195 words


TONY BLAIR stands to make anything up to Pounds 20million when he leaves office,
from the sale of his memoirs and appearances on the lucrative American lecture
circuit.

He is also likely to be offered directorships by a number of international
conglomerates.

But what if no one was much interested in reading his self aggrandising
autobiography and the wheels came off the personal appearance gravy train?

If Blair had to get a proper job, where would he start? Why would any company
want him on the board? What exactly could he bring to the party?

Let's imagine he went to a recruitment specialist, offering his services to
prospective employers.

The interview might go something like this

GOOD MORNING, Mr Blair. Do take a seat. Now then, let's fill in a few details
for your CV. Age?

Fifty-three.

Hmm.

Is that a problem?

To be perfectly honest, Mr Blair, most employers are wary of taking on anyone -
how shall I put this delicately? - not in the first flush of youth.

I could knock a couple of years off, I suppose - you know, sort of massage the
statistics, so to speak. We've been doing it with the inflation rate and the
unemployment figures for years.

The companies we deal with insist on complete honesty, Mr Blair.

I think most people would say that I'm a pretty straight kinda guy.

Indeed. What line of work are you in at the moment?

I'm between engagements currently, but for the past ten years I was the Prime
Minister.

I knew I'd seen you on television, though for some reason I'd got it into my
mind that you might be that chap who played Frank Spencer in Some Mothers Do
'Ave 'Em.

Oooo, Betty.

Are you wearing makeup?

Just a bit of foundation and a dab of concealer under the eyes.

Some people might get the wrong impression.

I'm a married man.

Very well. Tell me, why did you leave your last job?

I had a bit of trouble.

Trouble?

The police?

And was it?

I was helping them with their inquiries.

Someone has been selling honours to rich businessmen and Scotland Yard thought
it might be against the law.

That depends on what the meaning of 'against the law' is.

So why did you have to leave?

Two of my staff went to prison.

So you did the decent thing and took full responsibility?

No, silly, I was the Prime Minister.

But you're not any more.

I didn't have much option. None of my colleagues would carry on working with me.
That's why I need a new job. I had planned to write a book and do a few after-
dinner speeches, but after that business with the police, the phone stopped
ringing and the offers dried up. The Americans are funny about that sort of
thing. Did you know they actually send criminals to prison over there?

Let's press on, Mr Blair. Have you any formal qualifications?

I've got a law degree.

With the police.

Into what?

That's good. And how recently have you practised?

Twenty-four, no, I tell a lie, 25 years ago. I was representing a company at an
industrial tribunal.

How did you get on?

I lost. I didn't get many briefs after that.

How many, to be precise?

None.

We might be able to find you something in the City. Do you have any financial
experience?

What, apart from selling honours?

Apart from that.

No. I left all that stuff to Gordon.

So, no financial expertise. Know anything about the property market?

I've got five houses.

Five?

That's including the two flats in Bristol.

Are they worth much?

Not as much as we paid for them.

We don't have a lot of luck in the property market, to tell the truth.

OK, so estate agency is out. What kind of salary package were you hoping for?

I thought around Pounds 20 million.

HOW much?

Twenty - give or take a couple of million. I don't want to be greedy.

Why do you need all that money?

I've got to pay the mortgage - sorry, mortgages - somehow.

How much do you owe?

About five mill - that's if Cherie hasn't been out and bought Blenheim Palace
this morning, without telling me, ha, ha.

How on earth did you persuade anyone to lend you that kind of money?

Simple. Peter Mandelson told me that the trick is not to tell your building
society about any other loans you have.

And how did you think you were going to pay it all back?

Er, you know, with the money from the book and the after-dinners in America.

But since that bit of trouble with the police Quite, Mr Blair. We needn't go
over that again. What would you say your main achievements were in your last
job?

Um, bringing peace and democracy to Iraq and Afghanistan.

But they're both in chaos.

Gay adoptions?

I don't think so, Mr Blair.

The Human Rights Act?

Nope.

Education, education, education?

The NHS? A world-class transport system? Immigration?

You're having a laugh.

Look, I'm not going to beg for my reputation. Do you think you can find me
something?

Given your age and experience, I think perhaps the best we can hope for is
something in retail.

What, like managing director of Marks & Spencer? Great.

Not quite. I was thinking more like sweeping the floors at B&Q.

Is that it?

Mr Blair, you're 53 years of age, you haven't had a proper job for 25 years,
everything you've touched over the past decade seems to have ended in ruins,
you're in debt up to your eyeballs and you're very lucky not to be in prison.

It's not my fault. Everybody keeps giving me harassment.

Are you SURE you're not that chap who played Frank Spencer?

Getting my Nippers in a twist

ON FRIDAY, I mixed up two legendary Scotland Yard detectives.

It was, of course, Nipper Read who nicked the Kray twins, not Jack Slipper, who
led the hunt for the Great Train Robbers.

No excuses. I interviewed Slipper a couple of times of times on radio and TV. He
was a mustachioed, imposing, 6ft 4in giant of a man, straight out of Gideon's
Way. He died in 2005.

Nipper Read is, in his own words, 'a 5ft 7in, clean-shaven midget with
pugnacious features' and, I'm delighted to report, still going strong at 82.

Incidentally, I wonder what the current Commissioner would make of any modern
detective describing someone as a 'midget with pugnacious features'.

Sounds like a job for the diversity squad.

Mind how you go, Nipper.

JONATHAN Aitken has been giving Tony Blair some friendly advice over the
cash-for-honours scandal. That's a bit like Pete Doherty telling you to go easy
on the drugs.

It's Call Me New Labour

UKIP has decided to change its name to the Independence Party to chase
disaffected Tories.

Leader Nigel Farage said the new title would more accurately reflect its
policies across a broad spectrum, not just on the EU.

Never one to miss a trick, Call Me Dave has decided to follow suit. In future,
the Conservative Party will be known as New Labour.

GOOD to see boxing making a comeback in schools, even the non-contact variety.

It's a great way for young men, in particular, to work off excess aggression.

So I was pleased to note that Birmingham Central Mosque is offering martial arts
and selfdefence classes to young Muslims.

Or at least I was, until I read the advert on the mosque's official website.

'Karate, Kung-Fu, Kick-Boxing, Weapons Training in the School Hall... every
Saturday.' Hang on a minute.

Weapons training?

SPEED cameras are being installed on ski slopes in Europe and America following
a spate of accidents.

Does the Mad Mullah know about this?

Let's hope not, otherwise every hillside in Snowdonia will soon have its own
GATSO.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

Cameron warned of the threat from UKIP

SECTION: ED 4TH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 417 words


DAVID Cameron's leadership has come under the most outspoken attack yet from the
Right of the Tory party.

Senior MP Edward Leigh accused Mr Cameron of 'turning down the volume' on the
party's core beliefs to the point that they were 'inaudible'.

Mr Leigh, chairman of the rightwing Cornerstone Group of 40 MPs, said the party
appeared to have been 'terrified into silence' on fundamental reform of schools
and hospitals, where it had now accepted the dominant New Labour orthodoxy.

He warned that core Tory voters could not be 'taken for granted' and were
increasingly in danger of defecting to single-issue parties such as the UK
Independence Party.

Yesterday it emerged that UKIP plans to rebrand itself as the Independence Party
and campaign on more than just Europe and immigration to woo Tory voters.

Mr Leigh, a trade minister under John Major and now chairman of the Commons
public accounts committee, said: 'Is it any wonder that there is a steady drift
of voters to UKIP and the BNP? Indeed, UKIP is cleverly making a bid for these
votes by espousing a Thatcherite agenda across the whole field of issues.' Mr
Leigh argued the two main parties are now so close that many senior
Conservatives could happily serve in a New Labour Cabinet.

The MP for Gainsborough in Lincolnshire said Mr Cameron had 'charm, intellect
and compassion'. But he added: 'Why, after a year of his leadership, are we only
one point ahead of where we were at the start?' Tony Blair has enraged his MPs
by rejecting growing calls for his early departure and ruling out a statement on
his plans before May's local elections.

They reacted angrily after he let slip that he will stay silent about the
timetable for his departure for at least another three months.

Last week's revelation that the Prime Minister was interviewed over the cash for
honours scandal for a second time triggered a frenzy of speculation about his
ability to stay in the job. It emerged last night that senior MPs challenged him
about turmoil in the party the day before news of his arrest was made public.

But Mr Blair brushed off their concerns and made clear he would not throw in the
towel before the results of the Scotland Yard investigation are announced.

Half of voters, 49 per cent, think Mr Blair should stand down immediately,
according to a poll last night.

Support for the party has risen by one point, however, to 33 per cent since the
beginning of last month while the Tories were down 3 per cent to 36 per cent in
the Populus poll for the Times.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

LITTLEJOHN;
It's Call Me New Labour

BYLINE: RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 63 words


LITTLEJOHN

It's Call Me New Labour

UKIP has decided to change its name to the Independence Party to chase
disaffected Tories.

Leader Nigel Farage said the new title would more accurately reflect its
policies across a broad spectrum, not just on the EU.

Never one to miss a trick, Call Me Dave has decided to follow suit. In future,
the Conservative Party will be known as New Labour.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

Politics: Political briefing: Ukip goes Independent

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 492 words


It is hardly surprising that Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence party,
wants to broaden Ukip's appeal by changing its name a bit. All the Frequently
Asked Questions on its website turn out to be about the dreadful European Union.

As Nick Lowles of Searchlight, which monitors the British right, observes with
understatement: "Ukip finds it hard to have an identity outside the European
election cycle."

Hence Mr Farage's determination, ratified by his party's executive last night,
to campaign as the Independence party before the May 3 local elections while
retaining the Ukip name on the ballot paper, much as New Labour remains Labour.

His purpose is to build on David Cameron's unsettling overtures to middle ground
opinion, and C-list defections among Tory peers and supporters, to move his
party away from its anti-EU and immigration agenda towards wider themes:
personal and local independence from Whitehall, lower taxes and deregulation.

Should this worry the Tory leader, as rightwing Tories keep telling him it
should? Restless MPs in the socially conservative Cornerstone group, who have
been "patient" with young Cameron, are publishing their own mini-manifesto next
month, to head off the perceived Ukip/BNP challenge.

The official Tory line is that the real challenge is defeating Labour. ("A
fringe party is not going to distract us.") There are plenty of re-defectors
from Ukip and Jimmy Goldsmith's Referendum party in Tory HQ, so that familiarity
breeds cheerful contempt.

There is justification for that attitude. Lift the stone on any micro political
party and it is riven with petty feuds and personal rivalries, defections,
splits and infiltrations. Ukip, now based on an industrial estate in Newton
Abbot, is no exception. The Guardian last week received a long, libellous email
accusing the party of being down to 1,700 core activists and on the verge of
disintegration.

It also suggested the party's accounts were pretty rackety, to put it mildly,
and that Mr Farage was a "terminally insecure" one-man band. "I am old enough to
be his father and I am not in the business of being his nanny," Ukip's
ex-research director, Richard North, is quoted as saying.

Mr Farage last night denied all such claims, said the 2005 accounts were filed
with the Electoral Commission and that membership was 17,000, compared with its
2004 Kilroy-Silk peak of 27,000, before the "former daytime TV star" split the
party. He blames the email on extremists on "the Christian right".

Another rival for disaffected Tory votes is the BNP, though Searchlight's Nick
Lowles (the email incorrectly accused Ukip of getting Searchlight to vet its
membership for Nazis) says the BNP is less respectable and attracts Labour
defectors. Despite some bizarre and ugly EU allies at Strasbourg, Ukip's 10 MEPs
are deemed more respectable to grumpy Victor Meldrews.

But the next election could be very tight. In a hung parliament all micro-party
defections may matter.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

Right-wing MPs' mini-manifesto is challenge for Cameron

BYLINE: Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words


RIGHT-WING Tories are planning to publish their own alternative Conservative
manifesto - including proposals for drastic cuts - in a direct challenge to
David Cameron's leadership.

The move by the Cornerstone Group of 40 MPs reflects frustration in the
"socially Conservative'' wing of the party about Mr Cameron's attempts to
re-occupy the political centre ground.

The group intends to produce its own mini-manifesto next month, before Mr
Cameron's own policy commissions publish their final reports in the summer. It
will make 12 submissions of 2,000 words each to the review process in the hope
of influencing the platform on which Mr Cameron will campaign at the next
election.

So far the Tory Right has held back from attacking Mr Cameron as he has gone
about distancing himself from the legacy of Margaret Thatcher and ditching many
of the policies on which the party has fought and lost the last three elections.

But the Cornerstone Group now believes there is a danger that support will leak
to Ukip, and the British National Party, which is now fielding more candidates
in Tory areas.

Edward Leigh, Tory MP for Gainsborough and chairman of the Cornerstone Group,
told The Daily Telegraph that he feared the party was heading in the wrong
direction.

"We can see merit in David Cameron's leadership style but it is important to
understand and reflect the views of our natural supporters.

"The core Conservative vote cannot be overlooked in the necessary re-making of
the Conservative Party,'' he said.

The Tory Right believes that Mr Cameron should by now have opened a commanding
lead over Labour if he is to have any chance of winning a majority at the next
election.

The manifesto will call for tax cuts and a stronger line on Europe and insiders
said it would also have supported the Catholic Church in the row over gay
adoption.

Mr Cameron has said that he cannot promise any tax cuts at the next election,
and will deliver only when the economy allows.

A spokesman for Mr Cameron said he was relaxed about contributions from all
wings of the party.

"The policy groups are there for anyone to submit proposals to, so we welcome
any contribution,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

Ukip name change is part of attempt to woo Tories

BYLINE: Toby Helm and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 544 words


THE UK Independence Party is today preparing to change its name as part of a
re-branding exercise designed to woo large numbers of Conservatives disaffected
with David Cameron.

As part of an assault on the Tories, the ruling executive of the anti-Brussels
party is expected to approve plans to promote itself as the Independence Party
for the local elections on May 3.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Nigel Farage, the party leader, said
it was time to campaign on more than simply immigration and withdrawal from the
European Union and move to wider themes of national and local independence,
deregulation and tax cuts.

These arguments, he said, had been "abandoned by David Cameron''.

"We believe in national independence. But we also want to see a much greater
degree of independence at local level, believing that one of the worst things
that the Tories did in the 1980s was to emasculate local government.

"We would like to see more devolution of power away from Westminster to make
local elections really matter.

"We firmly believe that to stop the political class doing whatever they want
against the will of the people there has to be some device by which people can
call a national referendum.''

He outlined the new approach as Liam Fox, the Tory defence spokesman, confirmed
the threat from Ukip, admitting on GMTV's Sunday Programme that "many
Conservatives would sympathise with their [Ukip's] general view'' on European
policy.

Dr Fox told disgruntled Tories, however, that if they plumped for Ukip they
would merely be helping Labour, which was in favour of the very European
integration they opposed.

Ukip has boasted several recent high-profile defections from the Conservatives,
boosting its belief that it is on the brink of a breakthrough as Mr Cameron
moves his party to the centre ground.

The Ukip leadership was infuriated - but spurred on - by Mr Cameron's
description of many of its members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists''.
Mr Farage admitted that his party had been damaged by members of its own
"lunatic fringe'' whom he described as "conspiracy theorists''. But moves were
being made to marginalise them.

Mr Cameron's decision to "abandon'' traditional Tory territory on tax and Europe
had been a gift, Mr Farage said. "Cameron has a massive split in his party
between the parliamentary party and the party in the country,'' he said.

"We believe that Cameron's idea that you pay for tax cuts out of economic growth
is getting things completely the wrong way round.''

The name change was, Mr Farage said, "the first step to get people's perceptions
of the party to change''. Ukip would remain the name on the local election
ballot papers but campaign literature would increasingly refer to the
Independence Party.

Ukip would more than double its number of candidates at the local elections in a
long-term strategy aimed at building local support and winning seats in
Parliament.

He was confident, too, that under the "independence'' banner Ukip would secure
two seats for the first time in the Welsh Assembly.

Founded in 1993, Ukip caused a stir in 2004 by coming third in the European
Parliament elections and winning 12 seats. But those polls, fought on a
proportional representation system, have been its only real breakthrough.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

Six 'face charges on beheading-plot'

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 452 words


AT least six suspects arrested over an alleged plot to behead a British soldier
are likely to be charged.

The Crown Prosecution Service believes there is enough evidence to try them for
conspiracy to murder or offences under the Terrorism Act.

Nine men are being held by police investigating claims they plotted to kidnap a
British Muslim soldier and film his beheading for the Internet.

Their arrests brought claims that the he told The Daily Telegraph. 'But we also
want to see a much greater degree of independence at local level, believing that
one of the worst things the Tories did in the 1980s was to emasculate local
government.

'We firmly believe that to stop the political class doing whatever they want
against the will of the people there has to be some device by which people can
call a national referendum.' The name change was, Mr Farage said, 'the first
step to get people's perceptions of the party to change'.

UKIP would remain the name on the local election ballot papers but campaign
literature-men, held in a predawn swoop on addresses across Birmingham last
Wednesday, are 'political' targets.

But a CPS source said senior prosecutors were consulted by police before the
raids. Last night there was optimism that charges would be brought, though it
could be a number of days before police are ready.

Under terror laws, police can detain the suspects, mainly British men of
Pakistani descent, for up to 28 days. The security would increasingly refer to
the Independence Party.

It would more than double its number of candidates at the local elections in a
long-term strategy aimed at building local support and winning seats in
Parliament.

He was also confident that under the 'independence' banner, UKIP would secure
two seats for the first time in the Welsh assembly.

Liam Fox, the Tory defence spokesman, admitted on GMTV's Sunday Programme that
'many Conservatives would sympathise with UKIP's general view' on European
policy.

But Dr Fox warned that disgruntled Tories who voted for UKIP would simply help
Labour.

services are understood to have gathered 'masses' of potential evidence.

During a six-month surveillance operation costing Pounds 10million, 250 officers
worked with MI5 to monitor the group's movements.

They recorded thousands of hours of conversations using telephone taps and bugs
in their homes.

Since the raids, they have also searched 18 properties and removed a
'significant quantity' of material.

Experts are examining large swathes of data from computers seized at some of the
houses and businesses.

The stakes are high for the police, who are constantly reminded of the botched
Forest Gate terror raid in London, in which one man was accidentally shot yet no
charges werebrought.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

How dare you knock women of the North

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 1121 words


How dare you knock women of the North

IN DESCRIBING the 'real North/ South divide', Liz Jones talks in a derogatory
manner about northern women. Southerners, she proclaims, unlike their northern
counterparts, 'don't have time for airbrush tans and aerobics classes' (Femail).

I wonder if Liz actually thinks that what can be gathered from one trip to the
Peak District provides enough insight to brand half the country as 'groomed to
within an inch of their lives'?

As a fashion editor, she expresses shock at women all dressing similarly and not
standing out from the crowd - a trait exclusive to northern women, of course.
But what is fashion if not this?

Liz might believe she and her southern army have immaculate taste with their
'just got out of bed cool', but she wears what she does because a designer told
her to. She likes the styles she does because she - and everyone else - saw them
on the catwalk.

Why does she mock the public's desire to follow fashion? Without this desire,
she would have no profession. The shallow, selfobsessed matter of fashion is her
stock-in-trade, though she seems to give the British public little respect for
it if they live north of her fictional fashion border.

As a northerner who has never followed fashion, I'm offended by her portrayal of
northern women as common footballers' wives, all striving to be carbon copies of
each other. How dare such a designerobsessed woman stick this label on a whole
section of society?

Does it shock her to find that a female from 'up north' is able to drag herself
away from the tanning booth, brush back her hair extensions and complain?

I'm proud to be from Newcastle upon Tyne. I believe there's more to life than
the clothes we wear, and, believe me, it is possible to live in Newcastle,
'write your own ticket' and not be a 'scary Geordie girl'.

BECKY PETERS-JONES, Benton, Newcastle upon Tyne.

Right of the charge brigade

IS IT right to seek to reclaim the charges imposed by banks on customers who
breach the 'free banking' rules (Mail)?

This country has one of the best free banking systems in the world - the envy of
many people abroad.

Forcing the banks to give up charges which have been legitimately applied (on
the financially disorganised) for breaches in terms and conditions will result
only in the banks levying charges for all banking services on everyone -
including those who, like me, enjoy the benefits of free banking.

ROBIN C. POTTS, Uxbridge, Middx.

Full ahead for the Navy

NO claim that 19 Royal Navy ships have been decommissioned and 11 sold since the
Falklands conflict (Mail) is complete without mention of the awesome power of
the ships that have replaced them.

The Navy is currently benefiting from a Pounds 14 billion investment package -
the largest warshipbuilding programme in 20 years.

In the past decade, 28 ships and one submarine have been put into service,
including the new helicopter carrier HMS Ocean, two Albion Class amphibious
assault ships, four Bay Class amphibious logistic support ships and three River
Class patrol vessels.

We look forward to the arrival of new Astute Class attack submarines, Daring
Class Destroyers and two new aircraft carriers - the largest warships ever
constructed in the UK.

The fleet today is designed to meet the demands we face in 2007, not those of 25
years ago. To claim we could not now prevail in a conflict such as the Falklands
is wrong.

The Royal Navy has the strength, not least in a greatly enhanced amphibious
capability, that sees it well prepared to respond to any emerging threat.

Anyone who might tangle with today's Royal Navy would come off worse.

Rear Admiral ALAN MASSEY, Assistant Chief of Naval Staff, MoD.

Go lightly on Knightley

IT ANNOYS me when the media try to blame an innocent party - in this case Keira
Knightley - for the misfortunes of other unrelated people, as if the celebrity
is somehow directly responsible.

A star has no control over what someone might do as a result of seeing their
picture in a magazine or what they might believe. There is nothing wrong with
Keira or the way she looks.

There are about 150,000 anorexics in the UK - greatly outnumbered by the
millions who are overweight.

Should we be laying into all the fat people on TV?

Let's get things into perspective.

ISABELLE HURLEY, London SW19.

Time for a new broom?

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN oversimplifies the reason for Teflon Tony's ability to get
away with whatever he wants to do as 'the endless supply of gullible fools
prepared to take his lies as gospel'. I wish it were that easy.

Blair's survival has depended on several factors. First, he set about
politicising the civil service and - to its undying shame - it didn't fight
back. Then he wrecked the House of Lords. It didn't matter that he had nothing
to replace it with because he didn't want an effective second chamber that could
thwart his worst excesses.

Nothing will change this country until the Tory Party gets back where it belongs
politically, or the electorate decides that it needs some fresh thinking and
elects a few UKIP MPs.

J. E. M. LEE, Dartford, Kent.

Don't go soft on crime

AS A retired detective chief superintendent in the Metropolitan Police, I
watched for years the increase of serious crime in this country committed by
persistent offenders and despaired at the effect of sentencing policies, based
on a rehabilitation ethos.

The emphasis on rehabilitation rather than the prevention of crime and the
protection of the public, combined with reluctance by the Treasury to fund more
prisons, has influenced the Home Office and led to the unprecedented and
unacceptable levels of serious crime and violence we now experience.

Most attempts at rehabilitation of persistent offenders such as community
orders, anti- social behaviour orders, tagging, probation, suspended sentences -
there have been enough costly experiments - have been shown to have
significantly failed.

Nevertheless, the Home Office and other government agencies have continued to
mislead and deceive the public via spin.

All they have produced is a Land Fit For Criminals. This is the title of an
excellent book published recently by David Fraser, a retired senior probation
officer. I was given a copy for Christmas.

Anyone who wishes to know what has been going on should read it.

MIKE O'NEILL, Wallington, Surrey.

Among Jade's contemporaries are young people who have gone to top universities
and have started professional lives as lawyers, doctors, dentists, pharmacists,
accountants, bank managers - pretty well all the professions.

Do not accept the stereotyped caricature of hooded ignorami, unworthy of school
and neighbourhood.

R. SIMMONDS, Rotherhithe, SE London.

THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK

IT IS good to wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord.

Lamentations 3:26

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BECKY PETERS-JONES: 'WE'RE NOT ALL FOOTBALLERS' WIVES IN THE NORTH,
LIZ'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 5, 2007 Monday

UKIP changes name as it goes after the Tory vote

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 295 words


THE UK Independence Party is today preparing to change its name as part of a
rebranding designed to woo Conservatives disaffected with David Cameron.

The ruling executive of the anti-Brussels party is expected to approve plans to
promote itself as the Independence Party for the local elections on May 3.

Leader Nigel Farage said it was time to campaign on more than immigration and
withdrawal from the EU and move on to wider themes of national and local
independence, deregulation and tax cuts.

These arguments, he said, had been 'abandoned by David Cameron'.

'We believe in national independencehe told The Daily Telegraph. 'But we also
want to see a much greater degree of independence at local level, believing that
one of the worst things the Tories did in the 1980s was to emasculate local
government.

'We firmly believe that to stop the political class doing whatever they want
against the will of the people there has to be some device by which people can
call a national referendum.' The name change was, Mr Farage said, 'the first
step to get people's perceptions of the party to change'.

UKIP would remain the name on the local election ballot papers but campaign
literature-would increasingly refer to the Independence Party.

It would more than double its number of candidates at the local elections in a
long-term strategy aimed at building local support and winning seats in
Parliament.

He was also confident that under the 'independence' banner, UKIP would secure
two seats for the first time in the Welsh assembly.

Liam Fox, the Tory defence spokesman, admitted on GMTV's Sunday Programme that
'many Conservatives would sympathise with UKIP's general view' on European
policy.

But Dr Fox warned that disgruntled Tories who voted for UKIP would simply help
Labour.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            February 5, 2007, Monday

UKIP name-change plan to lure Tories

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 72 words


The UK Independence Party is expected to approve plans to change its name as
part of an exercise aimed at wooing Conservatives disillusioned with David
Cameron.

The ruling executive is due today to agree the name the Independence Party in
time for local elections on May 3. Nigel Farage, the party leader, said that it
was time to campaign on more than immigration and withdrawal from the European
Union and move towards wider themes.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

German plan to take over our schools

BYLINE: By Hilary Douglas

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 288  words


GERMANY is hatching a plan to take over what is taught in British schools, it
was claimed last night.

Politicians in Berlin want to introduce a single European syllabus which will
mean children in the UK receiving identical lessons to those across Germany,
according to Eurosceptic party Ukip.

The move comes at the start of the German Presidency of the EU as critics
accusing them of attempting to shore up their power base.

German Education Minister Annette Schavan said: "National Curricula should not
describe what is to be taught but the objectives and outcomes intended. These
should be based on an EU framework." But Ukip MEP Tom Wise said: "This is a
disgraceful attempt to brainwash.

"This will bring about the airbrushing of history. Can you imagine the Germans
setting how we teach the Second World War? I doubt many would think that is
acceptable. There are 27 states but what story will they tell our children?
There are enough rows about dumbing down without having our syllabus censored by
Brussels."

At present, the scheme for a cross-European education policy is the subject of
an "initiative report", which sets out goals and ideals. But Mr Wise said: "Here
is where it all gets dangerous. After the third reading in Brussels, the
committee produces a report which is put to the European Commission - the only
EU body with legislative powers.

"Once the Commission passes the proposals, they are then set in law.

In a few years this would come before Parliament but we would not be able to
stop them.

"In a European system, children must study science and maths to pass the leaving
certificate. With Alevels, they concentrate on their strengths. The European
system is prescriptive and leaves no room for individuality."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 4, 2007 Sunday

Cameron fights 'back-door' EU constitution

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 249 words


DAVID CAMERON today steps up his opposition to European Union integration by
condemning the drive towards an EU constitution as "wrong-headed and perverse''.

Writing in The Sunday Telegraph, the Conservative leader announces that he is
launching a campaign to stop the proposed constitution being introduced by the
back door.

Mr Cameron's intervention comes as a senior shadow cabinet member broke ranks
with him over the views of the UK Independence Party. Liam Fox, the shadow
defence secretary, told GMTV's Sunday Programme: "Many Conservatives would
sympathise with their [Ukip's] general view in terms of European policy.'' Mr
Fox's view is in stark contrast to Mr Cameron's denunciation of Ukip as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly''.

But, after a string of defections to Ukip by donors and two former Tory peers,
senior MPs are increasingly fearful that the anti-European party could pose a
serious electoral threat by splitting the Conservative vote.

When the constitution was rejected by the French and Dutch people, the EU called
voters "wrong''. The German Chancellor Angela Merkel has made reviving the
constitution a key goal of her country's presidency of the EU and has set an
initial deadline of June.

Mr Cameron says: "This is typical. Faced with new challenges, the EU's reaction
has always been the same: demanding more and more power from member states. Now
it is trying to do so by debating the future of 500 million people behind closed
doors. This is has to stop.''

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday

'We are changing gear . . . Now you'll see we are the ones with grit and the
ideas' Tory leader David Cameron admits to George Jones there's been too much
emphasis on style. It is time to find out just what makes him tick

BYLINE: GEORGE JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1619 words


IT has taken more than a year and a rebranding exercise that has left many Tory
traditionalists upset and bewildered, but David Cameron believes that at last he
has got the public's attention.

This week the Conservative leader even made the political classes sit up and
take notice by telling Tony Blair that it was time for him to quit because his
authority was draining away.

Mr Cameron's timing was perfect. It forced Mr Blair further on the defensive and
triggered a national debate on whether the Prime Minister would have to go
sooner rather than later as the cash for honours inquiry moved ever closer to
the heart of No 10.

Interviewed by The Daily Telegraph in his roomy office at Westminster
overlooking the Thames, Mr Cameron was brutal about the state of the Blair
Government, describing it as "dysfunctional'' and in a "state of paralysis''.

He said it was time for a "reality check''. Mr Blair appeared to be the only
person who not did believe it was now time for him to go - while Cabinet
ministers were more worried about their own jobs than what was happening in the
country.

"It seems to me it's got to that point where everyone in Parliament, everyone in
government, everyone in the press, everyone in the country is thinking 'Hello?
It's over' and I think it needed to be said.'' Proper opposition politics, in
other words.

But Mr Cameron made clear that an incoming Conservative government would not
seek to turn the clock back to 1997. He was looking forward to what would be
happening in 2008/9 - and the Conservative Party had to understand that not
everything that had happened over the past 10 years under Labour was bad.

"I don't believe in slagging off the Government for the sake of it,'' he said.

"I take very seriously being a Loyal Opposition and not attacking the Government
when they get things right.'' An incoming Conservative government would keep and
build on some of Mr Blair's initiatives such as city academies. "Inner city
schools in many parts of the country are still a disgrace. City academies are
one way of improving that. I would like it to go further and faster,'' he said.
Labour's mistake when it came to power in 1997 was to sweep away for political
reasons the previous Conservative government's measures to create more
diversity, including grant-maintained schools and trust hospitals, which Mr
Blair now wanted to see. "We are not going to make that mistake,'' he said.

As the Blair administration implodes, the pressure is mounting on Mr Cameron to
show that Conservatives are ready for government. While he is ahead in the
polls, there still does not yet appear to be the kind of public enthusiasm for
the Tories that Mr Blair and New Labour managed to generate before their
landslide victory in 1997.

Mr Cameron has dragged his party back to the political centre, at a pace that
has worried many of his party's long-standing supporters. They cannot understand
why Polly Toynbee, the doyenne of Left-wing columnists, and the TUC seem to be
given more attention than business leaders or Margaret Thatcher's legacy when it
comes to drawing up new policies.

There have been defections to the UK Independence Party by traditional Tory
voters who feel Mr Cameron no longer speaks for them or even understands their
core concerns.

Mr Cameron was unrepentant about ditching what he regarded as outdated policies.
The past year, he said, had been about modernising the party and getting "back
into the mainstream of British politics - getting an audience and getting the
Conservative Party listened to''.

In the past the party had spent too much time talking about the European Union
and "potential tax cuts that might never be delivered'', when the concerns of
the voters were the state of their local hospitals and schools and crime on the
streets.

But in what will be seen as an acknowledgement of criticism and a need to
respond to it, he said that there had been too much emphasis on style and
presentation, and lack of policy substance. The Conservative Party was now
"changing gear'', he said.

He was ordering the speeding up of policy preparation and a more aggressive
approach towards the Government's failings.

"What I think you're going to see from the Conservative Party is a year of
showing subject by subject what the Government has got wrong, what we can put
right,'' he said.

The party would be setting out, "piece by piece, detailed, substantial things we
would do to make our country safer, stronger, freer and fairer''.

By the end of June all the party's policy groups' conclusions would have
reported. The policies would be drawn together in a mini-manifesto before the
party conference in Blackpool in October.

Mr Cameron is still something of an unknown quantity to voters and many of his
own party. He rides a bicycle, often goes without a tie and has a young family
including a severely disabled son. But what does he stand for? What are his core
beliefs - and is he more the heir to Blair than the heir to Thatcher?

He admitted that "people want to know how to read me and what makes me tick''.

"I am a liberal Conservative and both of those words mean something. Liberal
because I believe in freedom and tolerance and fairness and Conservative because
it is important to protect, defend and promote the institutions of this country
and because families, communities, and voluntary bodies and charities are
important elements of society.

"Instead of talking about rolling back the frontiers of the state I've talked
about rolling forward the frontiers of society. To me that's about trusting
people, sharing responsibility, recognising that there is such a thing as
society, it's just not the same as the state - that's a profoundly Conservative
thought.''

This week, Mr Cameron publicly opposed an opt-out for Roman Catholic adoption
agencies from new laws banning discrimination against a gay couples - while his
home affairs spokesman, David Davis, said he wanted to see an exemption. Tory
MPs will now be given a free vote in the Commons on the new rules.

He said gay adoption was an issue on which it should have been "easy to read''
what he would do, because he was "passionate that in this country we have one
law that is obeyed by everybody''.

It was time to sweep away failed multi-culturalism. "I don't think it would be
right to allow carve-outs for Muslim groups or Hindu groups or whoever, so that
means one law that everyone has to obey. And that's why I don't think a block
exemption for Catholic adoption agencies would be right. By all means give them
time to find a way through the new rules, but in Britain we shouldn't put up
with discrimination on the basis of race or age or sexual orientation.''

Mr Cameron said he was putting forward a "new optimistic Conservatism'' in which
he would "lead a real fight for the family'' as the best organisation to bring
up children, look after the elderly and care for the disabled. "Yes, marriage is
vital and we should recognise it in the tax system as an important institution.
I'm not a discriminator. I do believe that gay people can show their commitment
to each other through a civil partnership. Yes we should recognise that as
well.''

Tory traditionalists fear Mr Cameron is deliberately distancing himself from
eurosceptics, much in the same way that Tony Blair abandoned Clause IV to show
the Labour Party had changed.

He dismissed Ukip as "a sideshow and irrelevant'', even though many in his own
party fear that it could still damage their chances at the next election by
providing an alternative for disaffected Tory voters. He said voters would have
a choice between a Conservative Party which did not want a European
constitution, would keep the pound and wanted to see powers returned from the EU
- or a Labour Party that had campaigned for the constitution and would still
like to give up the pound.

"I don't spend my nights thinking how do we get another hundred votes of Ukip. I
spend my nights thinking how do we win the great battle for the centre ground of
British politics, who's going to improve the health service, who's going to get
the basics right in education, who is going to build a stronger society by
scrapping the multi-culturalism approach and having a greater emphasis on
integration. All subjects about which the fringe parties have nothing to say.''

Mr Cameron said there would be a "legitimacy problem'' for Gordon Brown when he
moved in No 10.

But he would fight Mr Brown on his record - the failure to provide money for
more prisons, hospital closures, an over-complicated tax and benefit system and
the black hole in the pensions system.

"Mr Brown will stand up in a few months time and say I'm bright and shiny and
new but he is responsible for everything that has happened over the past 10
years.

"In fact they never stop telling us that it was a dual premiership and he was in
charge of the domestic agenda. Well the domestic agenda looks like a pretty
wretched battlefield and one General Gordon is standing right in the middle of
it.''

If Mr Brown called an early election, the Tories could halt their policy review
process and write a "very strong manifesto''. A recent cover of The Spectator
depicted Mr Cameron being showered with bank notes, claiming he already had
built up an election war chest.

"It's not an image I entirely recognise,'' Mr Cameron said somewhat ruefully,
but he insisted he would be able to raise the cash to fight the next election.

"People see a reinvigorated Conservative Party. It's got good ideas about the
future, it's increasingly showing the grit and detail necessary for running the
country.

"People are really beginning to feel that this Government is like a house with a
door that's rotting and they want to boot it off it's hinges.''

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               85 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday

Readers' page: You asked ... Can I be elected to the new House of Lords?:

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 332 words


Will you be able to stand for election to a reformed House of Lords? Of course
you will, and I will explain how in a moment. But are you sure about this ?
Being a proper working peer, conscientiously doing your share of legislative
heavy-lifting, is hard work. It's not all sitting around drinking afternoon tea
or snoozing beneath a copy of the Racing Times, you know. You may not even be a
Lord, just a Senator or MHL.

The half-reformed Lords Tony Blair's government has created has proved
infuriatingly independent. Ministers want to get rid of the remaining 92
hereditaries (a compromise in 1999) and as many of the 605 life peers as they
can persuade (not many?) to take a redundancy package. Jack Straw's white paper
will next week propose an upper house of 540, half (ie 270) elected, 30%
nominated by party leaders, 20% the "great and good" nominated by an independent
commission. Some ministers want 80% to 100% elected peers, as do many Tories and
Lib Dems. Others predict that formula would lead to "legitimacy" rivalry with
the elected Commons.

But if Straw prevails you could put yourself forward at the next European
elections in 2009 (both polls would be conducted on the same day) for a single
15-year fixed term. But the gradualist approach to reform means that only 90
would be elected then. The rest would join in 2014 and 2019. Now for the bad
news. As with EU elections you will be up against slates of candidates being run
by the political parties, where the region's votes are counted and the seats
shared out according to total vote. If you can get yourself in the No&1 or 2
spot on a big party list, the SNP or even a Green or Ukip list, you're in with a
shout.

Otherwise, it's gamble with your day job. One good bit of news is that Mr Straw
proposes what's called an "open" list, so that voters can back individuals they
admire rather than simply ticking the ballot paper for a party as in EU
elections "closed" list system. In theory this should help you. So go for it.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               86 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday

Weekend: Mind: THIS COLUMN WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman:

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 482 words


Recently, I've been trying to become a Morning Person, and one of the unexpected
benefits is this: it makes other Morning People a lot less irritating. I'm still
unsettled by those "life in the day" articles, according to which no successful
entrepreneur, artist or politician ever gets up after 5am (Leonard Cohen,
2.30am; Dolly Parton, 3.30am; Warren Buffett, 5am; Condoleezza Rice, 4.30am -
I'm using the term "successful" loosely here). Broadly speaking, though, there's
no better cure for peppy colleagues at 8.30am than becoming one, and you won't
be surprised that the self-help world is bursting with advice on how to do it:

1 Don't try to sleep before you're tired. Some experts claim routine is
everything - that you should sleep and rise at exactly the same time each day.
Others insist you should listen to your body, sleeping from when you're tired
until you wake naturally. The blogger Steve Pavlina argues (at
tinyurl.com/88qug) they're both half right: the trick is to listen to your body
in the evening - don't go to bed until you feel you could drift off in 15
minutes - and your alarm in the morning. If you're accustomed to going to bed at
2am, and set your alarm for 6am, you'll have a few tired days at first. But
you'll start turning in earlier, naturally adjusting your sleep time to what you
really need.

2 Play tricks with your alarm clock. Hardcore disciplinarians just need to
remember to place the clock across the room before retiring. Others can buy
Clocky (nandahome.com), an ingenious device that lets you snooze for up to 10
minutes, then wheels itself off until it finds a place to hide, where it carries
on beeping.

3 Take walks at dusk. If you're happy with the hours you're spending in bed, but
just wish they started and finished earlier, you need more light at both ends of
the day, according to the psychiatrist Daniel Kripke. Exposing yourself to
fading light will prepare your brain for coming sleep.

Alternatively, though it's unpopular advice in self-improvement quarters, you
might consider giving up. You'll rise earlier as you get older anyway. And
besides, half of those overachievers who claim to rise at 3.30am may be lying.
Several years ago, a University of California researcher attached motion-sensors
to his subjects and found that none of the people who claimed to be up at 4am
actually was. Using the methods above, I've been getting up regularly at 6am,
which is early enough for me. Assuming I'm telling the truth.

A month ago, following the advice of Albert Ellis, I wrote about giving a friend
a £100 cheque, payable to the UK Independence party, with instructions to mail
it if I failed to go to the gym thrice weekly for a month. Well, at time of
writing, I'm still going - although I find myself starting, quite unjustifiably,
to resent my friend for "making" me go to the gym. Ukip may get its money yet.

oliver.burkeman@ guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               87 of 88 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 475 words


TORY international development spokesman Andrew Mitchell is challenging the
Government to discuss the sale by arms firm BAE of a Pounds 28million air
traffic control system to Tanzania. He says it was overpriced, unnecessary and
middle men siphoned off Pounds 6million in bungs. Shouldn't Mitchell look a
little closer to home for answers? His party's former defence secretary Michael
Portillo served on the BAE board 2002-2006, when the deal was being set up.

DISTRICT Judge Jane McIvor of the Thames Magistrates Court must be disappointed
by the latest photos of pop crooner Pete Doherty injecting himself with cocaine
in Thailand. Two weeks ago she praised him at a court hearing for his efforts to
quit hard drugs, saying she was 'optimistic' he could do it. Miss McIvor also
informed Doherty she was a fan of his song, The Blinding. Is it possible she's
blinded by his celebrity?

THE love scenes of Sienna Miller, (pictured) and costar Hayden Christensen in
the new film Factory Girl, about the Andy Warhol set, are very realistic.

Was any acting involved?

'Sienna and Hayden grew close during filming it was an emotional experience for
all of us,' says director George Hickenlooper. Yes, but did they canoodle for
real? 'I can't comment. You'll have to ask Sienna about it.' Might it be an
amusing stunt to drive her ex-boyfriend Jude Law crackers?

WEALTHY Tory property owner Peter Corby, 82, has written to inform David Cameron
that last week's meeting of the Isle of Wight Conservative Party Supper Club, of
which he is chairman, had to be cancelled 'due to lack of support'.

Corby, whose Pounds 7million Georgian home overlooks Cowes waterfront, says: 'I
am seriously thinking of voting for UKIP, and many of my friends and
acquaintances are in the same frame of mind. We are losing our confidence and
our faith in the party . . . the time has come for the Conservative leaders to
come off the fence, pledge to take Britain out of European control and put a
stop to the continuous torrent of absurd legislation emanating from Brussels and
from Westminster.'

LAP dancing expert Peter Stringfellow, 66, arrived at Sky TV's studios (to
defend giant casinos, says my source) 'accompanied by a pouting, leopard coated
young woman young enough to be his granddaughter who, while constantly applying
lip gloss, announced to all and sundry that she'd have to be held back from
running on set and saying, "I love you" on live television when he came on
although she'd have had great difficulty running anywhere in those heels'.
Casino bosses must be proud to have recruited so distinguished an ally.

MICHAEL Winner's suggestion (in a forthcoming BBC2 programme, The Grumpy Guide
To Food) for attracting the attention of waiters: 'Take your napkin and wave it
slowly around your head Believe me, they will come over.'

Accompanied by men in white coats, perhaps.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               88 of 88 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 1, 2007 Thursday 2:05 AM GMT

Champagne and cluster defections

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 291 words


The champagne corks are popping again over at UK Independence Party HQ.

Nigel Farage is feeling popular

It doesn't take a lot, to be honest, but the anti-Brussels gang are celebrating
their very first "cluster" of defections from David Cameron's Tories.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's colourful party leader, boasts that several former loyal
Tories in the same Wiltshire town of Calne have now crossed over to his party.

They are led by Ellenor Bland, who was an approved Conservative parliamentary
candidate suspended by Mr Cameron last November over the forwarding of a racist
e-mail.

Mrs Bland, you may recall, denied that she had sent the offending e-mail from
her account.

It bore a picture of the white cliffs of Dover, bearing the charming message:
"P**s off  we're full."

According to Mr Farage, Mrs Bland has been joined by three other Calne town
councillors in that momentous journey from Tory to Ukip.

"It's our first cluster," the Ukip leader said last night, no doubt in
anticipation of Mr Cameron having a nervous breakdown at the news.

Talking of defections, the entire ancient town of Calne  founded in the Dark
Ages, says their website is about to relocate.

Under forthcoming parliamentary constituency boundary changes, it will move from
the Devizes seat of ex-Tory chairman Michael Ancram to the potentially more
interesting territory of Wiltshire North.

James Gray, the sitting Tory MP, has just managed to survive a deselection vote
there after conducting an affair with another woman while his wife was fighting
breast cancer.

But judging from responses on the conservative home site to Mr Gray's
against-the-odds survival, local Ukippers are already plotting trouble for Mr
Gray.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
