
                               1 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 30, 2007 Friday

Don't confuse terrorism with Islam, says EU

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 339 words


THE European Union has drawn up guidelines advising government spokesmen to
refrain from linking Islam and terrorism in their statements.

Brussels officials have confirmed the existence of a classified handbook which
offers "non-offensive'' phrases to use when announcing anti-terrorist operations
or dealing with terrorist attacks.

Banned terms are said to include "jihad'', "Islamic'' or "fundamentalist''.

The word "jihad'' is to be avoided altogether, according to some sources,
because for Muslims the word can mean a personal struggle to live a moral life.

One alternative, suggested publicly last year, is for the term "Islamic
terrorism'' to be replaced by "terrorists who abusively invoke Islam''.

An EU official said that the secret guidebook, or, "common lexicon'', is aimed
at preventing the distortion of the Muslim faith and the alienation of Muslims
in Europe.

"The common lexicon includes guidance on a number of frequently used terms where
lack of care by EU and member states' spokespeople may give rise to
misunderstandings,'' he said.

"Careful usage of certain terms is not about empty political correctness but
stems from astute awareness of the EU's interests in the fight against
terrorism.

"Terrorists exploit and augment suspicions.''

Details on the contents of the lexicon remain secret, but British officials
stressed that it is there as a helpful aid "providing context'' for civil
servants making speeches or giving press conferences.

"We are fully signed up to this, but it is not binding,'' said one.

However, Conservative MEP Syed Kamall hit out at the lexicon. "It is this kind
of political correctness and secrecy that creates resentment among both the
mainstream in Europe and in Islam,'' he said.

Meanwhile, UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten claimed that the EU was in
denial over the true roots of terrorism.

"This type of newspeak shows that the EU refuses to face reality,'' he said.
"The major world terrorist threat is one posed by ideology and that ideology is
inspired by fundamentalist jihadi Islam.''

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 30, 2007 Friday

Feet on the ground, head in the stars As The Sky at Night marks its 50th
anniversary, the remarkable Sir Patrick Moore talks to Neil Tweedie

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1610 words


The world has G F Chambers, barrister-at-law of the Inner Temple, to thank for
50 years of The Sky at Night. In 1898 he wrote The Story of the Solar System, a
brief guide to the planets - minus Pluto, which was yet to be discovered. In
1929, a year before Pluto's existence was confirmed, a copy found its way into
the hands of a six-year-old boy whose weak heart had forced his removal from
preparatory school. Patrick Moore's universe consisted of little more than his
bedroom and the family sitting room when his mother, Gertrude, made a present of
the book. A few pages were enough to launch him into outer space. The little
volume still hides on a shelf in Sir Patrick's small study, tucked between more
modern books on astronomy, many of them written by him.

"You could say Chambers is a little more accurate now than he was a few years
ago because of Pluto's recent demotion from true planet to dwarf planet,'' he
says, sipping from a presumably fairly dilute half-pint of gin and tonic. His
impression of himself is far better than those of his comic imitators - a study
in cultivated eccentricity. He must be the only man in Britain to still wear a
monocle, and who else likes the xylophone? And then there is the voice: an
impossibly fast, boffinish burble punctuated by deep, deliberate emphasis.

He is 84 now, and increasingly immobile, a source of frustration and sadness.

"Wartime spinal injury, come back to get me,'' he says. "Started about 2002.
Absolutely infuriating. I've always been independent. I can't use my telescopes
in the garden. Five years ago I was playing cricket - took six for 41 for the
Lord's Taverners.''

Surrounding him is the other-worldly accumulation of the years: framed honorary
doctorates, signed photographs of crew-cut astronauts, old globes of the Moon
and Mars only partially complete through lack of knowedge at the time of their
making, and a meteorite. The most endearing objects, though, are the cartoons of
happy Moonmen playing among the craters drawn by his mother. A trained opera
singer, she lived with him until her death in 1981.

Next month, The Sky at Night, the longest-running television series on the
planet, will be half a century old. It began in April 1957 in a world almost as
different from today's as those Sir Patrick used to peer at through his
telescope. The first programme was live and unrecorded, and dealt with the comet
Arend-Roland, then bright in the sky. Eden had resigned three-and-a-half months
earlier, and Britain was slowly coming to terms with its diminished status after
Suez. But there was still plenty of pink on the map, plenty of deference and a
thriving class system. Space was still the realm of fantasy, of Quatermass and
Dan Dare. The birth of the real space age, represented by the launch of Sputnik
1, lay five months ahead. For the latter half of his life Sir Patrick has lived
in Selsey, West Sussex, a quiet seaside leftover from that era.

"In many ways the world was a great deal better then,'' he says. "There were
more honest people around, money didn't talk so much and we were still an
independent country - not in this wretched European thing, which will be the
death of Britain - and the schools still taught things like reading and writing.
What we hadn't got then, which we do now, was a total and absolute distrust of
politicians. And, of course, the first language of the country was English. All
this political correctness, it's dangerous. At the beginning it was a joke but
it's no joke now.''

An ardent supporter of the UK Independence Party, Sir Patrick ascribes most of
Britain's ills to the European Union and excessive immigration. He revels in
being un-PC but he is not an entirely standard Right-winger.

"I was against the invasion of Iraq from the very start,'' he says. "I thought
it was a totally unjustified war of aggression built upon lies, and that is what
it turned out to be.''

As he speaks, Ptolemy, one of his two cats, sits down by his side. Sir Patrick
loves cats.

"How human beings can take pleasure in killing animals escapes me completely,''
he says, running his hand through Ptolemy's black coat. In the 1950s he spoke
out against foxhunting and received threats from local huntsmen. "I said they
were welcome to come round to my house three at a time, and I'd take them on.''

Age may be exacting its steady toll - he has a live-in carer - but his mind is
as sharp as it was in 1957, when fame beckoned. A senior BBC producer wanted a
programme on astronomy, and Moore had recently appeared on television debunking
UFOs. He was offered a trial.

"I knew nothing about television, nothing at all, but I thought I'd just try to
make the programme interesting. We agreed to do three programmes and see how it
went.''

A star was born. He never signed a contract but gave his word that he would work
solely for the BBC. April's Sky at Night, to be broadcast this Sunday, will be
the 653rd. He has missed only one broadcast, after being struck down by food
poisoning from a goose egg a few years ago.

The programme was live until 1966, which presented the odd challenge. During one
broadcast, Sir Patrick was confronted by an alarmed producer standing off-camera
and holding a placard conveying bad news. It had just been discovered that the
eminent Soviet astronomer about to be interviewed could speak not a word of
English. Sir Patrick busked it; he asked questions, pretended to decipher the
replies while guessing what the Russian had probably said, and then "related''
it to the viewers.

In later years the BBC consigned the series to late on Sunday or the early hours
of Monday, but it still pulls in an audience of 600,000. Repeat showings on BBC
2 and BBC 4 more than double that. But why so late?

"They have to fit in all the soap operas, kitchen sink dramas, quizzes and
repeated American films.''

What does that say about the intellectual climate of the BBC and the nation?

"No comment.''

He is practical in the programme's defence.

"It's cheap - the cheapest thing on the air - it's non-controversial and it gets
in no one's way. We try to bring the subject down to earth. A lot of people have
been introduced to astronomy through it, and that's what I try to do.''

Talk to him about his own life and you won't get much - he simply doesn't see
why it should be of interest. His father, Charles, was gassed in the First World
War and was awarded an MC. He died when Patrick was 24. After catching the
astronomy bug, the young Moore learned a constellation a night. The war changed
him. Despite being under age (he was 17) and in possession of a dicky heart, he
blagged his way into the RAF, becoming a navigator in Bomber Command.More
hush-hush things may have happened but he bats questions away with "long time
ago, you know.''

He fell in love but once, with a nurse called Lorna. She died in an air raid.

"My girl was killed. That was that,'' he says in a matter-of-fact way, refusing
any temptation to "emote''. "I didn't want to be a bachelor. I wanted a wife and
a son but Herr Hitler had other ideas. I didn't want to live my life alone but
that's the way things went, unfortunately.''

He could have gone up to Cambridge after the war, but did not like being
supported by the state. After being demobbed he earned his living writing on
astronomy. One book, a "flight atlas'' for future Moon travellers, sold 800,000
copies, securing his financial future. Then came televison.

He has been properly employed only once, briefly at Armagh Observatory in the
mid-1960s. He prefers to be his own boss: "useless as an employee - too
individualistic''. His honours include a knighthood, a Bafta and membership of
the Royal Society - and an asteroid named after him. But he is proudest when
talking of those he has met.

"The first airman was Orville Wright, the first man in space was Yuri Gagarin
and the first man on the Moon was Neil Armstrong, and I have met them all,'' he
says. "Oh, and Albert Einstein. I played the piano while he played the violin.
It was 1940 and I was training in Canada and got a pass down to New York and met
him. He was as you would expect: charming, out of this world.''

Sir Patrick has no pretensions to scientific greatness. He regards himself as a
straightforward observational astronomer, and is proud of being so.

"The amateur still has a role because he knows the sky better than the
professional: the professional uses instruments entirely. Some time ago, I was
rung up by a very famous professional astronomer - I'm not going to use his name
- who was very excited because he thought he'd just found a bright new nova. In
fact, he'd made a completely independent discovery of Saturn.''

The cuckoo clock goes off in the corner. Sir Patrick is expecting a group of
Scouts for a stargazing party. Too frail now, he will not be able to join them
outside at the telescopes. His universe has again contracted to the inside of a
house.

"I've had a very long run. I can't complain,'' he says, suddenly sounding rather
down.

How long will he carry on presenting The Sky at Night<!-- 200a(unknown) -->?

"I will go on for as long the BBC want me, as long the viewers want me and as
long as I can do it. The first bad programme made through my fault will be my
last. I hope that hasn't happened.''

Is there anything he would like to witness before bowing out?

"I'd like to see the first definite proof of intelligent life elsewhere in the
galaxy. It's a long shot, but not out of the question.'' He doesn't talk about
religion.

"I was once asked 'do you believe in hell?' I said yes. He said, 'What's your
idea of hell?' I said, 'bowling to a left-hander on a dead wicket'.'' Patrick
Moore: 653 (minus one for the goose egg) not out.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 30, 2007 Friday

Analysis Voters warm to idea of Cameron in No 10 as decay seeps into Labour

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 845 words


BY historical standards, the Conservatives' lead over Labour at the moment is
not especially impressive.

Many governing parties have trailed much further behind the Opposition yet won
the next election.

Nevertheless, it seems increasingly probable that Labour will lose its majority
at the next election, with the Tories emerging as the largest single party.

Tony Blair's Government is not despised in the way that John Major's was in the
mid 1990s. The economy remains strong and voters still accord Mr Blair a certain
grudging respect. Nevertheless, the Government - afflicted by spin, sleaze, Iraq
and evidence of managerial incompetence - has a palpable air of decay.

YouGov's monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph gives the Tories a seven-point
lead over Labour. The Conservatives have now led Labour for 11 consecutive
months.

Support for Labour has remained stuck between 31 per cent and 33 per cent for
nearly a year and the Liberal Democrats are becalmed..

The Conservatives have the support of 39 per cent of voters. Labour, on 32 per
cent, is four points down since the last election. The Liberal Democrats, on 17
per cent, are down six points.

YouGov's findings speak to the electorate's lack of enthusiasm for the
Government and the Liberal Democrats. They also speak to voters' lack of
enthusiasm for electoral politics as a whole.

A massive 35 per cent of respondents say they do not know who they would vote
for at an early general election, or that they would vote for a minor party or
that they would not bother to vote at all.

The worst may be yet to come for Labour. Only 34 per cent would prefer a Labour
government under Gordon Brown, while 44 per cent would prefer the Conservatives
under Cameron. Brown, once the Labour Party's prince over the water, may prove
its prince under the water.

The portion of the chart headed "Delighted or dismayed?'' offers another
indicator of Labour's decline and the Conservatives' recovery.

Before each general election, voters are asked whether they would be delighted
or dismayed if the principal Opposition party were returned to power or whether
they would not mind.

The mood has shifted since the last election. In 2005, 46 per cent of
respondents said they would be "dismayed'' if the Conservatives under Michael
Howard won. Only 20 per cent said they would be "delighted'' and 25 per cent
said they "wouldn't mind''.

The proportion saying they would be delighted remains virtually unchanged at 17
per cent but the proportion saying they would be dismayed has fallen from 46 per
cent to 31 per cent. The proportion saying they wouldn't mind either way has
risen from 25 per cent to 36 per cent.

In other words, a clear majority of voters would either welcome the return of a
Tory government or view the Tories' return with equanimity. The Conservatives
under David Cameron have clearly not captivated voters but they no longer
frighten them.

Labour is floundering north of the border as well. A YouGov survey for The Daily
Telegraph in Scotland points strongly to the Scottish National Party emerging in
May as the largest single party, though without an overall majority.

According to YouGov, support for the SNP at constituency level has risen from 21
per cent during the last Scottish Parliament elections to 35 per cent. The SNP's
share of the regional top-up vote has increased from 24 per cent to 33 per cent.

The bulk of the change is at Labour's expense, with Labour dropping six per cent
at the constituency level to 29 per cent and two per cent at the regional level
to 27 per cent.

The corresponding figures for the Tories are 13 per cent and 15 per cent
respectively, and 14 per cent and 12 per cent for the Liberal Democrats.

Professor John Curtice of Strathclyde University calculates that results along
these lines in May would give the SNP 46 seats and Labour 39. The Liberal
Democrats and the Scottish Conservatives would have 18 seats each and other
parties eight.

The SNP would need a combination of the Liberal Democrats, Greens, independents
and - less probably - the Scottish Tories to form a majority administration.

However, YouGov's findings make it clear that the surge in SNP support owes
nothing to any boost in support for Scottish independence. Only 28 per cent of
respondents say they would vote for independence. The SNP's new-found strength
is mostly a mirror image of Labour's weakness.

Although the Conservatives have made substantial progress, they have failed to
make a breakthrough either north or south of the border. A legacy of distrust
left over from the Major years probably explains a lot but the voters' second
preferences hints at a continuing dilemma. When asked which party they would
back if they decided not to vote Tory, Conservative voters were split.

As the figures show, 29 per cent say they would vote either Liberal Democrat or
Green with 30 per cent saying they would switch to either Ukip or the BNP.

Fortunately for Cameron, most Tory-inclined voters will almost certainly stick
with the party when the time comes.Anthony King is professor

of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2007 Friday 2:27 PM GMT

Are EU crazy?

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 305 words


Eurosceptic champagne corks are popping tonight for a double celebration. First,
the Better Off Out campaign announced that Lord Tebbit was to become a patron of
the "let's quit the EU" body.

Pants to EU: is British best?

The move was feted by Better Off Outers as a clear signal for more Eurosceptic
Tories to take the plunge - despite a current warning from Tory HQ to all MPs to
steer well clear.

The Tory ex-Cabinet Minister declared: "From being a supporter of British
membership of the Common Market in 1970, I have come to believe that the United
Kingdom would be Better Off Out of the developing European Republic of the 21st
century.

"We British have a thousand-year history of self-government. We have been free
and democratic longer than any other nation. The European Union is too diverse,
too bureaucratic, too corporatist and too centralist to be a functioning
democracy. We are happy to trade with our European friends and the rest of the
world - but we would prefer to govern ourselves."

And just to put the icing on the Eurosceptic cake, the anti-Brussels brigade
also claimed victory in the battle of the EU flag.

A feverishly-written press release from the UK Independence Party announced that
it had won the day against plans to hoist the EU flag at European soccer
matches.

A Social Democrat Euro-MP from Austria had come up with the idea, along with
obliging fans to sing the Brussels anthem (slightly better known as the Ode to
Joy from Beethoven's 9th).

But faced with the staunch, Battle of Waterloo-type, Ukip resistance, the motion
was withdrawn.

"It is not often that we can claim that the European Parliament has seen sense
but in this case, it is justified," said a flushed-with-success Godfrey Bloom,
Ukip Euro-MP for Yorkshire and the Humber.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BLACK LIGHTS;
EU to ban bulbs over global warming

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 14

LENGTH: 206 words


BARMY Europrats could switch off Blackpool's lights if "nonsense" plans to ban
lightbulbs get the go-ahead.

It would mean that the bill for the world famous illuminations would rocket by
hundreds of thousands of pounds.

New laws, going through the European Parliament, aim to ban the sale of
"incandescent" lightbulbs - those that get hot - in a bid to halt global
warming.

If the EU gets its way they will be axed within two years and the UK government
backs the idea.

But last night Richard Ryan, boss of the Lancashire seaside town's annual lights
extravaganza, said they would "fight the plans tooth and nail".

He said: "There are a million reasons why we should be exempt."

Blackpool lights uses a million bulbs.

Many cost so little they are smashed at the end of each year's display as it is
cheaper to buy new ones than to store them.

The bulbs are just five watts each. But the ones they will be replaced with are
between seven and 11 watts in power and cost up to GBP 3 each.

UK Independence Party MEP John Whittaker, whose constituency covers Blackpool,
described the proposed law as "nonsense".

He added: "No thought has been given to how this could affect events such as
Blackpool lights, which every year attracts 3.5million visitors."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACKOUT? The famous illuminations

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 29, 2007 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BLACK LIGHTS;
EU to ban bulbs over global warming

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 14

LENGTH: 206 words


BARMY Europrats could switch off Blackpool's lights if "nonsense" plans to ban
lightbulbs get the go-ahead.

It would mean that the bill for the world famous illuminations would rocket by
hundreds of thousands of pounds.

New laws, going through the European Parliament, aim to ban the sale of
"incandescent" lightbulbs - those that get hot - in a bid to halt global
warming.

If the EU gets its way they will be axed within two years and the UK government
backs the idea.

But last night Richard Ryan, boss of the Lancashire seaside town's annual lights
extravaganza, said they would "fight the plans tooth and nail".

He said: "There are a million reasons why we should be exempt."

Blackpool lights uses a million bulbs.

Many cost so little they are smashed at the end of each year's display as it is
cheaper to buy new ones than to store them.

The bulbs are just five watts each. But the ones they will be replaced with are
between seven and 11 watts in power and cost up to GBP 3 each.

UK Independence Party MEP John Whittaker, whose constituency covers Blackpool,
described the proposed law as "nonsense".

He added: "No thought has been given to how this could affect events such as
Blackpool lights, which every year attracts 3.5million visitors."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACKOUT? The famous illuminations

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Tory lead slips as voters welcome Budget

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 706 words


The Tories' lead over Labour has fallen sharply in the wake of the Budget,
according to the latest monthly opinion poll for The Independent.

The survey by CommunicateResearch puts David Cameron's Conservatives on 35 per
cent (down five points on last month), Labour on 31 per cent (+2), the Liberal
Democrats on 20 per cent (+3) and other parties on 14 per cent (unchanged). The
Tory lead has dropped from 11 points to just four.

Labour's recovery is mainly due to a swing back to the party among middleincome
groups - a key target of Gordon Brown's final Budget last week. Labour's support
among the C2 social group, credited with keeping Margaret Thatcher in power, has
risen from 23 per cent to 32 per cent in the past month. Among the next highest
group on the scale, the C1s, Labour is up from 27 per cent to 32 per cent.

However, the Budget may be proving less popular with the bottom DE social group,
some of whom will be worse off following Mr Brown's decision to abolish the 10p
in the pound starting rate of income tax. Labour's rating among this group has
dropped from 39 per cent to 32 per cent since last month.

The Tories have lost ground among age groups that include many taxpayers. Their
level of support has dropped from 40 per cent to 36 per cent among 25 to
34-year-olds and is down from 40 per cent to 33 per cent among 35 to
44-year-olds. Mr Cameron's party has lost support among men, with its rating
down six points since February's poll.

Mr Brown's Budget may have halted a slide in support for Labour among the
party's traditional supporters in recent months. The proportion of these who say
they will vote for the party has risen from 76 per cent to 79 per cent since
last month, while the Tories' level of "core vote" support has fallen from 91
per cent to 87 per cent. The number of natural Liberal Democrats who say they
will back the party is up from 83 per cent to 87 per cent.

The Tories are ahead in the South-east, the Midlands and Northern England but
Labour holds the advantage in Scotland, Wales and the South-west.

Among other parties, the Greens are on 4 per cent, the Scottish National Party 3
per cent, and Ukip, the BNP and Plaid Cymru all on 1 per cent.

The findings will help to steady the nerves of Labour MPs as they weigh up
whether Mr Brown should face a heavyweight challenge for the party leadership
when Tony Blair stands down as Prime Minister this summer.

David Miliband, the Environment Secretary, is under pressure from some
ultra-Blairites to stand against Mr Brown. But close allies said yesterday he
would not divide Labour by mounting a "kamikaze mission" that would in any case
end in defeat for him.

In the Budget, Mr Brown cut the basic rate of income tax from 22p to 20p in the
pound but the abolition of the 10p rate prompted Tory attacks that it was "a tax
con, not a tax cut".

Labour claims its private polls show that, while people believe Mr Brown "robbed
Peter to pay Paul", a large majority identify themselves as "Pauls" and think
they will be better off. Officials said there was support for the Budget's
"green tax"

measures such as higher road tax for gas-guzzling vehicles but strong opposition
to Tory plans for a "green air miles" scheme to impose higher taxes on frequent
flyers.

However, a Populus survey found that only 11 per cent of people think they will
pay less tax after the Budget, with 26 per cent believing they will pay more and
48 per cent think it will make no real difference.

Only 8 per cent said Mr Brown's package would make them more likely to back
Labour, 26 per cent less likely and 60 per cent that it would make no
difference. A YouGov poll found that 48 per cent of people believe the Budget
would leave them worse off, 28 per cent that it would make no difference and
only 18 per cent felt they would be better off.

CommunicateResearch telephoned 1,002 GB adults between 23-25 March. The data was
weighted to take account of expected turnout and party identification for those
who declined to say how they would vote. The sample was also weighted by how
respondents said they had voted in the 2005 general election.
CommunicateResearch is a member of the British Polling Council and abides by its
rules. Full tables at www.communi-cateresearch.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 28, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

All together now???;
Pandora

BYLINE: HENRY DEEDES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 113 words


Here's one to get die-hard Eurosceptics into a frothy lather. This week, MEPs
are facing a vote to make the flying of the EU flag and singing of the EU anthem
compulsory in European football championships.

All well and good, except if passed it's likely to cause offence to any non-EU
countries who have clubs competing in the Champions League.

It would also pose a problem at next year's European Championships, which are
being hosted by Switzerland and Austria. Switzerland, of course, is yet to join
the EU. Says Ukip MEP Geoffrey Bloom: "This is Euro nationalism at its most
arrogant. Maybe these fools in Brussels want to annoy the hosts, or do they not
know what they are doing?"

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 28, 2007 Wednesday 9:40 PM GMT

My take on the Cameron biography - Part II

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 609 words


On Monday I shared my thoughts on the first half of the new biography of David
Cameron - Cameron: The Rise of the New Conservative - which has been written by
Francis Elliott and James Hanning.

Cameron has had to make some tough decisions

And in advance of tonight's launch of the book, here's the second
installment.Whilst this is not an authorised biography, it is worth noting that
a large number of Cameron's close friends did co-operate with the authors.

Most interesting is the fact that his ubiquitous chief strategist Steve Hilton
is one of only seven people who merit "special thanks" from the authors for his
help.Hilton's closeness to Cameron is reinforced in the book, but the authors
also include a couple of interesting facts about him which I hadn't realised:
firstly, that he worked on the John Redwood leadership campaign in 1995; and
secondly, that he voted for the Green Party as recently as the 2001 general
election.Only two years into his parliamentary career, Cameron faced the dilemma
of what to do when Iain Duncan Smith faced the no confidence vote of his own
MPs.

The book suggests that he agonised over what to do, especially as he and George
Osborne were already part of the team preparing IDS for Prime Ministers
Questions each week.

In the event, we are told, Cameron voted in IDS's favour, whereas Osborne voted
to ditch him.With IDS out on his ear, Michael Howard became leader, who, I was
surprised to discover, considered pursuing a remarkably robust tactic to shoot
the UK Independence Party fox.

Apparently he wanted to propose a referendum on a policy of leaving the EU to
escape obligations such as the common fisheries policy and then campaigning to
rejoin under new terms.

Cameron was said to be "appalled" by the idea and helped encourage Howard to
abandon the plan.Another policy that never saw the light of day under Howard was
a proposal from then Environment spokesman Tim Yeo to go into the 2005 general
election promisng tax hikes for so-called gaz-guzzling cars.

This is of course exactly the kind of thing Cameron would now favour, but the
then shadow chancellor Oliver Letwin opposed it vigorously and Cameron - in
charge of writing the manifesto - does not appear at that stage to have spoken
up on Yeo's behalf.So what of Cameron's ascent to the leadership? According to
the book, the first parliamentary colleague to plant the idea in his head was
Bexhill and Battle MP Greg Barker.

As long ago as the summer of 2002, he invited Cameron to stay at his home one
weekend and insisted that he was the one to take on the role after an expected
third general election defeat.And three years later, Cameron did indeed launch
his leadership bid - although you get the impression that some of his closest
supporters were worried before the Commons' summer recess as to whether his
campaign would really take off, with barely a dozen colleagues signed up to his
cause at that stage. We even learn of an incongruous weekend spent before the
party conference by Osborne and fellow early Cameroon, Hugo Swire, at the home
of David Davis's lieutenant, Andrew Mitchell. Mitchell evidently did his best to
persuade them to defect, which - although unsuccessful - clearly unnerved others
in the Cameron campaign.The rest, as they say, is history, and Cameron's first
year or so at the helm is recorded in the book, although there are few
indiscretions from the last twelve months.

Nonetheless, he is portrayed relatively sympathetically as a convinced convert
to the cause of environmentalism and as someone able of taking on the highest
political office.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             March 27, 2007 Tuesday

EU song at footie

LENGTH: 75  words


BRUSSELS wants fans to sing the EU anthem at European football games.

Euro MPs are also calling for the EU flag of yellow stars on a blue background
to be flown.

The ruling will affect the Champions League and Euro Championships.

But Euro 2008 is in non-EU Switzerland.

And Turkish and Russian teams - also outside the EU - are in the Champions
League.

UKIP's Godfrey Bloom said: "It's Euro nationalism at its most arrogant."

Euro MPs will vote on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             March 26, 2007 Monday

UKIP'S latest recruit, ex-British tennis ace Buster Mottram

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 90  words


UKIP'S latest recruit, ex-British tennis ace Buster Mottram, is already
double-faulting. Mottram recently wrote to a number of MPs in the anti Brussels
party warning they could be "decapitated" at the next election if they do not
sign up to the "Better Off Out" campaign. Since then, memories of the former
sports star's Seventies membership of the National Front have resurfaced. UKIP's
leader Nigel Farage has been forced to issue a statement saying Mottram's links
with the far-Right party were "a youthful indiscretion of 30 years ago".

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 25, 2007

Cream of the crop

BYLINE: Peter Kemp

SECTION: FEATURES; Culture; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 880 words


TWO CARAVANS. By Marina Lewycka. Fig Tree £ 16.99 pp311

Marina Lewycka's immensely appealing new novel continues the concern with
immigrant life and unglamorous vehicles first displayed in her spirited
fictional debut, A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian (2005). The two
caravans of its title are temporary home to an assortment of foreign workers
(Polish, Ukrainian, Moldovan, Chinese, Malawian) strawberry-picking in Kent. For
most of them, the garden of England initially seems not far from the Garden of
Eden. Their job is exhausting, their accommodation is cramped, and they are
monstrously underpaid.

But it is almost midsummer. Dappled sunlight sparkles through hedges of hazel
and hawthorn. Thrushes sing from copses. In the evening, scents of honeysuckle
waft out.

One of the group, a dab hand at culinary improvisation, magics their dismal
rations into memorable feasts with the help of gleanings from the local
countryside: two pigeon eggs, a rabbit, wild mushrooms, green leaves of wood
garlic, mauve thyme flowers to spice dumplings. Strawberries marinated in cool
tea with sugar and mint leaves round off the repast.

Needless to say, this pastoral idyll doesn't last -though the atmosphere of
healthy resourcefulness it establishes persists even through scenes where the
migrant workers' rosy views of England take a battering. Misadventures soon
scatter the book's personnel down various corridors of exploited labour:
stomach-turning sequences amid the reeking horrors of a Norfolk poultry farm,
glimpses of the sex industry's insatiable appetite for cheap new flesh, frazzled
episodes in a London restaurant kitchen.

Since Two Caravans is a comedy, nobody decent comes to grief for long. But
you're continually kept aware how easily they could have done so. Sombre
actualities shadow the ebullient story -not just in the form of spirit-breaking,
bone-wearying jobs, but also in flashbacks to the thwarted, opportunity starved
lives the immigrants are trying to pull themselves away from. The bleak back
story of even one of Lewycka's most unlovely characters -a ruthless spiv from a
war-torn former Soviet republic -makes it impossible not to feel some sympathy
for him despite the havoc he has wrought. Humane generosity of response vivifies
the novel everywhere.

Two Caravans takes lines from The Canterbury Tales as its epigraph. But its
characters don't so much call to mind Chaucer's pilgrims as HG Wells's jaunty,
underprivileged heroes -Kipps or Mr Polly -pluckily battling against
disadvantage, enduring awful jobs with crushing hours and poor pay, and
relishing escape into the restorative freshness of the English countryside.

Not that there's anything derivative or sepia-tinted about this book. Much of it
is as up to date as an avian-flu-scare headline. Displaced persons -in
particular, arrivals from former outposts of the British empire -have been
central to a great deal of contemporary fiction. Lewycka focuses on recent
instances of them, in all their mettlesome diversity. Dover's Admiralty Pier,
two of her characters discover, is now demarcated into zones for fishermen of
different nationalities -Bulgarians, Baltics, Ukrainians and Belarussians,
Africans, Balkans (Serbs, Croats, Albanians) and, at the far end, "Angliski".

Exploring territory that would be a UKIP nightmare, the novel traces the
fanning-out across England of new economic migrants. Fascinated by it all,
Lewycka is keenly informative about the circumstances in which these immigrants
are plunged.

A lively love story between two young Ukrainians -Andriy, a miner's son, and
Irina, the daughter of academics -entertainingly zigzags in and out of
misfortunes, misunderstandings and miscalculations that keep deferring their
getting together. Class barriers, their situation reminds you, can be as
divisive as national ones.

Around them, the novel brims with comedy -much of it, in keeping with the
polyglot cast, of a linguistic kind. When an old people's home (housing the
elderly Romeo who was the hero of Lewycka's previous novel) bursts into flame,
someone fears it's the work of "firomaniacs". A repellent Russian
people-trafficker attempts to allure Irina by flicking his greasy ponytail at
her, while hoarsely confiding, "I heff hear that voman is cannot resisting such
a hair it reminding her of men's oggan." Andriy, who visited South Yorkshire as
a small child in the 1980s with a Ukrainian miners' fraternal delegation,
treasures memories of "the visionary blind man of Sheffield", Vloonki, "known
throughout the world for his progressive policies", until talk of "bloody
Blunkett", who sold out "for a mess of posh totty", dispels his enchantment.

Lewycka's eagerness to enter into a wide range of consciousnesses leads her into
one tactical error. Paragraphs in block capitals that intermittently break into
the narrative and unleash the reactions of a labrador collie who plays a trusty
role in the action ("I AM DOG I RUN" etc) are unlikely to be relished by anyone
but the most ardent Crufts devotee. Everywhere else, this novel, which all but
sings with zest for life, could hardly be more engaging, shrewd and winningly
perceptive about the waste inflicted by prejudice and injustice.

Available at the Books First price of £ 15.29 (including p&p) on 0870 165 8585

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 24, 2007 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Comic enigma;
The Saturday Profile;
ROWAN ATKINSON

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1737 words


There's a great anecdote about Rowan Atkinson, which illustrates the kind of
chap he really is. A few years back, he was filming a scene that required his
character, a spy who later became Johnny English, to fall in love with a
beautiful lady.

"I needed to catch Row's heart melting, in an instant," recalls the director,
John Lloyd. "But we just could-n't get it. So I told him to think about his
wife, Sunetra, and imagine he was looking deep into her eyes. Still, it didn't
work. "Then Sunetra, who was there on set, said I was talking nonsense. Rowan
should actually imagine he had just clapped eyes on a brand new Aston Martin. He
did, and would you believe it, we got the take in one."

The point of this tale is that it offers an insight into Rowan Atkinson's
somewhat bizarre priorities. His first loves are precision machinery,
particularly fast cars, together with his wife and family. Trailing in, some way
behind, come the nuts and bolts of an extraordinary career.

Today, he'll be in work mode, though. A famous old tweed jacket and red tie are
about to reappear, marking the return of his most famous comic creation: a
bumbling, slapstick nincompoop known the world over as Mr Bean. A decade after
his last film outing, and almost a quarter of a century since he first hit our
TV screens, the rubber-faced social misfit will once more be beamed across the
globe, in the most expensive British film of 2007: Mr Bean's Holiday. In
Leicester Square tomorrow, Atkinson will mount a red carpet the size of Edmund
Blackadder's ego, while a supporting cast of Hollywood talent, led by Willem
Dafoe, queues up to sing his praises. Crowds will jostle for a glimpse of him
arriving, maybe in that trademark yellow Mini.

Then, across the globe, box-office records will surely be smashed, as they were
for Bean, the most lucrative British film of all time when it was released in
1997. Atkinson, probably the most talented comedian of his generation, is also
the most bankable. Those facial contortions fill cinema seats and shift DVD box
sets. Yet this is no ordinary international superstar. For all the fame and
fortune, Rowan Atkinson is a tightly closed book. At the age of 52, he is, as
newspapers often remark, an intensely private person. Painfully shy, they
complain, or prickly to the point of absurdity.

This week, a case in point: the fortnight-long international press junket for Mr
Bean's Holiday involved not one encounter with a Fleet Street journalist. TV
crews were politely informed that "personal" questions were off limits. When he
did Blue Peter on Wednesday, Atkinson appeared in character. Richard and Judy
meet the real version on Wednesday, but they'll struggle to unpick him. Atkinson
once refused to tell a journalist how many children he has. (The answer is two:
a son, Ben, and daughter, Lily.) When New Zealand interviewer Michael Lamb,
remarked, "I've heard that you're somewhat famed for being first out of the cab
and last man to the bar," he cancelled the remainder of that day's interviews in
protest.

All told, it's strange state of affairs. One might even be forgiven for
wondering if a man who guards himself so fiercely was really cut out for his
career of choice. "Rowan has not one ounce of showbiz in his life," Stephen Fry,
one of his closest friends, once said. "It is as if God had an extra jar of
comic talent, and for a joke gave it to a nerdy, anoraked northern chemist."

To be fair, Atkinson never really courted fame. He never worked for it, nor
trawled the comedy circuit. Instead, fame was thrust upon him, after TV producer
John Lloyd saw his Oxford revue show at the Edinburgh Festival in 1976, and cast
him in the era-defining sketch show Not the Nine O'Clock News. "I've no idea
where his comedy comes from," says Lloyd. "It's one of life's great mysteries.
I've never seen him studying, or pulling faces in the mirror. It just sort of
arrives. That is the nature of genius. It's like sticking a drill in the ground
and finding that it comes up pure oil."

All of which may explain why Atkinson has always had an easy-come-easy-go
attitude to success. He enjoys its trappings, certainly, and has a fortune
estimated at £65m (mainly from his stake in TV production firm Tiger Aspect).
But he'll also take whole years off to relax with wife, or indulge his passion
for racing the luxury supercars in his personal collection. On an average day,
you'll be likely to find him relaxing at his Chelsea townhouse, or driving
go-carts round the tennis court of his country pile, a former rectory in the
Oxfordshire village of Waterperry.

"He is certainly not a workaholic," adds Lloyd. "He once said to me that he
wasn't bothered about going into show business, but it was the only way he could
find of affording the cars he wanted. I think that's why, in interviews, he
doesn't think his private life is anybody's business. There's no article to be
written airing his dirty laundry; he's just a blameless family guy."

Rowan Sebastian Atkinson (he includes the middle name in his CV) comes from a
blameless, middle-class background in Co Durham. He was born in 1955, the
youngest son of Ella and Eric Atkinson, who ran a 400-acre farm. At Durham
Choristers School, he was two years below Tony Blair (but "can only vaguely
remember the face") and was bullied for his appearance and stutter. He went to
Newcastle University and did engineering, before arriving at Queen's College,
Oxford for a MSC in engineering science.

There, he met Richard Curtis, at a rehearsal for the Oxford revue in 1976.

"It was a writers' meeting, at which Rowan didn't say a thing," recalls Curtis.
"Afterwards, we were supposed to hand in our scripts, but Rowan asked if he
could just perform. He did two sketches, and they were just extraordinary." The
two have collaborated ever since.

After university, Atkinson toured with Angus Deayton as his straight man, and
had a couple of shows on Radio 3. The first taste the wider public had of his
talents was at Amnesty International's benefit, The Secret Policeman's Ball, in
which he performed a note-perfect sketch as a headmaster addressing a room of
schoolboys.

Widespread success followed in 1979, in the sketch series Not the Nine O'Clock
News, alongside Mel Smith, Griff Rhys Jones and Pamela Stephenson. Two years
later, he and Curtis worked together on Blackadder, which ran for four series;
after that, he garnered a fresh generation of fans with Mr Bean. "Historically,
he provides a bridge between the Monty Python era and the alternative comedians
of the 1980s," says Atkinson's biographer, Bruce Dessau. "He's unique in
spanning those generations."

Fans have also endured a series of 17 Barclaycard advertisements, in which he
played a spy character who was resurrected for the 2003 spoof Johnny English.
Then there were small parts in Scooby Doo, and Love Actually, and regular turns
for Comic Relief.

There have been both critical highs and lows, then. But colleagues insist that
Atkinson is no prima donna. "He's a technical perfectionist, but for someone as
famous, he takes advice and criticism remarkably well," says one longstanding
collaborator. "If someone says we should do things another way, he almost always
agrees. He's very thick skinned."

With this in mind, it came as some surprise when The Mail on Sunday reported in
2004 that Atkinson had checked into a clinic with depression after Johnny
English received lukewarm reviews. The story was untrue; Atkinson received hefty
damages, donated to charity.

Friends insist that his squirming interview persona is far removed from the
private reality. Atkinson is scrupulously polite, and rather well dressed,
thanks to the efforts of Sunetra, a makeup artist he met on the set of
Blackadder and married quietly in New York in 1990. His only other serious
relationship, as far as we know, was with Leslie Ash in the early 1980s, for
whom he once planted an avenue of ash and rowan trees.

"The truth is that he doesn't get great fun out of work," adds Curtis. "It's
hard. He takes it seriously, and it takes motivation and inspiration and can put
him in the line of fire. Actually, he's contented in just normal life, pottering
around at home. And if you've got enough money, what's the point of bothering
with getting up at six in the morning?"

His great passion is motoring, one of the few topics about which he will speak
openly and one of the few areas in which he could be said to conform to
showbusi-ness cliché. He finds few things more beautiful than an Aston Martin,
and on ski holidays in the Alps, which he takes annually with old mates
including John Lloyd, he always forgoes the slopes in order to test the local
hairpins.

The only other causes for which Atkinson has raised his head above the parapet
are to support the Royal Family (Prince Charles is an old friend) and a campaign
two years ago against the Government's religious hatred Bill. Politics has long
featured in his life: brother Rodney is a former UKIP candidate. Yet despite the
profile which Alan Clark once described as "disappointing and chetif ", (puny)
Atkinson is also secretly an action man. Sometimes he'll be writing off cars at
200mph. On other occasions, he'll be saving his family from imminent death: in
2001, he piloted a Cessna part of the way from Mombasa to Nairobi, after the
pilot had passed out.

As for Mr Bean, this film will be his last outing. Other comedians would
announce this with some fanfare. Atkinson included it in an aside to an
interviewer: "Oh, I think that's it for Bean, don't you think?" Nothing so
defines a man, they say, as the manner of his parting.

A Life in Brief

BORN

6 January 1955 in Gosforth, near Newcastle. Youngest of three sons of Ella and
Eric Atkinson, local farmers.

EDUCATION

Durham Choristers School, Newcastle University, Queen's College, Oxford.

CAREER

Oxford revue, 1976. Not the Nine O'Clock News, from 1979. Blackadder (four
series) from 1983. Mr Bean from 1991. Various film roles, including Mr Bean's
Holiday (2007), Keeping Mum (2005), Johnny English (2003), Love Actually (2003),
Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994).

HE SAYS

"There's only one thing more important than not talking about your domestic
life, and that's not talking about why you're not talking about your domestic
life."

THEY SAY

"Rowan has not one ounce of showbiz in his life. It is as if God had an extra
jar of comic talent, and for a joke gave it to a nerdy, anoraked northern
chemist." Stephen Fry

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 24, 2007 Saturday

Britain - Labour blow at polls

LENGTH: 137 words


Labour crashed to a landslide council by-election defeat on Thursday night in
one of the largest swings since the party came to power.

There was a 43.9 per cent switch to Liberal Democrat Jason Zadrozny in a
Nottinghamshire county contest at Sutton-in-Ashfield North.

He polled nearly three-quarters of the vote in what had been a traditional
Labour stronghold, in a former coalfield area.

The previous election in 2005 was on the same day as the general election.

Ashfield holds grim memories for Labour. Its Commons constituency was the scene
of a shock defeat by the Tories in 1977 - a key signpost on Margaret Thatcher's
path to power.

The impact of Mr Brown's recent budget package on voters did not seem to be much
better in leafy Surrey, where Labour was beaten into fourth place by UKIP at
Claygate, Elmbridge Borough.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 23, 2007 Friday
                                 First Edition

Farrago of faux pas (hic);
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 131 words


Four weeks ago, Pandora's favourite barfly, the UK Independence Party leader
Nigel Farage, was found in an "extremely weary" state in an Irish-themed bar in
Strasbourg. Rival politicians fell over each other taking pictures of him on
their mobile phones; wobbly Ukip colleagues fended off the advances of the
amateur paparazzi and assisted Farage back home.

The thirsty politician agreed to pitch up at yesterday's Parliamentary Press
Gallery lunch on the condition that he be permitted to "take wine" between
courses. He must have sunk a few: the maniacally Eurosceptic MEP even found time
to pay tribute to our counterparts on the continent.

"There is one thing that the Europeans do rather better than we do," he
conceded. "The lack of drinking at lunchtimes in this country is appalling."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 23, 2007 Friday 4:42 PM GMT

What do Ukip and Europe agree on?

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 332 words


Dear me  Nigel Farage is softening his views on Europe.

Bon viveurNigel Farage

To the astonishment of the Commons' Press Gallery, the leader of the UK
Independence Party actually praised something that goes on regularly in
Brussels.

Namely, the long, well-lubricated, continental lunchbreak.

Trademark glass of red in hand at a Press Gallery lunch yesterday, Mr Farage
lamented the disgraceful sobriety which now characterised British society.

In a rare note of salutation towards Brussels, the Ukip Euro-MP and bon viveur
conceded to us Westminster hacks that lengthy lunch breaks were "one thing, I
have to say, that I think the Europeans do rather better than we do in this
country.

"I mean, the lack of drinking at lunchtimes is appalling in this country these
days".

I suspect he wasn't on the House Claret, which can be a bit fierce before
sundown.

Or may be he was, because something highly potent had clearly got to Mr Farage's
head.

The Ukip leader went on to concede cheerfully that his party had got more out of
its brief flirtation with ex-television chatshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk than it
had lost.

You might have thought the prolonged attempt by "Kilroy" in 2004 to seize the
leadership of a party he'd not long joined was hugely damaging for the Ukip
cause.

But speaking  appropriately enough in the Churchill Room at Westminster  Mr
Farage recalled Winston's famous quote when asked in later life whether he would
have got further if he'd gone easier on the booze.

"Churchill said that he had taken more out of alcohol than alcohol had taken out
of him.

"I think on balance we took more out of Robert Kilroy-Silk than he took out of
us," said the Ukip leader.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who abandoned the party after an attempt to seize the
leadership, had "helped massively" to raise Ukip's profile, said the man
formerly known as one of Kilroy's greatest critics...

Did Mr Farage realise this lunch was on the record? I do hope so.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday

The Parliamentary Press Gallery lunch in the House of Commons today might be a
lively affair

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 74  words


THE Parliamentary Press Gallery lunch in the House of Commons today might be a
lively affair. UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who likes a G&T, has been invited to
address the members. His first response was to ask the organisers whether there
would be wine at lunch, (there is). The chairman then invited him to a pre-lunch
drink in the bar at 12.45. Farage objected: "Fifteen minutes is not enough time
for a drink. Let's make it 12.15 instead." Cheers!

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 20, 2007 Tuesday

Politics: Electoral watchdog gets tough over donations

BYLINE: David Hencke

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 97 words


The Electoral Commission, the party funding watchdog, is to start regularly
ordering parties to forfeit donations from people not on the electoral register,
its chairman, Sam Younger, told the Guardian yesterday. The Liberal Democrats
are the latest party to be asked to hand over money to the Treasury after a
donor who was not on the list gave them £40,000. The Lib Dems are disputing the
case. It follows the commission's decision to order Ukip to hand over £367,697
after Alan Bown, a former bookmaker, was found not to have been registered to
vote when he bankrolled the party.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 20, 2007, Tuesday

Kim Wilde -Belgium's choice for the great EU 50th birthday bash

BYLINE: David Charter Europe Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 676 words


She is most famous for singing about kids in America. Now Kim Wilde has been
cast as a symbol of European unity.

She will star at an evening of veteran rock stars being offered to Belgians as a
suitable way of marking the EU's half century. If that appears a little
incongruous as a way of marking the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome,
there are further unexpected delights.

Brussels, home of the European Commission and Parliament, will stage the open
air concert with a line-up of pop veterans including Nana Mouskouri -who in the
1990s was an MEP -and Wilde. Nick Boyles, Wilde's agent, said that she was not
being paid for her appearance and would sing two songs -her recently re-
released 1980s hit You Came as well as Together We Belong.

"It is quite an appropriate title," Mr Boyles said. "We are not being paid and
she is delighted to be participating."

In Ireland and the Netherlands, special EU prayers will be said in churches on
Sunday, while in Luxembourg there will be an 8km EU walk taking in the
birthplace of Robert Schuman, one of the founders of the EU.

Danes will mark the occasion with free buns. Estonians will plant trees. Czechs
can run a half-marathon -and Cyprus has an open day at its local EU office.

Slovenes will be treated to a parachute jump by skydivers sporting the EU
colours of blue and gold stars. In Madrid, students will build a "giant puzzle"
of the 27 member countries. Malta is holding a firework display, a film
festival, several concerts and even a European jobs fair.

Some countries appear to have planned their events with symbolism in mind.

Luxembourg is staging a circular walk. Bulgaria, Finland and Slovakia are
offering debates or conferences. But Sweden has not even tried to be subtle: it
is holding a Europe seminar.

It might be enough to have Swedes queueing to see Wilde, who since her 1980s
heyday has turned herself into a celebrity gardener in Britain while maintaining
a musical following in Europe, particularly Germany and Belgium. Last year a
single spent nine weeks in the German top 100.

France has tried harder than most, shooting a film to be shown on national
television on Sunday. Nous nous sommes tant hais (How We Hated Each Other), a
film about the reawakening of love between a Parisian barmaid and a former
German officer who lost contact for five years after a wartime affair. The tear
jerking, European Commission-funded made-for-TV romance of Marie and Jurgen has
become the latest vehicle for inspiring mass enthusiasm in the European Union.

Their story, a heavy- handed allegory for the unification of Europe, starts when
they rediscover each other on May 9, 1950, the day that Schuman, France's
Foreign Minister, called for a Franco-German coal and steel community. Jurgen is
by now a journalist covering the momentous events and Marie a sultry barmaid
with a 5-year-old boy.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said that he was unlikely to
watch the film.

"What nonsense," he said. "Girls will fall for foreign soldiers with or without
the European Union. The whole 50th anniversary party is a desperate attempt to
show how delighted everybody is with the EU's birthday -but the only ones who
are really happy are those in its pay."

Plans for simultaneous dance festivals in every country were dropped because
states said it reminded them of Soviet-style mass participation "fun".

HOW TO CELEBRATE 50 YEARS OF EUROPE

Austria Young rock bands

Belgium Veteran pop stars

Britain Football match

Bulgaria University

debates

Cyprus EU office open day

Czech Republic

Half marathon

Denmark

Free buns

Estonia

Tree planting

Finland

Public debates

France Romantic movie

Germany 27 nightclubs

Greece

Multimedia artwork

Hungary

All-night concert

Irish Republic

Prayer for Europe

Italy 27 art masterpieces

Latvia Documentary films

Lithuania Science symposium

Luxembourg Circular walk

Malta Film festival

Netherlands

Church services

Poland Academic conference

Portugal

Local musicians

Romania

EU internet chat room

Slovakia

Student conference

Slovenia

Parachute jump

Spain

Giant puzzle

Sweden

Europe seminar

Leading article, page 14

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 March 18, 2007
                                 Fourth Edition

This is no way to treat a soldier;
Special report The victims of war: part one;
Pte Steve Baldwin was badly injured in the bomb attack that claimed the lives of
three friends in Iraq. His doctor says he has posttraumatic stress disorder. The
MoD says he must leave the Army because of his 'temperamental unsuitability'. By
Terri Judd

BYLINE: Terri Judd

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2235 words


Private Steve Baldwin remembers little about the roadside bomb. His first
recollection is coming round on the floor of the armoured Land Rover to find one
of his closest friends dead on top of him. Two more colleagues died in the
attack.

"I can remember screaming. I could smell the smoke and soot, feel the grit in my
teeth. I kicked open the door of the Snatch and climbed out. I turned around and
looked back in. I grabbed Leon [Pte Spicer] and was slapping him and screaming,
but I knew he was dead," the 22-year-old explained.

The two young men, who had trained and joined the 1st Battalion Staffordshire
Regiment together, had been mid-way through a patrol in the volatile Amarah
region of southern Iraq when a roadside bomb exploded. Pte Baldwin and another
soldier were seriously injured.

Pte Baldwin had happily joined the Army, knowing he would go to Iraq and
relishing the opportunity for adventure. He felt excitement and fear in equal
measure. But he came back, according to his family and friends, a broken man. He
had changed. As well as being physically disabled, he was tortured by
nightmares, flashbacks and violent mood swings.

An NHS doctor diagnosed post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Military doctors
refused to accept his diagnosis or award Pte Baldwin a medical discharge.
Instead, he has been told he will be discharged for "temperamental
unsuitability" - in effect, fired. To a soldier, once proud to wear a British
Army uniform, it is the ultimate insult.

A week after The Independent on Sunday highlighted the plight of abandoned
servicemen and women - thousands of whom suffer from PTSD, anxiety and
depression but are failed by the system - Pte Baldwin said: "They call it a
family and say they look after their own. But they don't even phone and check
how you are doing. You just feel pushed aside."

The young man is a striking illustration of the unprecedented levels of mental
health problems being suffered by soldiers who have served in Iraq and
Afghanistan. Many complain of feeling discarded and betrayed. Experts are
predicting a mental health "time bomb", with thousands more veterans expected to
experience severe problems first identified as "shell shock" during the First
World War. Thousands of British soldiers wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan are
living in virtual poverty back in the UK because their compensation payments
have been delayed, in some cases by up to three years.

The government-run Veterans Agency has admitted that more than 7,000 former
soldiers are waiting to receive financial help. Critics say the payments system
is slow and bureaucratic.

"It's been hell for my dad and me," Private Kevin Challis told The Mail on
Sunday. Private Challis, who was wounded in Iraq in 2004, is still unable to
work because of his injuries. He has waited five months for compensation but
none has come. He says he cannot afford hot water or heating. He pays for food
using his father's pension and his income support of £118, which he receives
every two weeks.

After the IoS investigation into the plight of soldiers, leading politicians,
military experts and figures from the arts have accused the Government of
breaking the Military Covenant, which guarantees that troops will receive proper
care and support in return for their sacrifices. Five hundred people have signed
a letter to Tony Blair on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the invasion of
Iraq, following disclosures that soldiers are facing homelessness, poor medical
treatment and even the threat of prison be-cause of trauma-related behaviour.

There has been a chorus of condemnation, with politicians from all sides, as
well as military figures, accusing Mr Blair of abandoning soldiers after they
have served. The country's last military hospital is also due to close this
month.

The Tory MP Boris Johnson said: "There is a strong argument for assuring our
armed forces that they will be treated, at the very least, in a separate ward,
and in an environment where they are surrounded by people who understand the
nature of their experience. The Government should certainly live up to its
promises, and recognise the special sacrifice the military makes in the service
of this country."

Sue Smith, whose son Pte Phillip Hewett, 21, was killed in July 2005 and who
founded the Military Families Support Group, said: "I can't understand why they
can't have a military hospital which would take pressure off the NHS, which is
already cracking. Politicians ??? don't listen at all to military families."
Michael Meacher MP said yesterday: "The Government should meet the families of
the bereaved to discuss their concerns and to meet their requests for fair and
proper treatment for servicemen and women, in line with the Military Covenant."

Pte Baldwin, who has taken the rare step of speaking out despite still being a
serving soldier, says he supports this newspaper's letter to Mr Blair.

The scars where the roadside bomb tore into Pte Baldwin's arm and back stretch
across his body. Surgeons had to stitch other muscles together to replace the
triceps he lost in his right arm. Slowly, he has recovered the use of his limb,
but it is the mental scarring that has proved so debilitating. The flashbacks
and nightmares bring back the horror of the 16 July 2005. He still wakes up in a
cold sweat.

"I had been in the end vehicle but they were short of a man so I joined the
front vehicle. Leon and I were to share the top cover. He said, 'I'll go first
and you do the radio.' Two minutes later, he was dead," he explained. It was not
until someone dragged Pte Baldwin from his futile attempt to revive Pte Spicer
that he realised he, too, was bleeding heavily.

After being injected with morphine, he sat in the back of a Land Rover, awaiting
a helicopter as he watched colleagues attempt to revive another friend, Pte
Phillip Hewett. "It was like seeing something out of a film. It just wasn't
real," he explained.

It was not until he reached the military field hospital that he re-alised Pte
Hewett and patrol commander 2nd Lt Richard Shearer, 26, had also been killed.

After he was flown home, the flashbacks increased, the nightmares plagued his
sleep, he became prone to violent mood swings and lost his ability to
concentrate. "We were driving up a road one day and a moped went past and
backfired. I just froze. It brought me to tears," he said.

He would break into violent rages, smashing up the house. "Sometimes the
flashbacks would start with the explosion, sometimes it was something totally
different. Seeing Leon and slapping his face is an image that comes back a lot.
I would feel myself getting angry for no reason, but I couldn't stop myself. I
would kick things and throw things about. I knew it was wrong but I couldn't
help it."

The Army sent him to two psychiatrists, but both refused to diagnose PTSD.

Mrs Baldwin said: "He used to be so laid back. But when he came back it was
awful, I felt I was treading on eggshells. I worked really long hours because I
didn't know what I was coming home to. I was terrified almost every day. He was
not the man I married. He was a completely different person." They split up, and
Pte Baldwin returned to his family home in Nuneaton and locked himself away.

"I was told I was borderline mental illness. I was not entitled to a medical
discharge. I would get a 'temperamentally unsuitable discharge'," he continued.
The discharge means he does not get the compensation his family believes he
deserves.

Pte Baldwin was awarded £10,000 for physical injury, but ex-perts said he could
lose out without a medical discharge for mental injuries. Instead of
automatically being eligible to be considered for further compensation he would
have to apply himself, enduring an uphill struggle as military doctors have
already dismissed the diagnosis of the NHS. Today, Pte Baldwin and his wife are
trying to rebuild their marriage and their life. In sharp contrast to the
military medical services, the NHS has diagnosed him with PTSD and he is
receiving counselling.

His regiment and old friends are now back in Iraq. For six months, he has been
waiting to hear what is happening with his discharge. He feels abandoned.

One of the few people outside his family and close friends to keep in touch is
Sue Smith, mother of Pte Hewett. "It is disgusting the way he has been treated,"
she said. "It is pretty sad that these lads do their duty for Queen and country
and once they get back injured nobody wants to know."

An open letter to the Prime Minister

The 'IoS' special report last Sunday

The 'Independent on Sunday' last week revealed the mental health crisis within
Britain's armed forces, and the poverty of treatment available to service
personnel suffering from post traumatic stress disorder as a result of serving
in battle. The newspaper also published an open letter to Tony Blair, calling on
on him to restore the Military Covenant, the mutual obligation binding the
nation, armed forces and all servicemen. It means the Government owes the armed
forces they commit to military action a duty of care. Specifically, it requires
that war is lawful, that the services have adequate resources to carry out the
tasks the Government demands of them, and that they - and their families - have
the right properly to be looked after in the event of injury or death. The
families of servicemen and women killed in action, politicians, public figures
and our readers have backed the letter, which can be read at independent. co.uk.
Almost 500 have signed the letter so far, including Sean Connery, Michael Foot
and Reg Keys. It will be presented to Downing Street on Tuesday, the fourth
anniversary of the start of the invasion.

Signatories include:

Jenny Agutter, actress;

Debbie Allbutt, wife of Cpl Stephen Allbutt, 35, died 2003;

David Amess, Conservative MP;

Anna Aston, wife of Cpl Russell Aston, 30, died 2003;

Roger and Maureen Bacon, parents of Matthew Bacon, died 2005;

Iain Banks, author;

Lord Beaumont, Green Party Peer;

Tony Benn, former Labour MP and Cabinet Minister;

Billy Bragg, musician;

Simon Callow, actor;

Sir Menzies Campbell, leader of the Lib Dems;

Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty;

Sean Connery, actor;

Dominic Cooke, artistic director of the Royal Court Theatre;

Jeremy Corbyn, Labour MP;

George Crabb, formerly flight sergeant, RAF aircrew;

James and Ray Craw, parents of L/Cpl Andrew Craw, 21, died 2004;

Bob Crow, National Rail, Maritime and Transport general secretary;

Chris Davies, Lib Dem MEP

Andy de la Tour, actor, playwright;

Brian Eno, musician;

Jonathan Evans, Conservative MEP;

Sir Richard Eyre, Film, TV and theatre director;

Julian Fellowes, actor;

Mark Fisher, Labour MP;

Michael Foot, ex-Labour Party leader;

George Galloway, Respect MP

Rose Gentle, mother of Fusilier Gordon Gentle, 19, died 2004;

Richard, Karen and

Catherine Green, parents and sister of Lt Philip Green, 30, died 2003;

Katharine Hamnett, fashion designer;

Ed Harcourt, musician;

Mike Hancock, Lib Dem MP and member of Commons defence committee;

Nick Harvey, Lib Dem defence spokesman;

Nicky Haslam, fashion designer;

Fran Healy, singer with pop group Travis;

Sharon Hehir, wife of Sgt Les Hehir, 34, died 2003;

Pauline Hickey, mother of Sgt Chris Hickey, 30, died 2005;

Mark Hunter, Lib Dem MP;

Armando Iannucci, satirist, writer and producer

Bianca Jagger, human rights campaigner;

Boris Johnson, Conservative MP

Carol Jones, mother of Sgt John Jones, died 2005;

Sajjad Karim, Lib Dem MEP

Reg Keys, father of L/Cpl Thomas Keys, 20, died 2003;

Peter Kilfoyle, Labour MP and former armed forces minister;

George and Ann Lawrence, parents of Lt Marc Lawrence, 26, died 2003;

Robert Lawrence, Falklands war veteran;

Elfyn Llwyd, Plaid Cymru MP;

Janet Lowrie, secretary for Military Families Against the War;

Nell McAndrew, model;

John McDonald, Labour MP;

Kevin McDonald, Representative of the South Atlantic Medal Association;

Natasha McLellan, partner of Matthew Bacon, died 2005;

Tony McNally, author and Falklands veteran;

Humfrey Malins, Conservative MP;

Mike Mattrass, UKIP MEP;

Michael Meacher, Labour MP;

Patrick Mercer, Conservative MP and former soldier;

Michael Moore, Lib Dem MP;

Ernie Morton, father of current serving member of the Parachute Regiment;

Craig Murray, former British ambassador to Uzbekistan;

Mark Oaten, Lib Dem MP;

Lembit Opik, Lib Dem MP;

Richard Ottaway, Conservative MP and Formal Naval Officer;

Lucy Pinder, Forces pin-up model;

Harold Pinter, Nobel laureate and playwright;

Adam Price, Plaid Cymru MP and defence spokesman;

Mark Pritchard, Conservative MP;

Tracy, Tony and Mair

Pritchard, wife and parents of Cpl Dewi Pritchard, 32, died 2003;

John Pugh, Lib Dem MP;

Bob Russell, Lib Dem MP and Parliamentary advisor to the Royal British Legion;

Jack Russell, artist

Alex Salmond, Scottish National Party leader;

Richard Shepherd, Conservative MP;

Clare Short, Independent MP;

Alan Simpson, Labour MP;

Arthur Smith, comedian;

Sue Smith, mother of Pte Philip Hewett, 21, died 2005;

Dr Bob Spink, Conservative MP and former RAF officer;

Sir Tom Stoppard, playwright

Andrew Stunell, Lib Dem MP;

Janet Suzman, actress;

Claire Sweeney, singer and TV personality;

Peter Tatchell, human rights activist;

Mark Thomas, comedian;

Emma Thompson, actress;

Chris Waddle, former England footballer;

Ben Wallace, Conservative MP and former soldier;

Julie Walters, actress;

Robert Walter, Conservative MP;

John Whittaker, Lib Dem MEP;

Charles Wood, Tumbledown scriptwriter;

Tony Woodley, General Secretary of the T&GWU

Susannah York, actress

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday

'You can't change the world by wearing sandals' Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary
takes a pop at politicians, environmental headbangers and anyone else you care
to mention. Alice Thomson reports

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1251 words


MICHAEL O'Leary is not happy. It is easy to see why the Ryanair boss might be
upset.

This week airline chief executives have become the new villains. They stand
accused of forcing polar bears to wobble on one leg on their sinking icebergs.

Global warming is all their fault, according to politicians and
environmentalists. Their cheap flights are devastating the ozone layer, turning
glaciers into swimming pools and threatening all human life with extinction.

They must be stopped at any cost. Gordon Brown and David Cameron have chained
themselves to the runways with their proposals for new taxes. No one will ever
be going on a hen night in Prague or on a mini-break to Disneyland again.

What will become of the vast Ryanair and its42 million passengers? Everyone from
Tony Blair to the Queen of Denmark has enjoyed their pay-as-you-fly peanuts and
warm wine. How will it cope now that every political party except UKIP seems
determined that the British stop flying and return to Bognor Regis and Blackpool
for their holidays?

"Oh please,'' says Mr O'Leary, as he paces the turf at Cheltenham racecourse. "I
am not sobbing over these politicians' mad, insane new policies. I am just cross
that my horses are doing so badly. One was last, one was second last. That's far
more important, don't you think?''

Mr O'Leary can't take this climate change one-up-man-ship seriously. "It's just
politicians pandering to the latest fashion. Gordon Brown wants us all to
believe that he spends his days mulching his compost with his children, David
Cameron's gone Dutch with his windmills and clogs. Neither of them really means
it. They know that changing a light bulb isn't going to make any difference but
a picture of them changing a light bulb will be a nice, cosy image.'' He is
convinced that the number of Ryanair passengers will double in the next five
years. "And so it should. People deserve their holidays. And we need visitors to
fly to Britain as well, or the economy will be in the toilet.''

He blames Gordon Brown. "The Chancellor is probably the biggest polluter given
that the Government is responsible for most of the power stations in this
country. After that it's drivers, they are responsible for 25 per cent of CO2
emissions. But Labour is already facing a huge rebellion on road taxing so now
they're moving on to planes.''

Politicians, he believes, are just pandering to these bean eaters. "What annoys
me is that the only ones who seem to be targeted are airlines. If the
politicians read their own Stern Report they would see that air travel causes
less than two per cent of greenhouse emissions. It is neither the cause of or
solution to climate change.''

So why are airlines being picked on? "The airlines are run by a bunch of
puddings who are terrified of taking on the environmental headbangers.''

Maybe he could suggest that passengers plant a tree. "All the bloody tree
planting in the world isn't going to make up for our emissions. We have to think
of bigger ideas.''

Like a tax on flying. "Mr Brown's proposals won't stop people flying, petrol tax
doesn't stop us driving. They are all stealth taxes. The Chancellor is just
lying when he says these new taxes are environmental.'' Mr Brown is not even a
light shade of khaki, said Mr O'Leary.

The Irishman owns a large farm in Ireland where he says his farting horses and
cattle produce a lot of hot air. He never changes his children's nappies so he
doesn't know if they are eco-friendly. He is not about to convert his light
bulbs, but he considers himself far greener than the Chancellor.

"I came to Cheltenham on Ryanair with 188 other Irish passengers. The plane was
full. I never take helicopters, don't trust the things, terrified of them. But I
am always seeing politicians whirling around in them. And Mr Brown rushes round
his constituency in an SUV with a fleet of secret service cars at weekends,
creating more emissions than me. There should be a tax on the Chancellor.''

Nor does he think much of the media. "The BBC runs green week, ITV runs greener
week, Sky runs even greener week, Channel 4 runs even bloody greener week and
each time they use a picture of aeroplanes taking off.''

What about marine transport? "That accounts for five per cent of greenhouse
gases. I don't see pictures of ferries chugging out from ports.''

Nor is he a fan of trains. "Trains are one of the most inefficient forms of
transport. They are incredibly over-subsidised and they don't service people's
needs. The trains were fine in Victorian times when if you didn't have a stable
you walked, but no one needs to use them now.''

So what would he do if he were Chancellor? "It's the Russians, the Chinese and
the Indians we have to influence. They keep opening more and more coal and
oil-fired power stations. Soon it won't matter how many lights we turn off or
how many bicycles we ride or how many flights we make, the damage will have been
done on the other side of the world by a billion people who have only just
discovered the delights of turning on lights.''

He compares the environment campaigners to the "CND nutters'' in the 1970s.
"They banged on about being against nuclear war, well we all were. But the point
is you can't change the world by putting on a pair of dungarees or sandals. You
need to look at the real culprits and begin negotiations with them.''

So that's it. No wormeries, no recycling, no non-disposable nappies or organic
porridge. "I listen to all this drivel about turning down the central heating,
going back to candles, returning to the dark ages. You do that if you want to.
But none of it will make any difference. It just panders to your middle-class,
middle-aged angst and guilt.''

Despite Mr O'Leary's protestations, he still claims his airline is the greenest
in Europe. He says the company has reduced its carbon emissions per passenger by
50 per cent in five years by spending euro10 billion on a fleet of new Boeing
737-800s and by packing in the passengers on all its flights.

Does he actually believe in global warming? "I don't think the advice of a bunch
of UN scientists should be taken as gospel truth. Human breathing is one of the
biggest problems as far as I can see, so why don't the environmentalists just
shoot all the humans.''

It's the hypocrisy that riles him. "These hairy environmentalists go to the
health store to buy their organic strawberries flown in from South Africa. Why
aren't they whacking a huge tax on bananas and grapes from half way round the
world? Why don't they eat British turnips all winter if they want to save air
flights. Because they can't live without their scallops from Chile.''

What about Mr Cameron? "If I were them I would stop competing over who is better
at riding a bicycle and call for a serious debate on the next generation of
nuclear power stations. Sticking a windmill on top of your house is not the
answer.''

There is a fundamental deceit at the heart of the debate this week, according to
Mr O'Leary. "It is a lie that taxing flights will make any difference to polar
bears or icebergs, it is just another way of stealing things from hard-pressed
consumers. It's like parking tickets and congestion charging.''

He is determined that he will find a way to keep people flying. "We will go from
40 to 80 million passengers in the next few years. We will take them off British
Airways and the other old carriers who are flying gas-guzzling, ancient aircraft
and pack them into fuel-efficient planes. So Ryanair will be saving the
environment - not that we care much.'

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 15, 2007

Phillips review calls for state funding for political parties

LENGTH: 1060 words



HIGHLIGHT: Publishing his long awaited report into party funding, Sir Hayden
Phillips admitted that there were still major obstacles in the way of getting
Labour and the Tories to agree to his suggestions.


A radical overhaul of the way British politics is financed was proposed today,
with caps on donations to parties, limits on election spending and up to 25m
state funding a year for political parties.

But the long-awaited report by Sir Hayden Phillips admits that there are still
major obstacles in the way of getting the three big parties - especially Labour
and the Conservatives - to agree to the suggestions.

The report, commissioned by Tony Blair in the wake of the cash-for-honours
allegations last year, specifies a 50,000 donation cap and around 20m-25m a year
of taxpayers' money to help fund political parties.

Sir Hayden admits that it will be hard to get consensus between the parties -
with Labour reliant on large union donations and the Tories keen on heavy
spending on individual target constituencies through the life of a parliament -
but he concludes that he is now "more optimistic than when I began".

"The status quo is not acceptable," Sir Hayden said. "The public wants reform.
The system needs reform. The parties know that reform is necessary. Obstacles do
remain, but they are not insoluble."

Sir Hayden, a former civil servant, floats the idea of a 50,000 limit on
donations from individuals and organisations - a potential body-blow to Labour,
which is largely financed by multimillion-pound donations from affiliated
unions.

However, the report then appears to fudge this by adding that this need not deny
Labour access to its union funding so long as the money is regarded as being
made up of the individual donations of many members, which may be regarded as
individual gifts.

But he stressed that this would be acceptable only if a transparent way were to
be agreed of linking each gift to each individual donor.

This could involve union members being asked to sign forms confirming that they
wanted their contribution to the union's political fund to go to a particular
party.

The caps on donations would only apply to political parties who had at least two
elected representatives at Westminster or in the devolved or European
parliaments.

This would exclude the BNP but include parties such as Ukip and the Greens.

The 30-page report also recommends that Labour and the Conservatives should cut
their campaign expenditure over the course of a full parliament by about 20m
each, to prevent a repeat of the 2005 general election when the main parties
between them spent 90m in a year.

It finds that the current system presents a "ready loophole" by allowing parties
to spend unlimited amounts in key constituencies in between elections. Spending
limits currently only kick in retrospectively for the 12-month lead up to a
general election.

It instead calls for "continuous" spending limits throughout the lifetime of a
parliament.

In a complex formula to give state aid to parties, which would give a major
boost to smaller parties from the Greens to the BNP, the report suggests that
funding should be linked to general election votes in order to establish that
fringe or new parties have a "base of support in the community".

It recommends that eligible parties should receive 50p each year for every vote
cast for them in the most recent general election and 25p for every vote in the
most recent ballots for the Scottish parliament, Welsh assembly and European
parliament.

In addition, Sir Hayden suggests an internet-based system for parties to attract
subscribing "supporters", who would pay 5 which would be matched by the same
amount from public funds - up to a cap of 5m.

In return for such public funding - which would replace the small policy grants
currently available to parties - political parties would have to produce an
annual report showing how the money had been spent.

Sir Hayden calls for much greater policing powers for the current Electoral
Commission, acknowledging that ensuring there are not multiple donations
tallying more than 50k from one benefactor will prove difficult.

Similarly tricky, the report states, is the current "grey area" of support in
kind - for example, staff paid by others but volunteering for political parties.

He also recommends keeping the ban on political advertising, and the use of free
political election broadcasts for parties.

In a statement, Mr Blair welcomed Sir Hayden's report and said that it "shows
very clearly that there is now the basis for a new agreement on the funding and
expenditure of political parties".

Mr Blair said that he hoped consensus could be reached in talks between Labour,
the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats set to take place before parliament
breaks for the summer.

He has asked Sir Hayden to chair the talks, which are intended to pave the way
for legislation in the next parliamentary session.

The prime minister added: "The time has come for us to find a new settlement on
party funding and expenditure."

However, the Labour party chairwoman, Hazel Blears, poured cold water on the
suggestion of any end of the link between the party and the trade unions.

She told the World at One that the report needed "a lot more consideration" and
it raised some "very big issues".

Francis Maude, the Conservative chairman, gave the report a cautious welcome,
saying that his party accepted its "main" recommendations, but adding: "The ball
is now firmly in Labour's court to reform and clarify its relationship with the
trade unions."

And Mr Maude said that any cap on constituency spending must "not be set at a
level which gives an unfair advantage to sitting MPs, who now have tens of
thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money in parliamentary allowances to spend in
their constituencies".

He added: "We want cleaner and cheaper politics. And we believe that all
political parties should work together to achieve this.

Alan Beith, the Lib Dem chair of the constitutional affairs select committee,
said: "I welcome the fact that this independent report very closely follows the
unanimous conclusions of my Committee: that change is needed, that more
taxpayers' money should only go to the parties if it is part of a reform package
that ends the influence of the big paymasters and that there should be agreed
and binding caps on all donations and spending."

The report reveals that only Ukip, which in the past has been bankrolled by a
small number of extremely wealthy individuals, such as the Yorkshire millionaire
Eurosceptic Paul Sykes, objected to any cap on donations.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               23 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 13, 2007, Tuesday

Voters do care, but they prefer the carrot to the stick

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words


Gordon Brown's carrot may amount to a shrewder reading of public opinion than
David Cameron's stick. Voters are now green in principle, but only ambiguously
so in practice. Most want to save the planet, but are dubious about paying
higher taxes.

There is no distinct green vote. Voters cannot be so easily segmented. Most of
us have several, often conflicting, identities and interests. Of course, a small
minority of voters care so passionately that they back the Green Party, about 4
per cent or so according to recent polls (more, incidentally, than support the
UK Independence Party or the British National Party). In general, however,
greenery is more a matter of attitude than of partisan affiliation.

Mr Cameron is correct that British voters are now concerned about climate
change, and he has skilfully identified with that mood. According to YouGov, 85
per cent of the public think that global warming is taking place and almost as
many believe that, unless action is taken, global warming will accelerate.

Voters think of themselves as green. A Populus poll for The Times in November
showed that four fifths claim to boil only as much water as needed and to switch
off the television by using the off button, and two thirds say they buy only
low-energy light bulbs. These claims are way ahead of the reality.

Once you move from rhetoric to detail, however, voters become more sceptical.

Despite a bias in favour of appearing green, the public is split 53 to 45 per
cent on being willing to pay significantly higher petrol prices, car tax and air
fares as part of efforts to cut back carbon emissions.

According to Populus, seven in ten say that introducing new green taxes on
petrol and airline tickets would only be acceptable if other taxes were cut.

As Peter Kellner, of YouGov, has argued on The First Post website, people like
low-cost proposals and ones that punish other people; they do not see why the
British should act, and pay more, unless big polluters around the world also cut
emissions; and we do not trust politicians to use the money from raising green
taxes to reduce other, direct taxes.

They fear that the overall tax burden would rise: hence the public hostility to
the recent rise in air passenger duty.

That is why the Liberal Democrats' package last September was presented as
tax-neutral overall with large rises in direct taxes balanced by cuts in direct
taxes.

The Tories have so far been bolder in their commitment to action, notably with
their weekend proposals for taxing frequent fliers. The party has promised that
the tax burden will not rise, but spokesmen have not yet said which taxes will
be cut.

Conservative supporters are, however, more sceptical than those of other parties
about measures to tackle climate change. Some senior Tories question the extent
of the threat.

Mr Brown has avoided such pitfalls with his plans to extend insulation and to
phase out high-energy light bulbs. While Mr Cameron has so far taken the risks,
the challenge for the Government is show whether their incentives, and today's
draft Climate Change Bill, are tough and specific enough to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions by 60 per cent by 2050.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

ELECTION HOPEFUL DROPPED BY PARTY FOR SAUNA TREATS

BYLINE: by STEPHEN WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 308 words


A POLITICAL hopeful who has admitted using prostitutes has been struck off his
party's list for the May 3 elections.

John Houston, 56, was set to stand for the UK Independence Party in East
Kilbride.

But yesterday, after he admitted to using vice-girls in saunas himself as "a wee
treat", the party removed his candidacy.

Twice-married Houston, who lives alone, said: "I have visited saunas. I've been
to ones in the Glasgow area between 12 and 15 times.

"It's something I do every so often as a wee treat for myself, it's not
something I'm ashamed of."

Houston said that hiring vice girls was the only way he could "relieve sexual
tension".

It is the second time UKIP has been forced to distance itself from Houston.

In 2005 he was suspended as a Westminster election candidate after the Daily
Star revealed he backed free sauna sex for civil servants and camps for 'ugly
people' in an outrageous manifesto.

Houston works in a hotel and runs a small publishing firm. He said: "It's not
for me to tell people what to do. For 30 years I was a hash smoker, right from
my hippy days in the late 1960s. Now, did I tell people they should smoke hash?

No."

In 2005, Houston's bizarre policies also included proposing to kill some mental
patients and use them for their organs as well as have shops opened to sell
drugs such as crack cocaine.

He said then: "Different types of community should be permitted to appear. Some
people will want exclusive communities.

"These could be people with a common language or even those with facial
disfigurements."

He added: "Those who are criminally insane should have their lives ended. Their
organs should be made available.

"Cannabis should be on sale on an equal footing with tobacco and alcohol. Other
drugs may have to be obtained from a specialist."

"Brothels should be available to men and women, heterosexual or homosexual."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESELECTED: Houston

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 12, 2007 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

ELECTION HOPEFUL DROPPED BY PARTY FOR SAUNA TREATS

BYLINE: by STEPHEN WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 308 words


A POLITICAL hopeful who has admitted using prostitutes has been struck off his
party's list for the May 3 elections.

John Houston, 56, was set to stand for the UK Independence Party in East
Kilbride.

But yesterday, after he admitted to using vice-girls in saunas himself as "a wee
treat", the party removed his candidacy.

Twice-married Houston, who lives alone, said: "I have visited saunas. I've been
to ones in the Glasgow area between 12 and 15 times.

"It's something I do every so often as a wee treat for myself, it's not
something I'm ashamed of."

Houston said that hiring vice girls was the only way he could "relieve sexual
tension".

It is the second time UKIP has been forced to distance itself from Houston.

In 2005 he was suspended as a Westminster election candidate after the Daily
Star revealed he backed free sauna sex for civil servants and camps for 'ugly
people' in an outrageous manifesto.

Houston works in a hotel and runs a small publishing firm. He said: "It's not
for me to tell people what to do. For 30 years I was a hash smoker, right from
my hippy days in the late 1960s. Now, did I tell people they should smoke hash?

No."

In 2005, Houston's bizarre policies also included proposing to kill some mental
patients and use them for their organs as well as have shops opened to sell
drugs such as crack cocaine.

He said then: "Different types of community should be permitted to appear. Some
people will want exclusive communities.

"These could be people with a common language or even those with facial
disfigurements."

He added: "Those who are criminally insane should have their lives ended. Their
organs should be made available.

"Cannabis should be on sale on an equal footing with tobacco and alcohol. Other
drugs may have to be obtained from a specialist."

"Brothels should be available to men and women, heterosexual or homosexual."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESELECTED: Houston

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 11, 2007 Sunday

MAKING PLANS WITH NIGEL Ukip's laddish leader is on a mission to transform his
party into a major and lasting political force. First, though, he has to
overcome his internal critics, a court case, an expenses probe, a suspicious
wife and, er, make it out of the pub.

BYLINE: Robert Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1768 words


Re-load!'' bellows Nigel Farage, slamming his empty pint glass down on the
polished wood of the bar. It is twenty past one on a Friday afternoon and the
leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party is, it would seem, up for it.

Mr Farage is apparently enjoying The Sunday Telegraph's company. Earlier, for
our photographer, he had posed with some relish for 30 minutes in front of
Buckingham Palace. We had then repaired to Ukip's spartan office near St James's
Park, where, during a 90-minute interview, coffee came served in a Conservative
Party mug. After that, Mr Farage suggested we move on to the Two Chairmen, a pub
in Westminster, where we are now firmly ensconced with soon-to-be refilled pints
of Young's Best Bitter. We will emerge, unsteadily, to the fading light of early
evening.

Mr Farage, it seems fair to say, is a bit of a lad. He worked in the City in the
1980s, and still carries the air of the cocky young man he must have been back
then: a trading floor swagger, a bullish attitude to his own pleasures, an
appetite for naughtiness. He likes a drink, and has been known to visit
lap-dancing bars. Though on his second marriage, last year he was the subject of
a kiss 'n' tell in the News of the World. In the six months he has led Ukip,
however, not all of the publicity has been this good.

In fact, given recent events, it is surprising to find Mr Farage in such
cheerful spirits. It has surely been something of a month from hell for the MEP.
First, there was the revelation by this newspaper that Ukip was being
investigated by the Electoral Commission for filing its accounts seven months
late and what the watchdog described as a "number of separate issues''.

Next followed news that the commission was taking legal action to confiscate
nearly pounds 400,000 donated by the party's biggest benefactor, a former bookie
called Alan Bown.

And then it emerged that one of Ukip's MEPs, Tom Wise, was under investigation
by the European Parliament for misuse of his expenses, including the suggestion
he had used them to buy himself a new car. To cap it all, last weekend a senior
Ukip official was outed as donor to the BNP.

Still, there seems no sign of panic from Mr Farage. Impeccably pin-striped, he
puffs on a Rothmans and takes another sip of Young's.

"Professionalism'' is the word he repeats again and again during our
conversation. The 42-year-old former City metals trader says he is determined to
transform Ukip from an amateurish pressure group into a credible political force
that will win seats in Westminster.

To this end, he has recruited David Campbell Bannerman, a former chairman of the
Right-leaning think-tank the Bow Group, to cook up new policies and take the
party beyond its single-issue, anti-Europe stance. A former management
consultant has been appointed to run the party's campaigns. Since Mr Farage
inherited the leadership, party membership has risen from 15,500 to 18,100,
although that number remains well below the peak of 26,000 two years ago. Ukip
received a fillip recently when two Tory peers, as well as the right-of-centre
economist Tim Congdon, announced their public support.

Despite this, election results have yet to live up to the hype. At a by-election
in Croydon earlier this year Ukip won just 40 votes. Another near Coventry last
month brought the party just one vote - quite an achievement, considering that a
candidate needs at least 10 backers to get his name on the ballot paper.

Mr Farage, relentlessly chipper, sees only good times ahead. "We are
increasingly perceived to be an opposition party and not just a single-issue
party,'' he says. "I judge that by the number of BBC local radio stations that
want Ukip commentators on.''

He says he has attracted many hard-working professionals to the party. "I've
tried to professionalise it. The image of Ukip before was of protesters with
banners, that we are nay-sayers... against everything. I want to get out there
and tell people what we're for.''

A pressing concern is to get out there and win seats in by-elections, council
elections and - most immediately - the elections for the Welsh Assembly on May
3, in which he bullishly predicts the party will take two seats. Westminster is
not the priority, yet.

While pursuing his political dreams, Mr Farage must also focus on the
accusations currently being made against his party. The most embarrassing of
these centres on the pounds 367,000 given to Ukip in a series of donations by Mr
Bown.

Under law, any individual who gives a donation to a political party must be on
the electoral roll. However, for over a year between 2004 and early 2006, Mr
Bown dropped off the roll.

The commission wrote repeatedly to Ukip last year, ordering the money to be
repaid to its source, but the party failed to comply. The commission has now
launched legal action to recover the money and hand it not to Mr Bown, but to
the Government.

"They're kicking the smallest kid in the playground,'' grumbles Mr Farage, who
has pledged to see the commission in court. Why hasn't the commission become
embroiled in the cash-for-honours situation, he asks? Or taken action against
the Liberal Democrats over the jailing of their largest donor, Michael Brown?
(For the record, the watchdog says it has only suspended its inquiries into both
these issues, pending the outcome of police investigations.)

Anyway, Mr Farage boasts that he has attracted a wealthy new donor who will bail
Ukip out if the case against the commission is lost. "We're covered on this,''
he says.

Alas, the picture is not so rosy for the future of Tom Wise, the Ukip MEP
currently under investigation by Olaf, the European Parliament's anti-fraud
unit. Olaf's investigation centres on how he spent his annual expenses of pounds
125,000 a year.

Mr Farage insists he was not told that there was an Olaf investigation until
January. But so concerned is he by insinuations that the expenses of other Ukip
MEPs are being misused that he has arranged a meeting with Roger Vanhaeren, the
European Parliament's director-general of finance, on Wednesday. Mr Farage says
that if Mr Vanhaeren finds anything suspect, it will be corrected straight away.
"We might be guilty over the years of having been a bit amateur, but we are not
crooked people,'' he insists.

But is Mr Farage even safe in his job as party leader? Most of the recent
damaging publicity was generated by tip-offs from a phalanx of disgruntled
current and former Ukip members. The party has always been plagued by
infighting, but over the past month The Sunday Telegraph has been inundated with
unsolicited emails, phone calls and letters from disaffected Ukip members keen
to dish dirt on its current leadership.

Many of these correspondents were once senior officials within the party -
treasurers, party secretaries or members of Ukip's governing body, the National
Executive Committee (NEC). They strongly oppose the way the leader is running
things. In a resignation letter last month one senior official wrote: "I have no
respect for the abuse of power involved when leadership employs autocratic
control as the tool of domination.

"If the UK Independence Party does not uphold the principle of democracy at all
times what point is there in condemning the EU as an undemocratic organisation?
Such hypocrisy is normally the practice of dictators and I will not support what
has become a pressure group run by a dictator.''

Mr Farage, though, has no time for such criticism. "Ever since I've been in Ukip
I've come up against people who do not grasp what you need to do to turn this
from a pressure group into a proper political party,'' he says. "And if saying
that offends them and if they're jealous as hell and can't stand me, so be it.''

There do seem to be an awful lot of these people, but he believes that his
mission to "professionalise'' the party will inevitably mean the exclusion of
some of the older members. "Frankly, I'm very happy to have these people outside
the tent,'' he says. "Can we get the type of quality people to make the thing
truly credible? That's what I'm trying to do.''

But how credible is Mr Farage's own claim to professionalism? He is undoubtedly
an excellent public speaker, but there seem to be constant questions about his
behaviour. What about the insinuations that he enjoys a drink more than most?
One journalist wrote of a lengthy night out in Brussels in which she was
defeated by Farage's capacity for gin and tonic, wine and armagnac. "I have to
be honest - I thought it was a normal evening out,'' crows the MEP. "Look, I
tend to start work early, I don't lunch, and when it gets to half six, seven
o'clock it's time to go for a drink.''

Does he have an alcohol problem? "I don't think so - it's all about balance,''
he says. "I'll say this - when I went for my medical my doctor said my blood
levels are absolutely fine, and that I have the cholesterol levels of an Olympic
athlete. Don't ask me why.''

Mr Farage talks frequently of "having fun'' as Ukip's leader. The impression is
that he wants to be thought of as a loveable rascal, who works hard and plays
hard. But does he always stay within the rules?

Not entirely. Back in 2000, as head of Ukip's south-east office, Mr Farage sold
copies of a documentary made by the BBC about his campaign for the 1999 European
elections. Despite four months of filming the show was not aired in the UK. Mr
Farage asked for a video of the programme and then asked a friend to make
copies, which were sold for pounds 5 through Ukip's in-house magazine. The
production company that made the film was furious and Surrey Trading Standards
were called in. Mr Farage admits he did wrong, although he insists the Trading
Standards official who investigated the complaint did so in an underhand way.

Behaviour lacking in decorum for a senior politician, perhaps? "Look, Nigel is
Ukip's biggest asset and its biggest liability,'' says one of his fiercest
critics within the party. "There's more to leading a party than just giving
pretty speeches.''

In the Two Chairmen, ensconced next to the bar, Mr Farage is great
entertainment. Anecdotes and yarns pour from his mouth: the first-class
cricketers he's drunk with, those heavy City "lunches'' during the Thatcher
years, the time he turned down a safe seat by the Tories. "I was approached
cleverly through a mutual friend before the last election,'' he says.

He will not be swayed from his mission to make Ukip a lasting, significant
electoral force, he insists. With that in mind, after five pints, he announces a
little sadly that he must move on to halves. After all, he says, "I've got a
speech to make tonight.''

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 11, 2007 Sunday 5:20 PM GMT

A rant about Al

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 173 words


I went out for coffee this morning, opened the paper and, as the Americans say,
nearly tossed my cookies. Because of this.

Al Gore and his disciples are wrong on climate change

David Cameron's flirtation with Al Gore, who has overtaken Michael Moore as the
most sanctimonious lardbutt Yank on the planet, is truly appalling. I've spent a
lot of time in America hanging out with Democrats, and they're worse than Labour
supporters. Especially the finger-wagging disciples of Al Gore.

This blog is supposed to be about religion. Well, Gore is a religious leader: of
a cult that uses questionable statistics to produce infantile dogma about
climate change. And, as we now know, Al himself is a major energy-guzzler, even
if he does use "rainwater to flush lavatories" in his mansion. (Is there enough
rainwater in the world, I wonder?)

Rant over. Except to say that, if Cameron keeps sucking up to Al, I'm voting
Labour, or Ukip, or anything. (Except BNP or Lib Dem, obviously.)

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 10, 2007, Saturday

The UKIP leader, the Latvian lover and the lap-dance club

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Alice Miles

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1820 words


Nigel Farage and his UK Independence Party are seen as the wacky Right. But how
loudly can Cameron's Conservatives afford to laugh?

The last time that Nigel Farage visited a lap-dancing club was "during the last
French presidential election campaign, with one of the candidates". When he told
us this we were not sure, for a moment, whether he was joking.

It turned out that he was not, it was just a typically candid and recklessly
off-message remark, which may not do much for Anglo-French relations either.
But, like the UK Independence Party that Mr Farage leads, it can be quite hard
to tell whether he is serious or not.

This is the question that mainstream British politicians -David Cameron in
particular -have to answer too. Is Mr Farage the threat to Mr Cameron that he
would have us believe, or is he just a leader made to look good by a rag-tag
bunch of eccentrics? Is UKIP finished now that the Europe issue has faded, or is
the bland sameyness of what now passes for national debate among the main
political parties its greatest opportunity?

Certainly, UKIP recently picked up two Conservative-minded peers, but it still
has a talent for squandering its success. The 12 MEPs whom it won largely as a
result of a publicity boost from the neon-skinned daytime TV host Robert
Kilroy-Silk have dwindled to nine: Mr Kilroy-Silk split from the party
acrimoniously (two others went under a cloud). The party is also facing a court
battle with the Electoral Commission that could easily bankrupt it. Mr Farage's
reaction to all this? He is never happier than when casting himself and his
party as the plucky David to the state (and status quo) Goliath.

"I think you can't put a cigarette paper between Labour and the Conservatives on
most of the big issues," he said. "So the Tories are obsessively worried about
us because of this drift towards us. They think we could cost them the next
election."

If Mr Farage hopes to appeal to disillusioned Tories, he makes a good decoy
duck.

He was a Tory, briefly, when he was a stockbroker in the early 1980s, having
decided to "go out and make money", and anyone nostalgic for that era will find
their man here. He has the kind of flash charisma often found on the right: a
rogue's charm, an impeccable suit, a trilby hat over a fierce side-parting and
the almost obligatory minor sex scandal to boot. But more of the hanky spanky
with Liga the 25-year-old Latvian later.

This, along with an admiration for Baroness Thatcher's legacy, makes him
attractive to the kind of people that we used to think of as typical
Conservatives: even stalwarts such as the free-market economist Tim Congdon, or
activists such as William Hague's former constituency chairman, have defected.
He claims, a little improbably, that some members of the Conservative front
bench, in the Commons as well as the Lords, have confided to him that they
actually voted UKIP at the European elections.

"There is this split within the parliamentary party, but the real split -and
this is what they are terrified of and they damn well should be terrified of
-the real split is between the official party position and what their own
membership think.

"And this is very interesting. The Tory branches, the local council candidates,
the real workers in the party -impossible to give you a percentage, but if I
said to you that 80 per cent of them would agree with UKIP I don't think I'd be
far wrong. This is a real problem for them."

The election of David Cameron, who dismissed UKIP members as "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists", has left the field clear for Mr Farage on the Right
(well, for him and the British National Party). Unsurprisingly, he has strong
views on the Conservative leader.

"I liked him because he's a smoker, you see, which is a very good thing," Mr
Farage said first. (This may have given Mr Cameron added incentive to give up).

"He's a very likeable bloke. Pleasant. But he doesn't actually believe in
anything. I don't think he believes in anything. Is he in politics because he's
got some great driving, burning ambition, because he believes in something? No,
of course he doesn't. It's about rank and becoming prime minister. Which if we
were an independent country would matter enormously."

The Tory high command is so afraid of him, Mr Farage insists, that there is "a
very concerted attempt to have a go at us. It hasn't happened before, that's the
point. The tactic before with UKIP -from the Conservatives particularly -was
just to ignore them."

He thinks that Conservative Central Office is targeting him, and cites an effort
by Tory MPs around the country recently to publicise the case of a man who
claimed that he had been dumped as a UKIP candidate for a winnable local
election seat when the party found out that he was disabled. "They've decided to
turn very nasty."

This doesn't sound more than normal political battle tactics, we suggested.
"Well to me, perhaps I'm naive, but to me the disabled thing was pretty nasty...

Maybe this is part of the growing-up process for us. It's an unusual time now.

Maybe this is part of us having to grow up and that it is difficult going."

He insisted that the story "simply isn't true", yet ten days ago Mr Farage was
quoted as saying: "He could not be a mainline candidate if he physically could
not do the job. I could run down the street but I couldn't make an Olympic
athlete."

For a man with the appearance of plain-speaking it can be quite hard to get to
the bottom of things. (Reminding us, for instance, of Liga the Latvian.

But more of that, as we said, later).

Mr Farage has been highly effective in Strasbourg, blowing the whistle on
several cases of corruption that became Europe-wide scandals. But now the threat
of the euro or the EU constitution lies dormant, he has riskily decided to focus
more on domestic politics, where UKIP has long fared badly. His political
inspiration is from Thatcher -not, he insists, the Tories.

"Thatcher was not an old-fashioned Tory -she was an aberration. I think the more
I read about the history of the Tory party or politics, you realise that
Thatcher actually wasn't Conservative at all, she was a radical economic
liberal."

And that is how he would describe himself: "Absolutely. I don't think I'm a
Conservative at all."

A work in progress, their manifesto so far includes the "unashamed" return of
grammar schools, less progressive taxes, and strict border controls to stem the
tide of Eastern Europeans.

"Let's have a work-permit system. Absolutely fine. Got no problem with that. But
not complete open rights of settlement, plus your extended family if you wish. I
mean I know this is an area that a lot of people don't like talking about. But I
think we are right on this."

He said that, since he took over six months ago, he had purged his unruly party
of anyone veering towards the BNP or any kind of racist agenda, leaving it
politically united, "and if we've got one or two eccentrics who wear hats, I
mean so what?".

More immediately, he faces the prospect of going bankrupt: the Electoral
Commission is taking UKIP to court over its refusal to pay to the Treasury £
367,697 received from Alan Bown, a British bookmaker, because he wasn't
technically on the electoral register at the time.

Mr Farage can hardly wait: "I'm looking forward to it. I think the contrast of
the State, the bureaucrats, the weasels, on the one hand and honest Alan on the
other is going to be wonderful. And I do actually think that we still have a
great sense in this country of fair play, of giving the underdog a chance. And
this is clearly some form of victimisation."

The members of the Electoral Commission (does it remind him of the European
Commission?) are "the most utterly useless group of people: just appalling
people, disgraceful people, horrid people". They had let the Liberal Democrats
keep £ 2.4 million from a man based abroad who was now in prison, they were
silent on Labour's cash-for-honours affair, but he said that they had thrown the
book at UKIP over what was a small administrative error.

Politics is personal for Mr Farage. If Mr Cameron has to have a wind turbine on
his roof and bicycle outside his front door, Mr Farage indulges as many vices as
he can as an "Up yours, Delors" to the po-faced rule-makers (their quirks, like
EU-banned bendy bananas, ironed out).

"I like a pint after work," is the way he puts it, but as anyone who knows him
will tell you, that is putting it mildly. He briefly gave up smoking, "but when
the Government announced the ban, of course, I started again" (he is not
entirely joking). He is as candid about his transgressions as a mainstream
politician would be paranoid and secretive.

Well, not quite candid perhaps. For there was this Latvian woman called Liga who
kissed and told on Mr Farage to the News of the World a year ago. As the
newspaper described the alleged event, his "European UNION" was a marathon night
during which he "begged her to get MaaSTRICHT with him".

For the first time, Mr Farage looked a little embarrassed. "OK, I've got to
defend myself on that...That particular situation happened because I had too
much to drink. Just as simple as that. Not clever."

And, as he had insisted to the News of the World and his wife, he had fallen
asleep at her house and she had invented all the rest? "Unbelievable," he
agreed.

Mmm.

He squirmed, but to his credit he remained polite, despite our unfair
intrusiveness -and he still managed a bit of humour. Where was she now, we
asked.

Had she gone back to Latvia? "No," he said with a rueful laugh, "because they
can all come and live here now, can't they?"

But if Mr Cameron were to talk cheerfully about visits to lap-dancing clubs in
his past he would not survive in politics. "Perhaps I won't. I don't know. Maybe
we're living in such an incredibly, ludicrously, politically correct world that
perhaps we all have to visit with that sort of standard package. I hope not."

Whether Mr Farage is individual or narcissist, visionary or idiot, the
Conservative Party must hope that he does not turn out to be a dangerous joke.

THE ROAD THAT LED TO TANKS ON DAVID CAMERON'S LAWN

Born April 3, 1964

Education Dulwich College

Family: Second wife is German. He has four children, aged 1 to 18

Previous career: commodity broker, ran own brokerage business from early 1990s
to 2002

Political career: left Tories when John Major signed Maastricht Treaty. Founding
member of UKIP in 1993

1999: Elected as MEP

2004: Re-elected as MEP for South-East England, became leader of the UKIP's
group in Brussels

2005: Clashed with Tony Blair when the Prime Minister gave his last address of
British Presidency to European Parliament

2006: Parked an armoured personnel carrier outside the Conservative Party's
spring conference, to signify the party was "parking its tank" on David
Cameron's lawn.

Won the UKIP leadership election

Hobbies: keen sea angler and shot, and a supporter of real ale. Visits First
World War battlefields

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              March 9, 2007 Friday

Voters set to propel Paisley and McGuinness towards Stormont power-sharing;
Democratic Unionists and Sinn Fein lead the field in North's election

BYLINE: GRAHAM BARDGETT

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 823 words


THE prospect of Ian Paisley and Martin McGuinness sharing power in the North
moved a step closer last night as the first results were declared in the
Stormont Assembly elections.

The Democratic Unionists and Sinn FEin were emerging last night as the strongest
parties in the contest.

Results will continue to be counted in the proportional representation election
as transfers are made once a candidate has reached a quota and therefore
elected.

That makes it more likely that the former enemies will reach a power sharing
agreement by the deadline of March 26.

Under party plans, Rev. Paisley would become First Minister, with Mr McGuinness
as his deputy.

Sinn FEin leader Gerry Adams, who topped the poll in West Belfast, said the DUP
should abide by the results.

He said those who voted did so to see the North's institutions working and
'those against that have their answer, it seems, in fairly overwhelming terms'.

DUP leader Dr Paisley, who topped the poll in North Antrim, said Sinn FEin had
to 'turn from their evil ways'.

The SDLP's Dr Alasdair McDonnell was returned in South Belfast and Naomi Long of
Alliance was elected in East Belfast.

In East Antrim the area's MP, Sammy Wilson, topped the poll for the DUP with
6,755 first preference votes.

Almost 250 candidates were standing in 18 constituencies.

The Irish and British governments hope the outcome will lead to an agreement on
power-sharing and the restoration of devolved government to Stormont. A
power-sharing executive is due to be formed on March 26.

In North Belfast the DUP's Nigel Dodds topped the poll with 6,973 votes and Sinn
FEin policing spokesman Gerry Kelly was elected in the second spot with 5,414
votes.

In the same constituency the father of a UVF murder victim received 1,320 first-
preference votes.

Raymond McCord Snr said he stood in the election because he felt dismayed about
how unionist politicians responded to an independent report into police
collusion with loyalists behind a dozen murders in the area.

The Northern Ireland Assembly has been suspended since October 2002, amid
allegations of an IRA spy ring at Stormont.

A subsequent court case collapsed. Direct rule from Westminster has been in
place since that date.

After the initial results, Foreign Affairs Minister Dermot Ahern, speaking at
the end of the first day of the European Union summit meeting in Brussels, said:
'There can be no going back.

'We can now only go forward and that will involve a transformation of the whole
scene.

'We have had a clear signal from the people that they want the politicians to
get on with it.' He added that he was very pleased that the results were a
strong validation of those who supported the St Andrews Agreement after
attending a brief, informal meeting with UK premier Tony Blair which took place
in the margin of the Summit discussions about Europe's energy policy future.

But he warned there would be a 'lot of work and hard bargaining' in the next few
days as the parties prepare to submit their nominations to Northern Ireland
Secretary Peter Hain.

'There's no doubt that the Sinn FEin have done very well.' Bertie Ahern and Mr
Blair will have further exchanges at breakfast this morning.

In the poll as a whole, there were 46 DUP candidates, 38 Ulster Unionist, 37
Sinn FEin, 35 SDLP and 18 Alliance candidates across the constituencies.

Counting continues today.

There were also 13 UKUP candidates who include the party leader standing in six
different constituencies 13 Green Party, nine Conservative and six Workers Party
candidates.

The Make Politicians History Party fielded the same candidate in the four
Belfast constituencies, whilst the Progressive Unionist Party was running three
candidates and there were two for the Socialist Party.

There was one candidate each for the following parties: Labour, People Before
Profit, Pro-capitalism, Social Environmental Alliance and UKIP. There were 26
independent candidates. Six Republican Sinn FEin candidates were treated by the
Electoral Office as independents, because they were not registered as a
political party.

. In the opening EU Summit discussions, German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged EU
leaders to set the pace in global efforts to tackle climate change with
ambitious-targets, regardless of costs to business, in an effort to cut
greenhouse gas emissions blamed for global warming by 20 per cent by Finance
Minister Brian Cowen was confident the EU would make a collective agreement
today in which all 27 member countries will sign up to this strategy even though
there are considerable variations in the energy 'mix' of each 2020.

nation. 'But there was a strong view in the meeting that the EU needs to have a
credible and collective position on greenhouse emissions and that meant the
targets proposed by the EU's current German presidency should be binding on all
members.

'The EU has to take a leadership role,' said the Minister.

'The Union has to be in the forefront of emissions control.'

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WIN: PAISLEY KISSES HIS WIFE EILEEN AFTER TOPPING THE ANTRIM NORTH POLL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 9, 2007 Friday 11:48 PM GMT

The complexities of racism

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 583 words


If the Patrick Mercer rowteaches us anything, it is that the definition of
racism has changed.

TheMercer row has raised a few questions about racism

Being racist is no longer simply a question of acting prejudicially against
someone because of his colour: everyone seems to agree that Mr Mercer is not a
racist in this sense. Nor, it seems, is it necessary to say hurtful things
yourself. What counts is context. Try a little thought experiment. Which of the
following statements do you consider racist?

"A migrant a minute is entering Britain" "I don't find Britain an unusually
racist country". "Free speech for England"

All of them have been denounced as inflammatory. But, in each case, this seems
to have had as much to do with who was talking as with what he was saying. The
first comes from a newspaper advertisement placed by Speak Out, a campaign
directed by the patriotic Yorkshireman, Paul Sykes. He has identified seven
areas where he thinks power should be returned from Brussels to Westminster. One
of those areas is immigration and borders.

The Daily Mail and The Daily Express refused to carry the advertisement, arguing
that it was potentially racist and might offend readers. Look at the imageand
make your own mind up. The language strikes me as pretty moderate compared to
what those newspapers often print. Indeed, on the very day that the advert was
meant to have run, the Daily Mail carried this story about immigration, which
includes the words "flooding" and "soaring".

The second comment was made by my brilliant colleague Janet Daley on Radio 4's
Moral Maze. In a discussion about prejudice, she said that, as an immigrant
herself, she had found Britain less racist than a lot of countries. Her remarks
were later quoted in a BBC committee meeting as an example of the kind of
sentiments that "ought not to be allowed to be broadcast" by the Corporation.

The third was scrawled on a condemned wall by a UKIP-supporting pensioner, who
was promptly charged with "racially aggravated criminal damage". Perhaps the
coppers had had it so drummed into them that "free speech can never be an excuse
for racism" that the two things had become conflated in their minds, and calling
for the first was taken as proof of the second.

You will notice that, in all three cases, the speaker was Right-of-Centre. Had
the same words been uttered by, say, a Lib-Dem MEP, it's hard to imagine that
anyone would have made a fuss. Context, you see.

Of the three, I find the first to be the strangest. Speak Out's campaign is not
for zero immigration, but for a return of immigration policy to Westminster.
There are different views on the merits of migration. I tend toward the
libertarian, free market position; Speak Out probably has something more
restrictive in mind. But we can surely agree that the issue ought to be
determined through our own democratic procedures.

I remember campaigning against Maastricht in Denmark on precisely these grounds.
Many Danes feared that the harmonisation of immigration policy would result in a
"fortress Europe", closed to newcomers; others feared that it would lead to open
borders. But both sides agreed that Danes themselves ought to determine who
settled on their territory, and in roughly what numbers.

It is bad enough that calling for immigration controls should be branded racist.
How much worse to anathematise even the idea that we should decide these things
through our own parliament.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 8, 2007

Counting begins in Northern Ireland elections

LENGTH: 205 words



HIGHLIGHT: Final results in the elections to the devolved assembly are unlikely
to be known until tomorrow.


Counting has begun across Northern Ireland to determine who has won the 108
seats of the new assembly.

Final results are unlikely to be known until sometime tomorrow.

The process is slow due to the subtleties in preference that can be expressed
through the single transferable vote system.

In some constituencies there are as many as 18 candidates; each time one is
eliminated his or her votes have to be redistributed.

Early indications suggested that turnout may not be too far off the 63% recorded
at the last assembly election in 2003.

Among groups bidding to gain their first seat in the Stormont assembly are the
Greens, the Conservatives, Ukip, the Workers party, an anti-water rates
candidate and the Make Politicians History party.

The province's main parties claimed that they were confident that they would
hold their seats.

The nationalist Social Democratic and Labour party said that it was hopeful of
gaining a foothold in the staunchly unionist constituency of Strangford.

The only opinion poll conducted during the campaign suggested that the
Democratic Unionist party would consolidate its position as the largest party,
with 25% of the vote.

Both the SDLP and the centre-ground Alliance party were predicted to make
advances.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               32 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 8, 2007 Thursday 1:14 AM GMT

The importance of having clean hands

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 553 words


We have to apply a higher standard, we Euro-sceptics.

It is one thing for the EU to look after its own: to bulldoze piles of cash at
its fonctionnaires, its MEPs, its collaborators in the national capitals. We
expect that. We even enjoy it: it vindicates our view that Brussels is a racket.

Nigel Farage UKIP leader wanted to act sooner but was opposed

But if you are elected to the European Parliament as a critic, you should try to
behave like one of Eliot Ness's Untouchables. You can't cut corners just because
everyone else does. And that is what makes the allegation against a UKIP MEP,
Tom Wise, so dispiriting. Wise is currently being investigated by the EU's
anti-fraud office, accused of claiming some 36,000 on behalf of a researcher and
trousering most of it himself.

He has not been found guity of anything and he may be cleared but the depressing
thing is that in the face of such serious allegations it took UKIP more than a
year to withdraw the Whip from him pending the outcome of the investigation.
Nigel Farage, the party leader, wanted to act sooner, but was opposed by a
number of his MEPs.

Why was UKIP, normally quick to denounce fraud, so slow to act when Tom Wise ,
or, as I am starting to think of him, Tom Fool , was accused? Probably because
its MEPs feel unfairly picked on.

They believe, with some justice, that they are treated more harshly than the
pro-EU parties. They recall the nasty episode during the last parliament when
some of them were penalised by the fees office for giving away their expenses.
It would have been alright if they had simply pocketed the money. It would even
have been acceptable to have given it away silently. What was not alright was to
give it away publicly.

This, as the European Parliament authorities saw, might bring pressure on other
MEPs to do the same thing. More recently, the Electoral Commission has brought
UKIP to the brink of bankruptcy by demanding that it forfeit a major donation on
what looks like a technicality.

The rules on political fundraising were intended to deter anonymous and foreign
donors. But, in this case, the contributor could hardly have been more open: he
just happened not to have registered to vote that year. UKIP supporters are
angrily asking why other party donors are not subjected to the same degree of
scrutiny.

Years of persecution have, naturally enough, engendered a persecution complex.
So now, whenever any allegations are made, the first instinct of UKIP members is
to lock shields, like legionaries in a testudo. Why, they demand, should we be
punished for doing things that other parties get away with?

Why are we being clobbered by an organisation that never disciplines its own
officials when they behave improperly? What right has the EU to criticise our
accounts when its own have been rejected by the auditors for 12 years in a row?
Why are we always being singled out?

Because, my friends, you were elected on an anti-Brussels ticket. And, when you
fail to act on fraud allegations, you don't just damage yourselves, you let down
the entire Euro-sceptic cause. I know it's unfair. I know the federalists get
away with ten times worse. But you , we , can't lower ourselves to their level.
Once we do that, we are lost.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday

EU'ignorance';
LETTERS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 111 words


ONE would have thought UKIP was in enough trouble lately without its members
displaying their ignorance of the EU (Letters).

It's wrong to say that the EU doesn't have two chambers or parliamentary
debates. It has a Council, composed of ministers from elected governments, and a
directly elected European Parliament to debate and approve EU legislation.

Nor do pro-EU MEPs get more speaking time than anti-EU MEPs.

As for it being 'a dismissable offence to utter words against the EU' in the
BBC, did UKIP members not notice the sympathetic coverage given to party leader
Nigel Farage on his recent visit to Romania?

RICHARD CORBETT,s MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, Leeds.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

A party facing in two directions at once;
LEADING ARTICLE;
EUROPE

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 585 words


The Conservatives have a modernising new leader, but the party continues to be
tormented by the same old divisions over the European Union. David Cameron was
in Brussels yesterday to make his first major speech on Europe. But it was an
address in which the Tory leader, rather bafflingly, seemed to point in two
directions at once.

The occasion was the first conference of the "Movement for European Reform", an
EU political party launched by the Tories last year. This is intended to be a
breakaway movement from the European People's Party, the main centre-right
grouping in the European Parliament. Mr Cameron claimed yesterday that he is
breaking with the EPP "to respond to the feeling of so many of our fellow
Europeans that it is time to chart a new course". Yet if that is true, why have
no other major European centre-right parties, with the sole exception of the
Czech Civic Democrats, signed up? Tory relations with the most powerful
centre-right politician in Europe, the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, are, in
fact, deeply strained because of what the Tories are doing.

Despite Mr Cameron's bluster, the Tories are pretty much on their own in wanting
to reconfigure the European party system. The only consequence of this break
will be their marginalisation in the European Parliament. Several Conservative
MEPs are understandably unhappy over the prospect of being consigned to the
wilderness in this fashion.

And yet, in the same speech yesterday, Mr Cameron demanded that Europe must
become more active over issues such as climate change, economic competitiveness
and global poverty. The Tory leader seems to want the EU to do more at the same
time as he is removing the ability of his party to influence the political
process in Brussels. Even the Tory party's foreign affairs spokesman, William
Hague, with all his verbal dexterity, could not adequately explain this
discrepancy yesterday.

The truth is that Mr Cameron is in a terrible muddle over Europe. He made a rash
promise to pull out of the EPP to win the votes of his zealously anti-European
colleagues in the Tory leadership contest just over a year ago. To break that
pledge now would destabilise his leadership. Yet Mr Cameron is also beginning to
recognise that any party that aspires to government must be ready to engage with
Europe.

It was encouraging to hear him state yesterday that he has no intention of
leading a Tory retreat from the EU. There are many in his party who secretly
favour complete withdrawal. Earlier this year, two Tory peers defected to the UK
Independence Party in protest at the Conservatives' lack of a "sufficiently
Eurosceptic policy". Such siren voices must be resisted.

It was also encouraging that the Tory leader yesterday declared his intention
"not to posture, but to persuade" in his dealing with the Continent. This will
make a refreshing change from the stance of his predecessors towards the EU.
Practical considerations appear to be at the heart of the change in tone.
Pan-European action on challenges such as climate change and economic
competitiveness is the only feasible way forward. The consequences of global
warming will not respect national borders. And Britain is part of the single
market, however ardently some might wish it otherwise. Our long-term economic
fortunes are increasingly dependent on a strong European economy.

To his credit, Mr Cameron seems to be coming to terms with these European facts
of life. The great question is whether he can persuade his party to do the same.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday

Fellow MEPs have been told how to get under the skin of UKIP leader Nigel Farage

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 62  words


FELLOW MEPs have been told how to get under the skin of UKIP leader Nigel
Farage.

Courtesy of a mischievous tip-off from a couple of Farage's old pals from
Dulwich College, colleagues have learnt that he was known as Fudge during his
time at the prestigious school.

"Apparently the mere mention of it makes poor old Nigel very sensitive indeed,"
says an uncharitable co-worker.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              March 5, 2007 Monday

Dear Sun

SECTION: LETTER

LENGTH: 35  words


UKIP bar a candidate with false knees as an "act of kindness", so he won't have
to leaflet, but I am sure Jack Biggs had friends willing to help. This is
discrimination of the highest order.

LIZ SMITH

Grantham, Lincs

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              March 5, 2007 Monday

UKIP chief in BNP link

LENGTH: 72  words


A SENIOR official of the UK Independence Party gave money to the far-Right BNP,
it emerged last night.

David Abbott, 63, who is on the anti-EU party's ruling committee, admitted he
gave more than £ 200 while living in the US. He also met BNP chief Nick Griffin.

But the GP last night insisted he was not a racist and was not familiar at the
time with the BNP's politics.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage admitted: "We are not thrilled with this."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             March 5, 2007, Monday

Visitors from Mars would be bemused by EU, says Cameron

BYLINE: Philip Webster & Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 695 words


* Tory leader wants new Euro debate

* Speech 'to halt UKIP defections'

David Cameron will pledge tomorrow to work with like-minded politicians to
create a new European Union - one that he thinks will work for Britain and the
world rather than immerse itself in distractions such as the constitution.

In one of his most important speeches since becoming Tory leader, Mr Cameron
will signal the start of a new engagement by his party with Europe, reforming it
from the inside so that it moves from uniformity to diversity and from being an
inward-facing bureaucracy to an outward-facing association of states. It would
be one which devotes its energies to matters such as global warming, world
poverty and creating a dynamic economy.

Along with Mirek Topolanek, the Czech Prime Minister and leader of the ODS
(civic democrats), Mr Cameron will speak at the first conference of the new
Movement for European Reform, founded last year when the Conservatives said they
would pull out of the European People's Party after the 2009 Euro elections and
start a new political grouping.The address will mark Mr Cameron's attempt to get
his party to start talking about Europe again but without becoming embroiled
with sovereignty.

An aide said: "We have not been able to speak about Europe much because in the
past we have always split over it. Now we want to be pointing the way towards
where Europe should be going and saying that we will change it."

The speech will be a clear signal that Mr Cameron will not take his party out of
Europe and also a message to supporters who are considering deserting to UKIP
that he will try to change the EU.

His speech comes before the signing of the Berlin declaration later this month,
reaffirming the principle of unity in Europe at the 50th anniversary of the
Treaty of Rome.

He will say: "This is a moment for us to reflect on where the EU is - and where
it needs to be." A visitor from Mars, witnessing the signing of the declaration,
would take a close look at the inner workings of the EU and observe earnest
discussions about reviving constitutions, transfers of competence, relative
voting weights and other distractions.

But the intelligent Martian would say the EU should be focusing on the economic
challenges of globalisation and the urgent need to reform European economies so
that it could maintain its prosperity. It should also concentrate on the
challenge of climate change and the need for swift action at all levels to slow
the rate of global warming. And it should be absorbed by the moral and security
challenge of global poverty.

"Every night, some hundreds of Africans board boats and rafts to sail to Europe.

They risk death at sea in order to work in menial jobs, illegally, far from
home, in an often hostile and alien culture. They do this because Africa is in a
wretched state.

"This demands action for its own sake, but for our sake too we have to address
the state of Africa if we are to preserve our security in the face of unstable
regimes to our south."

Tomorrow's meeting in Brussels will be attended by other leaders, academics,
business people and citizens. Mr Cameron will say he hopes it will mark a new
beginning for all countries and the beginning of a process that will
fundamentally change the EU.

He will say: "We want to work together with the peoples and parties of Europe
who share our vision, to create a new union, a new union based not on uniformity
and compulsion, but on diversity and voluntary co-operation of independent
nation states. That is the vision we are working towards."

Mr Cameron will say that his three priorities reinforce each other. "It is only
by responding to the challenges of global competition and by opening up our
economies to free trade that we will fight poverty in Africa. Ultimately it is
enterprise, not aid, that will save the developing world.

"In the same way, it is only by liberalising our economy that we will develop
the technologies for energy security, the innovations that will reduce our
dependence on foreign oil and gas. It is by finding sustainable ways of powering
industries that we will hand on a prosperous nation to our grandchildren."

William Rees-Mogg, page 19

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 55 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 4, 2007, Sunday

LAW AND BOREDOM;
 OUTLAW DRAMA CERT: 18

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 176 words

HIGHLIGHT: NASTY: Bean


IF you've not seen it, then pick up a copy of The Football Factory - it's a
really powerful film about football violence starring Danny Dyer and directed by
Nick Love. If you want to see Danny Dyer in another film about violence directed
by Nick Love, then don't bother. Because that film would be Outlaw, which is
horrible.

A group of people - with Sean Bean and Danny Dyer at the helm - feel let down by
the corrupt police and government's failure to control a violent gang running
roughshod over London, so they form their own posse of outlaws and take the law
into their own hands. If it sounds a bit simple, then sorry, I've not done it
justice - it's not just simple, it's also really thuggish and nasty.

It's like a propaganda film they'd show at UKIP meetings about crime and
lawlessness in cities.

I imagine the violence will put off anyone outside London from ever visiting.

Well, I can think of a better reason not to come to London in the next few weeks
- the fact that Outlaw will be playing at the cinemas.

Avoid.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.

                               40 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 4, 2007

UKIP covered up embezzler's trail

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 645 words


THE UK Independence party deliberately covered up the fact that one of its MEPs
embezzled tens of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money by pretending to be
someone else.

An internal inquiry into the practices of Tom Wise, its MEP for the east of
England, was silenced after the former senior policeman running it found
evidence of serious wrongdoing.

News of the inquiry's suppression comes after The Sunday Times reported last
week Wise had siphoned nearly £ 40,000 of public funds into his own account by
telling the European Union it was being paid direct to Lindsay Jenkins, his
researcher. In fact Wise had swapped his bank details for hers to ensure the
money went to him instead.

Last week, Wise, who is now being investigated by Olaf, the EU's anti-fraud
office, had the whip removed by his party after he admitted he had used £ 6,500
of the money to buy a car.

The party's decision led to a split in its MEPs. Several threatened to resign if
Wise was not suspended while others, including Roger Knapman, its former leader,
indicated they may walk away from UKIP for "abandoning" him to his fate.

The green Peugeot 406, which Wise still drives, was bought in January 2005. He
refuses to tell the party how he spent another £ 13,000 of the embezzled cash.

The party has frequently accused the EU of being rife with corruption and
criticised other parties' MEPs for enjoying the "gravy train". But last year it
ordered an internal inquiry into Wise after the European parliament became aware
he was claiming £ 36,000 a year for Jenkins, whom he had arranged to pay just £
500 a month.

To avoid fraud, EU rules state that assistants' salaries, which can be claimed
through MEPs' allowances, must be paid direct or via a party "agent". Instead,
Wise had channelled the money into his own account by pretending it belonged to
Jenkins.

But the internal inquiry was stopped by Knapman, then leader, before it could
report fully to UKIP's national executive.

It is understood one of the report's authors, Trevor Colman, a former police
superintendent, was "very disappointed" Knapman failed to act on his findings.

Nigel Farage, the party's current leader, said: "The report we had on Wise last
year went so far and effectively didn't go any further. I feel we didn't deal
thoroughly enough with this at the time. It was something I always thought was
going to come back. We did not have full disclosure."

Another source said: "It's a total bloody mess. Roger said last year the
parliament had cleared Tom but that is not the case, they just handed the matter
to Olaf.

"Until Friday morning no one knew there was an Olaf investigation. Nigel
absolutely reeled. We didn't know about the car Tom had bought. That changed
everyone's opinion overnight.

"We are saying the European audit office loses £ 2m a day through fraud ...

and to find one of your own doing it, how bad do you think that makes us feel?"

Godfrey Bloom, a party MEP, said he had threatened to resign unless Wise was
suspended after hearing he had bought a car with some of the embezzled funds.

"We are not the same as other parties who let these things go on and on and I
don't want to be part of that sort of thing, I am very angry," he said.

Knapman declined to comment. Before suspension, Wise had threatened to expose
matters he felt UKIP would rather not have scrutinised. A source said: "The
impression is that some within UKIP don't want to antagonise Wise too much in
case he decides to accuse other party bigwigs of doing things they shouldn't
have."

It has also emerged that for nearly a year Farage has employed his German wife
Kirsten as his personal assistant. She is paid £ 2,200 a month to act as
Farage's secretary from their home in Kent.

Farage, who employs three other staff with his EU allowance, said his wife had
replaced a personal assistant. "I need significant secretarial help at home," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 4, 2007

Dr David Abbott, a member of UKIP's national executive, made two donations to
the British National party (BNP)

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 67 words


Dr David Abbott, a member of UKIP's national executive, made two donations to
the British National party (BNP), it has emerged. Abbott gave $200 (£ 103) to
the BNP's American arm three years ago while living in the US. He has also met
Nick Griffin, the party's leader, at two fundraising functions. Abbott said that
at the time he was unfamiliar with the BNP's politics and is "absolutely not a
racist".

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              March 4, 2007 Sunday

Ukip is my voice

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 55 words


Alan Carcas, clearly a keen Conservative, implies that, for the likes of
Eurosceptics like me, it would be "sheer lunacy to vote...Ukip'' (Letters,
February 25). I should have thought that a much better definition of madness
would be to vote for a party that has said it will never give me what I want.

Hugh Williams

Crapstone, Devon

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

PEOPLE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words


FORMER Dollar star DAVID VAN DAY is under pressure to step down as a Tory
council candidate after claims he made homophobic jokes. He told a charity
dinner in Brighton the invited gay choir would "bend over backwards for
anybody". He added that he did not want to be "behind them at the time". Gay
leaders are outraged, but Van Day, 50, said: "It's sad that some people are so
sensitive."

AM I the only person in Northern Ireland experiencing problems after filling up
with fuel? I purchase my fuel weekly at a supermarket petrol station in
Craigavon. I've had problems these past few weeks, shrugging and stalling whilst
driving. I've enquired at three different garages what could be causing this and
all they asked was I using "cheap" petrol. I don't keep receipts for my fuel, so
if I do need repairs done, who pays up? Me or the supplier?

Angry driver, Craigavon

GREAT column from Newton Emerson on 'grown-up' politics. the sooner we all grow
up and marginalise the unionist and nationalist parties the better.

Chris, Belfast

REAL politics? Bring on the United Kingdom Independence Party!

Reader, Belfast

AM disgusted at Newton Emerson's line: "If NIO education chiefs were any dimber
they couldn't get a place in any secondary school." I think he should print a
full retraction/ apology for such a demeaning, prejudiced and ill-informed
statement about non-grammar schools and the Daily Mirror should be ashamed of
itself for allowing this to go through. I've met Newton with my secondary school
students at Stormont and they actually liked him. I just hope they didn't read
his column.

Reader

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              March 2, 2007 Friday

Trouble at Mills

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 211 words


IT IS alleged that my support of UKIP is incompatible with my company's policy
of employing Polish workers.

There's a great difference between utilising the benefits of licensed and
controlled foreign labour, a long and proud British tradition, and mass
migration, which is the consequence of surrendering sovereignty to Brussels.

Labour predicted an influx of 13,000 and then, when pressed, retorted that it
has 'no idea' how many are arriving.

Yet authoritative sources estimate the true levels of immigration in just the
past two years to be at least 600,000 and possibly as high as one million - more
than the total that came to Britain in the preceding 20 years.

This doesn't entirely address the question of why I am employing foreigners
instead of local people.

The answer is because the welfare state, Blair's benefit system and Brown's job
schemes, have corrupted the indigenous workforce to the point where few will
commit to traditional, fulltime jobs.

I believe the percentage of employable Britons not in proper jobs is 24 per
cent.

Honest toil is one thing; withstanding temptation as great as this is another
altogether.

Meanwhile, far from being angered, most UKIP members understand and support my
position.

BRUCE ROBERTSON, Trago Mills Group, Liskeard, Cornwall.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 2, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

One man and his dogged bid to derail EU 'gravy train';
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 251 words


A champion of country pursuits, the former One Man and His Dog presenter Robin
Page almost came to fists with the hated rural affairs minister Alun Michael in
2002. Page told Michael that he was "nothing but a little political shit" and
threatened to "deck" him, adding later: "I don't know why we didn't lynch the
man on the spot."

Page, pictured, tells Pandora that he's now making a tilt at a spot on the
benches of the European Parliament, where he wants to sit with the UK
Independence Party, our Brussels-based version of the Addams Family. Ukip is
currently in the process of devouring itself: one of its MEPs, Tom Wise, is in a
spot of bother with the EU's anti-fraud office, which is investigating claims
that he wrongly received £40,000 in payments for an assistant. One paper claimed
that £6,500 went towards a green Peugeot 406.

Ukip suspended Wise, then yesterday reinstated him after senior members
threatened to walk out. Bosses sit down on Monday to decide whether or not to
(politically) assassinate him. Page has plans on Wise's seat. Page came just
behind Wise in the 2004 Euro elections in East Anglia and, were Wise to leave
his MEP position early for any reason, would inherit his job.

"Wise was elected to derail the EU gravy train and now he's dripping with
gravy," Page tells me. "He should go. I want his seat.

"I would be a very disruptive MEP. I represent the peasant classes and these
MEPs need to realise they're part of an undemocratic, unwanted institution.

"Politics is such fun!"

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              March 2, 2007 Friday

He's my fresh-faced favourite

BYLINE: Fergus Shanahan

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 194  words


THE bookies have David Miliband at 10-1 to beat Gordon Brown for the Labour
leadership. I've had a tenner that it's Dave v Dave.

It's a long shot, but you can smell the fear at Labour HQ as it dawns on them
that Brown is as popular as dysentery on a cruise liner.

Eight weeks from now there could be an earthquake at the polls. On May 3, 312
English local authorities are up for election.

If Labour get wiped out, the "anyone but Gordon" campaign may become unstoppable
as 200 Labour MPs on small majorities face defeat at the next general election.

But it may be bad for Dave Cameron too. Reclaiming traditional Tory councils in
the leafy Home Counties won't be good enough. If the Conservatives can't win big
in crime- ridden inner cities, he will never reach No10. Tory seats are under
threat from UKIP, the anti-Europe party, and Labour risk losing votes to the
nasty BNP because of the immigration shambles.

Either way, the idea that the Tories are home and dry at the General Election
because Dave would slaughter Gordon in the personality stakes is wide of the
mark.

Would fresh-faced Dave Miliband make a difference to Labour's chances? We may be
about to find out.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 2, 2007 Friday 5:21 PM GMT

The UK Implosion Party?

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 343 words


Nobody does an implosion like the UK Independence Party.

Nigel Farage puts a brave face on things

Fresh from the first whiff of a possible revival, the anti-Brussels party is now
doing its best to disappear down the plughole.

Only yesterday came allegations  hotly denied by the party  of discrimination
against a disabled election candidate.

Before that, we heard that Ukip is facing unprecedented legal action over
360,000 of allegedly "impermissible" donations.

But now I hear that Ukip is skating dangerously close to a financial meltdown in
Brussels  one that could end up costing it 400,000 a year in useful European
subsidies.

Despite its impeccably anti-EU credentials, the party's 10 Euro-MPs receive
substantial funds from the European Parliament by virtue of being part of the
larger Independence/Democracy Group.

But not for much longer, if threatening words from Roger Knapman yesterday are
to mean anything.

Mr Knapman, the ex-party leader, is hopping mad that fellow Euro-MP Tom Wise has
been suspended by the party in Brussels.

Mr Wise is under investigation by something called Olaf, the bizarrely-named
anti-fraud unit in Brussels over apparent irregularities in how he paid an
assistant.

But in what for him was a barnstorming performance on BBC Radio 4 today, Roger
lambasted new leader Nigel Farage and party chairman John Whittaker for
suspending Mr Wise before he was found guilty.

After all, a previous European Parliament probe found no evidence that Mr Wise
had tried to benefit personally from the affair.

Now Mr Knapman is hinting that he and three other Ukip Euro-MPs might walk out
of the ID group.

That would probably cost Ukip about 400,000 a year in lost subsidy because the
IND would no longer be big enough to constitute a grouping.

Add to that Mr Knapman's blistering dismissal of his successor and you've got
civil war.

Mr Farage, said the previous leader yesterday on the World at One, "is very,
very good on the television.

"I just wish he could be as good off it."

Ouch!

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             March 2, 2007, Friday

Ballot Paper Tiger

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 591 words


The manner in which ballot papers are counted after an election might appear a
rather arcane matter over which to have an argument. Yet, as the citizens of
Florida, looking back at the events of November and December 2000 could testify,
this is more than a procedural question. It is certainly one on which the
opinions of experts should be solicited and should have sufficient weight to be
respected.

As we report today, though, the Electoral Commission here plainly lacks that
authority. It is further evidence that the body charged with the oversight of
political parties, elections and referendums has become hopelessly ineffective.

The Government is enthusiastic about modernising elections in Britain, not least
to stimulate more people to participate. It has encouraged councils to put
forward ideas for pilot projects at their local elections. By statute, the
commission is required to report on the desirability of these specific
proposals. It is for ministers at the Department for Constitutional Affairs to
decide whether to allow the proposed experimentation. They can reject the advice
offered -as happened on postal ballot rules four years ago -but at their
supposed peril.

Last December, the commission set out its assessment of the plans by seven
councils to test electronic counting in this May's ballots. To say that it was
unimpressed would be an understatement. It asserted that "none of the proposals
contain sufficient information to enable us to come to a positive conclusion"
about their merits. It was concerned about a "lack of certainty" as to who would
supply the counting equipment. The schemes showed "little appreciation" of what
returning officers, the Government and the commission itself would want to learn
from the exercise. There were also, worryingly, "risks to the important
principle of the secrecy of the ballot paper". These efforts were, in any case,
unnecessary, as the election for the Scottish Parliament will feature an
electronic counting system that has been carefully prepared for the purpose.

Two months later, ministers announced that five of the seven councils would be
permitted to proceed anyway. They declared that the commission had been "fully
consulted and involved in the selection process". A more honest statement would
have been "fully consulted and completely ignored in the selection process".

To a considerable extent, what occurred is a reflection of institutional
arrogance in Whitehall. It is also, unfortunately, a reflection of institutional
irrelevance at the commission. The news that it had been overruled was buried in
a quiet corner of its website, and it raised no objection or protest about the
outcome. It had the capacity to make the Department for Constit- utional Affairs
squirm, but it opted for silence.

This has become a pattern, as the Review of the Electoral Commission published
by the Committee on Standards in Public Life contended in January. The Electoral
Commission was accused of "lacking the leadership, knowledge or courage to
enforce its regulatory duties". It seems content to impose serious sanctions on
the easy political small fry such as UKIP for a minor and mistaken breach of
rules on donations, but to absolve the Liberal Democrats of any responsibility
for accepting £ 2.4 million from a man then based abroad and now resident in a
British prison cell. It is even more deferential to the two largest parties,
undermining its reputation and authority. Those who want a better political
process should start by creating a better Electoral Commission.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

Ukip hit by bias claim at 'ban' on disabled ex-soldier

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 467 words


THE UK Independence Party was accused yesterday of discriminating against a
disabled man by banning him from fighting a target seat.

Jack Biggs, 65, who has had both knees replaced, was told by his local Ukip
association that he could only be a "paper candidate'' for the party in the May
3 local elections because of his disability.

Mr Biggs, a holder of the British Empire Medal, will now stand as an independent
against Ukip in Weymouth, Dorset. "I am appalled at the way I have been
treated,'' said the ex-serviceman.

Ukip responded last night by accusing Mr Biggs of trying to "blackmail'' the
party to stop it fielding a candidate against his daughter, who is a local
councillor.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, made no apology for telling Mr Biggs that he
could not be a priority candidate. "I could run down the street but I couldn't
make an Olympic athlete,'' he said. "This man couldn't do the job just as other
people can't do it because they are busy.''

But he denied categorically that Ukip was discriminating against Mr Biggs simply
because of his disability. "That is ludicrous. We have had lots of disabled
candidates in the past. We have had blind candidates and others,'' Mr Farage
told The Daily Telegraph.

Ukip also released an email from Mr Biggs in which he threatened the party with
publicity if it did not drop plans to stand against his daughter.

"I have been (in) special forces,'' it read. "I am a very good friend but a very
bad enemy. If you stay on track, ignoring me, but trying to unseat my Ukip
-minded daughter, I will take the story for the (Dorset) Echo.

"This is not a threat but a promise. This anti-disability bit by Ukip will also
probably go national in the press.''

The row is the latest blow to the anti-Brussels party's hopes of a revival.

Last week, the Telegraph revealed that it faces unprecedented court action by
election watchdogs to confiscate more than pounds 360,000 of allegedly
"impermissible'' donations.

At the weekend, it emerged that Tom Wise, one of the party's 10 Euro-MPs, was
facing an EU inquiry over staff salary irregularities. Mr Wise was suspended by
the Ukip group in Brussels yesterday for failing to warn party chiefs that he
was under investigation.

Yesterday's suspension was condemned by former Ukip leader Roger Knapman amid
rumours that four of the party's Euro-MPs could now quit the group at Brussels.

Mr Knapman said: "A number of us who are very concerned about this and will be
meeting over the next few days to see what we shall do.''

The Sunday Telegraph reported in 2005 that Mr Wise had been claiming pounds
3,000 a month for a researcher but paying her only a fraction of that. He
subsequently repaid money to the parliament. A parliamentary inquiry found no
evidence that Mr Wise had sought to benefit personally from the arrangement.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

America puts EU to shame;
LETTERS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 235 words


THE U.S. has a parliament, called the House of Representatives, where affairs
affecting both the Union and individual States are discussed by politicians
elected by the people.

In the EU (Letters), decisions are taken by unnamed and unelected bureaucrats.
Pro-EU MEPs are allowed a maximum four minutes' speech time in the parliamentary
chamber to congratulate the bureaucrats on the wisdom of their rules and
regulations.

MEPs who aren't EU propagandists are allowed only two minutes to speak.

Their microphones are turned off and they are barracked in case their words are
heard.

The U.S. has an upper chamber, called the Senate, where decisions of the lower
chamber are ratified or returned to the lower chamber for amendment or
rejection. As the EU doesn't have parliamentary debates and decisions, there's
no need for another chamber.

The U.S. has freedom of speech and of the Press, where Congressional decisions
can be criticised. The EU has neither: at the BBC, for instance, it's a
dismissable offence to utter words against the EU. A Danish journalist was
jailed for reporting that auditors hadn't passed the EU accounts yet again
(truthfully).

So, when I look to the U.S., I feel admiration. I go nuts only when I remember
that the American system is based on the system we used to have in Britain - a
system I and my fellow Ukippers are fighting to restore.

PAT GASKELL, UKIP South Sefton, Bootle, Merseyside.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Fourth Edition

Ukip bars disabled candidate from prime seat

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words


The UK Independence Party has been accused of discrimination after it barred a
man from standing as a candidate in a winnable council seat because he is
disabled.

The party claimed that it had been an act of "kindness" to stop Jack Biggs from
having to canvass for votes when he has had a double knee transplant. Mr Biggs
was offered the chance to be a "paper" candidate, a term usually applied to
candidates whose names are on the ballot paper in unwinnable seats.

In a letter to Mr Biggs, the local Ukip chairman, Vicki Sharp, said: "In view of
your being registered disabled you will not be able to stand as a full candidate
for Ukip. We would, however, like you to be a paper candidate."

A furious Mr Biggs retorted: "I am appalled at the way I have been treated. The
councillors around here are a bunch of muppets and I don't want to be part of
the muppet show, I want to be part of Ukip. I was promised help and support but
then I received a letter telling me they would not accept me as a candidate
because of my disability."

Ukip hit back last night by accusing Mr Biggs of a "crude attempt to blackmail"
Ukip into withdrawing a candidate running against his daughter, who is standing
for re-election as an independent councillor.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said Mr Biggs knew he could not canvass the ward
thoroughly. "He said himself, he used the word 'useless' about himself as a
candidate, he called himself a useless candidate," Mr Farage claimed.

"He was trying to get us to say that he couldn't be a target candidate and to
use that, and to try and blackmail the party into not standing against his
daughter, who was a current serving councillor. I don't think he has behaved
very honourably."

In a further blow to the party's reputation yesterday, one of its 10 MEPs, Tom
Wise, was suspended from membership pending an investigation into his
secretarial allowances by the European Anti-Fraud Office.

Party's woes

ILLEGAL DONATION

Ukip broke the law by accepting £367,697 from someone who was not on the
electoral register

MEP SUSPENDED

Tom Wise investigated over secretarial expenses

MEP EXPELLED

Ashley Mote expelled over allegations of housing benefit fraud

MEP QUIT

Robert Kilroy Silk, elected as an MEP in 2004, quit Ukip after a few months

IN-FIGHTING

Officers of the Plymouth branch quit in January saying party had lost direction

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             March 1, 2007 Thursday

UKIP's elbow to man with no knees

LENGTH: 142  words


A MAN claimed yesterday the UK Independence Party dumped him as a candidate as
he has FALSE KNEES.

Jack Biggs, 65, who was registered disabled for two years after a double knee
replacement, branded the decision "disgusting". But UKIP insists it is an "act
of kindness" so he won't have to canvass and deliver leaflets.

Mr Biggs, 65, of Weymouth, Dorset, said: "When UKIP found out I'm registered
disabled they wrote withdrawing their support. It's outrageous.

"I'm not in a wheelchair and I can drive around and speak to people."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "He could not be a mainline candidate if he
physically could not do the job. I could run down the street but I couldn't make
an Olympic athlete."

UKIP MEP Tom Wise has been suspended pending a probe by EU anti-fraud watchdog
OLAF. The party also faces having to repay £ 300,000 in flawed donations.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 1, 2007, Thursday

UKIP in disarray after MEP is suspended over fraud allegation

BYLINE: David Charter Europe Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 497 words


The UK Independence Party's troubles deepened yesterday as it suspended one of
its MEPs after allegations that he had embezzled European funds. Two other MEPs
who were upset by the decision then threatened to leave the party.

Tom Wise, MEP for the East of England, had the party whip withdrawn after
failing to tell Nigel Farage, leader of the party, that the EU anti-fraud office
was investigating claims that he had wrongly received up to £ 40,000 in payments
for an assistant.

Mr Farage suspended Mr Wise after first learning of the official fraud inquiry
from the latest edition of The Sunday Times. The MEP had known since the start
of the month.

The newspaper claimed that he spent £ 6,500 on a dark green Peugeot 406.

Mr Wise's suspension, decided at a heated party meeting in Brussels, was
challenged by Roger Knapman, the former leader, and Mike Nattrass, MEP for the
West Midlands, who threatened to consider their own future in the party, The
Times understands.

The split among MEPs added further to UKIP's problems after the Electoral
Commission ordered it to forfeit £ 367,697 last month because the donor did not
appear on the electoral register.

Mr Knapman and Mr Nattrass are understood to have told Mr Farage that they will
let him know next week whether they will continue under his leadership. The
suspension of Mr Wise leaves UKIP with nine serving MEPs, down from the twelve
who won seats at the 2004 European elections when the party received 16.8 per
cent of the vote.

Robert Kilroy-Silk left UKIP in 2005 to set up his own party, Veritas, and then
resigned from that to be an Independent. UKIP has also parted company with
Ashley Mote, MEP for the South East, who allied himself to the far-right
Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty Group in the European Parliament.

Mr Wise is alleged to have pretended that his own bank account was that of his
researcher, Lindsay Jenkins, against EU rules. From November 2004 until October
2005 he is alleged to have channelled £ 39,100 into it, from which he paid Ms
Jenkins £ 13,555.

When the allegations surfaced, Mr Wise began repaying £ 25,530. An official
inquiry was formally begun last month and may delve into UKIP accounts.

It is understood that Mr Wise admitted at yesterday's meeting that he used some
of the money to buy a car.

UKIP said that the suspension was not a prejudgment and that Mr Wise would be
welcomed back if cleared. Mr Farage said: "I think there is a great deal of
public sympathy for us."

PARTY POLITICS

* The UK Independence Party was formed in 1993 at the London School of Economics
by members of the Anti-Federalist League

* In 1999 won three seats in the European Parliament with 7 per cent of the vote

* In 2004 Robert Kilroy-Silk joined. The party won 12 seats in the European
election with 16.8 per cent of vote. In 2005 Mr Kilroy-Silk resigned after
failing to become leader

* The party contested 497 seats at the 2005 election

* It got its first foothold in Parliament this year when two peers defected

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 1, 2007, Thursday

Disabled candidate dropped

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 137 words


UKIP was accused yesterday of discriminating against a disabled man who was told
that he could not be a candidate in a target seat because he was a wheelchair
user (David Charter writes).

Jack Biggs, 65, was told by the party's South Dorset constituency association
that he could be a "paper candidate" only -meaning that he would be chosen to
contest a seat viewed as unwinnable.

Nigel Farage, the party leader, denied discrimination, accusing Mr Biggs of
trying to blackmail the party into withdrawing a candidate standing against his
daughter.

He said that Mr Biggs was unsuitable because he could not do the work in the
ward.

He added: "I could run down the street but I couldn't make an Olympic athlete
... He was able to stand. He wasn't able to stand as a target candidate because
he wasn't able to go out and do the work."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            March 1, 2007, Thursday

UKIP troubles grow as it suspends MEP over fraud inquiry

BYLINE: David Charter Europe Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 443 words


* £ 40,000 research claim investigated

* Crisis follows donation furore

The UK Independence Party's troubles deepened yesterday as it suspended one of
its MEPs after allegations that he had embezzled European funds and then faced a
walkout from two other MEPs who were upset by the decision.

Tom Wise, MEP for the East of England, had the party whip withdrawn after
failing to tell Nigel Farage, the party leader, that the EU anti-fraud office
was investigating claims that he had wrongly received up to £ 40,000 in payments
for an assistant.

Mr Wise's suspension, decided at a heated party meeting in Brussels, was
challenged by Roger Knapman, the former leader, and Mike Nattrass, the MEP for
the West Midlands, who threatened to consider their own future in the
Eurosceptic party, The Times understands.

The split among MEPs added further to UKIP's problems after the Electoral
Commission ordered it to forfeit £ 367,697 last month because the donor did not
appear on the electoral register.

Mr Knapman and Mr Nattrass are understood to have told Mr Farage that they will
let him know next week whether they will continue under his leadership. The
suspension of Mr Wise leaves UKIP with nine serving MEPs, down from the 12 who
won seats at the 2004 European elections when the party received 16.8 per cent
of the vote, the second-highest share behind the Conservatives and ahead of
Labour.

Since then UKIP has seen the departure of Robert Kilroy-Silk, who left in 2005
to set up his own party, Veritas, and then resigned from that to be an
Independent.

It has also parted company with Ashley Mote, MEP for the South East, who
recently allied himself to the far-Right Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty
Group in the European Parliament.

The financial and personnel crises have come just when the party was making some
progress, announcing the defection of two peers this year to give it its first
representation at Westminster.

Mr Farage suspended Mr Wise after first learning of the official fraud inquiry
in last week's Sunday Times, which the MEP had known about since the start of
the month.

Mr Wise is alleged to have pretended that his own bank account was actually that
of Lindsay Jenkins, his researcher, against EU rules. From November 2004 until
October 2005 he is alleged to have channelled £ 39,100 into his own account,
from which he paid Ms Jenkins £ 13,555.

When the allegations surfaced, Mr Wise began repaying £ 25,530. But it did not
head off an official inquiry, which was formally begun last month and may delve
further into UKIP accounts.

UKIP said that the suspension was not a prejudgment of Mr Wise and that he would
be welcomed back if cleared.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
