
                               1 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday

EU will be sorry

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 84

LENGTH: 136 words


ITS interesting to observe that with the exception of UKIP members, the majority
of UK representatives in the EU regularly defend Brussels decisions.

And MPs who have their personal interests to look after tend to concur. If the
EU is such a success, surely there would be no requirement in having to defend
the continual directives.

As a result of the way the latest EU Treaty has been signed by an out-going
Prime Minister, there has been a public demand for a referendum. Additional EU
legislation continues to eradicateUK independence and increase EU interference.

Our country was always proud to be independent, but thanks to a handful of
successive UK politicians who are always eventually voted out of office, it is
the people of this once great countrywho have to suffer the consequences.

HARRY LAWRIE, Kirkcaldy.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday

BYLINE: CHARLES SALE

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 53 words


BRITAIN'S former Davis Cup player Buster Mottram, who has always had strong
views about tennis and politics, is hoping to be adopted as the Eastbourne
parliamentary candidate for the UK Independence Party. Mottram has a house in
the area and has spoken at a number of party meetings supporting their
anti-Europe policy.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 38 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 26, 2007

Once again in Tory politics, Europe has proved a tipping point, writes Michael
White

LENGTH: 1093 words



HIGHLIGHT: Once again in Tory politics, Europe has proved a tipping point,
writes Michael White.


When an MP defects ex-colleagues always write him or her off as fundamentally
unsound while new colleagues praise the defector for wrestling with a troubled
conscience before doing the decent thing.

In the case of Tory MP Quentin Davies who defected to Brownite Labour today,
there is, as usual, some truth on both sides.

Mr Davies, 62, has been an ambitious politician, but he could also be described
as an emotional one, impetuous even, with a dangerous streak of candour: if his
career was a car it would carry a high insurance premium.

Who knows, perhaps it was his Labour-voting GP father's decision to send him to
Leighton Park, the Quaker school that educated Michael Foot, which finally
turned him 50 years later ?

Once again in Tory politics Europe was the tipping point, though not the only
crime on the charge sheet.

MP for Grantham - Lady Thatcher's birthplace - and Stamford since 1987 (majority
7,445 or 15%), Mr Davies is an ex-diplomat and ex-banker, a red-faced man for
whose voice the description "plummy" could have been coined. He also farms sheep
and there were times when, as he rose to speak, Labour MPs would murmur "Baaa".'

No longer. By defecting to Labour on the eve of Gordon Brown's ascension to No
10, this ardent pro-European has done the new regime - the Blairites were in the
dark until today's announcement - a very good turn and undermined David
Cameron's efforts to retain his lead in the opinion polls.

The Tories will get over it. Indeed, there is an irony in his defection from the
Tory left - over what he sees as a rudder-less PR-led regime - at the very time
when most vocal criticism of Mr Cameron is coming from the party's rightwing,
which hates and fears his push for the political centre ground. It will
strengthen the right's conviction that it is right.

Mr Davies's resignation letter to his now-ex-leader is brutal. "Under your
leadership the Conservative party appears to me to have ceased collectively to
believe in anything, or to stand for anything. It has no bedrock. It exists on
shifting sands. A sense of mission has been replaced by a PR agenda," he
complained.

After declaring that he can no longer go on "living a lie" - despite the ties of
friendship and loyalty - the former Northern Ireland spokesman's letter gets to
what is for him the heart of the matter - Europe and Mr Cameron's gut
Euro-scepticism, which has led him to attempt his own defection from the
European People's party/European Democrats (EPP-ED) as too federalist.

"You had come to office as leader of the party committed to break a solemn
agreement we had with the European People's party to sit with them in the EPP-ED
group during the currency of this European parliament. For seven months you
vacillated, and during that time we had several conversations," Mr Davies
recalled.

This was widely known among his colleagues on both sides of the EU divide. MPs
like Davies were aghast as Cameron, whose generation is gut-Euro-sceptic beyond
even the Thatcher-Major approach, declared he would seek to create a new
grouping and would not even attend the EPP leaders' meetings when its new star,
the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, invited him.

Tory MEPs were divided, with both factions threatening a split if Cameron failed
to act on the pledges he has made, one to stay with the EPP group until 2009,
the other - made when he was only the outsider in the Tory leadership election -
to quit the group.

He spoke after frontrunner, David Davis, an ex-Europe minister and sceptic, had
admitted that would not be practical politics.

Nor is it. William Hague was dispatched around Europe to sort it out and reached
a compromise whereby the Tory-led ED faction would stay with the EPP while
trying to create a new free market, anti-federalist grouping in the Strasbourg
parliament.

Apart from flirtations with some European fringe parties, mainly in the east,
and a Czech coalition partner, they have not had much luck so far. Tony Blair
mocked it in the Commons when he reported from the Brussels summit on Monday.

So Mr Davies's rebuke to Mr Cameron today was a stinging one. "It was quite
clear to me that you had no qualms in principle about tearing up this agreement,
and that it was only the balance of prevailing political pressures which led you
ultimately to stop short of doing so (though since then you have hardly acted in
good faith in continuing with the agreement, for example you never attend the
EPP-ED summits claiming that you are "too busy" - even though half a dozen or
more prime ministers are always present.)" he asserted.

But that is not the only charge in the indictment. In addition to making a mess
on foreign policy (persona non grata in the White House too?) Mr Cameron has
been too PR-driven for Mr Davies tastes on grammar schools, nuclear power, the
wider questions of the environment where the need to trump a Gordon Brown speech
in January prompted Cameron and George Osborne to rush a "complete nonsense" of
a policy ( the airline flight tax among other things) without proper
consultation, he said.

Iraq, the "Polly Toynbee moment", taxation, all were touched with "frivolity"
the MP complained.

This is serious stuff because it gets to a central charge against the Cameroons,
as it against the Blairites - all spin, no substance.

Unfair to either or both it may be, reflecting the prejudices of older MPs in
both parties who do not like the way the world is moving. But Mr Brown - "all
substance, no spin" say some supporters - is well-placed to exploit Mr Davies's
letter.

Labour is not getting a pinko, mind you. Mr Davies supported Ken Clarke for Tory
leader, but he is also a declared Thatcherite, he is pro-hanging, dismissive of
Labour pieties on ethnicity, gender politics and much else.

But he was brave enough to attack colleagues who flirted disloyally with Jimmy
Goldsmith's Referendum party - which so damaged John Major - and criticised
rising star David Willetts' role in trying to help Neil Hamilton out of his
troubles.

Colleagues will point to such incidents as proof of thwarted ambition. But it
was possibly Cameron and Hague's promotion of the Ukip line, a referendum on the
new EU treaty, which pushed Davies over the line.

Who wooed him over? It is not clear yet, but as in espionage defections, there
is always a crucial personal link.

Blair's demolition of Cameron's position at the dispatch box on Monday saw
Davies and other allies enjoying themselves.

The scene may have confirmed him that he has done the right thing, though the
New Labour years confirm an old rule that defectors rarely prosper.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               4 of 38 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 26, 2007 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

DEREK DOUGAN;
Flamboyant Northern Ireland striker whose tumultuous career ended in glory with
Wolves

BYLINE: Ivan Ponting

LENGTH: 1737 words


For a footballer to shave his head in the 21st century is almost de rigeur; but
when Derek Dougan shed his dark locks in 1961, it served to mark out the lean,
lanky Ulsterman with the hawkish good looks of a screen cowboy as something of a
maverick.

The flamboyant, outspoken, periodically combustible Dougan was, indeed, both a
formidable non-conformist and an enigma. Charming and intelligent, not averse to
riding the waves of adulation he attracted, he was one of the most colourful and
controversial characters in professional sport. However, none of that should
obscure the fact that, during his late-career pomp with Wolverhampton Wanderers,
when he finally achieved balance between showmanship and his immense natural
talent, Dougan was also an exceedingly fine centre-forward.

Earlier he was an inveterate, rather wild rover, serving six clubs and his
country, tending to thrill managers and fans alike with his spikily effective
individualism. At moments, though, he might infuriate them with a volatility
which, on his bad days, could be spiced unattractively with a dash of arrogance.
Happily, when he settled at Molineux in 1967 it was as if a lifelong quest to
discover his true niche was at an end. Over the next eight and a bit seasons he
scored 123 goals in 323 games, in the process becoming one of the most revered
and enduring heroes in Wolves' history.

Alexander Derek Dougan was born in 1938 to a Protestant family in a bleak area
of east Belfast where unemployment, poverty and religious bigotry were rife, the
eldest of a shipyard boilermaker's six sons. He learned his football in rough
pick-up games on the back streets, then progressed to more formal contests
through boys' clubs, excelling sufficiently to win schoolboy international caps
as a centre-half.

Away from the game, although a bright boy, he couldn't wait to leave school in
order to earn money, and there followed jobs in a toy factory and as an
apprentice electrician. All along, however, in his heart was the desire for a
football career, which began when he signed for Distillery at the age of 15.
Having switched from defence to attack, he helped the west Belfast club to beat
his childhood favourites, Glentoran, in the Irish Cup Final, and won amateur
international recognition.

Such was Dougan's progress that English clubs were bound to take note and, in
August 1957, he was transferred to Portsmouth, then struggling in the League's
top flight, for £4,000. Two months later, still only 19, he made his senior
début at Old Trafford and shone in a startling 3-0 victory over reigning
champions Manchester United. But he was raw and homesick, proving unable to
settle at Fratton Park. Feeling suppressed and misunderstood, he railed against
authority, criticised the training regime and clashed frequently with the
manager Freddie Cox, which landed him with a reputation as a rebel which he
never wholly shook off. Still, he continued to develop promisingly as a player,
and was rewarded with his first full cap for Northern Ireland against
Czechoslovakia in the 1958 World Cup finals in Sweden.

The following season Pompey were relegated but Dougan wasn't, having been
transferred to fellow First Division side Blackburn Rovers for £11,000 in March.
By now the gangling spearhead was emerging as an increasingly dangerous
marksman, but he remained feistily difficult to manage and his Ewood Park
sojourn proved to be tempestuous.

Soon he was lauded by the fans, who nicknamed him "Cheyenne" for his resemblance
to the TV western actor Clint Walker and relished both his goals and his
unorthodox character. However, he became involved in more disagreements, again
finding fault with training methods, then showed distressing immaturity and lack
of professionalism when he was on the verge of what might have been his greatest
triumph to date.

Shortly after scoring the two goals against Sheffield Wednesday that secured
Blackburn's place in the 1960 FA Cup Final against Wolves, Dougan strained a
muscle. Then, having posted a transfer request on the morning of the game - a
provocative act which was to create immense hostility among Rovers fans - he
declared himself fit for the Wembley showpiece, apparently believing that his
team-mates would be able to carry him.

In fact, he was limping badly a few minutes into the game and, with no
substitutes allowed in those days, his side was reduced to 10 fit men. Soon that
was nine when Dave Whelan - destined to become a millionaire and preside over
the rise from obscurity of Wigan Athletic - suffered a broken leg, and Blackburn
were crushed 3-0 in a dismal contest.

Later he admitted he had been at fault, but at the time, despite amassing a
commendable 34 strikes in 76 starts for the club, his popularity waned.
Inevitably he moved again, this time in July 1961 to Aston Villa, where the
manager, Joe Mercer, was initially delighted with his £15,000 capture, whom he
reckoned was a better player than his predecessor, the England centre-forward
Gerry Hitchens, recently sold to Internazionale of Milan for £85,000.

Ever the extrovert, Dougan prepared for his latest challenge by shaving his
head, maintaining it was not a gimmick but to make him "feel fresh." His new
supporters found it difficult to judge him in that first term because he missed
much of it following a car crash; but at the start of the subsequent campaign
Mercer, perturbed by the Irishman's relentlessly independent outlook, told him
if he wanted to be "different" to try scoring goals more consistently. Dougan
responded with two brilliant efforts to beat mighty Tottenham Hotspur, but still
there was trouble ahead.

Villa struggled, Mercer's health deteriorated and he upset his stormy petrel of
a centre-forward by leaving him out of the 1963 League Cup Final, which was lost
to Birmingham City.

Thus it was no surprise when Dougan departed that summer, but his destination
raised plenty of eyebrows. In fact, his £21,000 switch to Third Division
Peterbrough United was a sensation, and it was felt widely that his decision to
drop two flights might signal the end of his days at the top level. However,
although he dropped temporarily out of the Irish team, he flourished with
ambitious Posh. They saw him as a talisman who suited their brash, go-ahead
image, and he got on well with the manager Gordon Clark.

Dougan scored plenty of goals for Peterborough but one in particular, the shock
winner against Arsenal in an FA Cup tie in January 1965, whetted his appetite
for a return to the big time, which he achieved at season's end with a £25,000
transfer to Leicester City.

The advent of such a luminous personality generated record ticket sales at
Filbert Street, where he made a superb transition back to the First Division,
netting freely and regaining his international berth. Playing the best football
of his life to date, he brought panache, industry and authority to his role, and
Foxes fans were dismayed when the charismatic 29-year-old joined Second Division
Wolves for £50,000 in March 1967.

On arrival at Molineux Dougan declared that his stay in the lower flight would
last only 11 games, and so it proved. He netted a hat-trick on début against
Hull City and fired six more as his new employers secured promotion. Thus began
easily the most settled and fulfilling phase of a hitherto tumultuous career,
during which Dougan became the first Irishman to exceed 200 goals in England -
he totalled 222 in 546 League appearances. In his maturity, he was a
comprehensively fine leader of the attack: powerful but also subtle in his
aerial work, adept at protecting the ball with his back to goal, deceptively
quick with his loping stride, unselfish for such a natural individualist and
unfailingly brave. Such was his form at the outset of 1969/70 that Arsenal tried
to sign him, but were firmly rebuffed by the Black Countrymen, who had no
intention of parting with their swashbuckling hero.

He excelled alongside a succession of frontline partners - Alun Evans, Hugh
Curran, Peter Knowles, John Richards - and took a major role as Wolves beat
Manchester City in the 1974 League Cup Final. He battled valiantly, too, in the
two-legged Uefa Cup Final defeat by Spurs in 1972, and if there persisted a few
disciplinary wrangles - he served one lengthy ban for swearing at a linesman -
that seemed a small price to pay.

Off the field, too, Dougan's profile continued to burgeon. He became a
vociferous campaigning chairman of the Professional Footballers' Association,
pushing hard for freedom of contract, which was achieved in 1978. He was deeply
involved in charity work, hosted a local radio programme, penned several books
and in 1970 served on ITV's provocative World Cup panel - alongside Malcolm
Allison, Paddy Crerand and Bob McNab - after which screen punditry was never the
same again.

His collection of Northern Ireland caps stretched to 43 and was not concluded
until he was 35 in 1973, two years before he played his last professional game,
for Wolves. Later he managed non-League Kettering Town and worked as a Yorkshire
TV presenter before returning to Molineux as chief executive in August 1982,
fronting a consortium to rescue the now-ailing club. Before that season there
was speculation that debt-ridden Wolves would go out of business but the
financial cavalry, led by Dougan, averted disaster some three minutes ahead of
the Official Receiver's deadline. The club's fortunes continued to fluctuate,
however, and he departed midway through the 1984/85 term which would end with
relegation to the Third Division, going on to work in marketing.

In June 2006 Dougan - always passionate about politics, particularly the
problems that afflicted his homeland - appeared on the BBC's Question Time as a
representative of the United Kingdom Independence Party.

But it is for his incandescent impact on the football world that "The Doog" will
be remembered most vividly. His career encompassed rarified heights and
unaccountable troughs, but it was never boring.

Alexander Derek Dougan, footballer and administrator: born Belfast 20 January
1938; played for Distillery (Northern Ireland) 1955-57, Portsmouth 1957-59,
Blackburn Rovers 1959-61, Aston Villa 1961-63, Peterborough United 1963-65,
Leicester City 1965-1967, Wolverhampton Wanderers 1967-75; capped 43 times for
Northern Ireland 1958-73; chief executive, Wolverhampton Wanderers 1982-85;
married (two sons); died Wolverhampton 24 June 2007.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 26, 2007, Tuesday

Nigel Farage

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 63 words


Shock news. A wisely anonymous source gets in touch to allege that Nigel Farage,
the leader of UKIP and a staunch opponent of the impending smoking ban, has been
seen smoking French cigarettes. Highly unpatriotic. Decent British cancer not
good enough for you, eh? "I smoke Rothmans," wheezes an indignant Farage, when
we call.

"Although I wouldn't say no to a Gitanes." Non, surely.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

Obituary of Derek Dougan Striker with Wolves and Northern Ireland who became an
effective chairman of the Professional Footballers' Association

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 809 words


DEREK DOUGAN, who has died aged 69, was an irrepressible leader of the line for
Wolverhampton Wanderers and Northern Ireland, an eloquent champion of
professional footballers' rights, and an articulate campaigner against
sectarianism.

Dougan enjoyed his greatest success at Molineux, where he was taken to the fans'
hearts after scoring a hat-trick in his first home game for the club, in 1967.

Standing well over 6 ft, he was both good in the air and more than capable of
resisting the depredations of opposing defenders, as his frequent dismissals
attested. Yet he was no mere battering ram, as he showed with numerous volleyed
and flicked goals, and in his astute lay-offs for striking partners, notably
John Richards.

In his first season "the Doog'' helped Wolves to the runners-up spot and
promotion from the Second Division. He finished as the club's top scorer, as he
would the next year and in 1972, when he netted 24 times.

That year, too, the team reached the final of the Uefa Cup, testament to the
scintillating attacking football of which they were capable; this same quality,
coupled with defensive frailties, led them to struggle in the league. Wolves
beat Juventus on the way to the Final, but lost 3-2 to Spurs over two legs.

Two years later, however, Dougan enjoyed his finest moment with the club. Faced
in the League Cup Final by a Manchester City side that boasted the talents of
Denis Law, Rodney Marsh, Francis Lee and Colin Bell, Wolves were given little
hope of success. Yet they played an uncharacteristically tenacious match that
gave them a deserved 2-1 victory, and the trophy.

Alexander Derek Dougan was born in Belfast on January 20 1938. His grandfather
and father worked at the Harland and Wolff shipyard, and he duly followed them
there as an electrical apprentice.

It was work that he loathed, and from which he was able to escape through the
promise that he showed as a footballer with Distillery, initially as a versatile
defender. He captained the side at 17, and in 1956 led them to the Irish Cup.

This success led in 1957 to a move to Portsmouth, where he was converted to
centre forward, and then on to Blackburn in 1959. Though he scored 26 goals in
59 games for them, and played in the side that lost the 1960 FA Cup Final to
Wolves, he never settled, and a reputation for backchat and defying authority
provoked a series of transfers in the years that followed.

He moved first to Aston Villa - he had requested Blackburn to let him go on the
eve of the Cup Final itself - and then to lowly Peterborough, where he played in
the famous FA Cup defeat of Arsenal that cost Billy Wright his manager's job. By
1966, although still scoring at a rate of more than a goal every other game, he
had fetched up at Leicester.

Although, in an era before "player power'', Dougan rarely saw eye-to-eye with
managers, it was not always without justification. In 1959 he suffered a serious
ankle injury but was encouraged, with the help of injections, to play on with it
for almost three months before it was diagnosed as having being broken. Then, at
Aston Villa, he was accused of malingering over a muscle spasm in his back, only
to have it operated on to correct the damage shortly after he retired.

His determination not to be dictated to made Dougan an exceptionally effective
and long-serving chairman of the Professional Footballers' Association between
1970 and 1978. It also led, he claimed, to the end of his career in
international football.

Dougan had won his first cap for Northern Ireland at the 1958 World Cup, and
would go on to play 43 times for his country, scoring eight goals. He was also
the side's captain from 1969 until 1973, when he took part in an informal match
between Brazil and a Shamrock Rovers XI that was actually a covert united
Ireland side. Dougan, who was a Protestant, had long been a proponent of such a
team as a healing gesture, but the match was not sanctioned by the Northern
Ireland FA, and soon afterwards he was dropped from the side.

Dougan retired from football in 1975, aged 37, having scored 123 goals in 323
matches for Wolves, and 222 in his career. For two years he was player-manager
of Kettering Town, but then returned to Molineux in what were to prove unhappy
circumstances.

In the early 1980s the club had gone into receivership, and was sold to the
Bhatti brothers. Dougan fronted their bid and was installed in 1982 as chief
executive; but the team began tumbling through the divisions and, amid acrimony
and allegations of asset stripping, a chastened Dougan was forced out, shortly
before Wolves was bought by Sir Jack Hayward.

Derek Dougan settled in Staffordshire, and worked in marketing and as a
fundraiser. Latterly he had campaigned for the UK Independence Party, and last
year appeared on the BBC's Question Time.

He published an autobiography, The Sash He Never Wore, in 1972.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

Hollow ring to Tory tax reform

SECTION: CITY; Letter to City Editor; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 149 words


Sir - Drawing on principles laid out by Adam Smith, Madsen Pirie takes the
Chancellor to task for raising tax levels and multiplying their complexity,
("Brown failed to follow a fellow Scot's lead'', June 20).

While Gordon Brown deserves a good deal of the blame, previous Tory Chancellors
were not exactly virtuous either. Thus, Dr Pirie's remark that "it will probably
take a Conservative Chancellor to abolish Gordon Brown's vastly over-complicated
tax credit system'' rings hollow. Moreover, I doubt that Adam Smith would be
pleased with the Tory pledge that "economic stability'' must precede any tax
cuts.

I humbly draw Dr Pirie's attention to UKIP's tax policy which not only proposes
flat income taxation above a high threshold, it also treats employees' National
Insurance as income tax and contains several other features that he recommends.

John Whittaker MEP

Chairman, UK

Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

Comment & Debate: A real loss of sovereignty: Why are opponents of Europe's
reform treaty so silent on the avalanche of foreign takeovers?

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 627 words


Over the past few years there has been an extraordinary loss of British
sovereignty. One in five of our leading companies has become foreign-owned in a
buying spree unprecedented in our or any comparable western country.

Nearly all our investment banks are foreign-owned, as are many of our utilities
and strategic sectors, including steel production. Centrica, owner of British
Gas, is widely expected soon to receive a bid from the Russian GazProm; and the
Chinese government has just set up a $200bn fund to buy foreign companies, with
Britain among its top targets.

About this Britain's newly minted nationalists - nearly all the right-of-centre
press, the Conservative party and the UK Independence party - are mute.
Manchester United supporters had a short-lived protest against the American
takeover of their club, but apart from that the British seem remarkably relaxed
about so much foreign ownership. No political party seems to think it matters.

But every editorial in every rightwing newspaper is fulminating against the EU
reform treaty as a disastrous sellout. The establishment of an EU president who
will hold office for two and a half years, the creation of a high representative
for foreign policy, and a reduction in the number of commissioners are all
deemed to constitute a mortal threat to our sovereignty. There may be explicit
opt-outs from the charter of fundamental rights and matters to do with the
justice system - the only areas where the reform treaty enlarges EU competence -
but that won't stop the foaming-at-the-mouth brigade from making wild charges
about the continental dagger at the heart of all things British.

I'd have more sympathy with them if they ever raised the faintest protest about
the avalanche of takeovers. The Royal Bank of Scotland resisted the attentions
of Citibank 20 years ago because of its importance to Scotland, and has grown
into one of the world's top banks. No such prospect now exists for Corus,
Pilkington, O2, the British Airports Authority, P&O, Hanson and Abbey National -
to name just a few.

I favour openness, but, although foreign ownership is praised from all sides as
unambiguously a source of strength, the evidence is more mixed. Yes, it has been
good for the City, but elsewhere research shows that most takeovers fail. It is
because ownership matters that foreigners want to buy our companies. Already
there is anecdotal evidence of a fall-away in the recruitment of graduates from
British universities, of decision-making migrating abroad, of top jobs being
reserved for the nationals of predator companies. But from the enemies of
Brussels, you will not hear a pip.

There are two consistent positions. One is to favour openness and globalisation,
but to want to strengthen international institutions like the EU to better
govern what happens while trying to correct the market failures at home (it is
far too easy to treat British companies like chips in the casino game of
takeover) that make openness potentially unfair. The other is to curse all
things foreign - Brussels and foreign takeovers - as the work of the devil.

Britain's new xenophobes certainly curse Brussels as the devil, but excuse
foreign ownership. One reason, of course, is that so much of the British media
is owned by foreigners (Rupert Murdoch) or tax exiles (the Barclay brothers).
When David Cameron tries to embarrass Gordon Brown over holding a referendum,
Brown should counterchallenge him on foreign ownership - soon to become much
more contentious with the arrival of the Russians and Chinese, and against which
the only defence is a common European position. Cameron, and the press
proprietors, will soon turn down the decibels.

Will Hutton is chief executive of the Work Foundation will.hutton@observer.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

Media: On the press: BBC bias? The joke's on newspaper editors

BYLINE: Peter Wilby

SECTION: GUARDIAN MEDIA PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1145 words


Impartiality is a good thing to aspire to, but almost impossible to achieve, not
least because philosophers don't agree on what it is. According to a BBC Trust
report published last week, it "involves a mixture of accuracy, balance,
context, distance, evenhandedness, fairness, objectivity, open-mindedness,
rigour, self-awareness, transparency and truth". The trust assessed the BBC's
programmes - drama, comedy, even the weather, as well as news and current
affairs - against these criteria and found them sometimes wanting. Which, given
the severity of the test and the quantity of the BBC's output (408,415 hours a
year), is hardly surprising.

It is impossible to imagine any newspaper conducting a similar self-examination,
still less publishing it. Even achieving accuracy, etc, in covering the report
proved beyond the press. "BBC report damns its 'culture of bias'", shouted a
Sunday Times headline. The phrase "culture of bias" does not appear in the
report. The papers reply that the BBC is different because everyone is compelled
to pay for it. This is true as far as it goes, but it does not absolve mass
circulation newspapers from responsibilities to be, for example, truthful,
rigorous and transparent, particularly in news reports. With rare exceptions,
their response to any lapse - such as the News of the World phone-tapping affair
- is to sweep it rapidly under the carpet.

An even more egregious example of press hypocrisy followed the offensive
anti-Muslim cartoons published in Denmark last year. The BBC, frequently accused
of cravenly appeasing Muslim sensitivities, reproduced them on Newsnight. No
paper would touch them. Again, several British papers have portrayed the
Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez as a Soviet-style dictator because he withdrew
a licence to broadcast on public airwaves from a channel that supported an
attempted coup. (It can still transmit on satellite and cable.) Yet columnists
demand the BBC be similarly punished for non-violent promulgation of "political
correctness".

The British right, vociferously supported by the Mail, the Telegraph and the
Murdoch press, is trying to pull off the same trick as the American right: to
convince the public that key sections of the media are gripped by a leftwing
conspiracy. The BBC Trust shows the campaign is succeeding. Its report, though
nuanced and thoughtful, is itself biased. Its examples of possible lapses from
impartiality include the failure to feature more about Ukip in the 2005 election
campaign, lack of airtime given to "socially authoritarian" views, uncritical
support for the Make Poverty History campaign, general prevalence of
"politically correct" views, and over-representation of ethnic minorities. Even
support for "saving the planet" is apparently thought controversial. There is
brief mention of the generous airtime given to religion but that is treated as
unproblematic. The report focuses on a supposed "liberal" bias.

Yet different complaints against the BBC are made by, for example, John Pilger,
the Medialens website and the Glasgow Media Group. These allege a bias towards a
western, free market view of the world, so that, for example, the corporation
fails to tell the whole truth about US and British military interventions. If
ever there was an example of a lapse from balance, open-mindedness and rigour,
it occurred in the run-up to the Iraq war, when the BBC accepted Saddam had
WMDs, despite former UN inspectors saying he had been fully disarmed. None of
this is mentioned in the BBC Trust report. Nor is Top Gear which, many would
say, glorifies reckless driving and carries anti-green messages.

The report, however, is correct to say that achieving impartiality (or rather
the appearance of it) is more complex than it was. Once, it was enough to give
the major political parties equal airtime. Now, the parties cluster on a
consensual centre ground and the big divisions in public opinion are as much
cultural as political: religion, ethnicity, sexuality, abortion, for example.
The report argues the BBC should not "close down debate". It should achieve "a
balance of opinion across the intellectual spectrum", and should not exclude
unfashionable views.

This is surely right, but it is tricky ter ritory. According to a poll last
year, more than a third of Britons believe in creationism or intelligent design.
Do they count as part of the "intellectual spectrum"? Do the climate change
deniers? The Daily Mail editor Paul Dacre has accused the BBC of
disenfranchising "countless millions" of Britons who don't subscribe to its
worldview. But the BBC addresses a worldwide audience, in which countless
millions would agree with Pilger on most issues rather than with Dacre. Should
their views get more airtime?

Impartiality is of its nature elusive. The BBC is one of the few British brands
that still commands worldwide admiration, it is a significant export earner and
we should all be proud of it. The supposedly patriotic rightwing press is doing
it incalculable damage and the journalists and editors responsible should, if I
may borrow their own language, hang their heads in shame.

Court curbs are a reflection of trust

We are all familiar with the string of cases in which mothers were wrongly
convicted of murdering their babies, largely because of flawed evidence from Sir
Roy Meadow. But there is another scandal on a bigger scale. Again on the basis
of evidence from Meadow and his followers, thousands of children were taken from
their parents, put into care, and sometimes later adopted. These cases were
heard in the family courts. We don't know much about them because they were held
in secrecy and the evidence against the parents is not open to scrutiny and
challenge. Ministers proposed last year to admit the press to the hearings, with
safeguards to protect children's anonymity. Now they have changed their minds.

Yet family court cases require more public scrutiny than many of those in the
criminal courts. The standard of proof is lower. There are no juries. Judges are
not bound by precedent and have considerable discretion as to which "experts"
may be called. These are not trivial matters: most parents will feel the loss of
a child, forcibly removed by the state, at least as keenly as the loss of
liberty.

Far from making family cases more open, ministers propose to tighten and extend
the restrictions, extending them from high courts and county courts to the
magistrates' courts. But the government could hardly have acted differently. The
consultation on its proposals found substantial opposition from young people and
children's organisations, as well as from magistrates, judges and lawyers. That
is a salutary lesson for the press. It ought to be seen as a guarantor of
liberty and justice. Alas, the public clearly believe that, given half a chance,
it will invade privacy, sensationalise and distort.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 25, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Obituary: Derek Dougan: Maverick Northern Ireland footballer best known for his
ties with Wolves

BYLINE: Brian Glanville

SECTION: GUARDIAN OBITUARIES PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 956 words


Had Derek Dougan been just a few years older, who knows what Northern Ireland
might have achieved in the finals of the 1958 World Cup in Sweden. To get there
at all was an astonishing feat, knocking out Italy on the way. But a mature
Dougan rather than the gangling 19-year-old might have made all the difference.

Dougan, who has died aged 69, was then the highly promising centre forward for
Portsmouth. He was not Northern Ireland's first choice, but Billy Simpson, the
Glasgow Rangers centre forward, had pulled a muscle after just five minutes'
training in Sweden, leaving Dougan to lead the attack in the first game against
the Czechs, which the Irish won 1-0. Tall, agile, technically adroit, making
good use of his height in the air, Dougan did not disgrace himself that day.

His career in football, variously as player, chairman of the Professional
Footballers' Association and chairman of Wolverhampton Wanderers, was at once
successful and controversial. Fluent to a fault, humorous, alert and plausible,
he made as many foes as friends. There was always something of the maverick, the
impulsive opportunist, about him. In 1979, he said of the ever ebullient and
contentious Scottish manager, Tommy Docherty: "If he survives at Derby, it will
be a remarkable feat. But he won't do it through his gift for repartee or
off-the-cuff insults." Five years later, Docherty was managing Wolves while
Dougan was chairman. They were not wholly dissimilar.

Dougan, in fact, never managed a club but played for many, beginning, in 1954,
with Distillery of Belfast, the city where he was born. His second season with
Portsmouth saw him transferred to Blackburn Rovers where, as his physical
strength increased so did his prowess.

In his first full season, 1959-60, he helped Rovers to reach the FA Cup final,
versus Wolves, which made him seem quite a bargain at £11,000. But on the day of
the final, the Doog, as he was nicknamed, suddenly demanded a transfer.
Blackburn, losing their full back Bill Whelan with a broken leg, lost 3-0.

The 6ft 3in Dougan did not get his transfer until he had played another full
season for Blackburn, then signed for Aston Villa. Overall, these were not happy
days. "When I arrived at Aston Villa," he would later write, "it was like
joining a Guards Regiment. At first the atmosphere was overpowering. I was with
a great club and it's not easy to live up to such greatness. At the same time I
enjoyed the stimulus and the challenge. It wasn't until much later, after I had
left Villa, that I realised the peril of leaning too much on tradition. Villa
were so mesmerised by past glories that they could not see what was happening to
them until it was too late. Tradition was romanticised - a fatal mistake."

You might say that Dougan was a "new footballer" before that being was invented.
The truth was that his form fell away at Villa Park, to such an extent that when
he was transferred in 1963, this time it was, humiliatingly, to an obscure third
division club, Peterborough United. There he languished for two seasons until he
was rescued by Leicester City, who bought him for £25,000 in 1965.

Rejuvenated, he regained his place in the Northern Ireland side. Then Wolves
bought him for double what Leicester had paid at the tail end of 1966-67. He
stayed a Wolves player until 1976.

Yet he remained an enigma. How could so seemingly rational, objective and
eloquent a footballer occasionally commit such fearful fouls? And once, late in
1969, in a Wolves versus Everton match, he got himself suspended for eight games
for swearing at a linesman.

With his fellow Wolves players, he was not, it was said, a popular figure. Where
many found him persuasive and intelligent, others tended to see him as arrogant
and opinionated. There was a significant moment in the warm-up before an FA Cup
semi-final. Steve Kindon - then a young left winger, later to make Dougan
imitations the essence of his after-dinner speaking - drove in a shot which hit
Dougan in the genitals and knocked him out. The other players, far from
sympathising, stood around laughing, as did Sammy Chung, the trainer, when he
ran on the field to help Dougan.

Dougan always had ambitions that went beyond football, and with the help of a
loyal lieutenant he produced various books about the game, including a novel,
The Footballer (1974), much of which appeared to recount his feud with the
Wolves manager, Bill McGarry.

In 1982, Dougan became chairman of Wolves, by then in deep financial difficulty.
"This is your club now," he told the fans. "I love you all. I am going to come
amongst you." Eight years earlier, he had written: "One wonders what some
businesses would be like if they were run on the same haphazard lines as most
football clubs still are. The amateur director has been kicked out of most
industrial boardrooms, but not in football."

Alas, things would quickly go wrong. The Asian businessmen of Allied Properties
who had bought Wolves failed to revive them, leading John Bird, the leader of
Wolverhampton council, to lament, after a 5-1 defeat by Watford in 1983: "They
have brought this town into disrepute, making Wolverhampton the butt of every
comedian's jokes. We must have a talk as soon as possible to find out where
Allied Properties' interests lie. On Saturday's performance, it is not in
football."

So Dougan's chairmanship came to a premature and disappointing end. Smoke
without fire? Perhaps, but he remained, above all as a player, one of the most
magnetic figures of his day.

In December 2005, he was one of the coffin carriers at George Best's funeral. He
was also a representative of the UK Independence party.

He is survived by two sons.

Alexander Derek Dougan, footballer, born January 20 1938; died June 23 2007

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2007 Tuesday



CORRECTION: Dave Whelan not, as we said in Derek Dougan's obituary, Bill (Liam)
Whelan, was the Blackburn full back who broke his leg in the 1960 FA Cup Final.
Bill Whelan was the Manchester United forward who died in the Munich air
disaster in 1958 (page 34, June 25).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

Doog was our ruud

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 385  words


WOLVES LEGEND DIES

DEREK DOUGAN will always be remembered as the striker who also loved to shoot
from the lip.

The Wolves legend died yesterday to leave generations of Molineux followers in
mourning.

Fans still recall how The Doog arrived in 1967 and scored a hat-trick on his
home debut. Dougan, 69, went on to hit the back of the net on a regular basis in
the old First Division and in Europe.

Mike Bailey, skipper of that Wolves side, believes Ruud van Nistelrooy is the
modern-day equivalent of his old pal. Bailey said: "He was a box player, a
really good athlete and a danger in the air. It sometimes took two defenders to
mark him, which helped us.

"When he came to the club it gave us the final push to be promoted, he was
instrumental in that.

"The crowd loved him, he was a real character.

Courted

"He was an extrovert. If you had to compare him with a player now, you'd have to
say Ruud van Nistelrooy."

Dougan scored 123 goals in 323 appearances for Wolves. He hit 12 in 18 European
games and helped Wolves win the League Cup in 1974.

The Belfast-born forward won 43 caps for Northern Ireland, starting at the 1958
World Cup.

But Dougan also courted controversy, handing in a transfer request to Blackburn
on FA Cup final day in 1960 - ironically, Wolves were the opponents.

And as chairman of the Professional Footballers' Association, he fought for
changes in the transfer system.

Current PFA chief executive Gordon Taylor said: "He was one of the game's most
colourful characters and I was very proud to have served with him and worked
under him.

"At times, he was a very controversial character, never frightened of taking on
authority, which got him into trouble in his playing career and, needless to
say, off the field as well."

The Doog played his last game for Wolves in 1975 and then headed to America for
a short spell.

He tried management - at non-league Kettering - then returned to Wolves as chief
executive under the disastrous reign of the Bhatti brothers in the 1980s when
the club slid through all the divisions and came close to bankruptcy.

Last year he attempted to start a political career with the UK Independence
Party and was still actively involved in various business deals.

But the Wolves faithful would prefer to honour the hero of three decades ago,
who gave them eight very special years.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              June 25, 2007 Monday

The Doog was a footy legend

BYLINE: Jason Johnson

LENGTH: 612  words


Tributes to former PFA chairman

OUTSPOKEN Ulster soccer legend Derek 'The Doog' Dougan died suddenly yesterday.

The Belfast man, who was capped 43 times for Northern Ireland and became boss of
the PFA, passed away at his home in England.

The Doog, aged 69, had played with Portsmouth, Blackburn, Aston Villa,
Peterborough and Leicester, as well as in the Irish League.

But he was best known for dazzling when he played with Wolves in 70s - chalking
up 123 goals and helping the team win the league in 1974.

Wolves' chief executive Jez Moxey said: "We are very saddened to hear of the
death of one of the most talented players ever to wear a Wolverhampton
Wanderers' shirt."

Dougan, who also scored eight goals for Northern Ireland, was born in Belfast in
1938.

He began his footballing career with Lisburn Distillery.

Pal

Portsmouth took him over to England in 1959.

But it was with Wolves, his sixth English club, that Dougan really found his
home after joining them in 1967.

During his varied life Dougan, a teammate and close pal of George Best, also
co-presented World Cup coverage on ITV in 1970.

Just two years ago Dougan helped carry his old friend's coffin during Best's
emotional funeral at Stormont.

After retirement Dougan had a short stint as a player in the US before going on
to become chairman of the players' union Professional Footballers' Association
and, briefly, as chief executive at Wolves.

He was regarded as an outspoken figure during his period as PFA chairman.

And Dougan also appeared on the BBC's Question Time current affairs programme
two years ago as a spokesman for the right-wing UK Independence Party.

In his career he also caused controversy when he was one of six Northern Ireland
internationals to play for a Shamrock Rovers XI against Brazil.

Honest

The 1973 exhibition match was designed as a show of solidarity and friendship at
the height of The Troubles.

Dougan scored one of Rovers' goals in the 4-3 defeat.

The Rovers XI project, which featured several Republic of Ireland internationals
as well as Northern Ireland captain Dougan, Pat Jennings and Martin O'Neill, had
been opposed by the IFA.

Dougan, who had helped organise it, never played for Northern Ireland again.

He claimed that the manager at the time, Terry Neill, was ordered not to pick
him.

Jim Boyce, president of the Irish Football Association, said: "He was a bit of a
legend in Northern Ireland football history. It's a very sad day.

"Derek was over in Belfast two years ago when we celebrated our 125th
anniversary dinner and he was in good spirits.

"He was known as a jovial character, who always kept people entertained."

Dougan carried on living in Wolverhampton long after his stints with the club
ended, and died there. Boyce added: "Derek was outspoken. Probably for that, he
got some publicity that at times was a little bit unfair to him.

"He had his own strong views. If someone believes in something, it's better to
be open and honest about it than saying at times what people might want to hear.

"He was a controversial character as well.

"But, as I say, he was well respected by Northern Ireland fans.

"In his time, he was an exceptionally good centre-forward.

"I would describe him in the old mould of centre-forwards. He was obviously
very, very popular at Wolverhampton, where he spent most of his career."

Stunned former Irish League player and BBC sports reporter Jackie Fullerton
said: "He was a truly colourful character.

"He was outspoken, he was a firebrand and he will be well-remembered here as the
big striker - the Doog - who played in the World Cup Finals in Sweden in '58 as
a teenager.

"What a man. I've lost a friend and Northern Ireland has lost a very good
person."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 38 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 June 24, 2007
                                 First Edition

We have nothing to fear from a referendum;
Pro-Europeans should be more confident about Britain's place in the EU. The new
PM should think again - and divide the Tories

BYLINE: Glyn Morgan

LENGTH: 1162 words


What are the pro-Europeans so afraid of? Tony Blair left Brussels claiming
victory, but insisting that the Government won't hold the referendum that he
promised only recently. This position is short-sighted, undemocratic and
unnecessarily defeatist. Britain needs a wide-ranging rational debate on its
place in Europe; and it needs a referendum to ensure that this debate engages
the bulk of the electorate. There is no good reason to believe, whatever current
polls might suggest, that the Eurosceptics will win this debate.

British voters deserve a chance to reject or accept the European Union that has
grown up over the past 30 years. The EU has "widened" and "deepened" to a point
that no one could have expected at the time of the previous referendum in 1975.

Even back then many people failed to recognise the legal and constitutional
significance of joining the "Common Market". Thus we still hear talk today of
how the newly proposed treaty (whatever it's eventually called) will for the
first time subjugate national laws to European law. A rational debate will allow
the truth to emerge: that European law takes priority over national laws in most
areas to do with the single European market - and this has been the case,
without the evaporation of Britain's national identity, since 1972.

Britain needs a comprehensive debate on Europe as much as it needs a referendum.
Voters themselves must wrestle with the problem posed by the conjunction of
three inescapable facts: one, Britain must remain - if only for reasons of its
own national interest - at the centre of debates about the future of Europe;
two, to remain at the centre, Britain must be a fully co-operating member of the
EU; and three, to be a fully co-operating member, Britain must sign a treaty
agreed upon by all the other member states.

Eurosceptics must be given the chance to explain which of these inescapable
facts they can wish away. Doubtless, we will be entertained by prospects of
abandoning the EU, where roughly two-thirds of our exports go, in favour of
Nafta (the North American Free Trade Agreement) or some yet-to-be-created union
of the English-speaking peoples. We will hear how Britain can better advance its
interests as a former or ex-officio member of the EU. And we will finally learn
the Eurosceptics' cunning plan to get our European competitors to trade openly,
while we reject, as our sovereign right, their rules and regulations.

No one but a fool thinks that the EU, as currently constituted, is a perfectly
well-run organisa-tion that pursues only sensible policies. The Common
Agricultural Policy is a costly disgrace; and efforts to regulate the scales of
the local greengrocer an embarrassment. For too long, the European Commission
has used the topic of economic regulation for purposes of an "ever closer
union". Perhaps such a union is a good idea. But progress towards this goal must
come directly from the will of Europe's peoples not indirectly from the European
Commission. National political leaders must, in the meantime, insist that the EU
return all unnecessary responsibilities to member states.

The EU's flaws need to be fixed. The current proposals don't fix everything, but
most of them are quite sensible. A Europe of 27 big and small, wealthy and poor,
member states needs a more effective way of governing itself. A president to
chair regular meetings of the European Council is better than the current
rotating arrangement. Likewise, it makes sense to create a more unified foreign
policy agency under a high representative. These proposals will be enough to
give Eurosceptics the willies about an emergent superstate. On one issue,
however, Eurosceptics are right: these proposals, if adopted, will lead to a
more powerful European Union, if only because they will create a more effective
European level of government. But that's precisely why Europe's citizens also
need, whatever the current British Government might think, a charter of
fundamental rights that all levels of government - whether local, national, or
European - must respect. Whatever their merits, the proposals present a giant
problem for Gordon Brown. If he doesn't hold a referendum, he's seen as an
autocrat; if he holds one, he might lose. Recent polls suggest that only about a
third of UK voters consider EU membership "a good thing".

Another third wants to exit the EU now. And the rest don't know. So what's the
poor man to do? He could hold a referendum focused specifically on the new
treaty itself. Voters could be asked, "Are you in favour of signing the new
European treaty?" Unfortunately, this question is unlikely to stimulate the
debate that Britain needs about its place in Europe. Furthermore, the full
meaning of any "no" will remain unclear. Are voters rejecting the treaty, EU
membership or Brown's government?

For all his claims of open-mindedness, the signs are that Brown would prefer to
shut his eyes and shout a defiant "No referendum!", but my suggestion is that he
pursue a two-step strategy which wouldserve both his political and the national
interest. In the first stage, he would be advised to seek parliamentary approval
of the treaty. If he were to lose this vote, he would have to go back to
Brussels to negotiate alternative proposals. If he were to win, he would be
advised - asecond step - to hold a referendum on the big question: "Are you in
favour of withdrawal from the European Union?".

This was roughly the question posed in 1975. There are two reasons for posing it
again: one political, the other ethical. Politically, this is a question that
Brown could win. As an old political bruiser, he will also be aware that a
referendum on EU membership would be a party political nightmare for David
Cameron. The Tory leader claims that he wants a vote, but maybe that is a
cynical position born of a desire to seem to be on the side of the people, while
knowing that Brown is unlikely to agree to a vote. Up to now, Cameron's rather
vague European policies have escaped their smouldering wrath. In a referendum on
EU membership, Cameron, who would likely vote with Brown, would face
embarrassment at best and at worst a splintering of his party and a shot in the
arm for UKIP.

The ethical rationale for an EU referendum is even more important than the
political rationale. It is not healthy in a democracy for people to believe - as
they will, if there is no referendum - that the political classes are a rule
unto themselves, heedless of public opinion, and eager to remove from the
political agenda fundamental constitutional issues. It doesn't matter that the
current proposals change little, and much of what they do change is in Britain's
interest. It matters that people, rightly or wrongly, believe that the EU has
gone too far, too fast and without their proper consultation. For that reason
alone, Britain needs a referendum.

Glyn Morgan is Associate Professor of Government at Harvard and author of 'The
Idea of a European Superstate'

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brown ducks vote on new Euro treaty

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer and Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 527  words


GORDON BROWN last night attempted to rule out a referendum on the new European
Union treaty, despite warnings that it will give sweeping extra powers to
Brussels and pave the way for a superstate.

As details of the deal agreed early yesterday filtered out, experts claimed that
the treaty marked the return of the EU Constitution in all but name.

Brussels has won extra powers in more than 40 areas, including foreign affairs,
defence and immigration.

The Sunday Express today launches a crusade to give the British people a say on
the new treaty in a national referendum, as promised in Labour's last election
manifesto.

In an attempt to head off demands for a vote, Mr Brown said the deal struck by
Tony Blair had protected vital British interests and was no more significant
than previous treaties which had been ratified by Parliament.

In an interview for BBC1's Politics Show to be broadcast today, he added: "On
that basis, like every other treaty that has been negotiated - Nice, Amsterdam,
Maastricht - while many other people will call for a referendum, it seems to me
that we have met our negotiating position.

"People, when they look at the small print, will see that we did what we set out
to do and that was to make sure that in these areas we were properly protected
as a country to make our own decisions when we want to do so."

But the incoming Prime Minister's position was already coming under fire from
all political directions last night as the significance of the deal began to
sink in.

The row threatens to overshadow the start of his Premiership this week and could
drag on until the end of next year - the earliest date by which the treaty could
be approved.

The Tories claimed that the "red lines" protecting British foreign policy from
interference by Brussels were not legally binding and accused Mr Brown of going
back on Labour's referendum pledge.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said it was clear that much of the EU
Constitution had simply been repackaged.

He added: "Blair and Brown have signed up to major shifts of power from Britain
to the EU and major changes in the way the EU works. Given their manifesto
commitment to a referendum on the EU Constitution, the Government has absolutely
no democratic mandate to introduce these major changes without letting the
British people have the final decision in a referendum."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This agreement is a significant
step towards a European superstate, which is what they always intended."

The Liberal Democrats, who backed demands for a referendum on the origina l
constitution in 2005, said they would consider a fresh call for a public vote
after they had examined the new treaty. Former Labour Foreign Secretary Lord
Owen said: "There are deep constitutional questions and to pre-tend otherwise is
absurd."

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso has appealed to EU leaders not
to hold referendums on the treaty for fear it will be rejected, as the original
constitution was in France and Holland in 2005. Denmark and Ireland have to hold
referendums by law and the Dutch government could also be forced to put the new
treaty to a vote.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Brown under fire on new EU treaty

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 430  words


GORDON Brown last night attempted to rule out a referendum on the new European
Union treaty, despite warnings that it will pave the way for a superstate.

As details of the deal agreed yesterday filtered out, experts claimed the treaty
marked the return of the EU Constitution in all but name. Brussels has won extra
powers in more than 40 areas, including foreign affairs, defence and
immigration.

The Sunday Express today launches a crusade to give the British people a say on
the new treaty in a national referendum as promised in Labour's last election
manifesto.

In a bid to head off demands for a vote, Mr Brown said the deal struck by Tony
Blair had protected vital British interests and was no more significant than
previous treaties which had been ratified by Parliament.

In an interview for BBC1's Politics Show to be broadcast today, he added:
"People, when they look at the small print, will see that we did what we set out
to do, and that was to make sure that in these areas we were properly protected
as a country to make our own decisions when we want to do so."

But the incoming Prime Minister's position was coming under fire from all
political directions last night as the significance of the deal began to sink
in.

The Tories claimed the "red lines" protecting foreign policy from interference
were not legally binding and accused Mr Brown of going back on Labour's
referendum pledge. Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said it was clear much
of the constitution had simply been repackaged.

He added: "Blair and Brown have signed up to major shifts of power from Britain
to the EU and major changes in the way the EU works.

"Given their manifesto commitment to a referendum on the EU Constitution, the
Government have absolutely no democratic mandate to introduce these major
changes without letting the British people have the final decision in a
referendum."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This agreement is a significant
step towards a European superstate, which is what they always intended."

The Liberal Democrats, who backed demands for a referendum on the original
constitution in 2005, said they would consider a fresh call for a public vote
after they had examined the new treaty.

Former Labour foreign secretary Lord Owen also backed a referendum, insisting:
"These are deep constitutional questions and to pretend otherwise is absurd."

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso has appealed to EU leaders not
to hold referenda on the treaty for fear it will be rejected, as the original
constitution was in France and Holland in 2005.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Euro deal unravels within hours;
FOCUS - Demand for a ballot as fury mounts over loss of UK powers

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer and Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 8

LENGTH: 963  words


WHEN Tony Blair and his entourage of officials staggered, bleary-eyed and
crumpled, from the negotiating table in Brussels at 6am yesterday, they claimed
a hardwon victory for Britain.

The blueprint for a new EU treaty would, the outgoing Prime Minister insisted,
allow member states to "move on to things which are ultimately far more
important".

But, what, his critics are asking, could be more important than Britain's right
to set its own laws and the British people's right to have their say?

At the end of a gruelling two days of intense talks with the other 26 EU
leaders, Mr Blair said he had struck an agreement which protected our national
interests and met all four of his "red line" demands - the areas where he said
he would refuse to cede more powers to Brussels, including an opt-out on the
Charter of Fundamental Rights guaranteeing EU citizens' human and social rights.

And since the 31-page treaty was but a shadow of the controversial, and far
longer, constitutional treaty agreed three years ago, there remained absolutely
no need for British voters to be given a national referendum on the issue.

But even before Mr Blair had time to board his plane to Rome for the final visit
of his "farewell tour" before leaving office on Wednesday, the deal he had so
carefully constructed was already unravelling behind him.

And, just like the last EU treaty, the threads were easy to pull.

Critics from all sides demanded a referendum on the new deal which cedes a vast
swathe of national powers away from our national government to the EU.

Mr Blair's assertion that his four red lines had been met was dismissed as
nonsense when it emerged that his claim to have won an opt-out of the EU's
Charter of Fundamental Rights would have no legal standing and would leave
Britain open to inteference from the European Court of Justice (ECJ). It could
determine everything from trade union recognition, strike ballots and secondary
picketing, to healthcare and working hours - even down to the rights of children
to do paper rounds and Saturday jobs.

Despite Mr Blair's four red lines - no yielding of the veto on home and criminal
justice affairs, no supremacy over British labour and social laws, no
supplanting of foreign policy sovereignty and no interference in the social
security system - the treaty saw Brussels winning new powers in more than 40
areas, including foreign affairs, defence and immigration.

Some of the fudges designed to hide this fact were so blatant that they were
described by some critics as "an insult to the intelligence of British voters".
They pointed to the fudge over the so-called red line of the creation of an EU
Foreign Minister.

To satisfy the UK's red line, the holder of the job - described in the treaty
blueprint as "the Union minister for foreign affairs" - will instead be called
"high representative of the EU".

However, it is the Charter of Fundamental Rights where Mr Blair's poor
negotiation tactics could see the biggest fallout for ordinary British people.
Under the treaty, the charter will be legally binding on all EU states, but the
UK has an opt-out designed to limit its effect on our own national laws .

Judges at the ECJ insisted that the so-called "safeguards" will not prevent the
charter from altering national law and it will be the ECJ's judges who would
ultimately decide on how to interpret the charter. One EU judge said it would
"renew" member states' labour laws and would be "a basis for challenging
national law".

Jacques Ziller, a professor at the European University Institute in Florence,
said that the idea of one country opting out of the charter was "nonsense" and
would quickly be challenged in the courts. Shadow Foreign Secretary William
Hague said the treaty would be far-reaching, adding: "The EU would now be able
to sign treaties in its own right and, despite any 'opt-ins', the European
Commission and Court of Justice would now have new powers over criminal law.

The EU treaty would also set up a new EU president and diplomatic service". Neil
O'Brien, director of the Open Europe campaign group, said: "When you look at the
detail of what has been agreed, it is clear that this is just the old EU
constitution in everything but name. As the draft stands today, it is almost no
different to the original constitution.

"Tony Blair's last outing in Europe has been an exercise in massive spin and
deception. He and Gordon Brown will claim victory, but it rings utterly
hollow.".

UKIP leader Nigel Farage MEP said: "Labour has a manifesto commitment to give us
a referendum on an EU constitution. Since this document contains at least 90 per
cent of what was in the constitution, not only should there be a referendum but
there will be an insatiable appetite for one. We've just had a 48-hour row in
Brussels but you ain't seen nothing yet."

Hollow or not, yesterday was not the end of the negotiations to bring this new
treaty to life. Rather, it was just the beginning. The EU member states will
start to put meat on the bones of the document, starting with a heads of
government conference in Lisbon next month.

The final draft of the treaty is expected to be completed by the end of the year
but it will still have to ratified by each member state, which is likely to take
another year. The treaty could still be derailed.

Denmark and Ireland are required to hold referendums, while there is likely to
be pressure for a fresh vote in Holland, where the constitution was soundly
rejected in 2005.

Even if Mr Brown resists pressure to hold a ballot in the UK, the treaty will
still require ratification by Parliament, which would be unlikely to happen
before the winter of 2008-09, just months before the next European elections
which are in May 2009 - and when Mr Brown is expected to hold a general
election.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 38 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 23, 2007 Saturday
                                 Fourth Edition

EU agrees mini-treaty as Brown calls on Blair to stiffen his resolve

BYLINE: Andrew Grice and John Lichfield in Brussels

LENGTH: 1101 words


European Union leaders agreed an outline deal on a new mini-treaty early today
after Poland dropped its opposition to a new voting system.

At his last summit, Tony Blair helped to broker an agreement between Poland and
the 26 other EU members. But earlier the Prime Minister was forced to stiffen
his own negotiating position after his successor, Gordon Brown, intervened
directly in a row between Britain and France over the EU's economic policies.

At a heated summit in Brussels, EU leaders eventually settled their differences
over the rules under which the club operates. The main stumbling block was
Poland's attempt to boost its voting power in the Council of Ministers, the EU's
main decision-making body.

In a dramatic move, Germany, which holds the EU's rotating presidency,
threatened to press ahead without Poland. The tactic worked as the Poles
accepted a compromise under which their voting strength will be reduced in 2017
after a three-year transitional period.

Mr Blair and Nicolas Sarkozy, the French President, were closely involved in
persuading the Poles not to scupper the summit. As it drew to a close, Mr Blair
claimed victory early today after winning amendments to a draft treaty drawn up
by Germany - including opt-outs for Britain from the EU's Charter of Fundamental
Rights and co-operation on criminal justice matters. His official spokesman said
a referendum on the treaty would not be needed because the Prime Minister had
secured all his objectives.

An already difficult summit was made even more problematic for Mr Blair when he
received a mid-afternoon telephone call from Mr Brown, who was monitoring the
talks from London. The Chancellor was concerned when details emerged of a
trade-off between Mr Blair and M Sarkozy, who secured the removal of the EU's
50-year commitment to "free and undistort-ed" competition from a list of values
in the "mini-treaty". That could have weakened the EU's internal market and
attempts by Brussels to stamp out protectionist measures, illegal state aid and
cartels.

In an unusual move, Mr Brown made clear his unhappiness to Mr Blair after being
briefed on the negotiations by Jon Cunliffe, the Treasury's second permanent
secretary, who was part of the British negotiating team at the summit. Mr
Cunliffe will become Mr Brown's European adviser next week.

At lunchtime, Mr Blair was happy with his deal with the French President and his
spokesman said French "sensitivities" could be addressed. But Mr Brown's
intervention forced him to return to the negotiating table. A legally binding
protocol stressing the EU's belief in competition was then added to the
"mini-treaty" after talks involving Mr Blair, M Sarkozy and José Manuel Barroso,
the European Commission president.

Commission sources gave a different version of events, saying Mr Barroso was
unhappy with M Sarkozy's proposal and was seeking changes before Mr Brown's
involvement.

Last night Mr Blair sidestepped questions on whether the Chancellor was happy
with the deal. He admitted he would have preferred the commitment to free
competition to remain in the new treaty, but said he had to negotiate to
safeguard Britain's four "red lines".

"I am afraid that is what happens when you are in a negotiation," he said. "You
can't have it both ways." But he insisted guarantees of a free market in the
EU's founding Treaty of Rome will be unaffected.

Mr Blair's other two no-go areas were maintaining the veto on social security
and tax matters and limiting the role of the EU's new foreign affairs chief. He
will be called the High Representative rather than the Foreign minister, as
proposed in the constitution rejected in referendums in France and the
Netherlands.

M Sarkozy will return to Paris with either a meaningless, cosmetic change in the
language of the EU treaty or a radical shift away from Europe's commitment to
free competition and trade, depending on your viewpoint.

Summit diary

How Ukip failed to get a brush-by with their Latvian inflatable bulldozer

Every summit produces a new piece of jargon. Yesterday Tony Blair and Nicolas
Sarkozy conducted something called a "brush-by".

Not a "brush-off " (negative) nor a "brush-with" (very negative). A brush-by is
more than a handshake , less than a chat "in the margins" and much less than a
"bilateral".

In other words, the encounter between two was pre-planned but they spoke for
only a few minutes standing in a corridor, rather than sitting in a room.
Unnoticed by the Eurosceptic press, the pound has joined the euro. No fanfare.
No explosion of wounded national pride. Just a quiet welcome from the German
Chancellor, Angela Merkel.

Gordon Brown need not fear. The pound in question is the Cypriot pound. Along
with Malta, Cyprus will join the euro from the new year.

The summit site, the sprawling Justus Lipsius building, was surrounded by a
fearsome tangle of barbed wire. Guarding these defences were scores of admirably
relaxed and friendly Belgian policemen and women wearing combat suits and
baseball caps.

One blonde policewoman in her 40s (at least) defended a section of the wire
single-handed. She was wearing her revolver, a truncheon and about a metric
tonne of bling. At one point she held a cigarette in one hand and ate an
ice-cream with the other.

All the same, the Belgian police took security very seriously. Demonstrators and
protesters were corralled in a "zone of free expression" 100 metres from the
summit building. Yesterday morning, nobody was there. Protest is not dead,
however. The UK Independence Party leader, Nigel Farage, turned up on the first
day of the summit with an inflatable bulldozer. He was almost arrested

The police pointed out that he failed to obtain a permit from the Brussels town
hall to enter the free expression zone. Mr Farage said: "What kind of free
expression is it if you can't use it? I was simply trying to get the message
across that we are being bulldozed into a federal Europe and we want it to
stop." It's been a bad summit for Mr Farage. He was also thrown out of a Downing
Street press briefing on the grounds that he is not a journalist.

Ukip bought its inflatable bulldozer in Latvia for £7,000. Why Latvia? "Because
Latvia is known as the best place in Europe for inflatable bulldozers," a Ukip
spokesman said.

There you are then, The European Union and its single market is a triumph,
whatever Ukip may say. What has Europe ever given us, they ask incessantly? One
answer (among many): "Cheap Latvian inflatable bulldozers".

Overheard: A British Labour MEP muttered: "It is not true that Tony Blair has
red lines that he won't cross. He only has Brown lines."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 22, 2007 Friday

Do a deal now or face rejection in a referendum, Blair warns EU

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield and George Jones in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 689 words


TONY Blair warned other EU leaders last night that plans for a revamped European
constitution would be derailed by a likely "no'' vote in a referendum in Britain
if they push him too far at his final summit.

As he arrived in Brussels, the Prime Minister came under fresh pressure from
Germany to water down his demand that a new charter of human, civil and social
rights should not be made legally binding on Britain.

While Downing Street has insisted that a referendum will not be needed on a
treaty which falls short of a fully fledged constitution, his successor, Gordon
Brown, has kept open the possibility of allowing the British people the final
say.

Mr Blair insisted that he was not putting forward a "pick and mix'' menu of
options. He must get 100 per cent, not 90 per cent of his demands.

Officials said his blunt message to fellow leaders would be "Do you want a deal
or not?''

The former constitution stalled after it was rejected by voters in France and
the Netherlands two years ago.

Mr Blair said a treaty that required a British plebiscite would mean further
delay and, as if seemed likely, it was voted down, the EU would be "back at
square one''.

"This is going to be a very tough negotiation,'' he said as he arrived at the
summit centre.

Britain, he said, had laid down four "red lines'' where he would not cede
national control - foreign policy, the judicial and police system, tax and
social security rules, and an EU charter of fundamental rights. "Of course we
want to make sure that Europe works more effectively. We have almost double the
number of countries in Europe today and we need to get this resolved,'' he said.

"The four areas we have set down we do need satisfied and satisfied in full.''

After the first round of talks over dinner ended after 11pm, there was little
sign of movement.

British officials said that the leaders of the Netherlands, France and Poland
had raised objections as well as Mr Blair. "It is not just a case of dropping
the word constitution. There has to be real change,'' Mr Blair's spokesman said.

Mr Blair, who steps down next week, spoke before leaving London with Angela
Merkel, the German Chancellor, who is chairing the summit. Mr Brown sat in on
the three-way call.

Officials predict a marathon session to drag on beyond the scheduled two days.
Mr Blair, however, is determined to leave tomorrow in time to fly to Rome for an
audience with the Pope.

Tensions flared outside the summit venue when Nigel Farage, the UK Independence
Party leader, was threatened with arrest after attempting to hold a referendum
protest. Belgian police confiscated a giant inflatable bulldozer bearing the
slogan "clearing the way for the EU Constitution''. "This is the shape of things
to come if Britain continues to surrender vetoes on justice,'' said Mr Farage.

Mrs Merkel said the time had come for an agreement on the future of the EU but
she would be sensitive to the concerns of countries, such as Britain, over a new
treaty.

"The people not only in Europe but all over the world expect us to bring this to
a conclusion,'' she said. "Each and every country will be taken very seriously
as regards their concerns.''

Jose Manuel Barroso, the EU president, urged Britain not to hold a referendum on
any new treaty agreed at the summit.

He said it was up to the British people but he could not see why the country
which exported democracy to the world would not respect its own Parliament.

Britain, Poland, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands are posing most of the
obstacles and have threatened to block parts of the package that might weaken
their national sovereignty.

Britain opposes greater EU powers over policing and foreign policy and does not
support making a new EU human rights charter legally binding.

President Nicolas Sarkozy of France shocked the EU leaders at a dinner last
night by demanding that a reference to the free market be cut from a new treaty,
claiming that was what frightened French voters into a referendum rejection of
the constitution two years ago.

He is insisting that the wording be cut in any new treaty while backing an EU
"right to strike'' in the human rights charter.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday

The Beeb can't be cured of its Left-wing bias - so sell it off

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1180 words


It is impossible to write about the BBC without emotion intruding. The
institution is part of the memory of almost all of us, from our earliest days,
and part of our folk memory. Among the voices echoing from infancy one is
saying: "The time is a quarter to two, and it is time for Listen with Mother.''
Or, if you prefer, another says: "This is the BBC Home Service. Here is the
news, and this is Alvar Liddell reading it.'' We care about the BBC so much not
merely because we all pay for it, but because we drank it in with our mother's
milk.

We came into this world with the BBC being both the kindly aunt of legend, and
the voice of authority. It defined a national identity, though not one that
would be considered correct now. Later today, the director general, Mark
Thompson, is outlining some sort of "mission statement'' for the future of the
corporation. We must await that with interest, but be prepared to take serious
issue with it.

As my colleague Damian Thompson wrote on these pages yesterday, a substantial
report on impartiality, written by an intelligent former BBC producer, John
Bridcut, has just been published. Mr Bridcut has had a wide brief. The report
deals not merely with standard arguments about political bias, whether in
dealing with domestic or foreign issues, but with such matters as whether
Scotland was given sufficient square footage on a new map used for the weather
forecast, or the equitable programming of styles of classical music.

It has come to some refreshingly honest conclusions, notably about the urge the
liberal consensus at the BBC has to jump on bandwagons - such as not questioning
the assumptions behind Bob Geldof's analysis of how to rectify poverty, or
admissions that certain foreign correspondents, like the over-excitable Gavin
Esler in dealing with questions about America, lose all pretence of objectivity
from time to time.

Yet there is also a claim in the report that seems to me so self-deluding as to
risk rendering it worthless. Discussing an attack on the BBC a few months ago by
the editor of the Daily Mail, who had accused the corporation of being "in every
corpuscle of its corporate body, against the values of conservatism'', the
report rather too smugly observes: "This is the latest of several accusations of
a political conspiracy levelled by those on the Right - a notion which few who
have worked at the BBC would recognise.'' I may not know as many ex-BBC people
as Mr Bridcut, for I have never worked there, but it has always surprised me
how, once they are out of the organisation, so many inmates find it easy to
admit that a prevailing wind of Leftism blew strongly, and, if they wished to
remain in productive work, they knew it was best to sail with it.

That the BBC is institutionally Leftist is nowhere better shown than in two
examples in the report. The BBC was quick, in the decades after Lord Reith, to
accept the nostrums of the post-war consensus. The consensus decided monetarism
was absurd, and therefore the BBC never took it seriously. Now, a variant of the
doctrine long advocated by such shallow men as Milton Friedman and Enoch Powell
is practised by Gordon Brown. Therefore the BBC no longer disdains it.

Similarly, only fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists (to use a phrase of David
Cameron's) were thought to be against the European Union. Therefore, the BBC
barely noted the existence of UKIP before the 2004 European elections, in which
it did well. That, too, has changed, but late in the day, and after the facts
made it inevitable. It is not the BBC's job to follow what it defines as
opinion; it should fairly reflect various views according to their weight in our
public discourse.

Impartiality, though, is but one of the problems facing the corporation. Far
worse, I would argue, is its lack of ambition on behalf of its audience. I do
not mean in terms of investing, or coming up with wheezes, or finding ways to
cover great events on whatever part of the globe they happen to occur: I mean
the corporation's subscribing to the apparent assumption that its audience is
bovine, almost devoid of curiosity and bereft of any general knowledge.

Lately I have watched episodes of "flagship'' programmes that seek to raise
"serious'' issues or (as Lord Reith put it) to inform, educate and entertain the
public. Slickly produced, they are usually superficial, gimmick-led and almost
entirely lacking in insight.

An exception is the BBC's wildlife programmes, in a class of their own because
they are often made by one of the Titans of the age when the BBC made truly
intelligent television, Sir David Attenborough. He commissioned Civilisation,
which you had better buy on DVD as I imagine we might wait a while to see it
again on BBC2. It is hard to imagine such a nakedly elitist series - though it
was a representation of elitism that drew in millions every week precisely
because the public does wish to learn, and likes not having its intelligence
insulted - being commissioned today: or something like its predecessor The Great
War, or its successor, Jacob Bronowski's The Ascent of Man.

There is a lesson here from the impartiality report. It is not the obvious one
that intelligent people should have programmes made for them, too: it is that,
just as the BBC allows itself to be hijacked by Leftist, right-on campaigning
causes or political issues, it also allows itself to be hijacked by the agenda
of the uneducated. This is as sad, as dangerous and as destructive as any form
of political bias, of which it is the bastard child.

The so-called Right in this country knows the BBC is under the sway of Leftists.
That is precisely why David Cameron, in an "if you can't beat them, join them''
moment, has decided to alter his party's agenda in an attempt to prevent the BBC
from giving him a hard time (it worked for a while, but not, I fear, any more).
And since the report refuses to admit that many in the BBC work to an implicit
liberal-Left agenda, are politically motivated just as much as I, as a newspaper
columnist, am, and see no reason why these things shouldn't be the case, it is
clear nothing will change.

With digital broadcasting and the internet, the case for the BBC is highly
questionable. So is the case for impartiality. It is time to let a thousand
flowers bloom. The need for political balance and all other forms of
impartiality should be ended. If someone wants to set up a Marxist channel that
talks only about Scotland, let him. The market will decide, and that, given the
feasibility now of real choice, is how it should be. Our public service
broadcaster should be reduced to a news service on both wireless and television,
and provide one or two other things that are a public good but that the market
can only debase by providing - such as Radio 3 and, perhaps, BBC 4. Sell the
rest off, and use the proceeds to cut our taxes.

I know this offends all our sentimentalities about the dear old Beeb; but its
institutional Leftism is incurable. The dogs have been barking ever since the
dawn of the digital age, and it is time the caravan moved on.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday

BBC admits its PC bias has left it out of touch

SECTION: 1ST

LENGTH: 535 words


THE BBC is out of touch with large swathes of the public and guilty of
'unconscious self-censorship' on issues it finds unpalatable, its own report has
suggested.

The 80-page analysis of the corporation's approach to impartiality reveals that
viewers are 'frustrated' by its political correctness and warns that if they do
not feel that the BBC is reflecting their lives and attitudes, they will lose
faith in it.

The review was commissioned by the BBC and written by independent
programme-maker John Bridcut.

In it, the BBC's controller of editorial policy, David Jordan, admits that
viewers felt the broadcaster was sometimes guilty of a 'bias of omission' by not
covering their opinions.

Roger Mosey, its former head of television news and now head of sport, is quoted
as saying the corporation displays 'fairly overt support' for multiculturalism.

He recalled a news item about ethnic communities becoming the majority in parts
of East London, where a reporter had told him that they had 'worked really hard'
to find a white resident who was happy with the situation.

And director of news Helen Boaden admitted that she had conversations with
journalists who thought 'you could not say nasty things' about black people even
if they are true.

But research for the report found that even ethnic minorities felt that
political correctness had gone too far.

Others said it was diluting comedy and entertainment at the broadcaster and
complained of a 'restrictive mindset'.

The report singled out hit sitcom

The Vicar Of Dibley and a season of programmes on Africa. An episode of The
Vicar Of Dibley featured Dawn French promoting the Make Poverty History
campaign.

'The implication was that the cause wasuniversal and uncontroversial, whereas
the Make Poverty History website made clear that it had contentious political
goals,' the report said.

Nowhere in the episode was it pointed out that the writer Richard Curtis was
himself spearheading the campaign.

The report also quoted a senior BBC executive as saying that impartiality in the
Africa season was 'as safe as a bloodbank in the hands of Dracula'.

The report noted that the BBC had 'come late' to several important stories in
recent years, including Euroscepticism and immigration which were 'off limits'
in terms of a 'liberal-minded comfort zone'.

It suggested that the broadcaster had been late in picking up on 'pavement
politics' such as concern over the loss of weekly rubbish collections and had
been 'caught on the hop' by the success of UKIP in the 2004 elections.

It warned of the dangers of an 'institutional bias' in favour of stories
generated by parliament rather than those with populist roots.

The review claims that the BBC's editorial advisory department and its recently
formed College of Journalism need an extended role so that impartiality is
addressed much earlier in the production process.

It claims that impartiality should remain the 'hallmark' of the BBC and said the
balanced nature of its reporting was an 'essential part' of the BBC's contract
with its audience.

The report makes a series of 12 recommendations, or 'guiding principles', which
have been approved and adopted by the corporation.

Comment - Page 12 'You can't say nasty things'

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 17, 2007

It's Back! Just when you though it was safe to govern yourself

BYLINE: David Smith, Nicola Smith and Isabel Oakeshott

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2664 words


This week the EU will try to reach a deal on a reheated constitution.

David Smith, Nicola Smith and Isabel Oakeshott report

When Margaret Beckett, the foreign secretary, sits down for dinner tonight in
Luxembourg with her 26 European Union colleagues, she will fire Britain's
opening shot in what promises to be a bitter week-long battle over the future of
Europe.

The dinner, in a dull conference centre, will not be the most glamorous event
Beckett has attended and it could be one of her last: she is not expected to
survive in the position once Gordon Brown takes over as prime minister on June
27.

The meal for foreign ministers marks the unofficial start of this week's EU
summit (things officially get under way in Brussels on Thursday) and on the
table is a reheated version of the European constitution proposed three years
ago and scuppered by French and Dutch voters 12 months later.

What Britain agrees to sign up to will do much to determine the success or
otherwise of Brown's first year in office. More than that, say critics, it could
go down in history as a crucial juncture in the development of a European
superstate.

By Thursday, Britain's fate will be firmly in the hands of Tony Blair, attending
what will be his last EU summit as prime minister. Germany, the country most
keen on the constitution and a federal Europe, is host of the event and is
expected to make a fuss of him.

Three months ago Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, presented Jacques Chirac,
the outgoing French president, with an antique commemorative beer mug, dating
from the time when Napoleon was fighting in Egypt. Blair, after 10 years in
power, can also look forward to something to put on the mantelpiece - and
perhaps much more besides.

Yesterday it was confirmed that Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, has
discussed with Merkel and other EU leaders the idea of making Blair the EU's
first full-time president. It is a role that Blair, who has long honed a
presidential demeanour, would surely covet. It is a job that - with the right
powers attached - could arguably make him more influential on the world stage
than the British prime minister.

Yet the job of full-time European president does not exist and will not exist
unless Blair signs Britain up to the reworked constitution this week. The
question is, can he do it without selling Britain and his mate Gordon down the
river?

A blueprint of the proposals circulated by Merkel on Thursday outlined the
battles to come by including a six-point list of unresolved issues.

Her gambit put Eurosceptics on the back foot by pledging to protect "much of the
substance" of the failed constitution rejected two years ago and making it clear
that she had the support of the majority of the 27-nation bloc to revive it.

True, it is no longer being called a constitution, that being regarded as too
provocative, but many see her "treaty on the functioning of the union" as a
constitution in all but name.

Anybody who doubts that only had to listen to Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the
former French president who headed the convention that drew up the original
document.

"The name is not important," he told The Sunday Times in an interview last week.

Giscard criticised the way the new treaty had been cobbled together "in such a
hurry" and warned that "public opinion in our countries will think that European
affairs are being conducted behind their backs".

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence party, put it more bluntly: "In
essence this EU treaty will contain the provisions of the failed constitution
but drop the C-word itself. It is all an exercise in deceit."

That may overstate it, but there is no doubt that the new document contains
traps for Britain. Top of the list of problems for Blair is a German plan to
keep the "legally binding character" of the charter of fundamental rights as a
"cross-reference" in the new treaty.

Britain opposes this as it would make the right to

strike enforceable in European courts and undermine other UK laws. But most
member states, including the 18 who ratified the original constitution, strongly
support it.

A further potential blow to Britain's interests is a proposed clause that would
give the

EU a "single legal personality", allowing it to join international organisations
or sign international agreements and, say constitutional experts, thus weaken
the role of nation states.

Ironically, any ambitious future president of the EU would, one presumes, be
keen to see this clause implemented as it would significantly extend his powers.

After an initial discussion of Merkel's blueprint at the foreign ministers'
dinner tonight, the most sensitive issues will be left to EU leaders on
Thursday, when they gather for what is already being described as a
"three-shirt" summit, with the expectation that talks will drag on well into the
weekend.

"Croissants at dawn are likely on Saturday," said one EU diplomat.

WHILE Blair will be in Brussels negotiating the new treaty, Brown will be biting
his fingernails in his Scottish constituency, wondering whether he will be
inheriting a poisoned chalice.

"The main difference between them is that one can walk away from whatever is
decided, while the other will have to deliver," said one Whitehall observer.

"Blair only has to worry about his legacy - and it wouldn't be a huge part of
that anyway - whereas Brown has the potential nightmare of pushing it all
through."

Although some commentators speculated last week that a final Blair-Brown bust up
was in the offing, the evidence suggests that the two men are as one on the
issue of the new treaty and have agreed that Britain should at least appear to
give away little.

Indeed, some suspect that the only reason Blair has left it this long to leave
Downing Street is to protect Brown from the political fallout that inevitably
follows any significant EU summit. The strategy all along, say this camp, has
been to fix things so that Brown starts as prime minister with as few thorny
issues as possible to deal with and a full stock of political capital.

A senior Foreign Office official who has sat in on the weekly strategy meetings
on the constitution, which started as long ago as Christmas, said: "I have been
really impressed with the way they have worked together on this. For once they
are both on the same page."

The bottom line for Brown, he added, was to avoid having to hold a referendum on
the treaty at all costs. "We can't have one, because we'd lose. It's that's
simple," admitted a Brown aide.

The Conservatives, in contrast, will almost certainly call for a referendum on
the issue no matter what decisions are made, but Brown's camp are determined to
tough it out.

"How can the Tories call for a referendum on this, when they voted against
holding a referendum on the Maastricht treaty, which contained far more
extensive changes? I cannot see how their position can change so dramatically,"
said Geoff Hoon, the minister for Europe.

The fear is that this will not cut much ice with voters or with the Eurosceptic
press. Open Europe, a non-party think tank, says the creation of permanent EU
president and a single foreign policy representative carries big implications.

Neil O'Brien, the organisation's director, said: "This isn't just about a change
of name. These would be very powerful new posts and mean that decisions over
crucial foreign policy issues would be increasingly taken in Brussels."

Blair and Brown have repeatedly set out their "red lines" on the treaty,
claiming they will not give up the British veto on foreign policy, employment
and criminal law, or allow the charter of fundamental rights to creep into
British law. "In relation to the European charter, I will agree to nothing that
allows Europe to alter

our laws without the consent

of this house," Blair told MPs last week.

It was a sweeping statement that left experts little the wiser as to where he
might be prepared to compromise. Perhaps not surprisingly, his aides have not
been prepared to elaborate on precisely what will and will not be negotiable.

Yet close observers of summits fear that a sleep-deprived Blair, under intense
pressure from other member states and with an eye to his legacy, could still
cave in early on Saturday.

"If I were Gordon, I would be very worried that Blair will agree to something in
the heat of the moment that he did not intend," said Sir Christopher Meyer, a
summit regular when at the Foreign Office. "The potential domestic political
ramifications for Gordon are huge.

"You have to have a bottom line and stick to it. You have to be prepared to be
isolated."

In the past week Hoon has been dispatched for meetings with his French and Dutch
counterparts, as well as representatives from the Polish government. The aim is
to ensure that the summit succeeds, or at least that the blame is shared if it
fails.

Britain, along with the Czech Republic, Holland and Poland, forms a gang of four
countries seen to be "troublesome" by the 18 countries who have already ratified
the constitution. The Poles are the true wild card and there is little desire in
Brussels to appease them. While Britain's main interests have been included in
Merkel's list, the Poles' main gripe

over voting rights is a glaring omission.

In the past few weeks the ruling Kaczynski brothers have been brandishing the
surreal battle cry "square root or die" - a reference to the new voting system
demand by Warsaw that would see votes calculated on the basis of a country's
inhabitants in relation to its surface area.

The Kaczynksis face widespread opposition to opening the complicated question of
voting rights over fears that this will unravel everything and scupper a quick
agreement.

"If the Poles stand firm then it will be the biggest threat to the deal. What
the Poles want is what nobody else wants. It is very difficult to see a game or
trade-off," said Jacki Davis of the European Policy Centre.

"Tony Blair wants a deal next week but if there is no deal then he will go to
strenuous efforts to make sure the Poles get the blame."

The Czechs, who support Warsaw, are expected to cave in during summit talks, as
are the Dutch, who want the guarantee of a "red card" for their parliament to be
able to veto EU laws.

Blair, despite his desire to go out on a high note in Europe, might have to
accept failure. "It is perfectly possible that the divisions over the content of
this treaty will simply be too great," a senior Foreign Office official
admitted.

Denis MacShane, the former Europe minister, believes it is highly unlikely that
the prime minister can pull off a genuine coup. "Each time I went with Tony
Blair into that concrete blockhaus in Brussels he groaned," MacShane said. "They
might as well have inscribed 'Abandon good spirits all ye who enter here' over
its glass revolving door.

"Each one of the 27 national leaders enters thinking he or she will emerge with
a big victory. They never do, despite their bravura playing to the national
galleries back home. Compromise and mutual concession is the dirty little secret
at the heart of Europe."

Even for Blair, this EU treaty may be a compromise too far. But Charles Grant,
director of the Centre for European Reform, says that even if Britain manages to
head off pressure for significant treaty changes this year, the issue will
return to haunt Brown.

"There are some people in Belgium and Luxembourg who think it would be
outrageous for Britain not to accept things we've signed up to in the past," he
said. "Even if there is a willingness to get this one out of the way, this is
not the end of treaty change in Europe."

Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European commission, last week urged Blair
to "have the courage" to stand up to British public opinion and sign the treaty:
"We have to stand up in front of our national public opinions, not give up to
some of the populisms we have in our member states."

THE WHYS AND WHEREFORES OF A EUROPEAN CONSTITION

Q. The EU constitution was supposed to have been killed off two years ago when
French and Dutch voters rejected it. Why is it back?

A. EU leaders promised to try to push through changes despite the referendum
"no" votes. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said she would make this one
of the priorities of her country's six-month presidency of the EU, which started
in January.

Q. It is not called a constitution any more, so are the proposed changes only
minor?

A. Some symbolic ideas have been abandoned, including enshrining Beethoven's Ode
to Joy as an EU national anthem and formally adopting the EU flag. It will be
called a "treaty on the functioning of the union" rather than a constitution.
But experts say it retains 90% of the original proposals and Valery Giscard
d'Estaing, the former French president and drafter of the constitution, said the
public was being persuaded to adopt the constitution's proposals "without
knowing it".

Q. What are the proposals?

A. Some, which have been accepted by Tony Blair and appear acceptable to Gordon
Brown, include the appointment by EU leaders of a permanent EU president of the
council of ministers. He or she will have responsibility for arranging summits
and pushing the agenda forward. The current six-month revolving presidency,
shared by member states, will stop. The EU will also have a single foreign
policy representative, although he or she will represent Europe only on issues
upon which all countries agree. Countries will lose automatic entitlement to
have an EU commissioner, cutting the number from 27 to 15. More areas of EU
policy will be subject to majority voting, preventing countries from using their
blocking powers.

Q. Does that mean Britain will be forced to adopt policies even if the
government objects?

A. In some cases, but there are likely to be UK opt-outs on justice, home
affairs and rights for migrant workers. Britain will object to any attempt to
make foreign and security policy subject to majority voting.

Q. What are the real sticking points?

A. The treaty aims to give the EU its own legal status or "personality", meaning
it could enter into treaties with other countries in its own right. Germany is
attempting to sneak the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty by giving
it legal force.

Q. What is in the charter of fundamental rights?

A. Potentially a great deal. It could allow unions to challenge Britain's labour
laws by providing new minimum standards on working conditions, including holiday
entitlements, the right to strike and rest periods. It could also impose new
burdens on the National Health Service, giving everybody the right to preventive
healthcare and increasing the scope for legal action over the quality of
treatment. It could increase social security entitlements, particularly for EU
workers in other countries. Some clauses ostensibly aimed at preventing eugenics
could impose restrictions on IVF clinics, the paying of sperm and egg donors and
the use of embryos.

Q. If Britain objects to these things, will the new treaty be abandoned?

A. Eighteen EU members ratified the old constitution and four more were ready to
do so. France and Holland know they cannot go back to voters with what looks
like a reheated constitution. Poland is angry about changes that will reduce its
voting power and the Czech Republic is sceptical. Britain is in a minority but
not alone.

The "maximalists", who want the old constitution, may back down to get a
small-scale treaty agreed.

Q. Will there have to be a referendum in Britain?

A. Brown will avoid it at all costs, arguing that EU treaty changes have never
required UK referendums in the past. But critics will say that even the changes
Britain is prepared to sign up to represent a significant step towards a
superstate.

Sunday Times-YouGov Poll

Who should decide whether Britain backs a new European Union treaty?

UK parliament 17%

Voters in a referendum 70%

Don't know 13%

Would you vote for or against a new treaty?

For 21%

Against 43%

Would not vote 3%

Don't know 33%

YouGov surveyed a representative sample of 1,753 voters, online, on June 14 15

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Now flirting with the barmaid is outlawed

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 520  words


PUB landlords who let customers flirt with the barmaids could face legal action
under Labour's new equality laws.

Staff subjected to dirty jokes, suggestive comments, or even j ust asked out on
a date by customers could haul bosses w ho fail to intervene in front of an
employment tribunal.

Barmaids and waitresses w hodo not like male customers calling them "love" could
even have a case.

Employment lawyers last night warned the new rules in Labour's Single Equality
Bill w ould create a legal minefield for businesses that deal with the public.

Pubs, restaurants, shops and airlines are among the sectors likely to be worst
hit.

Bob Cotton, chief executive of the British Hospitality A ssociation, which
represents thousands of restaurants and hotels, said: "You would like to think
common sense would prevail, but sadly it doesn't always work that way.

"The trouble is one person's harmless banter is another person's sexual
harassment.

Y oucould suddenly find y ourself with an incident on y our hands with the
employer stuck in the middle."

The move follows a court j udgement in March which ruled that Britain's equality
laws did not comply with the latest EU directive.

Until now women have only been able to take action for harassment by fellow
staff or managers. Equality Minister Ruth Kelly has now said British law will be
changed to bring it in line with Brussels.

The Discrimination Law Review, published last week, would also force employers
to protect staff from unwanted banter about age or sexuality.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "If I can't flirt with
the barmaid and have a cigarette at the bar then it's hardly worth going to the
pub at all."

The Equal Opportunities Commission, which brought the case, said the aim was to
stop serious sexual harassment.

It said harassment was "a particular problem in the hotel and restaurant sector,
" which employs 670,000 women.

A spokesman said: "If a barmaid is having her bottom pinched by a regular at the
bar then I think it is reasonable to expect the manager to intervene."

Jon Loney, an employment specialist at law firm Foot Anstey, said: "Where it is
something overt, such as a punter touching a member of staff, they should be
intervening even if there is no complaint. In more marginal cases employers must
take action if they get a complaint.

"It could be dirty jokes or a customer repeatedly asking a member of staff out.
If an employee appears uncomfortable then the employer would be advised to
intervene, even if there is no complaint.

"In a workplace where there is a culture of banter you can see that if an
employer is too slow to step in they could find themselves in trouble."

Employers already have a duty to protect staff, but the new law will make it
easier for staff to bring claims for harassment. This will be defined as
unwanted conduct that "violates another person's dignity or creates an
intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment".

A Communities and Local Government spokeswoman said: "It is about tackling
employers who fail to act when they know that persistent harassment is taking
place."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER ZONE: Pub landlords could find themselves in trouble if their
staff are offended by the way customers behave

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 17, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Opponents of EU treaty accused of being terrorists

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 530  words


EUROSCEPTICS have been branded "terrorists" just days before Tony Blair flies to
Brussels to smuggle in the new EU constitution by the back door.

The Italian President, Giorgio Napolitano, told a news conference in Siena
"those who are anti EU are terrorists".

And he attacked Eurosceptics who warn that the new EU treaty will go too far in
eroding the powers of member states, saying: "It is psychological terrorism to
suggest the spectre of a European superstate."

His comments emerged as EU foreign ministers gather in Luxembourg today to
negotiate the new treaty to replace the failed EU constitution, ahead of a
summit of EU leaders in Brussels on Thursday.

Ahead of what will be his last major political event before he hands over to
Gordon Brown, Mr Blair has been forced to deny widespread claims he will seek to
sign up to a new treaty.

The previous deal was doomed after being rejected by French and Dutch voters in
referendums in 2005. Downing Street issued a list of Britain's "red line" issues
where Mr Blair will refuse to hand over powers to Brussels, such as the veto on
criminal justice and labour law and Britain's seat on the UN Security Council.

But the Government still refuses to offer British voters a referendum on the
treaty. Critics say Mr Blair is, like most other EU leaders, determined to bring
the failed EU constitution in by the back door by simply renaming the document
as an "amending treaty" and slimming down its original 500 pages.

Campaigners for national referendums on the proposed treaty were left outraged
when President Napolitano spoke out last Monday alongside the German President,
Horst Kohler, who nodded in agreement. Mr Kohler also described the tactics of
Eurosceptics as "populistic, demagogic campaigning".

The words of the two men were seen by many as a thinly-veiled attempt to link
Euroscepticism with the populism of the fascist regimes of Hitler and Mussolini.

Mr Blair's claim that the new treaty is not simply a re-hash of the rejected
constitution were dismissed by Eurosceptic campaigners, who pointed to the
statements of other European politicians in recent weeks.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, in a letter to fellow leaders, revealed last
week that most countries wanted to keep the "substance" of the constitution.

And former French president Valery Giscard d'Estaing, a key architect of the EU
constitution, said: "I am strongly opposed to a mutilated treaty. The European
Council must establish a clear road map and a clear mandate to achieve the
process for the ratification of the constitutional treaty."

Meanwhile, the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, has said that
"closeddoor negotiations among the 27 EU governments were making progress in
deciding what to do with the constitution", adding: "Everyone wants to push this
forward."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage MEP said: "These comments are appalling and show
clearly why we should not be in a political union with them.

"This treaty will have enormous adverse implications for Britain, yet it is just
being bulldozed through. Blair will sign away our future - just days before he
leaves No 10 - and his legacy will be a hand grenade with the pin pulled out."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Business

                                 June 16, 2007

Eurosceptic backlash could benefit Brown in the long run

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson

LENGTH: 854 words


Perhaps the best explanation of how the European Union (EU) operates was given
just over two years ago by Jean-Claude Juncker, the prime minister of
Luxembourg. "We decide on something, then we leave it lying around and wait and
see what happens," he said, just before he took over the rotating EU presidency.
"If no one kicks up a fuss, because most people don't know what has been
decided, we continue step by step until there is no turning back." So there was
have it: the EU's mission is the accumulation of power by stealth.

The problem now is that the European public and business communities are only
too aware of what the EU is up to. The failure of its proposed constitution, at
the hands of the French and Dutch electorates in 2005, could hardly have been
more spectacular.

But before the French referendum, Juncker cheerfully warned what was in store.
"If it's a 'Yes', we will say 'on we go' and if it's a 'No' we will say 'we
continue'." In precisely this spirit, the EU has set down an "amending treaty",
which Tony Blair will likely sign at the Brussels summit next Thursday.

Blair's parting gift to his successor is a stick of European dynamite. The
outline of the treaty is now fairly clear, and it is precisely an attempt to
sneak through the main parts of the constitution without holding a referendum.
There is to be an EU foreign minister, a permanent EU president and an end to
the automatic right of the smaller states to have a commissioner. Finally, and
most importantly, a new voting system will make it harder for the UK to escape
EU directives.

This is the point that is of most concern to British business. One of the
reasons that London is buzzing as a financial centre and Britain's economy has
outpaced the eurozone is that the UK government has negotiated so many opt-outs,
including

from the working time directive. And, it

has to be said, this is mainly thanks to

Gordon Brown's intransigence. Britain is also protected from some of the wackier
clauses of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (Mifid).

These successes have been achieved due to Britain's ability to assemble a
relatively small number of like-minded allies. Under the new voting system
proposed by the EU constitution, and being revived as part of the new Foundation
Treaty (its working title), Britain would find it harder to escape. A study by
academics at the London School of Economics shows Britain would lose about 30%
of its voting power. So it is a clear case of sovereignty transfer - and that
makes an equally clear case for a referendum.

"If there are further steps to European integration, the people should have
their say at a general election or in a referendum," wrote the young Blair,
three months before he became prime minister.

One might expect Brown to say the same thing today. He is more eurosceptic than
he is given credit for, and is explicitly coming to power on a promise to make
government more accountable. No more of these backroom deals, no more
Blair-style diktats from the Number 10 sofa. Yet the first thing he will have to
do in office is defend what the Tories will denounce as a euro stitch-up.

Yet the British public, if asked, would almost certainly refuse to grant the EU
any more powers over the country. The latest Eurobarometer report, the biggest
mass opinion survey in the world, shows just 34% of Brits consider EU membership
to be "a good thing". Just 25% say they "tend to trust" the EU, against 48% for
EU members in total. For both of these issues - and the idea of an EU foreign
policy and, indeed, an EU constitution - Britain emerges as the most defiantly
eurosceptic member of the 27-nation bloc.

So the bitter truth for Blair is that there is something deeply un-British about
his europhilia. He never saw it that way, clinging to the belief that he could
talk Britain around. Brown is unlikely to suffer such delusions. He will know a
referendum is equivalent to a British veto, and - ergo - defeat at the hands of
David Cameron and his Conservatives. It is a move he is likely to seek to avoid
at all costs.

So he has two options. He can veto Blair's deal, become the darling of the
eurosceptic press and pose as champion of Britain's interest against an elitist
and anti-democratic EU. But my guess is that he will pursue a second, sneakier
option: go along with what Blair signs, and prove his credentials as a good
European, and then tell the public - just as Blair did for so many months - that
this is a tidying-up exercise unworthy of

a referendum.

Brown knows full well that this would trigger a eurosceptic backlash. But who
benefits most from such anti-EU outrage? A fringe party called the UK
Independence Party which finished third in the 2004 European Parliament
elections with 16% of the vote. It tends to eat into the Tory vote - which would
greatly help Brown if he holds a general election on the same day as the 2009
European elections.

So rather than assuage British eurosceptics, he may decide his best option is to
enrage them. The Chancellor prides himself in playing mental chess, thinking
several years ahead; the row over Europe will be his opening move.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Sunday Business Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday

Dear Sun

SECTION: LETTER

LENGTH: 72  words


AS a UKIP/Tory voter I am thinking of chucking in my membership - New Labour's
plans for chemical castration is something I would have expected from the
Tories, not the so-called Left. Just imagine if David Cameron had announced this
as a Conservative policy - the BBC and the rest would be up in arms, but because
it's Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, it's given the nod.

Whatever next? Bringing back hanging?

KARYN McDERMOTT

Largs, Ayrshire

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday

Blair must ignore the public over treaty, says Barroso

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 335 words


TONY BLAIR must ignore British public opinion at a summit showdown over a new
European Union treaty next week, the president of the European Commission said
yesterday.

José Manuel Barroso told an audience of national and euro-parliamentarians that
he hoped the Prime Minister "will have the courage'' to scrap more national
vetoes and to sign up to an EU bill of rights despite public hostility.

''You know about the UK, and the respect I have for your country,'' he said. "We
have to stand up in front of our national public opinions, not give up to some
of the populisms we have in our member states.''

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, reminded Mr Blair that it was his
job to listen to British voters not to Brussels.

He said: ''Tony Blair shouldn't be standing up to British public opinion; he
should be standing up for it: the Prime Minister's job is to stand up for
Britain in Europe, not stand up for Europe in Britain.''

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader, accused Europe's elites of
running scared after French and Dutch voters sank the EU constitution two years
ago.

''Democracy just isn't a Brussels strong point is it?'' he said.

"They are increasingly attacking expressions of the democratic voice as
populism. They are frightened of the people.''

Mr Barroso's comments reflect lingering hopes in Brussels and Berlin circles
that Mr Blair, who leaves office less than a week after the June 21 summit,
might be prepared to go further on a new EU treaty than his successor Gordon
Brown.

Mr Brown is keen to avoid a row over the EU or calls for a British referendum on
Europe in his first days in office and is pushing for a public-opinion-friendly
minimalist treaty.

One issue set to dominate debate next week, when Germany's EU presidency sets
out a basic outline and timetable for a new treaty, is the charter of
fundamental rights.

Britain is opposed to the charter, which enshrines a right to strike, clashes
with other human rights conventions and gives the European courts more powers.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday

UK gives up DNA files to EU cops

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson

LENGTH: 377  words


Surrender is 1 week BEFORE new treaty

BRITAIN surrendered a key power to Brussels last night by agreeing that UK cops
must share DNA databases with every other EU force.

The shock deal came a week before a new EU treaty is even drawn up.

Ministers agreed to open police records to all 27 EU countries without public
debate.

The measure was part of the hated EU constitution rejected two years ago by
France and Holland.

But last night it was accepted without a public say - sparking new fears of a
constitution by the back door. Critics tore into the Home Office for giving up
British powers so readily.

Tory MEP Philip Bradbourn said: "Tony Blair has started the constitution sell
out today.

"Now everyone's personal details can be sent to police throughout Europe because
Britain did not wield the veto."

And Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: "This is a serious development which
we strongly object to.

"It is typical of incompetent Home Office ministers to give away powers like
this without thinking through the consequences. How exactly will our European
counterparts ensure that the personal details of British citizens remain safe,
especially given the treaty is not restricted to information held on criminal
offenders?"

The shock move came as EU President Jose Manuel Barroso ordered Tony Blair to
IGNORE public opinion and sign away Britain's sovereignty.

He said the PM should remove Britain's opt-outs from EU laws when the new treaty
is drafted next week.

And he said the Premier "should have the courage to ignore populism".

Junior Home Office minister Joan Ryan agreed the database-sharing deal at talks
in Luxembourg. All police in the EU will have access to Britain's database
covering DNA details.

Britain will also have to give up information about driving licences and
fingerprints. It will force UK cops to open their doors to foreign forces.

Miss Ryan said: "It is vitally important that our law enforcement authorities
have the tools available to obtain information held by other EU countries."

But Tory MEP Syed Kamall fumed: "We are sleepwalking into a Big Brother Europe."

And UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "The European Commission is scared of the
democratic voice of the people.

"When people demand a say they are ignored."

The Sun Says - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 11, 2007 Monday

Doctor do little;
LETTERS

SECTION: SC1

LENGTH: 2181 words


I WAS surprised to read Dr Frazerscomments regarding the enormousamount of work
GPs have undertakenin the field of diabetes, in justificationof the heavily
debated GPpay rises.

In practice, the providers ofdiabetes care are a team of otherhealth
professionals, who workautonomously and without the samefinancial benefits.

The practice nurse is often thediabetic lead clinician. They performthe blood
tests, blood pressurechecks, medication and healthreview. Meanwhile, other
alliedhealth professionals such as thedietician and podiatrist also ensure
adetailed care package is offered.

Often the only GP input is to tellpatients they have borderline or atouch of
diabetes. Both of these are at best vague terms and at worstgive patients a
false sense of theeffect which diabetes can potentiallyhave on their life.

As an interesting footnote to thisdebate, the health professionals arethe staff
who have recently beendowngraded by Agenda for Changereforms. Many staff blame
thefunding of the GP pay rise as a directcause of this problem.

I do not wish to disregard the manyareas where GPs provide a high levelof
service, but in the area of diabetesDr Frazer and his colleagues areobviously
happy to receive bothpersonal and financial plaudits for aservice they very
rarely provide.

DIANE HALL,Bearsden, Glasgow.

The birth of Mohammed

IF ANYTHING shows that the racialconstitution of Britain has beenprofoundly
affected by recentimmigration, it is the disclosure thisweek that Mohammed is
the secondmost popular name for a baby boy inthe UK.

It is also revealed that the incidenceof that name rose by 12 percent last year
and that on presentratings it will be the commonestbaby boys name by the end of
thisyear. Anyone who fails to recognisethat as a dangerous portent for thefuture
of the British people is eitherapathetic or anti-British.

There can be no doubt that severalEnglish cities and substantial areasof London
will shortly have nativ---- Continuation ----English as minorities. No
vapidnonsense like celebrating BritishDay will have any effect on thisdeeply
disturbing demographicrevelation.

Not so long ago Libyan leader Col.

Gaddafi, on Al Jazeera TV, unburdenedhimself of this disturbingprophesy: There
are signs thatAllah will grant Islam victory inEurope, without guns,
withoutswords, without conquests. The 50million Muslims in Europe will turnit
into a Muslim continent in threedecades. We have been warned.

ALASTAIR HARPER,Lathalmond, by Dunfermline.

Navy on the rocks

FURTHER to the news our RoyalNavy has been reduced (Letters),we should really be
anxious aboutthe Governments latest thoughtprocess.

There are now just three sea bases Faslane in Scotland, Plymouthand Portsmouth
dockyards inEngland. We have already recentlylost several port and land
bases,notably Rosyth, Portland andGannet near Prestwick.

There is an ongoing review whichcould see the closure of one of thethree
remaining sea bases. It issheer madness to have all our Navyin just two bases
(or if SNP gets itsway, just one).

The public tends to have littleunderstanding of how much theNavy protects
Britain and its shores.

So far, local reporting indicateseither Portsmouth or Plymouth arethe most
likely targets for closure.

Once either of those bases is gone, itwill no doubt be turned into luxuryflats,
leisure facilities and a museum.

There will be no going back.

Another huge backward step hasbeen the creeping privatisation of theair-sea
rescue. We had a first class airsearescue service, facilitated by areally
efficient liaison between theRoyal Navy Fleet Air Arm, Royal AirForce and
Coastguard.

It is utter nonsense to say it wasdisjointed and inefficient I was inthe Fleet
Air Arm and left afterwatching the disintegration of a fineand efficient
service.

As a nation, how short-sighted wehave become and how beholden tomoney and
celebrity.

Tony Blair does not have thisnations interests at heart. He hasplaced us at
greater risk of war than atany time since World War II, yet he hasbeen the
architect of the mockery ofan armed service that we now have.

The Queens portrait hangs proudlyin all Naval bases. Naval ratings andofficers
are well aware that they serveBritain and her Majesty not TonyBlair.

When ratings salute an officer, theysalute the Queens Commission. I donot know
what salute would be appropriatefor the departing Prime Minister certainly not a
respectful one.

J. JENSEN, Ayr.

Our business to be green

BIN inspectors (Mail)? A brilliantidea, particularly after what I saw
inLinlithgow High Street today.

It is the day for the commercial binsto be emptied, and what a sight itwas;
those large green bins disgorgedwith glass, tins, paper and all theusual waste
associated with cafesand shops.

To be fair, the cardboard boxeswere on the side of the pavement forthree men and
a big yellow van to---- Continuation ----collect. I am all for recycling;
theolder generation have a duty to leadon this initiative to ensure that wehand
over a world that has a futurefor our grandchildren.

Come on, local councils, lead byexample. Send these high-priced inspectors to
start in house first and work your way down to thepeople who pay the bills.

Do commercial properties have separate bins?

JOHN DUNCALFE West Lothian.

Still at the heart of worship

REPORTS of the demise of LinthouseSt Kenneth Church, Govan,Glasgow, are
premature. RegularSunday services will take placeuntil at least October, and
thechurch will continue to offer facilitiesfor worship, meeting and recreation.

The final decision on the future ofLinthouse St Kenneth Church willhopefully see
this important buildingremain at the heart of thecommunity, offering a vital
link toGod.

NORMAN McNEILLY, Glasgow.

Straight to the POINT

FOR every Pounds 1 we send to the EU, they give away 50p to other countries,
return 30p with conditions, use 10p to cover their costs and need 10p to hide
their fraud.

PETER NEILSON, UKIP, Dalgety Bay, Fife.

THOSE museum workers cannot be working on the jaw of a blue whale (Mail) because
the blue whale has no teeth. My 50 years experience of whale skeletons tells me
this is a sperm whale.

SPENCER I. MATHER, Sedgley, West Mids.

WILL Lord Coe consider writing personally to the 400 village hall secretaries
whose desperately needed improvement grants from the Lottery are being cut by
Pounds 1,000 to say: Sorry, Ive spent your money on a pink splodge? COLIN
REEVES, Pershore, Worcs.

A SOLDIER shot in Afghanistan wasnt wearing body armour in case he looked
threatening (Mail). Here in North Wales, the police wear body armour, black
uniforms and jack boots daily.

J. FOSTER, Ty Croes, Anglesey.

I WAS surprised to read Dr Frazerscomments regarding the enormousamount of work
GPs have undertakenin the field of diabetes, in justificationof the heavily
debated GPpay rises.

In practice, the providers ofdiabetes care are a team of otherhealth
professionals, who workautonomously and withoutthe samefinancial benefits.

The practice nurse is often thediabetic lead clinician. They performthe blood
tests, blood pressurechecks, medication and healthreview. Meanwhile, other
alliedhealth professionals such as thedietician and podiatrist also ensure
adetailed care package is offered.

Often the only GP input is to tellpatients they have borderline or atouch of
diabetes. Both of these are at best vague terms and at worstgive patients a
false sense of theeffect which diabetes can potentiallyhave on their life.

As an interesting footnote to thisdebate, the health professionals arethe staff
who have recently beendowngraded by Agenda for Changereforms. Many staff blame
thefunding of the GP pay rise as a directcause of this problem.

I do not wish to disregard the manyareas where GPs provide a high levelof
service, but in the area of diabetesDr Frazer and his colleagues areobviously
happy to receive bothpersonal and financial plaudits for aservice they very
rarely provide.

DIANE HALL,Bearsden, Glasgow.

The birth of Mohammed

IF ANYTHING shows that the racialconstitution of Britain has beenprofoundly
affected by recentimmigration, it is the disclosure thisweek that Mohammed is
the secondmost popular name for a baby boy inthe UK.

It is also revealed that the incidenceof that name rose by 12 percent last year
and that on presentratings it will be the commonestbaby boys name by the end of
thisyear. Anyone who fails to recognisethat as a dangerous portent for thefuture
of the British people is eitherapathetic or anti-British.

There can be no doubt that severalEnglish cities and substantial areasof London
will shortly have nativ---- Continuation ----English as minorities. No
vapidnonsense like celebrating BritishDay will have any effect on thisdeeply
disturbing demographicrevelation.

Not so long ago Libyan leader Col.

Gaddafi, on Al Jazeera TV, unburdenedhimself of this disturbingprophesy: There
are signs thatAllah will grant Islam victory inEurope, without guns,
withoutswords, without conquests. The 50millionMuslims in Europe will turnit
into a Muslim continent in threedecades. We have been warned.

ALASTAIR HARPER,Lathalmond, by Dunfermline.

Navy on the rocks

FURTHER to the news our RoyalNavy has been reduced (Letters),we should really be
anxious aboutthe Governments latest thoughtprocess.

There are now just three sea bases Faslane in Scotland, Plymouthand Portsmouth
dockyards inEngland. We have already recentlylost several port and land
bases,notably Rosyth, Portland andGannet near Prestwick.

There is anongoing review whichcould see the closure of one of thethree
remaining sea bases. It issheer madness to have all our Navyin just two bases
(or if SNP gets itsway, just one).

The public tends to have littleunderstanding of how much theNavy protects
Britain and its shores.

So far, local reporting indicateseither Portsmouth or Plymouth arethe most
likely targets for closure.

Once either of those bases is gone, itwill no doubt be turned into luxuryflats,
leisure facilities and a museum.

There will be no going back.

Another huge backward step hasbeen the creeping privatisation of theair-sea
rescue. We had a first class airsearescue service, facilitated by areally
efficient liaison between theRoyal Navy Fleet Air Arm, Royal AirForce and
Coastguard.

It is utter nonsense to say it wasdisjointed and inefficient I was inthe Fleet
Air Arm and left afterwatching the disintegration of a fineand efficient
service.

As a nation, how short-sighted wehave become and how beholden tomoney and
celebrity.

Tony Blair does not have thisnations interests at heart. He hasplaced us at
greater risk of war than atany time since World War II, yet he hasbeen the
architect of the mockery ofan armed service that we now have.

The Queens portrait hangs proudlyin all Naval bases. Naval ratings andofficers
are well aware that they serveBritain and her Majesty not TonyBlair.

When ratings salute an officer, theysalute the Queens Commission. I donot know
what salute would be appropriatefor the departing Prime Minister certainly not a
respectful one.

J. JENSEN, Ayr.

Our business to be green

BIN inspectors (Mail)? A brilliantidea, particularly after what I saw
inLinlithgow High Street today.

It is the day for the commercial binsto be emptied, and what a sight itwas;
those large green bins disgorgedwith glass, tins, paper and all theusual waste
associated with cafesand shops.

To be fair, the cardboard boxeswere on the side of the pavement forthree men and
a big yellow van to---- Continuation ----collect. I am all for recycling;
theolder generation have a duty to leadon this initiative to ensure that wehand
over a world that has a futurefor our grandchildren.

Come on, local councils, lead byexample. Send these high-priced inspectors to
start in house first and work your way down to thepeople who pay the bills.

Do commercial properties have separate bins?

JOHN DUNCALFE West Lothian.

Still at the heart of worship

REPORTS of the demise of LinthouseSt Kenneth Church, Govan,Glasgow, are
premature. RegularSunday services will take placeuntilat least October, and
thechurch will continue to offer facilitiesfor worship, meeting and recreation.

The final decision on the future ofLinthouse St Kenneth Church willhopefully see
this important buildingremain at the heart of thecommunity, offering a vital
link toGod.

NORMAN McNEILLY, Glasgow.

Straight to the POINT

FOR every Pounds 1 we send to the EU, they give away 50p to other countries,
return 30p with conditions, use 10p to cover their costs and need 10p to hide
their fraud.

PETER NEILSON, UKIP, Dalgety Bay, Fife.

THOSE museum workers cannot be working on the jaw of a blue whale (Mail) because
the blue whale has no teeth. My 50 years experience of whale skeletons tells me
this is a sperm whale.

SPENCER I. MATHER, Sedgley, West Mids.

WILL Lord Coe consider writing personally to the 400 village hall secretaries
whose desperately needed improvement grants from the Lottery are being cut by
Pounds 1,000 to say: Sorry, Ive spent your money on a pink splodge? COLIN
REEVES, Pershore, Worcs.

A SOLDIER shot in Afghanistan wasnt wearing body armour in case he looked
threatening (Mail). Here in North Wales, the police wear body armour, black
uniforms and jack boots daily.

J. FOSTER, Ty Croes, Anglesey.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Pupils in spy survey;
Parents and teachers condemn test asking ten-year-olds to reveal details about
home life

BYLINE: By Hilary Douglas

SECTION: NEWS; 14

LENGTH: 885  words


HORRIFIED parents and teachers last night slammed a Big Brotherstyle survey that
asks children as young as 10 about their home lives and how much their parents
drink.

Teaching unions branded the idea "lunacy", arguing that primary age children
were too young to give reliable answers to the list of questions, drawn up by
the education watchdog Ofsted.

Olive Forsyth, of the National Union of Teachers, said: "Children as young as
this are not capable of answering a survey that requires an emotional response.
The answers they get will be inaccurate at best, and downright dangerous at
times.

"You could easily come across a situation where a child has had a telling off
for doing something that morning, then translates this to being beaten up day
and night when coming to answer the questionnaire.

"Not only do they not have the emotional maturity to evaluate what happy means,
there is also the element of bravado to take into consideration where children
give answers for effect and respect among their peers."

Children aged 10 to 15 are taking part in the project, called Tellus2, organised
to help local councils judge how well they are helping vulnerable children.

The "test" is made up of almost 40 questions, some quite complicated in their
phrasing, which have confused many younger children.

The survey also asks pupils to give their postcodes.

Ms Forsyth said: "This is utter lunacy.

There is absolutely no way they should be asked to provide a postcode for this
sort of questionnaire if it is merely for research purposes as it will identify
specific homes.

"If children come from difficult homes, the school already knows. It doesn't
take something like this, and it is not the job of school inspectors."

About 120,000 pupils have already completed the Ofsted survey, which is being
used to compile a database on children's lifestyle, health and happiness.

Pupils, who do not need their parents' permission before taking part, are asked
a series of personal questions such as whether they smoke and drink alcohol.

Additional questions include: "Does the mum or step mum that you live with have
a paid job?", "How many people live in your house?" and "How many rooms does
your home have?"

Parents fear the scheme will be rolled out nationally unless there is a
concerted campaign to have it scrapped.

Others wonder if the questions are intended to trap people who make ends meet by
taking in lodgers, or to help councils calculate the new community charge bands.

A 10-year-old pupil at one London primary school left the room in tears after
being told to fill in the online questionnaire.

The boy's classmates were asked about their ethnic backgrounds, with choices
which included "gypsy" and "Irish traveller".

One mother, who asked not to be named, said her daughter had come home terrified
that she had not answered the questions correctly.

She said: "She didn't understand what she had been asked to do. She didn't
understand what a gypsy was, and since she has never smoked in her life,
wondered why she was being asked something like that.

"I wasn't told that the questionnaire was going to be part of the Ofsted
inspection and the children were just confused.

"Some children of divorced parents were asked if they lived in a house with both
their parents and didn't know how to answer. It was terribly unfair on such
young, vulnerable children."

Another mother said: "My son was very agitated when he told me about it.

He hadn't really understood some of the questions and was unsure on many of them
how to answer.

"I reassured him that there was nothing he could have said that would get him
into any trouble but he is still talking about it to me several weeks after he
took the quiz.

"He was being asked to make judgments on things that he had never thought about
before. That's what got him rattled, I think.

"We drink wine at home and my son is given a tiny glass on special occasions -
really just a thimbleful diluted with water - but he loves it and feels really
grown up.

"He said this on the form and now thinks he will have got me into trouble when
he was asked if he was ever given more than a sip of an alcoholic drink."

Pupils are also asked to "agree or disagree" with the statement that "parents
and family look out for me".

Margaret Morrissey, of the National Confederation of Parent Teacher
Associations, said: "This is Orwellian - plain and simple spying on people.

"Children should not be asked questions like this, let alone asked to give their
postcodes so they can be identified.

"This will cause all sorts of misery and there is a danger that parents will end
up in trouble with the authorities for something they haven't done when their
child gives his or her answers."

An Ofsted spokesman insisted that the questionnaire was confidential and
participants would not be identified.

He said: "The postcodes will not be made available outside Ofsted and will be
used for analysis purposes only."

Ministers and advisers from the European Parliament are handing out pro-EU
literature in schools. The Europa Diary explains the parliament's position on
issues including climate change, solar power and fair trade.

UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clark said the move was tantamount to
brainwashing youngsters.

"He said: "This glossy booklet is selling the EU and to do so by infiltrating
schools is appalling."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 10, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blair backs President of Europe

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 375  words


TONY BLAIR is set to agree to the creation of a new US-style President of Europe
at the European Union summit this month.

The outgoing Prime Minister plans to sign up to French and German plans for the
powerful new post, as part of a treaty governing the running of the EU.

Mr Blair will attend his swansong summit in Brussels just days before he leaves
office on June 27. He is expected to agree to a proposal for a permanent
President of the European Council, to replace the system by which the presidency
revolves around EU national leaders every six months. The new President will
become a powerful figure across Europe, despite not being elected by a single
voter in any country.

The Government has denied that the treaty, to be discussed by EU leaders on June
21-22, is simply another attempt to push through the controversial constitution,
ditched after it was rejected by French and Dutch in 2005.

But critics say the new treaty contains many of the same proposals as the failed
constitution - including plans for a permanent EU president. Under the plans,
the president would be appointed by EU leaders for a term of two and half years,
but would not be accountable to voters.

He - or she - would have control of the 3,500 civil servants in the Council
Secretariat, providing a substantial power base and a strong incentive to expand
his or her own powers.

The Director of Open Europe, Neil O'Brien, said: "The Government promised us a
referendum on the constitutional treaty, but now they are going to break their
promise.

"They believe they can get away with putting through all the same proposals
under a different name. They think voters are really stupid. Instead of giving
the remote officials even more powers, the EU should be sorting out its chronic
problems with corruption and waste."

He added: "Instead of negotiations between the Commission and a national head of
government with a vested interest in protecting the rights of member states,
negotiations would in future take place between one unelected, independent
Brussels institution and another."

A UKIP peer warned on Friday that Europe is on the road to becoming a
"totalitarian state" .

Lord Pearson of Rannoch added: "You have to be pretty deaf not to hear the
jackboots marching."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

EUROPE UK payments to EU 'will double'

BYLINE: Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words


BRITAIN'S net payments to Brussels will double to pounds 6.4bn within four
years, according to fresh figures from the Treasury, reflecting the country's
rising affluence and the cost of subsidies to Eastern Europe.

The chief underlying cause is a summit deal struck by Tony Blair in December
2005 to slash the UK's rebate by exempting the new member states, in perpetuity.

The data, uncovered by the think-tank Global Vision, shows that Britain's
average net payments will rise sharply from pounds 3.27bn a year over the last
decade to around pounds 6.4bn during the period from 2011 to 2014.

The Blair deal will lead to a sharp fall in rebate receipts from 2010 onwards.
At the same time, poorer areas of northern England and Scotland will lose
structural funds as EU payments are switched to the former Communist states in
Eastern Europe. West Wales and Cornwall will keep their funding.

Ruth Lea, the director of Global Vision, said the transfers to Eastern Europe
benefited Germany far more than Britain.

"This is Germany's economic hinterland but it hardly figures on our export radar
screen. We think Britain needs a totally different kind of partnership with
Europe, outside the EU,'' she said.

Britain's rising burden comes despite reform of the Common Agricultural Policy,
the mass welfare programme for farmers that lies at the root of the EU's budget
distortions.

The CAP remains the lion's share of the euro123bn ( pounds 84bn) annual budget,
with most of the money going to French, Spanish, and now Polish agricultural
combines. The UK receives just 0.41pc of GDP in payments from Brussels, the
lowest of any EU state.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Downing Street has essentially given away the
rebate, which was first secured by Margaret Thatcher in a famous bout of
hand-bagging at Fontainebleu in 1984.

"We must congratulate Tony Blair on his wonderfully successful negotiations with
President Chirac,'' he said.

"Yes, we get some money back from Brussels, but it is spent in ways chosen by
the European Commission, not by us, and much of it goes as a direct subsidy to
landowners to do nothing, a system that is almost medieval in concept.''

In part, the rising burden reflects Britain's rise to the top of the EU's per
capita income league, ahead of France, Italy, and Germany. London is now the
richest city in Europe by far.

The Treasury figures are more accurate than the European Commission's data on
British payments, which exclude some euro2.3bn in UK customs duties collected by
the EU every time an aircraft lands or ship docks in Britain - effectively a
hidden Brussels tax on Britain's role as a trading entrepot.

Sweden and the Netherlands pay even more per capita than Britain, while Germany
still remains the biggest contributor because of its sheer size. The quartet all
insist on a radical shake-up of the system.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

Plea for EU audit

LENGTH: 58  words


A PEER will today call for a first-ever audit of Britain's membership of the
European Union.

Lord Pearson, of the anti-Europe party UKIP, will demand an independent probe.
He said: "The Government doesn't want to hear the answer."

UK contributions to the EU budget are expected to DOUBLE under Labour - from £
7.9billion in 1997 to £ 14.4billion by 2010.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 7, 2007, Thursday

The EU assessed

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 182 words


Sir, The EU (Implications of Withdrawal) Bill will receive its second reading on
Friday. It would, if passed, establish the first independent committee of
inquiry into the impact of Britain's EU membership on our economy, constitution
and security. The Bill does not advocate leaving the EU; it merely seeks to
establish what are the effects of our membership.

Given that the EU is involved in controlling our trade, immigration, business
regulation, environment, farming and fisheries, it is remarkable that such an
inquiry has not been established before. A Parliament with regard to any one of
these national interests would reasonably be expected to be aware of the
detailed impact of these policies. Yet such work is left to limited coverage by
think-tanks, pressure groups and individual academics. After years of debate, it
is surely essential to set up an official, independent body to publish the facts
of our relationship with the EU.

Lord Tebbit of Chingford (C)

Lord Willoughby de Broke (UKIP)

Lord Stoddart of Swindon (Ind Lab)

A full list of signatories is at timesonline.co.uk/letters

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday

THE BATTLE FOR THIS BRITISHNESS

SECTION: 2ND

LENGTH: 801 words


WE should have a Britain Day to celebrate 'civic values' and 'intergenerational
links', Ruth Kelly will say today.

But the Communities Secretary insists the ideais not about Britons 'standing in
their front gardens and saluting the Union Jack'.

The New Labour version of the planned public holiday would promote community
relations and volunteering, rather than our national heritage.

Her comments led critics to dismiss the plans as a 'gimmick'. They also pointed
out the scheme was at odds with Gordon Brown's existing promise to put the flag
at the heart of any celebration of Britishness.

Miss Kelly weighed into the growing debate about national identity as David
Cameron yesterday warned that it was being 'deliberately weakened' by the rise
of multiculturalism.

Mr Brown has also made his views known, saying that he will make promoting
Britishness one of his priorities when he takes over from Tony Blair.

A pamphlet by Miss Kelly and Immigration Minister Liam Byrne published by the
Fabian Society today says Britain Day would involve a series of
locally-organised events across the country, with individual communities
deciding how they mark the occasion.

It calls for'a celebration of our civic values, celebrating local heritage and
opportunities to get involved in local civic life'.

It also suggests 'celebrating and promoting voluntary action in communities
across the country', adding: 'Local areas could tailor events and celebrations
to their own specific local circumstances, recognising inter-generational links
such as celebrating the debt of gratitude to those war veterans who secured the
freedom that the citizenship we enjoy today is based on.' Ministers suggested a
day in early November for Britain Day, to coincide with the Queen's state
opening of Parliament.

Citizenship ceremonies for immigrants would be held on the national day to
highlight their commitment to the country, as happens in Australia.

Under the plans to promote Britishness, immigrants would also be denied the
automatic right of citizenship - instead they would be forced to 'win' the
privilege through a points system.

Migrants would be given credits for being 'good neighbours', by volunteering,
and by gaining qualifications beyond the standard English test.

They would be stripped of points if they broke the law or left the country for
long periods.

British teenagers would be given 'citizens' packs' when they turned 18 telling
them how to behave as adults.

These would include information on voting in elections, volunteering and jury
service, and how to repay the 'debt of gratitude' to war veterans.

Any youngsters who showed they were 'active citizens' by volunteering could
receive extra cash in their Child Trust Funds at 18, or receive a cut in
university tuition fees.

The plans, which were not authorised by Mr Brown, were last night greeted with
caution by his aides.

One said a points system for immigration could work, but that it should be
tougher - refusing citizenship outright to anyone with a criminal record.

But Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: 'These are gimmicks that miss the
real problem, which is that the Government has been embarrassed about promoting
a proper sense of pride in being British and has failed to promote core British
values.' The Tories also pointed out the system of Union Jack migrants being
asked to earn points by completing voluntary work could cause chaos in the NHS,
which is heavily reliant on staff from overseas.

Doctors and nurses would be forced to take time away from carrying out vital
medical work in order to obtain the score needed for a passport.

Party sources added that the plans would do nothing to address the major issue
of concern to voters - migrants pouring in from Eastern Europe.

As citizens of the EU, they are entitled to free movement to Britain, and cannot
be forced to earn points in return for the right to live here - or take part in
any Britishness day.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'This is a pointless
gesture to appease a country which for the other 364 days of the year is told to
feel ashamed of their history and dilute their way of life in the name of
multiculturalism.

'What would be better is a country which is allowed to feel proud of itself all
the year round.' Sir Andrew Green, chairman of Migrationwatch, added: 'The
Government are at last realising that there are serious consequences to the mass
immigration that they have permitted, indeed encouraged.' Nick Johnson, director
of policy and public sector at the Commission for Racial Equality, said: 'A new
national Britain Day would be an excellent way of recognising the importance of
Britishness.

'However, we ought to be embracing this concept 365 days of the year, not just
on one day.' Comment - Page 12 'Gimmicks that miss the real problem'

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLYING THE FLAG: BUT RUTH KELLY DOESN'T WANT US 'SALUTING THE UNION
JACK'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday

Flawed voting system

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 113 words


SIR - The British electorate did not allow itself to be conned three times
(Comment, June 4). Most people voted against Tony Blair on each occasion, but
our crazy electoral system gave him oceans of power because the opposition to
him was split four ways.

Why doesn't David Cameron mention this? Well, I expect he's hoping for craziness
similar to our 1951 election when Labour won most votes and the Tories became
the government. Those who are not in favour of proportional representation are,
alas, in favour of disproportional representation, while the old canon "no
taxation without representation'' clearly doesn't apply to UKIP or the Greens.

Michael Thomas

South Croydon, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  June 3, 2007
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury at 'boy zone' books for kids of 5;
PUPILS TAUGHT ABOUT GAYS

BYLINE: by JONATHAN CORKE

SECTION: NEWS; 26

LENGTH: 314 words


SCHOOLKIDS as young as five are being encouraged to learn about gay
relationships.

Books used across the country to teach children about homosexuality include
Hello Sailor, Daddy's Roommate and The Sissy Duckling.

One of the books even includes a picture of two males in bed together - while
another shows two men cuddling on a settee.

And critics claim that children are "effectively being encouraged to become
gay".

They say it is "disgraceful" that children who have just started primary school
are having "gay literature thrust in their face".

UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clark said: "This is encouraging homosexuality.

"It is a fact of life but teaching five-year-olds about it is just appalling.

One book even has a picture of two males in bed together and cuddling on a
settee.

"While Elmer, in The Sissy Duckling, is promoted as 'a terrific role model for
any child' on a Government website.

"Obviously, the gay lobby has been pushing for the introduction of these books
but as far as I'm concerned it is criminal indoctrination. I was a teacher for
39 years and if I'd been asked to read that I'd have thrown it out of the
window.

I'm shocked and appalled."

And the Christian Institute has described the introduction of the books as
"outrageous".

But The Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007, which came into
force at the end of April, included the books in the school curriculum.

Mum Jessica Pennistion, 28, who lives in Lincoln, said: "It is up to me what my
children learn about sex and I don't want them learning about gay people at a
young age.

"I have the right to decide what my kids are exposed to."

But Julie Harrison, a head teacher in the area, said: "Our school ethos is
'learning for life'.

"We teach our pupils to respect and value diversity, so of course we look at
these issues."

Mr Clark added: "I'll be making representations to the Government about this."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELLO DUCKY: Sissy Elmer is an ideal "role model" for children
GIVE US A WAVE: Gays at sea

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  June 3, 2007
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury at 'boy zone' books for kids of 5;
PUPILS TAUGHT ABOUT GAYS

BYLINE: by JONATHAN CORKE

SECTION: NEWS; 26

LENGTH: 314 words


SCHOOLKIDS as young as five are being encouraged to learn about gay
relationships.

Books used across the country to teach children about homosexuality include
Hello Sailor, Daddy's Roommate and The Sissy Duckling.

One of the books even includes a picture of two males in bed together - while
another shows two men cuddling on a settee.

And critics claim that children are "effectively being encouraged to become
gay".

They say it is "disgraceful" that children who have just started primary school
are having "gay literature thrust in their face".

UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clark said: "This is encouraging homosexuality.

"It is a fact of life but teaching five-year-olds about it is just appalling.

One book even has a picture of two males in bed together and cuddling on a
settee.

"While Elmer, in The Sissy Duckling, is promoted as 'a terrific role model for
any child' on a Government website.

"Obviously, the gay lobby has been pushing for the introduction of these books
but as far as I'm concerned it is criminal indoctrination. I was a teacher for
39 years and if I'd been asked to read that I'd have thrown it out of the
window.

I'm shocked and appalled."

And the Christian Institute has described the introduction of the books as
"outrageous".

But The Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007, which came into
force at the end of April, included the books in the school curriculum.

Mum Jessica Pennistion, 28, who lives in Lincoln, said: "It is up to me what my
children learn about sex and I don't want them learning about gay people at a
young age.

"I have the right to decide what my kids are exposed to."

But Julie Harrison, a head teacher in the area, said: "Our school ethos is
'learning for life'.

"We teach our pupils to respect and value diversity, so of course we look at
these issues."

Mr Clark added: "I'll be making representations to the Government about this."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELLO DUCKY: Sissy Elmer is an ideal "role model" for children
GIVE US A WAVE: Gays at sea

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 38 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 1, 2007 Friday

Let parents decide over grammar schools

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 34 words


SIR - Your editorial on grammar schools (May 30) concludes that "Mr Cameron
needs to know who is with him and who is not''. For those who are not, a warm
welcome awaits in Ukip.

Mike Bridgeman

Devizes, Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
