
                               1 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday

How Conservatives should fill the political gap after Blair

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 224 words


SIR - I read with disappointment the letter from Tam Large (January 26)
announcing his resignation from the Conservative Party, to join Ukip.

Tam was an enthusiastic member of the team during the period when the
Conservatives lost Lewes in 1997, and failed to regain it subsequently. During
that time, issues he raises - low tax, less state interference, grammar schools,
and an end to rule by the EU - were associated with the Conservatives. I am not
aware they are off the agenda now.

David Cameron has recognised that our failures at recent elections may have been
due to our not convincing voters on issues such as health, schools, transport
and climate change. Mr Cameron has taken the party into areas from which
hitherto it had largely been excluded, and for that he needs praise, not
criticism.

If you believe, as I do, that we live in a country ruled by a government of
almost unparalleled incompetence and deceitfulness, you do not join a party the
voting for which is likely to result in more of the same. Ukip has every chance
of winning the next election - for Labour.

How would Ukip deal with the current state of our hospitals, the debt crisis and
all the other disasters that Labour has created? Or does removal from the EU
solve everything?

Carola Godman Law

Chairman, Lewes Constituency Conservative Association

Burgess Hill, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday

Tories' anger as Cameron backs Blair on gay adoption

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 816 words


DAVID CAMERON was accused yesterday of driving away traditional Tories after he
backed Labour over gay adoption.

He caused a furore among the Conservative grass roots by revealing that he would
vote with the Government to impose anti-discrimination regulations.

The rules, due to come into effect in April, would make it illegal for a
publiclyfunded adoption agency to turn down a homosexual couple.

The Catholic Church has threatened to close 13 adoption agencies because it
cannot accept a law which contradicts its teachings on the central role of the
traditional family.

Downing Street tried to calm the row yesterday by publishing details of a '
compromise' under which faith groups would be given 20 months to adapt to the
new rules. But this was described as merely delaying the death sentence for
Catholic adoption agencies.

After weeks of agonised silence from Mr Cameron on the subject, the Tory leader
came down in favour of gay rights and against the concerns of faith groups led
by the Catholic Church demanding an exemption.

His offer of a free vote on the subject failed to quell widespread alarm at what
By Benedict Brogan Political Editor many said was a politically damaging
decision. MPs accused Mr Cameron of picking a fight with the Tory Right which
could lead to a backlash from voters.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis put himself at the head of what could be
dozens of Tories who will defy the leader and vote to oppose the new rules.

Conservative websites were swamped with messages of protest, while backbenchers
and frontbenchers alike expressed concern.

Defence spokesman Gerald Howarth said: 'We now undoubtedly face a challenge from
the UK Independence Party and to a lesser extent from the British National
Party.

'We therefore need to measure what is the effect of the message we are sending.

This will cause concern among a lot of traditional Conservatives up and down the
country. This is an incredible assault on freedom of conscience.' Mr Howarth
said he expected to raise his concerns with Mr Cameron. 'This is a motif for his
leadership. Our core supporters in the country don't like it and they are saying
they will vote for UKIP.

It's wrong, it's offensive. it's political correctness, and it's social
engineering.

'Tony Blair has given us 20 months to adapt 2,000 years of Christian teaching.
It's unacceptable.' Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: 'I will not be taking David
Cameron's position on this. I will be supporting the Churches.

'This isn't about gay rights, it's about whether we should be interfering in the
very good job that a part of civil society does on our behalf for children who
are hard to place.' Mr Blair's efforts to find a way out of the gay adoption row
ended in defeat yesterday when all he could offer the faith groups was a
20-month period of grace.

Until then they can remain open for business, but will have a statutory duty to
refer gay couples to agencies willing to accept them as clients.

But Mr Blair said they would have no choice but to accept the new regulations,
effectively setting the clock ticking on groups praised for the work they do to
place hard-to-adopt children.

In a statement he said: 'I start from a very firm foundation. There is no place
in our society for discrimination.

'That's why I support the right of gay couples to apply to adopt like any other
couple.

And that way there can be no exemptions for faith-based adoption agencies
offering public funded services from regulations that prevent discrimination.'
Communities Secretary Ruth Kelly had tried in Cabinet to broker an exemption for
the Catholic Church but was met with overwhelming opposition.

As a devout Catholic and a member of the traditionalist Opus Dei organisation,
she was said to be faced with a choice between her job and her faith.

But last night she claimed the deal was a 'breakthrough'.

Cardinal Cormac Murphy O'Connor, whose letter to Mr Blair laid bare the concerns
of religious leaders, left a question mark hanging over the fate of the Catholic
adoption agencies. He said Mr Blair had listened to 'some of the concerns' of
the Church but added: 'We are, of course, deeply disappointed that no exemption
will be granted to our agencies on the grounds of widely-held religious
conviction and conscience.

'We look to the forthcoming Parliamentary debate to address some of the
fundamental-issues centred on the wellbeing of the child, whose needs must
always be put first.' And he added: 'This debate has raised crucial issues for
the common good of our society.

We believe there is an urgent task to reach a new consensus on how best the
public role of religious organisations can be safeguarded and their rights
upheld.

'An important part of our Catholic tradition is to work constructively with the
Government in mutually respectful cooperation, in which we can act with
confidence and integrity in the service of the common good.' Comment - Page 12

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday

Tory leader comes out in favour of gay adoption

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 591 words


DAVID Cameron was accused yesterday of driving away traditional Tories after he
backed Labour over gay adoption.

He caused a furore among the Conservative grass roots by revealing that he would
vote with the Government to impose antidiscrimination regulations.

The rules, due to come into effect in April, would make it illegal for a
publiclyfunded adoption agency to turn down a homosexual couple.

The Catholic Church has threatened to close 13 adoption agencies because it
cannot accept a law which contradicts its teachings on the central role of the
traditional family.

Downing Street tried to calm the row yesterday by publishing details of a '
compromise' under which faith groups would be given 20 months to adapt to the
new rules. But this was described as merely delaying the death sentence for
Catholic adoption agencies.

After weeks of agonised silence from Mr Cameron on the subject, the Tory leader
came down in favour of gay rights and against the concerns of faith groups led
by the Catholic Church demanding an exemption.

His offer of a free vote on the subject failed to quell widespread alarm at what
many said was a politically damaging decision. MPs accused Mr Cameron of picking
a fight with the Tory Right which could lead to a backlash from voters. Shadow
By Benedict Brogan Political Editor Home Secretary David Davis put himself at
the head of what could be dozens of Tories who will defy the leader and vote to
oppose the new rules.

Conservative websites were swamped with messages of protest, while backbenchers
and frontbenchers alike expressed concern.

Defence spokesman Gerald Howarth said: 'We now undoubtedly face a challenge from
the UK Independence Party and to a lesser extent from the British National
Party. We therefore need to measure what is the effect of the message we are
sending. This will cause concern among a lot of traditional Conservatives up and
down the country. This is an incredible assault on freedom of conscience.' Mr
Howarth said he expected to raise his concerns with Mr Cameron. 'This is a motif
for his leadership. Our core supporters in the country don't like it and they
are saying they will vote for UKIP. It's wrong, it's offensive, it's political
correctness and it's social engineering. Tony Blair has given us 20 months to
adapt 2,000 years of Christian teaching. It's unacceptable.' Tory MP Douglas
Carswell said: 'I will not be taking David Cameron's position on this. I will be
supporting the Churches.' Mr Blair's efforts to find a way out of the gay
adoption row ended in defeat yesterday when all he could offer the faith groups
was a 20-month period of grace.

Until then they can remain open for business, but will have a statutory duty to
refer gay couples to agencies willing to accept them as clients.

But Mr Blair said they would have no choice but to accept the new regulations,
effectively setting the clock ticking on groups praised for the work they do to
place hard-to-adopt children.

Communities Secretary Ruth Kelly had tried in Cabinet to broker an exemption for
the Catholic Church but was met with overwhelming opposition.

As a devout Catholic and a member of the traditionalist Opus Dei organisation,
she was said to be faced with a choice between her job and her faith. But last
night she claimed the deal was a ' breakthrough'.

Archbishop of Westminster Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor, whose letter to Mr
Blair laid bare the concerns of religious leaders, said he was 'deeply
disappointed', but left a question mark hanging over the fate of the Catholic
adoption agencies.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday

Cameron support for gay adoption sparks Tory anger

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 745 words


DAVID CAMERON was accused yesterday of driving away traditional Tories after he
backed Labour over gay adoption.

He caused a furore among the Conservative grass roots by revealing he would vote
with the Government to impose antidiscrimination regulations.

The rules, due to come into effect in April, would make it illegal for a
publicly-funded adoption agency to turn down a homosexual couple.

The Catholic Church has threatened to close 13 adoption agencies because it
cannot accept a law which contradicts its teachings on the central role of the
traditional family.

Downing Street tried to calm the row yesterday by publishing details of a
'compromise' under which faith groups would be given 20 months to adapt to the
new rules. But this was described as merely delaying the death sentence for
Catholic adoption agencies.

After weeks of agonised silence from Mr Cameron on the subject, the Tory leader
came down in favour of gay rights and against the concerns of faith groups led
by the Catholic Church demanding an exemption.

His offer of a free vote on the subject failed to quell widespread alarm at what
many said was a politically damaging decision. MPs accused Mr Cameron of picking
a fight with the Tory Right which could lead to a backlash from voters.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis put himself at the head of what could be
dozens of Tories who will defy the leader and vote to oppose the new rules.

Conservative websites were swamped with messages of protest, while backbenchers
and frontbenchers alike expressed concern.

Defence spokesman Gerald Howarth said: 'We now undoubtedly face a challenge from
the UK Independence Party and to a lesser extent from the British National
Party.

'We therefore need to measure what is the effect of the message we are sending.
This will cause concern among a lot of traditional Conservatives up and down the
country. This is an incredible assault on freedom of conscience.' Mr Howarth
said he expected to raise his concerns with Mr Cameron.

'This is a motif for his leadership.

Our core supporters in the country don't like it and they are saying they will
vote for UKIP. It's wrong. It's offensive. it's political correctness, and it's
social engineering.

'Tony Blair has given us 20 months to adapt 2,000 years of Christian teaching.
It's unacceptable.' Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: 'I will not be taking David
Cameron's position on this. I will be supporting the churches.

'This isn't about gay rights. It's about whether we should be interfering in the
very good job that a part of civil society does on our behalf for children who
are hard to place.' Mr Blair's efforts to find a way out of the gay adoption row
ended in defeat yesterday when all he could offer the faith groups was a
20-month period of grace. Until then they can remain open for business, but will
have a statutory duty to refer gay couples to agencies willing to accept them as
clients.

But Mr Blair said they would have no choice but to accept the new regulations,
effectively setting the clock ticking on groups praised for the work they do to
place hard-toadopt children.

In a statement he said: 'I start from a very firm foundation. There is no place
in our society for discrimination. That's why I support the right of gay couples
to apply to adopt like any other couple.

'And that way there can be no exemptions for faith-based adoption agencies
offering public funded services from regulations that prevent discrimination.'
Communities Secretary Ruth Kelly had tried in Cabinet to broker an exemption for
the Catholic Church but was met with overwhelming opposition.

As a devout Catholic and a member of the traditionalist Opus Dei organisation,
she was said to be faced with a choice between her job and her faith. But last
night she claimed the deal was a 'breakthrough'.

Cardinal Cormac Murphy O'Connor, whose letter to Mr Blair laid bare the concerns
of religious leaders, left a question mark hanging over the fate of the Catholic
adoption agencies.

He said Mr Blair had listened to 'some of the concerns' of the church but added:
'We are, of course, deeply disappointed that no exemption will be granted to our
agencies on the grounds of widely-held religious conviction and conscience.

'We look to the forthcoming Parliamentary debate to address some of the
fundamental issues centred on the wellbeing of the child, whose needs must
always be put first. This debate has raised crucial issues for the common good
of our society.' Comment - Page 12

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONTROVERSIAL: DAVID CAMERON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 30, 2007 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: The Tory party is the main obstacle to a Cameron win: Too many
Conservatives refuse to recognise what their leader has grasped: Britain is now
a social democratic country

BYLINE: Max Hastings

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1079 words


I t is easy to see why some ambitious people fancy being prime minister: no
parking problems or airport security queues; unlimited scope for entertaining;
mass audiences every night; and a huge cast of acolytes uttering those heady
words, "yes, prime minister".

It is much harder, however, to perceive the fun in being leader of the
opposition. The job confers no power; in the absence of clout or patronage to
silence minority factions even some of the loonies must be conciliated; every
pronouncement one makes is weighed, every gesture recorded on camera; yet
overhanging each day of a leader's tenure is the terror, familiar to theatrical
understudies, that fate may deny one the chance to play the lead.

After 14 months in the job, rumbles are growing in the Conservative party about
David Cameron. His poll lead over Labour remains steady or stuck, depending on
how you read it. Yesterday's figures suggest that his party still could not
expect an absolute Commons majority after an election.

His refusal to attack the government on a wide range of issues - Iraq, the NHS,
most recently gay adoption - rouse restlessness, indeed hostility. His perceived
wetness - not in the Thatcherite use of the word to denote a leftist Tory, but
in the schoolboy sense of lacking fire in the belly - is widely canvassed.

Cameron has been sufficiently rattled by criticism in the Daily Telegraph to
allow himself to be wafted by helicopter to the Barclay brothers' fortress in
the Channel Islands to seek their endorsement. Conservative sources assert
bravely that this is forthcoming. In truth, however, I doubt that Cameron can
expect better than an armed truce with the paper.

Tory criticism of his refusal publicly to attack the government on issues where
he sees no votes to be won will get much worse between now and a general
election. David Davis said at the weekend that he, for one, will vote to allow
faith organisations an opt-out in the gay adoption row. Nobody will call openly
for Cameron's removal until after a poll, but plenty of critics are putting down
markers, so that if he loses they can demand applause for their prescience and
his folly.

The Cameron camp's strategy is much influenced by polling during and after the
last election. This showed that Michael Howard's articulation of specific policy
points, some identified by Cameron himself in his earlier incarnation as
Howard's adviser, made no impact whatever. Few voters could identify any
expressed Tory position. Their ballot-box decisions were influenced entirely by
perceptions of the party leaders.

Cameron and his people believe this is how the next election will be. Policy
commitments offer hostages to Labour and the media for no electoral advantage.
Yesterday he belatedly declared that he would support the government's gay
adoption measure if no compromise could be contrived, because the alternative
was to throw away the fruits of his sustained charm offensive towards gays and
liberals. He would plainly have preferred, however, to stay on the fence where
he sat last week.

Likewise with Iraq. Iain Duncan Smith blundered into precipitate endorsement of
the 2003 invasion, causing the Tories to share blame for the catastrophe with
Labour. If Cameron today demands either rapid withdrawal or toughing it out, he
will share with Labour the odium for Iraq's future horrors, without the
slightest ability to influence events.

On the NHS, most Tories believe that Labour's hideously expensive record shows
the necessity for major structural reforms. They are almost certainly right, but
Cameron will not say so. He waffles, because he knows how deeply the public
mistrusts the Conservatives on healthcare. Any hint that his government would
wield a scalpel, never mind an axe, could be disastrous.

Finally, there is the uncertainty about Gordon Brown's intentions. The
chancellor derives much advantage from his office. Not only is he not expected
to show his hand, but it would be actively disloyal for him to do so. Until
Brown is installed in No 10 and reveals his own policies, it would be madness
for Cameron to stake out territory.

The Tory leader has little to gain from inflicting injuries on Tony Blair.
Everybody save the man himself perceives the prime minister in the condition of
El Cid in his last battle: galloping ever onward, but as a mere political corpse
strapped in the saddle, and a lot less likely to achieve posthumous victory.

Brown, not Blair, is the man Cameron must defeat. It is a tiresome business for
us all, waiting, waiting, to see what the Scottish sage will make of the top
job. But Conservatives should be more sensible than they seem today about
recognising their own leader's problems. Both Cameron and what he says must look
and sound fresh in one, two, even three years' time. The more ammunition he
expends now, when he cannot even see the target, the less will be left for 2009,
maybe also 2010.

Underpinning everything David Cameron does is awareness that Britain is now a
social democratic country. If he wins an election, it will be in spite of being
called a Tory. The right, which includes many rank-and-file party members,
refuses to recognise this. Its adherents want heroics. They yearn to see their
leader launch his forces in splendid charges against the enemy, which they
believe will rouse the admiration of voters, as well as that of the late Lord
Tennyson.

If Cameron fails to toughen up, they wave the spectre of the UK Independence
party. Yet even most of those barmy enough to support Ukip at local elections
possess brain enough to see that every vote for the party at the next general
election will be a vote for Brown's continuance in office.

Above all, of course, Cameron's critics damn him for trying to be Blair again.
Why choose such a role model, they demand, just when he is recognised as a straw
man? Yet Blair's folly in lingering too long does not alter the fact that his
"big tent" vision of politics triumphed for a decade. It offers probably the
only path to success for any modern British political leader.

Just as the Labour party was Blair's millstone in the 1990s, so the Conservative
party is today the biggest obstacle to Cameron's ambitions. Cameron's tactics
may lack nobility, grandeur, even conviction. But if the Tory true believers
ever get their way, they can kiss goodbye to the only thing which matters, the
objective to which all Cameron's actions and inactions are directed: the
achievement of power.

comment@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 29, 2007 Monday

Confidence in Blair slumps to an all-time low

BYLINE: George Jones and Graeme Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 504 words


PUBLIC confidence in Tony Blair's government has slumped to an all-time low as
Labour battles with the crisis at the Home Office and Cabinet revolts over gay
adoption, the latest YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph shows today.

Despite the collapse in trust, the Prime Minister insisted yesterday that the
last 18 months had been his "most productive'' in office.

In an interview for BBC1's Politics Show, Mr Blair tried to shrug off questions
about his crumbling authority following last week's Cabinet revolt over gay
adoption by insisting that he will still be in Number 10 for the Scottish and
Welsh elections in May.

However, Mr Blair was hit by fresh cash-for-peerages allegations yesterday after
it was reported that the police had uncovered a handwritten note by the Prime
Minister.

It is understood the note acknowledged the efforts of the 12 wealthy supporters
who handed the party a total of pounds 14 million of secret loans. A Downing
Street spokesman said: "This is completely wrong. There isn't any such
document.'' The scale of the crisis Mr Blair faces was laid bare by the YouGov
poll, which shows that only 21 per cent of voters "approve of the government's
record to date'' - the lowest since Mr Blair came to power. In January 1998, for
instance, the comparable figure was 53 per cent.

Only 26 per cent of voters say they are "satisfied'' with Mr Blair as Prime
Minister, compared with 66 per cent in early 1998. The poll shows Labour heading
for elections to the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and 312 English
district councils, with its support hovering just above 30 per cent.

The Conservatives on 38 per cent (up one point since December) have opened up a
seven point lead over Labour on 31 (down two) and the Liberal Democrats trailing
on 18 (up one).

David Cameron is still unable to pass the 40 per cent threshold needed to gain
power, as voters look to alternatives such as the Nationalists, the UK
Independence Party or even the BNP.

In yesterday's interview, Mr Blair declared he was in the "middle'' of a packed
agenda of reforms in health, education and law and order - and refused
point-blank to endorse Gordon Brown as his successor.

Dismissing suggestions that he has become a lame duck premier, Mr Blair even
compared himself to Bill Clinton, the former US President, whom he argued had
come close to securing a Middle East peace deal in his last days in the White
House. He conceded that the last 18 months had been "the most difficult'' since
he came to power 10 years ago, but he said: "As a platform of change for the
country it's in many ways the most productive period of internal domestic
reform.''

Asked why he will not stand down now and let Mr Brown get on with the job, he
replied: "You know, I want to finish what I've started, if I can put it like
that. And at the present time, there are things that I'm right in the middle of
doing, whether it's health service reform of the City Academy programme or the
changes we're making to the Home Office. . . I'm getting on with the job.'

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 29, 2007 Monday

Voters are abandoning Blair's ship, but not for the Tories

BYLINE: Anthony King

SECTION: NEWS; Analysis; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 883 words


TONY BLAIR'S Government settles ever lower into the water and will shortly sink
to the bottom, yet evidence still fails to suggest that HMS Tory is steaming to
victory.

On the contrary, the battle remains more evenly joined than ever before,
according to YouGov's latest monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph.

The Conservatives cannot sail past the crucial 40 per cent mark, and voters
abandoning the good ship Labour are turning in as great numbers towards a
variety of other parties as towards the Tories. The Conservatives have gained
five percentage points since the last election but so, collectively, have the
Scottish and Welsh nationalists, UKIP, the BNP, the Greens and an assortment of
smaller parties.

One of YouGov's most remarkable findings over the past year has been the failure
of the Liberal Democrats to capitalise on the low regard in which both Labour
and the Conservatives are held.

At any time during the past half century when voters were unhappy with the
Tories and Labour, the Liberals and their successor parties could count on a
revival.

No longer - 23 per cent of voters backed the Liberal Democrats under Charles
Kennedy at the May 2005 election. That figure has fallen to 18 per cent,
remaining stubbornly in that vicinity for more than a year. It seems that large
numbers of voters now lump the Liberal Democrats alongside Labour and the Tories
as part of "them'' - the lowly and despised political class as a whole.

YouGov's latest survey puts the Conservatives on 38 per cent, the same as a year
ago, even though support for Labour has fallen from 40 per cent then to 31 per
cent now.

Nearly a third of those who expect to vote at the next election and are prepared
to declare a voting intention give a thumbs-down to both the Conservatives and
Labour and back either the Liberal Democrats or some other party with no chance
of governing.

That said, voters in their thousands will undoubtedly revert to a major party
when the time comes to choose a new government, and YouGov's findings continue
to suggest that the Conservatives under David Cameron will enjoy a modest lead
over Labour if and when that party is led by Gordon Brown.

As the figures in the section of the chart headed "Forced choice'' indicate, 44
per cent of voters say if they had to choose, they would opt for a Cameron-led
Conservative government compared with only 38 per cent who would go for a
Brown-led Labour government.

However, the Tories' lead among respondents answering that question is only six
points now, compared with 12 points before Christmas.

The Tories have clearly gained support from erstwhile Liberal Democrats, but at
the same time have lost support to both UKIP and the BNP. More importantly,
however, is the Conservatives' manifest failure under David Cameron to establish
a clear - and fresh - identity.

The sense that millions of voters are disenchanted with all three main parties
is reinforced by the responses to YouGov's standard questions about who would
make the best prime minister.

As the chart shows, more than one third of respondents reject all the major
party leaders to reply "Don't know''.

Asked why they apparently have no view, 66 per cent of those unwilling to choose
among David Cameron, Gordon Brown and Sir Menzies Campbell respond either that
they "don't think much of any of the three'' (47 per cent) or else "don't think
much of any politicians (19 per cent).

Meanwhile, Tony Blair's ship of state is taking in water at an unprecedented
rate.

Only 21 per cent of voters now say they "approve of the Government's record to
date'', the lowest figure since Labour came to power nearly a decade ago. By
contrast, in January 1998, during New Labour's first winter in power, the
corresponding figure was an impressive 53 per cent. A mere 26 per cent of voters
now say they are "satisfied'' with Mr Blair as Prime Minister compared with the
66 per cent who applauded his performance in early 1998.

However, the party's principal problem is its almost total loss of the dual
reputation for competence and integrity that New Labour fought so hard to
acquire during the 1990s.

This also damages Gordon Brown. Having manned the bridge as Mr Blair's first
lieutenant throughout New Labour's time in power, Mr Brown has also lost public
standing. His taking over as ship's captain later this year will in itself make
little difference. Everything turns on how he comports himself in office.

Fortunately for him, public expectations of his premiership are low. He has got,
in the classic phrase, nowhere to go but up. As the chart shows, only 31 per
cent of YouGov's respondents believe he "will prove a good prime minister''
compared with 44 per cent who reckon he will not, and a further 25 per cent who
suspend judgment.

Asked, in addition, whether Britain is likely to be governed better under Mr
Brown than it has been under Tony Blair, most voters give the impression of
tossing a mental coin. As the figures in the chart show, roughly the same small
proportions are sanguine and dubious about him, with a clear majority reckoning
his eventual ascent to power "will not make much difference''.

Of course, the problem for the Tories at the moment is that a large majority of
voters clearly think the same about them.

Anthony King is professor of government at Essex University.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 29, 2007 Monday

Comment & Debate: Xenophobes, not workers, are uniting across Europe: East
European racists are giving new muscle to the continental far right by preying
on the losers from the region's upheaval

BYLINE: Yudit Kiss

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 891 words


The long awaited and welcome accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European
Union has already had a nasty side-effect. It has made it possible for the
extreme right to form its own group in the European parliament - giving its
parties extra time and money - Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty.

Jean-Marie Le Pen's National Front, formerly a vociferous opponent of the EU's
enlargement, has delegated Bruno Gollnisch, a recidivist Holocaust denier, to
head the group. He has received with open arms the five representatives of the
Greater Romania party and Dimitar Stoyanov of the Bulgarian Ataka party, who had
already made his debut in the European parliament commenting on the bodies and
purchase price of Gypsy women. The newcomers will certainly feel at home in the
company of Alessandra Mussolini ("proud to be a fascist"), Ashley Mote (formerly
of the British Ukip), and the MEPs of the migrant-bashing Belgian Vlaams Belang,
and the Austrian FPO, formerly headed by Jorg Haider. The proletarians of the
world seem to be so disoriented by the blows of industrial change and
deregulation that they are rather slow to move. So it is the xenophobes of
Europe that are uniting - and demonstrating a great deal of mutual tolerance,
despite not so long ago having depicted each other as dangerous aliens.

Bulgaria, a delightful country that saved its Jewish citizens during the second
world war and has been living in peace with its Turkish minority, will be
represented at the highest political forum of Europe by a party whose manifesto
calls for "Bulgaria for the Bulgarians" and whose leader is quoted as claiming
that Turks still dominate his country and Jews exploit it. Its supporters have
been accused of calling for Gypsies to be turned into soap.

Romania has more extreme-right traditions to reach back for, and since these
were demonised by the Communists and mystified by the nationalists, they have
now re-emerged with a frightening virulence. The Greater Romania party's
president, Vadim Tudor, openly proclaims his hatred of foreigners and ethnic
minorities - in particular the Roma, the largest group of losers in eastern
Europe's transformation, who are marginalised and despised with a shameful
unanimity in the whole region.

As a Hungarian, I would be proud that my country's extreme-right Hungarian Life
and Justice party did not make it into parliament at the April 2006 elections -
were it not for the fact that by the autumn its rhetoric and demands were being
echoed by angry crowds outside the parliament building (as well as some
opposition politicians inside it). For more than two months Budapest was
targeted by violent protesters who shouted xenophobic slogans, daubed
anti-semitic graffiti and demanded the head of the prime minister who revealed
the truth about the state of the economy and the corruption of the political
class. Legitimate criticism was turned into fake demands.

Some years ago, when Le Pen threatened to become the president of France, French
society mobilised itself to stop him. When Haider's party entered the Austrian
government, half of Austrian society protested vehemently. Even at the recent
municipal elections in Belgium, the advance of the Vlaams Belang was halted by
the awakening of civil society and the emergence of liberal-left coalitions. But
when the Poles and Slovaks voted extreme-right, racist parties into their
parliaments, it was accepted with apathy tinged with incredulity.

Two factors are smoothing the re-emergence of the extreme right in eastern
Europe and its ability to prey on the many losers from the region's social and
economic transformation: the democratic deficit accumulated during the region's
peripheral pre-war and state-socialist past, and its undigested history.
Historical myths remain powerful political tools, as the bloody Yugoslav wars
painfully showed. The post-first-world-war partition of Hungary remains such a
trauma that discriminatory rhetoric can exploit it with frightening success. In
Poland it is enough to evoke the country's multiple partitions - or in Slovakia
the scars of Hungarian domination - to get massive support for extremist
policies. People have still not come to terms with their 20th-century history,
and many political players are doing their best to confuse them further.
Democratic institutions and civil societies are not yet mature enough either to
distinguish between justified protest and manipulation or to resist when
fundamental human and political rights are in danger.

Extreme-right rhetoric is a powerful and long-lasting poison, because it
addresses people's darkest anxieties. If it is not exposed and confronted
clearly, it lingers on in people's minds, like cyanide in polluted waters,
killing flora and fauna invisibly, but systematically.

The unexpected eastern contribution could give such an impetus to the European
extreme right that it might succeed in establishing itself as an accepted
political actor in the continent. This would endanger the precarious political
balance and wobbling institutional systems of Europe and add to its external
vulnerability as well. A continent in which identity politics, exclusion and
xenophobia become accepted political currents would be easy prey for radical
extremist mobilisation and attacks.

Yudit Kiss is a Hungarian economist based in Geneva jkiss@infomaniak.ch

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 29, 2007 Monday

Media: Royal bugging affair: Comment: Would Goodman be in such trouble if he'd
found a decent story?

BYLINE: Peter Wilby

SECTION: GUARDIAN MEDIA PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words


Yes, Clive Goodman went too far. The News of the World reporter had no
particular aim in mind when he intercepted the voicemail of royal aides on 487
occasions and paid a private investigator more than £100,000 in a year to make
further intercepts. He wasn't trying to stand up a specific story. He was on a
fishing expedition in the hope that something interesting would turn up. He came
up with such gems as the news that Prince William went to the doctor about a
knee injury and called his girlfriend Babykins.

So we can all agree that what the judge quaintly termed his "low conduct"
justifies his briefly cluttering up our overcrowded jails. We can also agree
that Andy Coulson, the News of the World editor, should at least have asked
questions about why Goodman's expenses had reached six figures and he was
therefore right to resign. But suppose Goodman had stumbled across evidence that
Prince William was discussing with a New Labour figure how to keep out Gordon
Brown or was in regular contact with leaders of the UK Independence Party.
Suppose he had overheard Prince Harry using racist language. Would we take the
same view of his behaviour? Goodman's crime, it has been said, was to be found
out. It was also, we might add, that he failed to unearth a decent story.

Issues about privacy and the press are more complicated than the high-minded
moralising of recent days suggests. A high proportion of the juiciest stories -
the ones you want to read rather than the rewritten press releases - have been
obtained by journalists cutting corners and sailing close to ethical if not
legal boundaries. For example, David Leigh, the Guardian's investigations
specialist, has admitted he listened to company executives' phone messages while
looking into corrupt arms deals. The suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder
case had their homes bugged to find evidence they were racist. The Sunday Times
used impersonation and secret tape-recordings to kick off the cash-for-honours
story. According to a report from the information commissioner last year, almost
all papers, including the poshest ones, have used private detectives to dig out
confidential data.

It may be objected that my examples all have a public interest defence, which
the law allows. Yet the royal family is a unique public institution: it has no
function other than to entertain us with details of its members' private lives.
Prince Charles, in a case against the Mail on Sunday, has already won the
courts' support for the view that extracts from his private journals, even if
they are circulated among his friends, cannot be published. Prince William, by
threatening the Press Complaints Commission as well as the courts, has
frightened photographers away from his girlfriend, Kate Middleton. Now the
complaints about phone intercepts have delivered the biggest scalps yet.

The public doesn't have a compelling need to know that William has a bad knee or
Middleton has taken a trip to the supermarket. But equally, I don't see why it
shouldn't know. I would have more sympathy with the royals if their spokespeople
didn't lie so persistently. The crisis in Goodman's career, which led him to
such excesses, was partly the result of his failure to stand up a tip that
Charles and Camilla were about to get engaged. He accepted a Clarence House
denial - four days before the story was officially confirmed.

Even I have experience of the royals' sharp practice. Believe it or not, the
Independent on Sunday, where I used to work, got a scoop on the Princess Royal's
second marriage. Though the source was impeccable, we checked it just before
deadline with the royal press office. It rushed the news out instantly, claiming
it had always intended to make an announcement that day, thus depriving us of
our scoop. More important, it managed, thanks to predictably deferential TV and
press coverage, to bury the point of our story: that the desire to keep the
marriage plans secret until the last minute - to reduce controversy over the
first senior royal divorcee to remarry - had led the royals to breach the normal
public notification procedures.

Almost anybody in public life now has PR advisers burnishing their image, and
filtering out potentially negative stories. Readers have grown familiar with the
lengths to which politicians will go. But they may not realise the influence PRs
now have over almost everything that appears in newspapers, particularly on
sports and business pages. Celebrities allow magazines into their homes and
reveal other intimate details if sufficient money is involved. Agents,
footballers and club managers feed contrived transfer stories to the press to
ramp up prices and dish competitors, and full-time sports reporters know the
supply of titbits would dry up if they tried to inves tigate bungs. Hollywood
stars, before granting interviews, routinely demand the right to approve copy
and pictures, and they often get it. One of many reasons why I regret Coulson's
departure - don't forget he risked odium for printing pictures of "our boys"
abusing Iraqi youths - is that he dared to defy Max Clifford, the biggest name
in PR. Clifford withdrew cooperation from the paper after it had written
disobligingly about one of his clients, an Atomic Kitten.

I do not say there should be no laws on privacy. Clearly, there should, and they
have to apply to journalists as much as to anyone else; otherwise, we would have
the state deciding who's a bona fide journalist and who's not. But we need to be
aware that loss of privacy isn't the only danger facing our society. An equal
danger is that we shall live in a world where everything we know, everything we
hear and everything we see is doctored by the public relations industry.

Dacre - all scowl, no substance, page 6

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 28, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blair's last stab in the back for Brown;
FOCUS PM plans to sign Britain up for hated EU superstate, then quit leaving
Gordon to deal with the fall-out

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 1241  words


TONY BLAIR is planning to hand Gordon Brown a "political hand grenade with the
pin pulled out" by signing up to a new EU Constitution just days before leaving
office.

The Prime Minister has appointed two senior officials to lead secret
negotiations on bringing back the controversial plan to create an EU
"superstate" before he quits.

The negotiations are expected to begin this week at a behind-closed-doors
meeting in Berlin.

Mr Blair sees cementing Britain's place in Europe as part of his political
"legacy". In what will be one of his final acts as Prime Minister he hopes to
sign up to the new Constitution at an EU summit in June.

He will then leave his likely successor Gordon Brown with the explosive task of
pushing through the deal - and deciding whether to hold a referendum.

The move will plunge Mr Brown into an immediate political controversy - and
could overshadow the early months of his premiership when he will be attempting
to make his own mark on the Government.

The Prime Minister's renewed enthusiasm for the EU Constitution reflects the
disintegration of many of his other "legacy" projects. With Iraq in flames, the
NHS in deficit and the crisis gripping the Home Office making a mockery of his
pledge to tackle crime and anti-social behaviour, Mr Blair is now casting around
for anything that might give his final months in office some purpose.

But Mr Blair faces a race against time after a disastrous week which has raised
fresh questions about whether he retains the political authority to hang on
until the end of June.

The Prime Minister endured a humiliating Question Time in the Commons last week,
with Labour backbenchers making jokes at his expense and MPs on all sides
mocking him as he scurried from the Chamber to avoid a debate on the Iraq war.

The level of disrespect shown to Mr Blair would have been unthinkable even a few
months ago. His weakened position was underlined further when a Cabinet revolt
forced him to back down in the row over forcing Catholic adoption agencies to
consider placing children with gay couples.

And behind the scenes, Downing Street has descended into panic over the latest
twist in the cash-for-honours inquiry, which has seen police focus on a possible
cover-up by Mr Blair's closest aides.

The original EU Constitution was abandoned in 2005 following "No" votes in
referendums in France and Holland. The UK Government scrapped plans for its own
referendum, amid fears it would uncover overwhelming opposition to the idea.

But the Prime Minister is now backing German efforts to revive the plan.

Downing Street has confirmed that Kim Darroch, Mr Blair's personal adviser on
the EU, and Nicola Brewer, Europe director-general at the Foreign Office, have
been appointed to negotiate "possible ways to take the constitutional process
forward". The pair will meet their counterparts from across the EU in a series
of "confidential" negotiations aimed at breathing new life into the
Constitution.

But Downing Street has so far refused to comment on their terms of reference - a
decision condemned by Shadow Europe minister Graham Brady. Downing Street has
also refused to say whether a new deal would trigger a referendum in this
country.

Mr Brady said: "If they had been told, as they should have been, that Britain
wants no part in any EU Constitution then that would have been one thing. We
might then be able to focus on what is needed in the EU - a reduction in
over-regulation. The fact that the Government is not prepared to tell Parliament
or the public what they are doing inevitably raises suspicions.

"The majority of people in Britain think the process of European integration has
already gone too far - they would like to see powers coming back, not more
sovereignty being given away." Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence
Party, said he was "alarmed" by the latest development, particularly as Mr
Darroch was a wellknown enthusiast for the EU Constitution, who played a key
role in drawing up the original document.

Mr Farage said he strongly believed Mr Blair would attempt to strike a deal
before he quits. But he warned that Gordon Brown would face a huge political
backlash if he tried to force the deal through Parliament without giving the
British people the final say in a referendum.

Mr Farage added: "It now looks almost certain that Blair will sign up to a deal
before he goes but he will not have time to get Parliamentary approval. Instead,
he will hand the problem over to Gordon Brown - it is like handing over a hand
grenade with the pin pulled out.

"If Brown agrees to a referendum, he is going to face an uphill struggle to win.
If he refuses, he will face a huge backlash. Either way it will overshadow his
start as Prime Minister."

GISELA STUART, a Labour MP who helped draw up the Constitution before becoming
disillusioned with aspects of it, said it was clear that parts of the document
would be brought in by the back door.

She said: "I think we are going to see implementation by stealth. They will back
off calling it a constitution and they will try to agree on all the bits they
can get through without automatically triggering a referendum. Mr Darroch was
one of the key players in the Foreign Office when we negotiated this thing - he
is deeply immersed in it."

German Chancellor Angela Merkel has asked all 27 EU leaders to appoint senior
officials to take part in intensive secret negotiations on the Constitution. The
talks, which begin this week, will initially focus on the wording of a new
political "declaration" of faith in the EU to be unveiled in March, before
moving on to the Constitution.

In a leaked letter Chancellor Merkel stressed that all the negotiations would be
"confidential", with the results only revealed to the public at the last minute.
A leaked timetable suggests that secret talks will be held on a fortnightly
basis in the run-up to the June 22 summit in a bid to hammer out a politically
acceptable deal.

The heads of the 18 EU countries that have already ratified the Constitution
held their own talks last week, at which they stressed the importance of pushing
through the document. In a joint article, published in a number of European
newspapers, the Spanish and Luxembourg Europe ministers said: "We cannot resign
ourselves to Europe being no more than a huge market or a free trade area. We
want a political Europe that can speak with one voice, and with one minister of
foreign affairs and a common foreign service."

Mr Blair has long argued that EU reform is needed to cope with enlargement. But
critics claimed that the Constitution also led to a big increase in the EU's
powers that would lead to major loss of British sovereignty in areas such as
immigration, crime, defence and foreign affairs.

But both Brussels and Downing Street are wary of calling the new deal a
"constitution" for fear of a political backlash. In a move that recalls the
rebranding of the Windscale nuclear plant as Sellafield, the new document will
be given a more neutral title.

One senior EU diplomat said: "We have to look at the functioning of Europe
again, but the word 'constitution' is a problem. It may be called an
institutional settlement - it will not be called a constitution - but it will do
many of the same things."

The problem for Mr Brown is that the British people are no mugs. If it looks
like a constitution, sounds like a constitution and acts like a constitution
they will want a referendum. And that could spell disaster.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday

Voters will abandon Cameron if he abandons Tory principles

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 36 words


SIR - Until UKIP changes its name, it will remain a single-issue party. Since
anti-Europeanism is the only policy that commands consensus within the party,
such a name change is virtually impossible.

Chris Sherwood

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday

Voters will abandon Cameron if he abandons Tory principles

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 127 words


SIR - If David Cameron and his coterie abandon so many policies that were
central to Conservative principles only two years ago - lower taxation, more
secure borders and safer streets - they should recognise that their decisions
leave a vacuum in politics that offers a legitimate invitation to UKIP to fill.

Hence a probable scenario for the next two years is that while Mr Cameron
scrambles for votes in competition, as he thinks, with Gordon Brown and Sir
Menzies Campbell, UKIP will be justified in claiming the Conservative mantle,
calling itself, perhaps, the United Kingdom Conservative Party (UKCP).

Who will be the "loony and fruitcake'' then? Or, more seriously, what does it
say about the judgment of an aspiring prime minister?

Peter Youngs

Tamworth, Staffs

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday

Voters will abandon Cameron if he abandons Tory principles

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 155 words


SIR - Simon Heffer (Comment, January 24) is right about the serious effects of
David Cameron's abandonment of Conservative principles. I have been an activist
since 1974, and a constituency officer for nine years, but this week, after
months of agonising, I left the Conservative Party and joined UKIP - because I
am a conservative. I have watched the systematic neutering and leftward drift of
the party for which I have fought for most of my adult life, and have realised
that the Conservative Party is no longer conservative.

There is now no substantial difference between a Brown government and a Cameron
one: only UKIP stands for those core policies in which most conservatives
believe - low tax, grammar schools, less state interference and an end to rule
by the EU. I believe that it is a question of when, rather than if, many more
Conservatives come to support UKIP: the only true conservative party.

Tam Large

Streat, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday

Lord Young

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 77  words


WESTMINSTER has been awash with rumours that another Conservative peer will
shortly quit the party to join the UK Independence Party. The Whip hears that
Lord Young, former Trade Secretary and one of Lady Thatcher's closest
colleagues, has been flirting with the idea of making more

Eurosceptic noises. David Young - the man, Maggie said, who brought her

solutions instead of problems - may even have pencilled a meeting with UKIP
leader Nigel Farage in his diary.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday

National: Politics: Political briefing Cameron walks a tightrope

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 464 words


No wonder Conservative MPs were even keener than Labour rivals to deride Ming
Campbell yesterday when the Lib Dem leader announced his well-meaning plan for
getting British troops out of Iraq by October. Tory defections to Ukip may have
grabbed recent headlines, but David Cameron's hopes of becoming prime minister
depend more on winning back what some advisers call "well-meaning ex-Tories"
whose votes helped carry Charles Kennedy to 61 seats.

That perception helps to explain why Mr Cameron is engaged in such a delicate
balancing act. He has taken to praising Mrs Thatcher again even as he discusses
"social responsibility" and reform of the public service with her nemesis Polly
Toynbee, "the Guardian's Charlotte Corday" according to the Telegraph's Simon
Heffer. In 1793 Ms Corday stabbed the Jacobin Marat in his bath. Heffer's knife
is being sharpened for Mr Cameron.

On the Tory right and in the shires he is not alone in questioning the direction
being taken by the party in London. The Thatcherite monetarist Tim Congdon has
just gone over to Ukip and Stuart Wheeler, the spread-bet millionaire and party
donor, is wobbling. Mr Wheeler is a nicer man than Professor Congdon, a 30-year
fan of the Pinochet regime, but he is a political innocent who backed Liam Fox
for Tory leader.

Mr Cameron has quickly ditched Dr Fox's "patient's passport" health policies,
which offended voters. In health, education and much else the Tory team is
carving out policies where choice and decentralisation echo Labour's current
journey. In today's Spectator the Blairite Lord Adonis sets out the new
consensus on education: more money, continuing reform and no return to selection
by ability. Blair should have moved faster. Brown (or Cameron) must do so.

Not much in that to encourage the nostalgic ideologue in Heffer or Prof Congdon,
who enraged the Tory leader by accusing him of a "paternalism" that betrays Lady
Thatcher's memory. That is wrong, say the Cameroons, who can cite such rightwing
colleagues as Iain Duncan Smith and John Redwood as part of their renewed search
for social justice.

What is at stake is whether the Tories want to remain a 30% party or confront
their failures and become a 40%-plus party. They slipped 3% in the Guardian's
latest ICM poll, but are no longer flatlining - at last. To win in 2009-10
requires them to reconstruct the coalition that united rural traditionalists,
city liberals, capitalists and the religious right.

That means winning back ex-Tories who agreed with Teresa May that theirs had
become the "nasty" party. But it also means stopping Ukip doing what the
Referendum party did to John Major in 1997 and taking 3.1% of the votes it
contested, mainly older, grumpier voters. Mr Cameron's aggressive stance on
Europe is designed to head Ukip off.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday

Cameron mocks the 'loonies and fruitcakes' of UKIP at his peril

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1256 words


In yet another striking act of political leadership by a media figure, the
editor of the Daily Mail, Paul Dacre, told an audience of students on Monday
that the Conservative Party could not count on his paper's support at the next
election; and that he was not entirely sure the party was, indeed, conservative.
Mr Dacre is a hate figure to certain sections of society. These statements will
only reinforce that feeling among those who hold it. He is also (and this is
partly why they hate him) highly influential politically. He has become
successful by knowing the instincts of his readers and not flying in the face of
them. And he knows that to embrace David Cameron at this juncture would send his
customers, and his reputation, elsewhere.

Mr Dacre also attacked the institutional Leftism of the BBC. These themes are
related. Why is the Conservative Party not a conservative party now? Because it
is trying to obtain sympathetic coverage from the institutional Leftists of the
BBC. It is also seeking a fair wind from its enemies in the Leftist press, such
as Polly Toynbee, the Charlotte Corday of the Guardian. In pursuing these aims,
it has clearly alienated Mr Dacre, and Mr Dacre fears, almost certainly
correctly, that it has alienated a big proportion of his readers, too. For that
matter it has also - as you may have noticed - alienated me and, to judge from
the letters and emails you are kind enough to write to me, quite a number of you
as well. The wilderness is getting rather crowded.

It is high policy now, in the Conservative Party, to rejoice that the likes of
Dacre, and Heffer, and their readers and cohorts, are inimical to the Cameron
project. What finer proof could there be that the party has "changed''? This is,
though, a doubtful piece of wisdom. I make no claims for my own influence in
these matters. But if Mr Cameron were to choose to treat Mr Dacre's threat of
non-co-operation as trivial, it might turn out to be his best route to
immortality in the Great Mistakes section of The Guinness Book of Records.

It is only human nature, when under attack, to pretend that any assault is
little more than a fleabite. And as well as taking that attitude in public
towards its opponents in the press, the new, "changed'' Conservative Party also
adopts it towards one of its emerging political rivals, the United Kingdom
Independence Party. There is a short and not very distinguished tradition here.
Michael Howard, shortly before UKIP hoovered up a dozen seats in the last
Euro-elections, branded its members as cranks, gadflies and extremists. Mr
Cameron, warming to the same theme, dismissed them as "a sort of bunch of
fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists''. Not long afterwards, so many former
Tories voted UKIP in the Bromley by-election that the Tory candidate, in a
hitherto safe seat and in the depths of the Government's unpopularity, won by a
mere 633 votes.

A fortnight ago, UKIP secured its first presence at Westminster when two peers
joined it. One, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, is a former and serious fund-raiser for
the party, a popular man with many rich friends. Since then, two such rich men
and former big Tory party donors, Stuart Wheeler and Lord Kalms, have been
revealed to be in talks with UKIP about extending some largesse. Still, the
official Tory party line remains that UKIP is not a threat, that no one should
remotely worry about it, and that it will have no impact at all on the Tory
party's inevitable success at the next election.

It is clear that even some of those saying these things do not remotely believe
them. There is also a refreshing divergence between what Mr Cameron's people say
publicly about UKIP, and the more perspirational things they say privately.

There has been cross-breeding between UKIP and the Tories for years. In 2004, I
addressed a dinner in a loyal Conservative association, with a superb sitting
MP. I spoke about Europe and the importance of sovereignty in the face of the
threatened EU constitution. Scores of the 150 or so present, all of them paid-up
party members, came up to me afterwards to assure me they would be voting UKIP
in the European elections, due a month later (having a modicum of manners, I had
asked them to do no such thing).

At Bournemouth during the last party conference, representatives buttonholed me
to say how they always voted UKIP in European elections and were now tempted to
do so in national ones. So when Messrs Howard and Cameron rifle the cupboards of
abuse for choice nouns with which to berate UKIP voters, they insult the very
people who keep their own party ticking over in the shires.

This, too, seems not to worry them. The three people pulling Mr Cameron's
strings - his party chairman, Francis Maude, his policy guru, Oliver Letwin, and
his image-master, Steve Hilton - revile what they call "the core vote''. The
core vote reads this newspaper and some of it reads the Mail, which may further
explain why the Tory leadership finds it so deceptively comforting to shrug off
Mr Dacre. Messrs Maude, Letwin and Hilton have, with the aid of the
unrepresentative focus groups with which they are obsessed, led Mr Cameron into
a world of mostly metropolitan and adolescent concerns. There, social liberalism
is advanced through the party's new devotion to the rights of minorities and its
determination not to find fault with Labour's incontinent spending policies. No
plan that might evoke the "nasty'' party of old - such as cutting taxes, or
advocating strict immigration controls - can be brooked. As the front man for
and prisoner of these three deeply un-conservative men, Mr Cameron is compelled
to present a face to the public that more people than just the editor of the
Mail find uncongenial.

There is, though, a more fundamental point about UKIP that the Tories disregard
at their peril. It is no longer a single-issue party, campaigning for withdrawal
from Europe. It also believes in low taxes, a smaller state, immigration
controls, grammar schools and an English parliament. As such, it is very
attractive to conservative-minded people. Worse for Mr Cameron, its new leader,
Nigel Farage, is highly articulate, plain-spoken, experienced (he has been an
MEP for eight years), attracting much media attention and highly politically
motivated. As they do with the editor of the Mail, the Tories can shrug UKIP
off, but they would be making another big mistake.

In a supremely smug article on this subject last Friday, the weekly bible of the
bien-pensant class, the Economist, warned Mr Cameron about UKIP, saying that "to
bend even slightly in its direction, however, would guarantee not only defeat,
but ridicule''. Really? I would concede that for the Tories to announce
withdrawal from the EU would be a little breathtaking. But what about the rest
that UKIP stands for? Would a Tory shift towards grammar schools, lower taxes, a
smaller state, controlled immigration and democratic equality for England really
have the party's opponents howling with hysterical laughter, and the voters
stampeding for Gordon Brown? Somehow, I doubt it.

The BBC wouldn't like it, and neither would Miss Toynbee, nor the Economist
(whose long and unembarrassed devotion to the European Exchange Rate Mechanism I
still, after all these years, recall with great fondness). But will these people
really swing the next election? If Francis, Ollie and Steve tell Dave they will
when they next indoctrinate him, he would be well advised to ask them, quite
firmly, whether they might perhaps be better employed elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 22, 2007 Monday 8:47 PM GMT

Rifkind pushes anti-EU Tories to Ukip

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 439 words


Over the past year, I've heard a number of Right-wing Tories privately wonder:
what is the point of Sir Malcolm Rifkind?

Has Sir Malcolm Rifkind failed to make his mark?                       The
one-time Foreign Secretary won plaudits in 2001 for bravely (but unsuccessfully)
fighting the old Edinburgh Pentlands seat which he'd lost in 1997. But after
boundary changes made the redrawn seat a far harder prospect, he trooped down to
London in 2005 to claim Kensington and Chelsea - the constituency where fellow
former high flyers Alan Clark and Michael Portillo were rehabilitated at the
previous two general elections.

Then, of course, he made a stalled attempt at the Tory leadership: with barely
half a dozen supporters, he sensibly pulled out before nominations opened. But
when David Cameron failed to offer him his favoured job of shadow Foreign
Secretary, he withdrew - some might say petulantly - to the backbenches, and has
failed to make much of a mark ever since.

But Rifkind has hit my radar this morning with a piece in this week's House
Magazine. He has charged into the delicate area of European policy, in the wake
of two once Conservative peers defecting to the UK Independence Party, and
seemingly encourages even more anti-EU Tories to join Ukip. "If some Europhobes
wish to defect to Ukip as a result of the Conservative line on Europe, then that
only highlights the degree of our reasonableness," he writes. "Shedding some of
these divisive elements may even help the Conservative Party avoid the trouble
that bedevilled it in the 1990s."

In what many of his colleagues will view as complacency, he adds: "Ukip poses no
threat to the Conservative Party because people understand that withdrawal from
the EU... is an utterly reckless and untenable proposition."

The Ukip leadership is rubbing its hands with glee at the notion that a senior
Tory is pushing people in its direction. Its recently-elected leader, MEP Nigel
Farage, was on GMTV's Sunday programme yesterday promising to target not just
former Conservative members and activists, but donors too: "As far as the donors
are concerned we've barely started," Farage claimed. "There are a lot of people
who've been backing the Conservative Party, business people, who now see that
Cameron's agenda is so wedded to the European Commission and to the fact that
our trade policy should continue to be determined in Brussels... I think because
of that one policy alone, there'd be many more people, with money, coming to
Ukip."

With more interventions from Rifkind on the issue, their passage will surely be
even speedier.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            January 22, 2007, Monday

UKIP woos donors

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 80 words


The UK Independence Party is targeting wealthy Tory donors for funds. Nigel
Farage, the party's leader, said that many business people were thinking of
switching their allegiance because of the party's anti-Brussels stance.

The MEP told GMTV's Sunday Programme that UKIP was in talks with potential
donors, including Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon who donated £ 5
million to the Conservatives in 2001. Mr Wheeler has said that he would not rule
out donating to both parties.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 21, 2007

Opinion: Don't be fooled by David Cameron's green machine

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1088 words


Political scientists once argued about the paradox of working-class
conservatives. Why did they vote for the right and turn their backs on a Labour
party that was dedicated to fighting their corner in the struggle against the
boss class? The academics of the 20th century gave far less attention to the
equal and opposite paradox of middle-class liberals voting against their
interests by rejecting a Conservative party that wanted to cut their taxes -
maybe because political scientists tended to be middle class and liberal
themselves.

This once neglected problem is now obsessing the Cameron Conservatives and
explains half the wacky scenes of modern Westminster life. David Cameron hugs
hoodies and endorses Camila Batmanghelidjh, a psychotherapist who explains away
criminals by saying they are 'thermostatically impaired' types with 'very poor
self-soothing repertoires'. Martin Bright, the political editor of the New
Statesman , dare not turn on his mobile, so numerous are the nuisance calls from
the Conservative think-tanks pleading with him to chair their meetings or write
introductions for volumes of David Cameron's speeches. Meanwhile, so persistent
has the pestering from Tory stalkers become, poor Polly Toynbee of the Guardian
may have to abandon her feminist atheism and take cover under a burqa.

The shunned journalists of the Telegraph and Mail are close to apoplexy as they
see their hopes for a counter-revolution vanishing. Ever since they fell out of
love with John Major, they have believed that if only they could stay pure and
true, the peculiar British electoral system would one day return a righteously
right-wing Conservative party to power. The extinction of a hope that has kept
them going for 15 years is sending practical men a little mad. Tim Congdon, a
previously hard-headed monetarist, and Stuart Wheeler, whose shrewd
understanding of the betting market made him the money to fund the Conservative
party, talk of heading off into the political wilds and supporting the UK
Independence Party, which has no chance of winning a seat at the next election.
Columnists on the Mail say they would rather have Brown than Cameron. None of
them seems to realise that hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, of previously
natural Tories were never going to vote Conservative because the right-wing
politics of the Nineties affronted their values.

The Tories had lost contact with the marketing manager in Bath who gains an
almost spiritual satisfaction from buying organic food and recycling her
rubbish, the solicitor in Bury who worries about the fate of 16-year-olds in
youth prisons and doctors, head teachers, civil servants and NHS administrators
in every part of Britain who believe in public service. Cameron understood that
without their votes, his party would never regain power. And by 'moving to the
centre', he's winning the liberal middle classes back, or at a bare minimum
stopping them hating the Tories so deeply that they will vote tactically to keep
him out. It's easy to laugh at the ideologues who prefer purity to power, but
the joke may also be on the liberal middle classes because Cameron is holding up
a mirror which reveals our priorities, and the reflection isn't always
flattering.

I have always thought that the most interesting stories barely make the news,
and last week Cameron proved my point. He gave an extraordinarily reactionary
pledge that made a nonsense of his hippy image and no one in the media raised a
questioning eyebrow. Writing in the Telegraph , he promised that under a
Conservative government Britain would opt out of the European Union's Social
Chapter. The immediate effect would be the removal of legal protection for
part-time workers and the ending of the rights of women to extend maternity
leave. Not much compassionate conservatism in that announcement, I thought.

I double-checked with Cameron's friends to see if there had been some mistake.
Not at all, they told me. You don't understand David if you suppose he believes
in regulation, particularly regulation from the EU. But what is going to happen
to part-time workers - most of them women and many of them poor? Well, they
replied, we will exhort employers to be nice to them. David's views on
employment rights are like his views on WH Smith selling chocolate oranges
instead of real ones. He's not going to force employers to extend maternity
leave any more than he is going to ban Smiths from selling chocolate. He is just
going to ask them to do the decent thing.

The TUC is appalled and points out that workers will have nothing to fall back
on when employers ignore Cameron's lectures, as I'm sure they will. I asked
their officials why with the exception of two tiny articles, there had been no
follow-up, and one of them said that she feared that Cameron had an alarmingly
accurate understanding of the tensions and double standards of middle-class
life. As a leading figure in the Labour movement, she hears daily diatribes on
how Blair has sold out from members of London's progressive middle class. With
barely a pause for breath, the apparently sincere left-wingers switch to
anguished wails about the law forcing them to give their nannies flexible
working and other benefits. She doesn't dismiss their problems, and accepts that
finding and paying for child care can be hellish. But she does come away
thinking that many of them would quietly welcome a cutback on the rights of
Britain's new servant class, as long as Cameron could make them feel good by
covering a right-wing measure in the unctuous language of moral exhortation.

He could pull the same trick by emphasising his environmentalism. In all
likelihood, green taxes will hit the poorest hardest because a family in a tower
block has no garden in which to compost its rubbish. A Conservative government
could easily cut income tax and use green taxes to cover the shortfall.
Middle-class voters would come out ahead, but the Tories' greenery would allow
us to avoid feeling guilty about our windfalls.

Sadly, the English are famed the world over for their hypocrisy. As every
political commentator has said, David Cameron's most effective weapon in his
battle with Gordon Brown is that he is English to the core.

>> READ ON

Read an exclusive extract from Nick Cohen's book in Review

Nick will be writing on our comment blog. Join the debate and see what other
people are saying.

observer.co.uk/commentisfree

On Wednesday, join our live online chat with Nick Cohen. Log on to
observer.co.uk at 2pm or post your questions now.


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 0 Star Edition

ETON'S DODGY ALUMNI

BYLINE: RICHARD STOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 237 words


DODGY Dave has found a new wheeze. Instead of being the heir to Blair, he's
decided he's son of Thatcher.

Difficult to see the old girl wanting to either hug a hoody or a tree, but
Cameron is worried about the Tory faithful escaping his phoney compassion by
joining the UK Independence Party.

Just as important, the money men are thinking of doing the same. If they do, the
Tories will be millions out of pocket.

Never believe the lie that cash barons don't exact their full pound of flesh
when it comes to policy, especially in opposition parties.

Justifying his latest position, Cameron tried to present Thatcher as a caring,
sharing type of gal, conveniently forgetting that she said there was no such
thing as society - a sentiment Cameron explicitly rejected. But that was a few
weeks ago now.

What Dodgy failed to mention is the "caring" legacy of millions of lives she
destroyed by forcing people into permanent unemployment.

The schools she allowed to disintegrate, the hospitals that degenerated into
slums.

The bed and breakfast society for those families who had been caught in the
poverty trap and were homeless because she refused to build council houses to
replace those sold off cheap.

Eton prides itself on turning out more Prime Ministers than any other school.

It doesn't do badly in the league table when it comes to turning out high-class
conmen, fraudsters, cheats, City shysters and political chancers either.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 21, 2007

Tale of passion as Cartland's grandson deserts the Tories

BYLINE: Roalnd White

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 117 words


He knew his was a forbidden love, but the dashing, headstrong 10th Earl of
Dartmouth - grandson of Barbara Cartland - could hide it no longer. To think he
had stood by in anguish while the Conservative party he once so admired had
turned from a frumpy matron into a glamorous young thing that some people might
actually now vote for.

Well, he would stand it no more. The UK Independence party might appear odd, but
he threw himself into its embrace with new-found fervour. "David Cameron's
Conservative party is a slave to political correctness," sighed the peer, his
heart beating ever faster. "I am joining a group of people that I respect." The
only question now is: who will live happily ever after?

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday

Second Life: Exploding pigs and volleys of gunfire as Le Pen opens HQ in virtual
world: Violent clashes have erupted in an online world over the arrival of Le
Pen's national front

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman, Porcupine

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 855 words


The streets of Porcupine were tranquil yesterday; a handful of locals strolled
through its shopping malls, the sun was shining, and a light breeze blew in from
over the hills. There were few hints of the fact that, only days before, the
neighbourhood had been the scene of violent clashes between rightwing extremists
and anti-Nazi protesters - running battles involving gunfire and bombs that
might easily have cost lives were it not for the fact that Porcupine does not,
in most commonly accepted senses of the term, exist.

A lesson you quickly learn upon entering the online virtual world of Second
Life, however, is that non-existence is less of an impediment than might be
supposed.

It hasn't stopped the development of a fully-featured alternative universe in
which Second Life's 2.4 million registered users build houses, set up
businesses, form clubs and societies, hold parties and have sex. And it did not
prevent protest from spilling over into aggression when the Front National, the
far-right French group led by Jean-Marie Le Pen, became the first European
political party to open a headquarters within Second Life.

"The first night I arrived at the protest . . . it was ringed on all sides by
protesters with signs to wave and statements to distribute," wrote James Au,
whose website, New World Notes, reports on events in Second Life. "By the second
night I came . . . the conflict had become more literal, for many residents had
armed themselves. Multi-coloured explosions and constant gunfire shredded the
air of Porcupine." Some activists threw exploding pigs.

"This nationalist idea that Front National is advocating is something that has
spread all over Europe like a virus," a protester, using the name Ichi Jaehun,
told Mr Au. "It's (as if) the history of the 20th century has already been
forgotten. It is time to say enough!"

A group calling itself Second Life Left Unity issued press releases explaining
that it had purchased land next to the Front National office, and would be
"manning a protest there until FN go or are ejected. Wherever fascists are, we
will ensure they get no peace to corrupt and lie to decent people".

A few days later, the Front National building had vanished altogether, leav ing
only a few protest placards showing Mr Le Pen - who made it through to the final
round of the last real-world French presidential election in 2002 - wearing a
Hitler moustache.

It was probably inevitable that political confrontation would arrive in Second
Life in the end. It is already home to one of the most potentially revolutionary
developments on the internet in recent years - a vibrant economy in which
residents use a virtual currency, Linden dollars, to buy and sell goods and
services, including clothes for their online characters, works of art,
buildings, and financial advice.

Because users retain legal ownership of the things they create, and because
Linden dollars can be turned into US dollars via an exchange operated by Linden
Lab, the company behind Second Life, the virtual-world businesses have
real-world value. Numerous real firms have opened outlets in Second Life, and a
woman living in Germany has reportedly become its first dollar millionaire -
from the property development business she runs inside Second Life.

And so it was not such a stretch to imagine that political parties might soon
want to get in on the action. The US Congress held an opening ceremony in Second
Life earlier this month to coincide with the one in Washington - an event marked
by a discussion forum held "in-world," to use Second Life's jargon, by a
character controlled by the senior Democratic congressman George Miller. (The
news was reported by Reuters, which operates a bureau inside Second Life.)

The UK Independence Party has also promised to open a headquarters in-world.
"The other parties are devoid of fresh thinking, and I fully expect them now to
copy us and follow our lead," said Ukip supporter Chad Noble, who is in charge
of the project.

The Guardian's "avatar", or on-screen character, tracked down the Front National
to Axel, another region in Second Life, where they had rebuilt their
headquarters and were engaging a handful of opponents in relatively restrained
debate. "Le Pen is the son of Hitler," one protester ventured. "I know lots of
people descended from immigrants who vote for the Front National because they're
not ashamed to be French," a Le Pen supporter countered, "and I think you'll be
surprised at how many people of an immigrant background vote for Le Pen at the
next election."

Debate has raged in Second Life as to whether the Front National's presence
violates the terms of service that all users must accept on signing up. (Linden
Lab was not commenting yesterday.) Race hate is against the regulations. But
while Front National members including Mr Le Pen have been convicted of inciting
racial hatred in France, it wasn't clear that any avatars had been guilty of it
inside Second Life. Should a conviction in one universe carry over into another?
Does the question even make sense?

Where do the boundaries of reality lie? And do you have a throbbing headache
yet?

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday

Spy

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: FEATURES; SPY; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 487 words


Battling blues

News reaches Spy that boundary changes have prompted two more Conservative MPs
to go head to head for the same seat. I can reveal that Hornchurch MP James
Brokenshire - who narrowly missed the nomination for the new Witham seat - is to
challenge Upminster's Angela Watkinson (right) for the combined Upminster and
Hornchurch constituency.

"It's a situation that I genuinely hoped would be avoided,'' Brokenshire told
Spy yesterday.

"I have also put in for East Hampshire, so we'll see where that goes. As for
Upminster and Hornchurch, I prefer not to see it as a contest but a case of
giving the local association a choice. Angela is a fantastic MP and I wish her
all the best. But boundary changes mean that situations like this are thrown
up.''

Free thinker

The Rev Peter Mullen, Chaplain to the Stock Exchange and Rector of St Michael's,
Cornhill, has graced this column several times in recent months.

First he wrote The Politically Correct Gospel, subsequently expanding the idea
into a politically incorrect Christmas service, complete with use of the King
James Bible and the 1662 prayer book.

Now he's taking the campaign still further - by joining the UK Independence
Party. "I am joining Ukip because I refuse to believe that we should be governed
by the EU,'' he says. "It's no good anyone banging on about national
independence when they are not prepared to allow us to govern ourselves.''

Taking a swipe at the political establishment, he adds: "Why should I vote for
self-serving careerists when I can vote for a party of recognisable British
principle?''

Naked truth

It takes bravery to admit you are an alcoholic, as author Tom Sykes well knows.
But it takes something more akin to fearlessness to tell the world about your
affliction. So why is Sykes - the brother of socialite Plum - now going into
hiding?

"I'm off to Australia,'' the old Etonian told me at the launch of What Did I Do
Last Night? "I'm really going into hiding. Partly after all the promotion for my
book, but mostly because I appear naked in this month's Tatler. It's kind of
embarrassing.''

You'd think that after the misdemeanours detailed in his memoir - which charts
the drink and drug addiction Sykes battled while a columnist for the New York
Post - appearing déshabillé would be the least of his worries.

Getting hairy

For a 56-year-old man, American Vanity Fair editor Graydon Carter (right) boasts
an impressive mop of hair. And it may become still more voluminous, since I hear
Carter recently had a contretemps with the century-old Paul Mole barbershop in
downtown Manhattan.

"Carter arrived for his appointment on time but was told he'd have to wait 40
minutes,'' I'm told.

"He was not at all happy and walked out.'' To top it all, Carter is fed up with
all the attention. "A man can't get a haircut, or not get a haircut, in this
town without it winding up in the papers,'' he seethes.

Celia's party blog: telegraph.co.uk/blogs

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           January 18, 2007, Thursday

David Cameron and Stuart Wheeler

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 48 words


Good to see that the Tories aren't frightened of the mutterings of Stuart
Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon, about defecting to the UKIP. On his trip to
Edinburgh this week, David Cameron will be visiting a gambling addiction clinic.
A deliberate snub, not a tactless oversight. Obviously.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday

Cameron should fight for restoration of British sovereignty

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 238 words


SIR - It is a bit rich of David Cameron to pretend that he believes in our
national sovereignty (Comment, January 15). The German government has calculated
that 80 per cent of all their national law since 1998 has been imposed by the
EU. It will be the same sort of figure here, although the British Government has
so far only admitted that the majority of law affecting our business "originates
in Brussels''.

So it is safe to assume that most of our national law is now proposed in secret
by the unelected European Commission, negotiated in secret by the shadowy and
unelected Committee of Permanent Representatives from the member states and
decided in secret by the Council of Ministers, where Britain is reduced to some
eight per cent of the votes. The resulting laws are then executed by the
Commission and supported by the EU Parliament and Luxembourg Court if necessary.

The House of Commons is irrelevant in this process, which cannot be changed
while we stay in the EU. Nor can we "restore our opt-out from the social
chapter'' as Mr Cameron promises. Yet surely the heart of our sovereignty, our
democracy, our self-government, is the hard-earned right of the British people
to elect and dismiss those who make their laws. So which is it to be? Stay in
the EU and abandon our sovereignty for good, or leave and restore it where it
belongs: with the British people and Parliament.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch (Ukip)

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday

Cameron should fight for restoration of British sovereignty

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 78 words


SIR - In the face of the current Ukip onslaught, David Cameron is trying to
appeal to the Eurosceptic majority of his party by saying "we have announced our
withdrawal from the federalist European People's Party''.

It's a bit much to cover up a broken promise with such a specious statement. He
underestimated the potency of EU politics when he originally made this promise,
only to discover that most of his MEPs had gone native years ago.

Sir George Earle Bt

Crediton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Far-right group in disarray as MEPs seek to end its funding

BYLINE: Stephen Castle in Strasbourg

SECTION: EUROPE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 539 words


A new far-right group in the European Parliament is in disarray after one of its
MEPs disowned a colleague for attacking the "Jewish establishment" and for
accusing Roma parents of selling their daughters into prostitution.

The rift emerged at yesterday's press conference to launch an ultra-nationalist
group called Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty. It is led by Bruno Gollnisch, of
France's National Front, who is awaiting a court verdict on charges of Holocaust
denial.

It came as centre-left and Green MEPs sought to strip the group of public
funding and enhanced speaking rights, and to prevent it taking positions on
parliamentary committees.

The only British parliamentarian in the far-right grouping, Ashley Mote, a
former Ukip MEP, turned on his 23-year-old Bulgarian colleague, Dimitar
Stoyanov, over comments made in yesterday's Independent. Mr Stoyanov, of
Bulgaria's Ataka Party and the parliament's youngest MEP, had denied being
anti-Semitic but said he opposes the "Jewish establishment", which uses normal
Jewish people "like pawns". Justifying criticism of Roma communities, he argued:
"If you put the children in a bad parental environment you cannot expect them to
integrate. If you turn a daughter into a prostitute when they are 12 years old
you cannot expect them to develop a moral awareness.

"They are sending their daughter out begging or selling them to older men.
Sometimes you forget about human rights because of ethnic rights."

Last night, Mr Mote said: "I think the comments ??? reflect the inexperience and
lack of political nous of the young man concerned. I have twice given him the
opportunity to make a statement and he has rejected the opportunity to do so."

The disagreement on the far right could damage the fledgling group because rival
MEPs are seeking to strip it of its right to exist as a formal grouping because
it lacks a cohesive programme. A grouping must be made up of at least 20 MEPs
from six countries, and have shared policies, before it is approved.

ITS has been constituted with the help of MEPs from Romania and Bulgaria, which
joined the EU this month, and it emerged yesterday that the far-right MEPs could
gain about Euro 1.3m (£860,000) a year from the public purse.

The constitutional affairs committee, however, has been asked to consider
stripping ITS of its status because it does not have a consistent programme. The
far-right MEPs promised to fight back. Alessandra Mussolini, granddaughter of
Benito Mussolini, and a group member, argued that ITS has "far more consistency
than many others".

The group's MEPs lashed out at the coverage in yesterday's Independent, a copy
of which they produced at yesterday's press conference, and which was described
by M. Gollnisch as "unworthy of comment".

Several prominent MEPs said they would seek to stop the far-right grouping from
gaining the vice-chairmanship of a European parliamentary committee to which
they would normally be entitled. Usually these posts are divided up under the
D'Hondt system, which allocates positions according to the size of groupings.
However, such appointments still need to be approved in a vote which is normally
a formality. In this case, socialist and Green MEPs pledged to break the normal
conventions.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Tories warn backing Ukip will keep Labour in power

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: POLITICS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 527 words


The Conservatives are to warn voters that backing Ukip could allow Labour to
retain power amid Tory fears that the revived anti-Europe party could deny David
Cameron victory at the next election.

Ukip, which wants Britain to leave the EU, won 16 per cent of the votes at the
2004 European Parliament elections. Although it won only 2.9 per cent of the
votes where it stood at the 2005 general election, analysis of the results
suggests that it may have prevented the Tories winning up to 16 seats and shows
it inflicted much more damage on the Tories than Labour.

John Curtice, professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said the Tories
performed 1.7 percentage points worse where Ukip did well than where they did
badly, while Labour dropped by only 0.6 points. This suggests that for every
vote Ukip secured from Labour, it won three from the Tories.

On these assumptions, the "Ukip effect" meant that Labour held on to 11 seats
that would otherwise have been lost to the Tories - Crawley, Sittingbourne and
Sheppey, Harlow, Battersea, Warwick and Leamington, Medway, Gillingham, Stroud,
Stourbridge, Dart-ford and South Thanet. The Liberal Democrats won another four
seats which would otherwise have gone Tory - Romsey, Solihull, Westmorland and
Lonsdale, Taunton and Eastleigh. Although it is impossible to predict Ukip's
impact at the next election, the study highlights the party's potential to harm
the Tories. All 16 seats will be high on the list of seats the Tories will need
to win to push Labour out of office.

Since the turn of the year, Ukip has won its first foothold in parliament when
two former Tory peers, Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke,
joined the party. Then two major Tory donors, Stuart Wheeler, who made a fortune
from a City spread-betting firm, and Dixons founder Lord Kalms, said they might
vote for Ukip.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, has been wooing new recruits and the party is
expected to announce a big donation from a former Tory backer shortly.

Despite the threat, Mr Cameron will resist pressure from some MPs and candidates
in marginal seats to harden his policy on Europe in an attempt to prevent
Eurosceptic voters backing Ukip rather than the Tories. He has upset some Tory
MPs in recent weeks by striking a more positive tone on Europe - for example, by
highlighting the role that the European Union can play in combating climate
change.

"We are not going to obsessed by a few hundred votes," said a spokesman for Mr
Cameron. "Ukip is trying to keep Labour in power. We are not going to pander to
it. We will defeat it."

Mr Cameron stands by his attack on Ukip last year as "fruitcakes, loonies and
closest racists, mostly". His aides deny that he has softened Tory policy on
Europe, saying the party remains opposed to the single currency, the stalled EU
constitution and the social chapter of workers' rights.

Six Tory MPs have signed a pledge saying that Britain would be "better off out"
of the EU, and Ukip will not oppose them at the next election. Although the MPs
will not be disciplined, Patrick McLoughlin, the Opposition's chief whip, has
urged other backbenchers not to support the campaign.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

ROSES ARE RED, TORIES ARE BLUE, CAM'S DONE A U-TURN AND LOVES THATCHER TOO

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 468 words


HOORAY! The mask of moderation has finally slipped, with dodgy Dave revealing
himself to be the heir to mad Maggie.

After 14 months of pretending he'd either never liked or, occasionally, never
even heard of Thatch, posh boy's gone home to mummy.

Citing her approvingly no fewer than six times on a single occasion earlier this
week is a significant, if humiliating, U-turn by Cameron.

As criticism of the toff hits fever pitch - and filthy rich donors threaten to
cart their ill-gotten gains off to the UKIP Euro nutters - the right-wing wolf
was forced to shed some of his sheep's clothing.

Can Thatch's newest public fan be the same Tory leader who posed as Tory Blair?
Yes, he is.

Can he be the same toff who gripped Nelson Mandela's hand and criticised her
denunciation of the ANC as terrorists? Indeed he is.

Can he be the same head of a party that published a list of 12 great Britons,
including socialist firebrand Nye Bevan yet omitting Thatch? Certainly it's him.

And can he be the same guy who hailed Blair and Gordon Brown when expressing his
"aims and values" but forgot Thatch? Yep, he's your man.

Cameron's hugging of the Rusty Lady is evidence of weakness rather than
political machismo. In truth, the political gap between them has never been that
wide.

The compassionate Conservatism preached by Cameron is an unhappy combination of
myth and reality. The myth is the compassion, the reality the Conservatism.

When Cameron bangs the drum of social responsibility, it's Tory code for cutting
public services and leaving the poor and vulnerable to fend for themselves.

Where's the responsibility in closing Sure Start centres, then ordering
hard-pressed parents to look after their kids better?

Where's the responsibility in enabling bosses to sack staff more easily while
proclaiming the Tories are the party of the workers?

Cameron has upped the rhetoric of tax cuts but the reverse side of
a-penny-off-income-tax is worse schools and hospitals.

The Tory toff is returning to traditional Conservative territory, which is where
his heart has always been and will remain. A member of Team Cameron let slip
that his boss hates the Mirror banging on about his privileged upbringing.
Tough, old bean.

As I predicted, posh boy didn't use a BBC interview on Sunday to follow Big
Gordie and go back to his old school. It's easy to see how Cameron is anxious to
shun, in public, the playing fields of Eton, while Brown is happy to show off
his Scots state (albeit selective) school.

But the complaint against Cameron isn't just that he is a toff, although that
shaped his politics and it's fun to pick at the scab now I know he's so
thin-skinned.

The charge is that he's incredibly right-wing - heir to Thatcher rather than
Blair - and, by belatedly championing his heroine, he'll help the charge stick.
Thanks, Dave.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEA POTTY: Tory Boy and his hero Artist's impression

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    January 17, 2007 Wednesday 10:02 PM GMT

It's grim up north (for the Tories)

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 339 words


The Conservatives have sustained a lead in the opinion polls for some months
now. But there are still concerns within the party that the recent boost in
support comes disproportionately from London and the South East - where a
significant number of the Tory gains at last year's local elections were made.

Eurosceptic Paul Sykes organised the poll

The big nationwide test will come at May's elections to the Scottish Parliament,
the Welsh Assembly and most English local councils outside of the capital. And
poll findings revealed in this morning's Yorkshire Post will have been grim
reading for campaign strategists.

The YouGov survey, commissioned by Yorkshire businessman Paul Sykes's
eurosceptic campaign Speakout,shows that Tory support in the Yorkshire and the
Humber region has not advanced since the 2005 general election, when they stood
on 29 per cent.

Labour's standing in the region has dropped a mere two points to 40%, whilst the
Lib Dems have plummeted from 21% at the general election to 15% today.

An increase in support for others - including Ukip, the Greens and the BNP -
accounts for the overall drop in support for the major parties.

It may be just one poll, and there is clearly much water to pass under the
bridge before the next general election; but it reinforces the concerns of those
who think that David Cameron's message is not travelling well north of the
Watford Gap.

Only two Tory candidates gained seats in Yorkshire at the 2005 election: Philip
Davies (Shipley)and Robert Goodwill (Scarborough & Whitby).

Neither is of a Cameroon pedigree, and after seeing the poll results, Davies
openly expresses his anxiety about how his leader's agenda is going down on his
West Yorkshire turf.

"It's a wake-up call that proves the messages that might work in the Home
Counties don't necessarily work up here," says Davies.

"It reaffirms my view that we need to be talking more about everyday concerns
like crime and immigration, as well as the environment".

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

New far-Right group launches its mission to defend European identity

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Strasbourg

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 407 words


THE first major far-Right grouping in the European parliament officially
launched its mission yesterday to defend "European identity'' in the face of
growing numbers of immigrants.

"We are in favour of upholding European identity, the identities of our
individual countries. We want to uphold European tradition and yet remain
modern,'' Bruno Gollnisch, the leader of the Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty
(ITS) group, told the European parliament last night.

By forming an EU political grouping, ITS qualifies for up to pounds 800,000 this
year for its campaigns in European elections as well as access to parliament's
legislative and procedural committees.

According to Mr Gollnisch, of the French National Front party, the new group is
necessary because existing Eurosceptics, such as the UK Independence Party,
attack only the idea of an EU super-state but "do not properly defend Christian
values, the family and European civilisation''.

But even as it announced its formation, the ITS faced a constitutional challenge
from the parliament's main political groups many of whom claimed last night that
the group has no genuine political agenda and is only forming in order to
qualify for EU funds. The group includes seven members of the French National
Front, including its leader Jean-Marie Le Pen and his daughter Marine Le Pen.

Also included are three deputies from the Flemish anti-immigrant Vlaams Belang
party; Alessandra Mussolini, the granddaughter of the Italian fascist dictator
Benito Mussolini; and Ashley Mote, a former UK Independence Party MEP.

The centre-Right European People's Party - to which the British Conservatives
are affiliated - and the Socialists, including Labour MEPs, are to table
procedural objections.

"MEPs must have something in common to be a group,'' said the EPP's spokesman.
"They might have some political affinity but it is not enough to form a group.''

Even if the procedural challenge fails all parliamentary groups, including the
UK Independence Party, are pledged to vote against ITS resolutions or candidates
for parliamentary positions.

Mr Gollnisch said the group would fight for its existence in the European courts
if the assembly attempted to block it. He said he believed the group would have
"catalysing'' effect.

Mr Gollnisch, who is facing a French court decision on whether he is guilty of
denying the Holocaust, added that he would lead opposition to EU legislation
against Holocaust denial.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

Cameron's idea of 'responsibility' is our agreeing with him

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 78 words


SIR - Why do some Tories seem to wish for the demise of the Conservative Party?
This has been going on since 1997. Defecting to Ukip will only ensure the
continuation in power of the present discredited Labour Party.

I fear that, if the Conservative Party does not win the next general election,
it will be a very long time before it is in government again.

Come on! We need all shoulders to the wheel to support the only credible
opposition.

David Cronyn

Southminster, Essex

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

Spy

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: FEATURES; Spy; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 625 words


FAVOURED FABIAN

The Institute for Public Policy Research may have been Tony Blair's favourite
think-tank, but the Fabian Society is doing its best to ingratiate itself with
Gordon Brown, who addressed its conference on Saturday.

And how better for Fabians to curry favour with the next prime minister than to
make his long-standing lieutenant, Ed Balls (right), their new chairman?

"Ed topped the poll in the recent elections to the Fabian Society executive, and
the committee members duly elected him to the chair,'' I'm told.

"They obviously want to ensure they have a direct line to Brown, and this is
certainly a good way of going about it.''

Not that Balls is a Johnny-come-lately as far as the Fabian Society is
concerned: as long ago as 1992, he wrote a pamphlet under its auspices,
presciently calling for Bank of England independence.

vatican rock

As Cardinal Ratzinger, Pope Benedict XVI condemned rock music as "the complete
antithesis of Christian faith''.

So he must be pleased with the latest work from his choirmaster, Mgr Marco
Frisina: an opera based on Dante's Divine Comedy, which represents hell with
punk, rock and heavy metal music. Dante's poem, composed in the 14th century,
depicts his travels through hell, purgatory and heaven.

Frisina does not specifically condemn rock music but, according to The Catholic
Herald, has said that the "violent and rebellious tones helped create a hellish
atmosphere''.

In contrast to hell, purgatory and heaven are represented with ancient Gregorian
chant and classical music respectively.

The production, The Man Who Looks for Love, will tour Italy, with its première
possibly taking place in the Vatican.

Time to repent

The UK Independence Party's efforts to put the frighteners on the political
establishment continue apace, after two once-Conservative peers joined its ranks
last week.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage has been busy inviting sitting MPs to make their
opposition to the EU clear, in order to avoid a Ukip challenge at future
elections. But the distribution list for his letter was far from selective.

"A copy was even sent to Europe Minister Geoff Hoon,'' I'm told.

"He couldn't believe they'd bothered. There's more chance of Margaret Beckett
inviting him to join her on a caravan holiday than Geoff kowtowing to Ukip.''

Farage confirms that his letter was sent to every MP. "All sinners should be
given the chance to repent,'' he laughs.

Gym'll fix it

Frenetic activity in the Commons gym. Apart from those on New Year exercise
regimes, there have been regular appearances from Tories Ed Vaizey and Tobias
Ellwood, Lib Dems Jenny Willott and Nick Clegg, and Labour's Emily Thornberry -
the five MPs in next month's Westminster Challenge 400km charity trek to the
Arctic.

"Last week they were each being put through their paces by a fitness instructor
from the RAF,'' I'm told. "Emily was deemed to be in best shape, but hopefully
they'll all be fighting fit for the departure on February 9. Ed has even started
following his boss's lead and is now cycling to work each day.''

Shoe DUNNIT?

Sashaying down the red carpet in style is de rigueur for Hollywood stars before
awards ceremonies - but this can only be done with a suitable pair of shoes.

Mild panic swept through Tinseltown yesterday when it emerged that shoes to be
worn by some nominees at last night's Golden Globes had been stolen.

"A truck full of shoes - designed by Taryn Rose for the awards - was broken into
on its way to Beverly Hills,'' says my source.

"A total of 120 pairs worth pounds 50,000 were taken. Thankfully, some of the
big names, including Desperate Housewives' Felicity Huffman (left) and Cate
Blanchett, had already collected their shoes in advance. But others had to find
last-minute replacements.''

Celia Walden is away

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

Pounds 5m Tory donor in UKIP talks

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 155 words


DAVID Cameron's leadership suffered a blow yesterday when the Conservatives'
biggest donor threatened to defect to the UK Independence Party.

Businessman Stuart Wheeler, who has given Pounds 5million to the Tories, warned
his support at the next election was 'in doubt' and confirmed he had entered
into talks with the eurosceptics.

He said the Tory leader had not been 'strong enough' on Europe.

Former Tory treasurer Lord Kalms is also considering voting for UKIP, which
advocates Britain's complete withdrawal from Europe.

The threats are a sign of growing grassroots dissatisfaction over Mr Cameron's
modernising agenda.

It also emerged that Lord Chadlington, president of Mr Cameron's local
Conservative association in West Oxfordshire, is hosting a breakfast for
high-profile Thatcherites with UKIP leader Nigel Farage next week.

A source said: 'None are crossing over to UKIP, but they are keen to hear what
Mr Farage is saying.'

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

International: Hard right caucus

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 160 words


European ultra-nationalists and extreme rightwingers yesterday mustered enough
MPs in the European parliament to form their first formal parliamentary caucus,
a move that will increase their profile, lend them greater parliamentary
speaking time, make available EU funding, and probably net them prominent
positions in parliamentary committees.

The Identity-Tradition-Sovereignty caucus numbers 20 MEPs, and includes members
from Belgium, Austria, Romania, Bulgaria, one Briton formerly with the UK
Independence party, and Alessandra Mussolini, granddaughter of the Italian
fascist dictator.

The caucus is led by the No 2 in France's National Front and masterminded by
Andreas Molzer, an Austrian extreme right ideologue who used to advise Jorg
Haider, the Austrian politician who gained notoriety as Europe's first "yuppie
fascist".

Social democrat and liberal MEPs demanded the rest of the parliament boycott
contact with the new caucus.

guardian.co.uk/farright >

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Far right crosses threshold to win unprecedented influence

BYLINE: Stephen Castle in Strasbourg

SECTION: EUROPE'S EXTREMIST ALLIANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1196 words


Europe's far-right, xenophobic and extremist parties crossed a new threshold
yesterday, winning more speaking time, money, and political influence in the
European Parliament than ever before.

Claiming the backing of 23 million Europeans, ultranationalists secured enough
MEPs to make a formal political grouping, underlining the growing challenge
posed by the far right across the continent. For the first time since the Second
World War a series of elections has swept nationalistic, far-right parties into
office in municipal, regional, national and European parliament elections. The
admission of Romania and Bulgaria in January of this year brought in enough
far-right MEPs to form a bloc.

Mainstream politicians have been struggling for years to contain the threat from
hardline nationalists and extremists who have entered coalitions or supported
ruling governments in countries such as Austria, Denmark, Poland and Slovakia.

Amid formal protests and jeers in the Strasbourg Parliament, 20 MEPs yesterday
signed up to the new formation called Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty (ITS). As
a formal group, they are entitled to up to Euro 1m in central funding. It is led
by Bruno Gollnisch of France's National Front, who is awaiting a court verdict
on charges of Holocaust denial.

Made up of ultra-nationalists the group includes one Bulgarian parliamentarian,
Dimitar Stoyanov, who yesterday attacked the "Jewish establishment" and accused
Roma parents of selling 12-year-olds into prostitution.

Even the ringtone of Mr Stoyanov's phone points to his hardline politics. It
features a former Bulgarian national anthem which, he says, "tells of the
atrocities of the Turkish army in the second Balkan war, how the rivers were
flowing with blood and the widows weeping, and urges people to fight for
Bulgaria".

A previous far-right grouping in the European Parliament faltered in the 1980s
and rival MEPs predict that ITS will have a limited impact on the Strasbourg
assembly.

Martin Schulz, leader of the socialist group which is the second-largest in the
Parliament, appealed to other MEPs to unite to prevent ITS from securing senior
positions in Strasbourg. He said: "We must not abandon this Parliament, which
symbolises the integration of Europe, to those who deny all European values."

The new political group was established despite efforts by socialist MEPs to
block its formation. One British MEP, Ashley Mote, has joined the group. A
former Ukip member, Mr Mote was suspended from that party in 2004 when he faced
prosecution for housing benefit fraud and has since sat as an independent.

Prominent members of the far-right alliance include Jean-Marie Le Pen, veteran
member of the French National Front, who shocked Europe by reaching the second
stage of the last French presidential elections, Alessandra Mussolini,
granddaughter of Benito Mussolini, Frank Vanhecke, leader of Belgium's
separatist Flemish nationalist party Vlaams Belang, and Andreas Mölzer, a former
aide to the Austrian farright leader Jörg Haider.

Under the Parliament's rules a formal grouping requires 20 MEPs from at least
six countries. That requirement was reached only after Romania and Bulgaria
joined the EU this month.

As MEPs converged on Strasbourg, Mr Stoyanov, who at 23 is the Parliament's
youngest member, claimed the ITS had crossed a threshold of power. "We will be
able to table amendments," said Mr Stoyanov. "We will have longer speaking time
in the plenary sessions and, eventually, we will win chairman, or deputy
chairman, positions on committees." Mr Stoyanov, of Bulgaria's Ataka party,
denied being anti-Semitic but said he opposed the "Jewish establishment" which
used ordinary Jewish people "like pawns".

In the parliamentary chamber Mr Gollnisch claimed that the new group "will speak
on behalf of 23 million Europeans who would not be represented without us".

He added: "We will be the Parliament's conscience. We will be vigilant defenders
of the peoples and nations of Europe who want our continent and civilisation to
be great."

The rise of the extremists

Yesterday's developments are the culmination of a long-cherished ambition by
Europe's far-right parties to form a recognised bloc in the European Parliament.
They have had self-declared groups before, notably when Jean-Marie Le Pen of
France's National Front led an alliance called the European Right in Strasbourg
in 1984-89, followed by the Technical Group of the European Right in 1989-94.

On the ground and away from the parliament, the far right has prospered in
several countries since the mid-Eighties. In Austria, Jörg Haider emerged in
1986 as leader of the Freedom Party. The Swiss People's Party, led by Christoph
Blocher, became Switzerland's second-strongest political force in 1999. In
Denmark, the ultra-right Danish People's Party swept into parliament as the
country's third-largest party following the 2001 elections.

In Italy, the xenophobic Northern League entered a right-wing coalition in the
same year.

In Belgium, far-right Flemish separatists have gained support throughout the
decade, and the Netherlands was convulsed by the rise of the populist
anti-immigration campaigner, Pim Fortuyn.

European Parliament recognises right-wing alliance

Twenty MEPs from seven nations represent sweep of extremism in expanded Europe

Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty (ITS)

Europe's far-right parties have formed a political bloc dedicated to "Christian
values, the family and European civilisation". Today they get official status as
a publicly funded group and receive Euro 1m. Romania and Bulgaria joining on 1
January delivered the 20 MEPs from seven countries to pass the quota

UK

Independent

No of MEPs: 1. British membership of ITS is limited to South East England's
independent MEP Ashley Mote. He first entered European politics with Ukip but
was ejected in 2004 after being tried for benefit fraud

AUSTRIA

Austrian Freedom Party

Leader: Heinz-Christian Strache.

No of MEPs: 1. Jorg Haider's Freedom Party is still winning votes after his
departure. It promises stronger anti-immigration laws, stricter law enforcement
and more funds for families

BELGIUM

Vlaams Belang

Leader: Frank Vanhecke.

No of MEPs: 3. Campaigns for strict limitations on immigration and to deport
immigrants who fail to integrate. Describes Islam as "main enemy of the

ROMANIA

Partidul România Mare

Leader: Corneliu Vadim Tudor.

No of MEPs: 5. All from racist, homophobic Greater Romania party, a nationalist
group that voted against joining the EU. Party despises ethnic Hungarians, Jews
and Romas

FRANCE

Front National

Leader: Jean-Marie Le Pen.

No of MEPs: 7. Rooted in tradition of anti-Semitic, xenophobic, antidemocratic
French ultra-nationalism, although has never come close to real power

ITALY

Alternativa Sociale

Leaders: Alessandra Mussolini and Luca Romagnoli.

No of MEPs: 2. Remnants of the Fascist party which ruled Italy for two decades.
MEP Alessandra Mussolini, grand daughter of Il Duce, is a former glamour model

BULGARIA

National Union Attack

Leader: Volen Siderov.

No of MEPs: 1. Anti-Gypsy and anti-Turk party with 9% of national vote. TV host
leader, Volen Siderov. MEP Dimitar Stoyanov, at 23 the youngest member of
European Parliament

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

An injection of common sense, or the promotion of a reckless revolution?

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1131 words


In the mid-1990s Tony Blair hailed proposals that were cautiously incremental as
revolutionary. If Mr Blair visited a council estate the excursion became a
welfare revolution. The youthful Labour leader also spoke excitedly of a
revolution for the NHS and a revolutionary constitutional settlement.

Following assiduously the New Labour bible on how to win elections, David
Cameron deploys the same messianic language. In his new year BBC interview last
Sunday, the youthful Tory leader held out the prospect of several revolutions,
specifically in the areas of social responsibility and the delivery of public
services. It seems that Britain dances to non-stop revolutionary tunes, becoming
the European equivalent of Cuba if only in terms of uplifting political
vocabulary.

There is, though, an important difference between the young Mr Blair and Mr
Cameron. I suspect that, as a New Labour leader, Mr Blair felt genuinely that he
was being bold and radical, when he was being recklessly cautious. In contrast,
I sense that Mr Cameron feels he is being restrained and pragmatic, seeking out
the political centre ground, when what he proposes is, in fact, recklessly
revolutionary.

In his BBC interview, Mr Cameron confirmed that he wanted power within the NHS
to be devolved sweepingly to individual hospitals. He agreed that, if there were
an MRSA crisis in a hospital, the government would not get involved or accept
culpability. Similarly, if a hospital sought to cut pay to save money, that
would be a matter for the local managers. He sought to cast the policy in a
positive light.

"If you take many hospital trusts in the south of England, they have a huge
problem in recruiting and retaining staff. In my area, there is often 14, 15 per
cent vacancy rates for nurses. Now in business, in industry, managers have
greater freedom to arrange pay and other remuneration to make sure you can get
the people you need."

On one level Mr Cameron is right. National pay rates imposed irrespective of
cost of living and performance are damaging, inefficient and iniquitous. But if
the government remains responsible for the overall level of spending and its
distribution I cannot see how it steps aside from the decisions as to who gets
paid what.

Is Mr Cameron suggesting that, in the South, hospitals would spend more on wages
and less on other services? Or is he arguing that the government would give
hospitals in the South more cash overall in order to pay higher wages even if
they chose to spend money elsewhere instead? In which case, would those in other
parts of the country get less cash on the assumption that they would pay lower
wages? Whatever the answers, the central government is already waving its stick
and unavoidably so.

Yet, according to Mr Cameron, a Tory Chancellor would take the political risk of
deciding how much to tax and spend on the NHS and that would be more or less the
end of its role. If some hospitals wasted the money raised centrally, the
government would declare: 'This is not a matter for us.'

The Tory leader takes us to a fantasy land. That is partly because the media
would not allow the government to walk away. Look what happens when there is a
train crash on the privatised railways or when market mechanisms in the NHS lead
now to some hospital closures.

But there is also a matter of principle. The government has a responsibility to
make sure that the cash it raises through taxation is spent wisely. If it fails
to do so, voters can remove the government. There is accountability between the
elected and the voters, an under valued dynamic. In Mr Cameron's hybrid vision
of centrally raised cash and local autonomy there is no robust accountability.

Mr Cameron is not alone in struggling with this problem. The appropriate
relationship between central and local in the delivery of services is the great
challenge of our times, the source of more tensions between Blair and Brown than
any other issue and one that will continue to be a cause of internal angst for
Labour when Mr Brown succeeds. But it is a hugely complex struggle and in Mr
Cameron's interview he made his solution sound engagingly straightforward, a
painless revolution.

The wildly confused controversy over Ruth Kelly's decision to send her child
with special needs to a private school highlights the unresolved chaos.

Superficially, the reaction appeared to endorse Mr Cameron's call for the state
to step aside. Several newspapers concluded, in the words of the Financial
Times, that no "centralised system will ever deliver the innovation, variety or
responsiveness" required by parents. They wanted schools liberated from the
state as they competed for pupils. Mr Cameron conjures up a similar image in
relation to hospitals.

But the problem in relation to Ms Kelly and the lack of state special schools
arose for precisely the opposite reason. The Government had let go too much. It
had not centralised enough. Here is part of a letter published last week in a
national newspaper from parents of a child with dyslexia: "The Government claims
funding has been passed down to individual schools to spend as they see fit. But
there is no mechanism to ensure that funding for educational support is actually
spent on the most needy children."

The parents' complaint is that the Government had not been prescriptive enough.
In theory, the Government has increased spending substantially for children with
special needs. But at the same time it has followed the fashion of sending the
cash directly to the schools, giving the heads a fair amount of freedom to
decide how to spend it. Not surprisingly, the heads spend the additional cash in
ways that propel their schools up the league tables so they qualify for more
cash. The competitive, more liberal environment means schools ignore the
weakest.

Now Mr Cameron hails an even more extreme vision for hospitals. There will be
few, if any, national standards (another term for targets) and a free-for-all
for local hospitals. If anything goes wrong, a Health Secretary will stand up in
the Commons and state: "This is a matter for the local managers. You won't be
hearing from me until I announce how much of your taxes will be spent on the
NHS. Thank you and good night."

In a tonal U-turn, Mr Cameron has started to mention Mrs Thatcher more often. He
cited her approvingly six times in an article yesterday. But, in terms of
substance, the gap has never been that great between the former and current
leader. Oddly, Mr Cameron has not lifted from New Labour's lexicon the phrase
about applying traditional values to a modern setting. Yet this is the closest
to explaining his project for the Conservative Party. Those right-wingers
contemplating a defection to UKIP should relax. Mr Cameron is closer to their
heroine than they realise.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Misfits, bigots and malcontents;
LEADING ARTICLE;
EUROPEAN UNION

SECTION: EDITORIAL & OPINION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 443 words


The accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union will be recorded in
history as a glad moment for the continent. But in the short term it has brought
about one unfortunate consequence. The entrance of six reactionary Romanian and
Bulgarian representatives to the European Parliament means that the far-right
parties of the continent now control enough seats to form a recognised political
group. This will go under the faintly sinister name of the Identity, Tradition,
Sovereignty Group.

Thankfully, there is little sign that the ITS will be able to organise itself
properly. Its leader, Bruno Gollnish, is awaiting trial on charges of Holocaust
denial. And its members - ranging from Jean-Marie Le Pen and Alessandra
Mussolini to Ashley Mote, formerly of the UK Independence Party - have little in
common other than a generalised xenophobia. Most actually voted against the very
Romanian and Bulgarian accession that has enabled them to form a recognised
group.

But it would be foolish to ignore the symbolic importance of this development,
or its practical consequences. For one thing, the ITS now qualifies for EU
funding. The motley group also has a right to parliamentary speaking time and at
least one committee chairmanship. The ITS may be some way from being a serious
force in the parliament, but it has the potential to be a considerable nuisance.
And of course it has a new megaphone for its deeply unpleasant propaganda.

It is important, therefore, that the rest of the European Parliament unites in
condemning the ITS and what it stands for. This is especially important for the
mainstream centre-right forces in Europe, which need to stand firm in opposition
to the racists and bigots. This underlines the mistake that the Conservative
leader, David Cameron, is making with his attempt to break his party's
connection with the largest grouping in the parliament, the European People's
Party, to form a new grouping of Eurosceptics.

This will not only water down opposition to the ITS, but serves to marginalise
the Conservatives - and Britain - in Europe. The German Chancellor, Angela
Merkel, is refusing to meet with Mr Cameron while he is committed to breaking
off with the EPP. The centre-right candidate for the French presidency, Nicolas
Sarkozy, is reported to have turned down an invitation to speak at the last
Conservative conference on the same grounds.

It is not too late for Mr Cameron to rethink a foolish pledge made when running
for his party leadership. It is a sad irony that just as the far right is on the
ascent in European politics, a modernising, centre-right politician like Mr
Cameron is losing his voice in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Cameron: Thatcher was right on role of government

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 350 words


David Cameron tried to calm his right-wing critics yesterday by insisting that
his views on strong government were no different to those of Margaret Thatcher.
He told a conference of senior Tories: "It was Margaret Thatcher who said:
'Never call me lais-sez-faire. Government must be strong to do those things
which only government can do.' That's what I think too."

He also claimed that the next general election will be about "a defining
contrast between the Conservative Party led by me standing for social
responsibility and the Labour Party led by Gordon Brown standing for state
control."

His remarks, at a Tory conference on social responsibility, represent an abrupt
turnabout by Mr Cameron, who has warned the party that it must ditch old
Thatcherite themes, like low taxation, private health-care, grammar schools and
hostility to Europe.

But he has come under pressure from the party faithful who still believe in the
core Thatcherite message, and from the rise of the UK Independence Party. Two of
the party's biggest donors have threatened to defect to Ukip. Stuart Wheeler,
the spread-betting magnate, warned that his support for the Tories was "in
doubt" because Mr Cameron had "not been nearly strong enough on Europe". The
former Tory treasurer, Lord Kalms, told yesterday's Daily Telegraph that "the
option remains open for me to vote Ukip".

Last week, two Tory peers, Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke,
announced their defection to Ukip.

Mr Cameron said the next Tory government would opt out of the European Social
Chapter. But this provoked a scathing response from the Ukip leader, Nigel
Farage: "Britain cannot just 'opt-out' of the Social Chapter because it's now
part of the Treaty of Amsterdam and fully enshrined in EU law, which the
Conservative Party is fully committed to."

In an article for The Independent in October 2005, Mr Cameron wrote: "We have to
show, sincerely, that we do think there's such a thing as society - it's just
not the same thing as the state."

This contradicted Mrs Thatcher's famous assertion that "there is no such thing
as society".

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Ulster Edition

ALLO, HELLO;
OH, MON DIEU! FRANCE WANTED UNION WITH UK

BYLINE: BY DON MACKAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 263 words


FRANCE asked to be united with the UK in the 50s accepting the Queen as joint
head of state, former secret papers disclose.

When the request was turned down, France urged that she should be allowed to
join the Commonwealth. But that also got the thumbs down.

The extraordinary plans were found locked in the National Archives, says the
BBC. Significantly, no record is thought to exist in French archives.

At the time of the proposals in 1956 France was in economic difficulty and
feared isolation at the time of Suez.

On September 10 that year, French Premier Guy Mollet visited London to discuss a
merger between the two countries with Prime Minister Sir Anthony Eden.

A Cabinet paper reads: "Monsieur Mollet raised with the Prime Minister the
possibility of a union between the UK and France." A document of September 28
records a talk between Sir Anthony and Cabinet Secretary Sir Norman Brook.

It says: "The PM told him (Brook) we should give immediate consideration to
France joining the Commonwealth.

"Monsieur Mollet had not thought there need be difficulty over France accepting
the headship of Her Majesty. The French would welcome common citizenship."

A year later, France signed up to the new Common Market. Britain, blocked by
General de Gaulle, was left out in the cold.

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "It would have been wonderful to have France as a
Commonwealth nation. Instead of a nation of 100 cheeses, it could have been a
nation of 200 - some considerably better."

A Marriage Cordial will be broadcast on Radio 4 at 8pm tonight.

d.mackay@mirror.co.uk

Voix du Mirroire: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ENTENTE: Eden and Mollet in 1956

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

Backer's warning to Tories

LENGTH: 88  words


A KEY Tory donor could switch his support to UKIP - denying the party millions.

Stuart Wheeler has given £ 5million to the Conservatives. But he said yesterday
that he may back the anti-EU party.

He explained: "I'm in doubt at the moment. I think the Conservatives have not
been strong enough on Europe."

Former Treasurer Lord Kalms - the ex-boss of Dixons - has said he might vote for
UKIP.

Tory leader David Cameron insisted he is against the EU Constitution and
determined to keep Britain's interests first.

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

David's dawn

SECTION: SUN SAYS; LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 190  words


DAVID Cameron finally steps out of the shadows.

After spending his first year airbrushing the greatest peacetime Tory PM out of
sight, he claims he is a true Thatcherite.

Bewildered voters have waited with growing impatience for the Conservative
leader to define his hazy political outlines.

Now he insists he really does believe in tax cuts, a smaller state and a strong
stance against Brussels.

Baroness Thatcher won three elections because millions believed she stood up for
ordinary voters.

They knew where they were with a leader who took on the union hard men, left
more of our money in our pockets and pruned back the ever-expanding state.

Many have been bewildered by the failure of modern Conservatives to follow in
her footsteps.

Labour was smarter. They won three elections - by deliberately accepting and
adapting much of what Baroness Thatcher achieved.

While they prospered from her example, Tories deserted the battlefield she had
dominated.

It has taken the threat from UKIP and the defection of some key Tories to make
Mr Cameron wake up to reality.

Now he is talking.

But we need to hear much more before we believe he really means it.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            January 16, 2007 Tuesday

The Iron Davey

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson Political editor

LENGTH: 493  words


I'M A THATCHER MAN, SAYS CAMERON

DAVID CAMERON has proudly declared himself a true blue Thatcherite - to snuff
out the threat of the United Kingdom Independence Party.

UKIP could be the one hurdle standing between Mr Cameron and the door to 10
Downing Street.

Thousands of EU-hating Tory diehards could ditch Mr Cameron at the next
election.

And they risk handing power to Labour by default.

So now Mr Cameron has left no one in any doubt by shouting from the rooftops
that he IS a Tory.

He said yesterday: "We believe in freedom under the law, personal
responsibility, sound money, strong defence and national sovereignty.

"Those who ask whether I am a Conservative need to know that the foundation
stones of the alternative government that we're building are the ideas that
encouraged me as a young man to join the Conservative Party and work for
Margaret Thatcher."

The Conservatives must win more than 125 more seats at the next election to form
a government.

Mr Cameron needs many more than that to give him a fighting chance of staying in
power for more than one term. Every single marginal seat must turn blue.

A few hundred hardline Tories voting UKIP on the night could prove the
difference between success or failure.

Their supporters have given up on Mr Cameron sticking to traditional
Conservative values.

He has spent an entire year rebranding the party as a modern-day force
interested in the environment and public services.

In trying to bring his party screaming into the 21st Century, he has left many
feeling they no longer belong. And so UKIP have already enticed two Tory peers
and one of Iron Lady Mrs Thatcher's most respected economists to their ranks.

Conservative funder Stuart Wheeler might even follow suit. Yet UKIP have
absolutely no chance of ever winning a Commons seat.

They won just 2.2 per cent of the vote in the 2005 General Election yet cost the
Conservatives around 30 seats.

UKIP's uncompromising "quit Europe" message still appeals to large numbers of
dyed-in-the-wool Conservatives.

UKIP's leader Nigel Farage has himself cost one Conservative candidate a seat.
Mr Farage contested Labour marginal Thanet South for UKIP, coming fourth with
2,079 votes.

If just 667 of those had voted for Tory candidate Mark MacGregor, he would have
taken the seat from Labour.

UKIP are trying to blackmail Tory MPs by promising them no opposition

if they sign up to a campaign to pull Britain out of the EU.

Mr Cameron is furious and has warned his troops not to touch the UKIP offer with
a bargepole. He has already declared he would pull Britain out of the EU's
social chapter, which saddles firms with job-destroying costs.

He has vowed never to scrap the £ or sign up to an EU constitution. And he has
already pulled the Tories out of cosy links with pro-EU parties in Brussels -
which predecessors William Hague and Michael Howard never did.

The irony is this: If UKIP are to blame for a hung Parliament, the pro-EU Lib
Dems will hold the balance of power.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           January 16, 2007, Tuesday

Dave on drugs at last?

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 138 words


Is David Cameron finally about to come clean on drugs?

On the Tory leader's much-mocked Webcameron website there is a facility for
readers to ask questions and to vote on questions posed by other readers.

Cameron has pledged that, each week, the top five will be answered. This week
readers want his views on cannabis.

In the past Cameron has been cunning on drugs issues. During the leadership
contest he refused to be drawn into a debate about cocaine use, thus tacitly
allowing snorting metropolitan types to muse that he might once have been quite
fun at dinner parties.

The cannabis question has been posed by supporters of a group convicted of
supplying the drug to multiple sclerosis sufferers. Anything short of outright
condemnation could send the already-jumpy Tory lunatic fringe scurrying UKIP-
wards. What will Dave say?

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

I am a true Tory, Cameron tells core voters

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words


DAVID CAMERON acts today to reassure traditional Conservative voters that he is
more the heir to Margaret Thatcher than to Tony Blair.

Against the backdrop of mounting unease among Right-wing, Eurosceptic Tories, he
seeks to answer his critics with an impassioned defence of his leadership. The
Tory leader - who was once reported to have dubbed himself "heir to Blair'' -
denies that his revamped party is a clone of New Labour.

"The modern Conservative Party is about replacing the failed New Labour
experiment, not aping it,'' Mr Cameron writes in an article for The Daily
Telegraph.

After a year in which he has forced his party into painful modernisation, he
indicates that he will flesh out policies showing the Tories believe in "freedom
under the law, personal responsibility, sound money, strong defence and national
sovereignty''. His attempts to reassure members that he remains true to the
principles that guided Lady Thatcher come as he faces the prospect of further
defections to the anti-European Union UK Independence Party.

The Daily Telegraph can disclose that Lord Kalms, the former Tory treasurer, is
considering voting Ukip while Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon who gave
the Tories pounds 5 million, has had a private meeting with Nigel Farage, the
Ukip leader.

Last week, Ukip gained its first foothold at Westminster when two Tory peers -
Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke - transferred their
allegiance.

A leading Thatcherite economist, Prof Tim Congdon, said he was moving to Ukip
because of profound dissatisfaction at the way Mr Cameron was ditching
traditional policies on tax and Europe.

Mr Cameron's disowning of the "heir to Blair'' tag will be seen as an attempt to
reassure core Tory voters that he is not abandoning wholesale the party's core
values.

He goes out of his way to deny that he would follow Labour's tax-and-spend
policies and holds out the prospect of possible tax cuts.

"We are pledged to share the proceeds of economic growth between public services
and lower taxes, thereby ensuring that over time the state takes a smaller share
of national wealth,'' Mr Cameron writes.

He admits that grassroots party activists ask: "Isn't he just copying Blair?''
and: "We can see he looks like a winner, but what does he really believe?''

Mr Cameron aims to meet the doubters head-on by saying: "Far from copying Tony
Blair, I am learning from his many and serious mistakes.

"Instead of simply accepting the political consensus of the time, as Blair did,
I am challenging it.''

The "foundation stones'' of the alternative government the party was now laying
were built on "ideas that encouraged me as a young man to join the Conservative
Party and work for Mrs Thatcher''.

In a plea to traditional party thinking, he claims that he has made "the
strongest commitment to supporting the family and marriage that any Conservative
leader had made for a generation''.

He challenges Prof Congdon's thesis that he is departing from the Thatcherite
road.

"Commentators like Tim Congdon seem to have forgotten much of what Margaret
Thatcher said and did.

"It was Margaret Thatcher who launched the Scarman Inquiry in 1981 in an attempt
to understand the alienation of young black men.

"And it was Margaret Thatcher who launched modern environmental politics with
her Royal Society speech in 1988,'' says Mr Cameron who has championed "green
politics''.

In a conference today, the Tory leader will re-affirm his belief in "social
responsibility'' and will hint that big companies who work in local communities
could benefit from lighter regulation.

But social responsibility is in no way about "an expansion in state
programmes'', says Mr Cameron.

He also tells his party's Eurosceptic wing that he would block further moves to
European integration.

He promises to restore Britain's opt-out to the European Social Chapter, oppose
moves to revive the European constitution and ensure Britain keeps the pound as
its currency.

Sources close to Mr Cameron insist that he is not reacting to the renewed threat
of Ukip but restating his existing position. But in an interview on BBC1's
Sunday AM, the Tory leader refused to withdraw his famous dismissal of Ukip as
"fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists, basically''.

Privately, the party is turning up the heat on Eurosceptic-minded MPs amid fears
of more damaging defections.

All Tory MPs have been effectively barred from joining the Better Off Out
campaign to take Britain out of the EU after Ukip offered not to put up
candidates against MPs who signed up.

Anyone who did so would be "bowing to Ukip's blackmail'', said a party
spokesman, although he said nine MPs who had already signed up would not be
affected.

No details were given of what sanctions would be meted out if MPs defied the new
instructions.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Lord Kalms - who founded the Dixons
empire - warned that a number of fellow Eurosceptics were considering their
position. "This issue is way above party loyalty,'' he said. "We will not be
bound hand and foot to the Conservative Party over Europe.

"This issue is one on which the whole future of the United Kingdom depends. The
option remains open for me, and Tories that I know, to vote Ukip.''

Mr Wheeler said yesterday: "I am listening very carefully to what Ukip have to
say to me.

"I think I shall stay with the Conservatives. But I will be deeply troubled if
the party does not become more Euro-sceptic. Nigel Farage is an impressive
figure.''

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

I'm more Thatcher than Blair, Cameron tells Tories

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN; JANE MERRICK

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 525 words


DAVID Cameron last night insisted he is not the 'heir to Blair' but the natural
successor to Margaret Thatcher.

The Tory leader spoke out to reassure traditional Conservative voters alarmed by
his attempt to move the party to the centre ground.

He said he wanted to remain true to the Thatcherite principles which won her
three General Elections.

Mr Cameron fought back against growing discontent among Rightwing Eurosceptics
who want him to be more decisive about the EU and immigration.

Grassroots members have been concerned about his failure to come up with
concrete policies, favouring spin over substance. Mr Cameron has also been hit
by defections to the UK Independence Party.

Writing in The Daily Telegraph today, Mr Cameron said: 'The modern Conservative
Party is about replacing the failed New Labour experiment, not aping it.' He
insisted he will use the coming months to flesh out policies which show the
party believes in 'freedom under the law, personal responsibility, sound money,
strong defence and national sovereignty'.

Mr Cameron is said to have once referred to himself as the 'heir to Blair'.

But today he denies that a Conservative government will follow Labour's tax and
spend policies and raises the prospect of tax cuts.

'Far from copying Tony Blair, I am learning from his many and serious mistakes.

Instead of simply accepting the political consensus of the time, as Blair did, I
am challenging it.' Mr Cameron said his government would be built on 'ideas that
encouraged me as a young man to join the Conservative party and work for Mrs
Thatcher'.

His words came as he stepped up attacks on Gordon Brown, claiming the Chancellor
had no mandate to become prime minister and accusing him of trying to bully
Scotland into remaining in the United Kingdom.

He insisted there should be an election soon after Tony Blair resigns because he
had promised voters he would serve a full third term in office.

In increasingly bitter exchanges between the two men, Mr Brown attacked the Tory
leader for being part of a 'celebrity culture' that only told people 'what they
want to hear'.

Speaking at a conference this weekend, he also accused Mr Cameron of playing
'fast and loose' with the future of the UK by complaining about the influence of
Scottish MPs at Westminster.

Mr Brown said Tory proposals for ' English votes for English laws' with Scottish
MPs banned from voting on legislation not affecting Scotland were a recipe for
the collapse of the Union that would appal Margaret Thatcher.

Mr Cameron, speaking ahead of tomorrow's 300th anniversary of the signing of the
treaty that unified England and Scotland, sought to mock Mr Brown for
highlighting the concept of 'Britishness' after ten years of doing 'profoundly
un-British things'.

'Why don't we teach British history properly in our schools?' he demanded.

'Why has the Government been doing such profoundly un-British things like
carving up the country into regions and introducing a national ID card scheme?'
Mr Cameron will today continue the assault by trying to contrast his pledge of a
'revolution in responsibility' against Mr Brown's 'obsession' with state
control.

Peter McKay Page 17

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 15, 2007 Monday

Comment & Debate: We need a new dictionary to decode these do-gooders: Gordon
Brown and David Cameron both talk of new politics, but there's a classic
left-right divide between them

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1088 words


We are going to need a new map and a new dictionary. In new year interviews and
political conferences, Gordon Brown and David Cameron are setting out three key
political battlegrounds for 2007: Britishness and the future of the union; our
role in the wider world; and social responsibility. At first glance, their words
sound remarkably similar - middle of the road do-goodery. But their visions are
very different, and this difference needs to be teased out, made more explicit.
Hence the new map.

Take "Britishness". Brown has a special problem, as the likely Scottish prime
minister at a time when the Scottish Nationalists are on a roll north of the
border, and English irritation is rising fast. He calls for a refreshed
"patriotic vision" of Britain's future "when our country is being challenged in
Scotland, Wales and now England by secessionists". Brown rejects English votes
for English laws as creating a twotier Commons and leading to constitutional
anarchy, because of the likelihood of a British Labour government being unable
to carry through legislation for England. Though he says vaguely that things
might be done to "accommodate" English prickliness, it is unclear what these
might be.

You might think Cameron is brilliantly poised to exploit Brown's tartan
difficulties. But the Conservative leader has a problem too. He is trying to
reposition his party as centrist. Advocating an English parliament and the
possible end of the UK might play well with some hardliners, but it is hardly
likely to reassure nervous middle-of-the road voters. The end of the union would
mean the loss of the UN permanent security council seat, less influence in the
EU and other hard choices (such as over Trident) that no Tory prime minister
would relish. So he has been cautious about any kind of constitutional shake-up,
describing himself as "a passionate unionist".

He is under no pressure to move quickly, despite polls showing high levels of
English resentment. The far right doesn't pose much of a threat on this issue.
How could parties calling themselves the "British" National party or the "UK"
Independence party advocate the breakup of the union? It is in Cameron's
interests to sit back and wait to see whether, after the next election, Brown is
governing only with the help of Scottish MPs. Then, and only then, might he try
to exploit this.

Brown has to strike first. His camp is sceptical about whether the SNP will do
as well as the polls suggest and, if they do, very sceptical about whether Scots
would then vote for independence. And rightly so. They tend to pull back when
the choice is put starkly. But he has to reassure middle England that he hears
its anger. Hectoring and exhibitions will not be enough. Here is a work in
progress, though I would be amazed, knowing Brown, if he does not have a secret
plan on the English question to unveil later this year. If his fellow Scots push
too hard, they may find their favoured spending status brutally challenged.

Next, there is the question of Britain in the world. Tony Blair's speech last
week opened up a clear rift between his view and Brown's. Blair remains keener
on war-war than Brown does. Brown has already suggested he will have a colder
relationship with Bush. And at Saturday's Fabian conference, he stressed the
role of "hearts and minds" in resolving security issues, rather than the use of
brute force. Yesterday Cameron said that he too was more in the Iraq Study Group
camp of "doves" than with the bellicose past. Nobody wants to be tied to that
bloody disaster.

So, no difference between Brown and Cameron? Both are looking beyond Bush - and
neither is popular in the White House. But Brown's international politics are
better worked-out than Cameron's. He will actually be in place to begin
withdrawing troops from Iraq, and is making "security" a key theme of his
premiership. In that context, we can expect a vigorous defence of the Afghan
war, more support for the army, and an acknowledgement of serious errors in the
Blair years. Cameron has the bigger internal problem, trying to deal with his
"neoconservative" colleagues who still yearn for more Condi and Rumsfeld and the
rest of the bloodstained crew.

In the EU, Brown again will find it easier than Cameron. He will respond
brusquely to German attempts to impose a fresh constitution, but does recognise
the importance of working within Europe on issues such as climate change. He is
sounding significantly less Eurosceptic than he used to. Cameron, on the other
hand, will be spending most of his time fending off Ukip types in his party who
want him to be more anti-European still, while trying to stitch together the
coalition of oddballs his party is left with in the European parliament.

But the most interesting area will be domestic. "Social responsibility" looks
like being the buzz phrase of 2007. Last weekend Brown was talking about the
importance of everyone contributing to the country. Cameron has a conference
devoted to it today. The question is, what do they mean by this - and is there a
real difference? There certainly is. Cameron means shrinking the state, sacking
civil servants, and using a revival of business philanthropy and charity-sector
work to plug the gap. Brown intends that a humbler, more listening state remains
deeply engaged. There is a classic left-right divide hidden below similar
seeming language. The initiative will again be with Brown because he will be
able to put flesh on his ideas in office.

So we will see more support for local volunteering, perhaps local referendums,
and the like. If he is to make a mark, Brown may have to go further. What about
more paid time off work for people contributing to the voluntary sector or their
communities as councillors or school governors? What about generous tax breaks
for people who spend time volunteering; and making university Ucas points and
even degrees partly dependent on proving that you have given something back?

The problem for both Brown and Cameron to resolve is how people can take more
responsibility, do more charity work, help with voluntary work and so on when
time is a commodity everyone seems short of. Yet this "new politics" is not
unrealistic. In a culture dominated by image, Brown's promise of "a far more
humble" government, led by a man who is uninterested in "the trappings of
power", may be just the tonic the country needs. Only if Brown fails will
Cameron get his chance to shrink the state. This weekend the battle proper has
begun.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 15, 2007

The Sarko factor

LENGTH: 1277 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's digest of the best of the
day's papers.


SARKOZY: THE ROYAL CHALLENGER

Half of French voters are afraid of Nicolas Sarkozy, and his photograph on the
front of the Telegraph - arms outstretched in a preacherly pose as he accepted
his party's nomination for the presidency - will do little to allay such fears.
But the right's candidate was at pains to "soften his image as a
security-obsessed hardliner", the paper says. "I have understood that humanity
is a force not a weakness. I have changed," he told tens of thousands of
supporters in Paris yesterday.

But not enough for the Guardian's liking, which says Mr Sarkozy is not a shoo-in
for the presidency, no matter what Gordon Brown may think. "British leaders have
a lazy habit of seeing only the things they want to see in the UMP candidate -
the pro-American, economically liberal, political hard man ... That Mr Sarkozy
represents a necessary break from important aspects of Mr Chirac's bankrupt
version of Gaullism at home and abroad is beyond doubt. He is a challenger of
taboos. His candidacy marks a shift from the state-centred economic and social
models that dominated both wings of French politics in the 20th century. But
newness is not enough. Mr Sarkozy is provocative and ruthless and his electoral
appeal - which combines anti-immigrant populism, middle-class social
conservatism and extensive economic deregulation - does not offer a 21st-century
European model that Britain should embrace."

The UMP candidate finds a more sympathetic ear in the Times. The paper says he
would provide a "sorely-needed dose of Gallic Thatcherism". Segolene Royal, by
contrast, offers a "romantic reaffirmation of the socialist consensus" that
seems revolutionary only because she is a woman.

"Will the real Sarkozy please stand up?" demands the FT. He calls himself an
economic liberal, but has a protectionist record. "Instead of pandering to
French fears of globalisation and excess immigration, he should demonstrate that
he has the vision and consistency to give France back the self-confidence,
openness and liberal values on which the republic was founded."

Meanwhile, another would-be European leader tries to stake out his rightwing
credentials today. David Cameron tells Telegraph readers that he wants to
replace New Labour, not ape it. His column comes as a former Tory treasurer,
Lord Kalms, and a wealthy Conservative donor are considering defecting to Ukip.

* IHT: Nominated, Sarkozy stresses values of 'republican right'

* Sarkozy's distorted vision

* Times: Sarko v Sego

* Telegraph: I am a true Tory, Cameron tells voters

'SUPERDATABASE' SPURS SURVEILLANCE FEARS

"The prime minister is proposing to make it easier for government departments to
share information," the Independent's Johann Hari writes. "If [he] succeeds ...
the state machinery will become smoother, faster and more efficient. Yet these
proposals are already being presented by the Conservatives - and many on the
left - as yet another step into 1984, part of a proto-tyrannical package ranging
from CCTV cameras to Asbos to the DNA database that they cite as evidence
Britain is sleepwalking into a surveillance society."

Indeed. "BIG BROTHER," splashes the Independent, below a picture of Tony Blair's
eyes watching you - a shameless rip-off of Labour's "Demon Eyes" election
campaign. "What it REALLY means in Britain today as Tony Blair unveils his
latest assault on civil liberties."

The paper's leader says one of the proposed uses of the database - to enable a
bereaved relative to inform just one agency rather than many - sounds "benign".
But it would entail relaxing the Data Protection Act and it ignores the poor
record of agencies like the Child Support Agency in maintaining accurate and
confidential data. Eventually, biometric data from ID cards might also be added
to the database, the paper says.

The Sun is unhappy with the "superdatabase", too, describing it as "deeply
troubling". "Only yesterday we learnt that confidential details sent by
thousands of people to MI5 ended up with an American marketing firm ... Surely
there must be greater priorities than this?"

The Mail has uncovered a "leaked police report" on the likely impact of
supercasinos, with conclusions that mirror its own. "They could attract
organised crime and encourage children to bet."

Elsewhere, the Times says the government is well behind target on its school
rebuilding programme. Building Schools for the Future "is in such chaos that
construction firms have pulled out, the official in charge has been replaced and
the accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers have been brought in to review the mess,"
it says.

* PM launches drive to let officials share data on citizens

* Independent: Big Brother

* Sun: 'Chance to snoop on every Brit'

* Times: Crumbling classrooms

* Mail: Don't bet on it!

US UPS ANTE AGAINST IRAN ... IN IRAQ

The Herald Tribune says George Bush has opened a "third front" in Iraq, this
time against Iran. "Washington is ... stationing more naval, air and
anti-missile batteries off Iran's coast; cracking down on its international
financial transactions in an effort to squeeze its ability to pump oil; and
hunting down suspected members of the Revolutionary Guard and other Iranian
operatives inside Iraqi territory."

Indeed, Tehran is demanding the release of five Iranians detained in Iraq on
suspicion of aiding the Shia insurgency, according to a report in the Telegraph.

"I feel good about the new war with Iran," writes Maureen Dowd in the Herald
Tribune. "How can you not have confidence in the crackerjack team that brought
you Operation Iraqi Freedom, which foundered and led to Operation Together
Forward, which collapsed and was replaced by The New Way Froward, the Surge now
being launched even though nobody's together and everything's going backward? I
say, bring it on. If a pre-emptive war in Iraq doesn't work, why not try a
pre-emptive war on Iran in Iraq?"

* IHT: Bush opens a third front in Iraq - against Iran

* Telegraph: Iran trained Shia militia in Iraq, says US

INQUIRY OVER BAE $12M TANZANIA 'KICKBACK'

BAE Systems paid a Tanzanian middleman a $12m kickback in order to secure a deal
in 2002, according to the Guardian's splash. The sum represented a third of the
value of the government contract for a military radar system. Clare Short, the
former cabinet minister, tells the paper that she and Gordon Brown opposed the
Tanzanian deal but Mr Blair was determined to push it through: "It was always
obvious that this useless project was corrupt."

* BAE's secret $12m payout

MOURINHO GOES SHOPPING

The Chelsea board will let Jose Mourinho sign a defender this week in an effort
to placate the "prickly" Portuguese coach, according to the back pages. "Jose
can have transfer cash if he stops sniping," says the Sun. Meanwhile, Sylvester
Stallone showed up at Goodison Park to support Everton during their "thrilling"
draw with Reading, the Mirror says.

* Independent: Mourinho wins truce

* Mirror: Sucker punch

NEW LIFE, OLD TRADITIONS

Among the announcements in the Births column of today's Times is the arrival of
one Samson Murdoch Freud, son of Elisabeth and grandson of Rupert. Well, you
wouldn't expect to see it in the Telegraph. Other new arrivals include an
Archibald and, perhaps most strikingly, a Maximilian Tarquin.

COMING UP TODAY

Saddam Hussein's half-brother and the former head of Iraq's revolutionary court
were hanged before dawn today. Full story

The Home Office is expected to issue a statement after one of its high-ranking
civil servants was suspended after the criminal records debacle.

British Airways faces the threat of a potentially damaging industrial dispute
when the result of a strike ballot among thousands of its cabin crew is
announced.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               49 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 15, 2007

Cameron pledges to cut 'state control'

LENGTH: 694 words



HIGHLIGHT: David Cameron drew the battle lines with Gordon Brown and a 'troika'
of critical columnists from the Guardian today as he pledged to offer a genuine
alternative to Labour's 'state control'.


David Cameron drew the battle lines with Gordon Brown and a "troika" of critical
columnists from the Guardian today as he pledged to offer a genuine alternative
to Labour's "state control".

Invoking the spirit of Margaret Thatcher, the Tory leader promised to scale back
Whitehall interference, place more trust in professionals and local government
and reduce dependency on the state.

Calling for a "revolution" in social responsibility, Mr Cameron told a Tory
conference that government had to work in greater partnership with business and
charities.

But following contributions from the Guardian columnists Jonathan Freedland and
Simon Jenkins, the Conservative chief vowed to counter claims by a "Guardian
troika" who believed his party was incapable of social responsibility.

In addition to Freedland and Jenkins, Mr Cameron's cited the newspaper's Polly
Toynbee, who is sceptical of the Tory leader's vision for delivering social
justice.

"I think the Guardian troika, who think that Conservatism is too limited, or too
mean-spirited, or just won't do it, are wrong and I think we can prove them
wrong," Mr Cameron said.

"This is going to be the big idea of the Conservative party and also the big
divide in British politics," he said.

While he wanted to entrust people and share responsibility, Labour had a
controlling, top-down approach to government, Mr Cameron told the gathering in
central London.

He went on: "I think it's a defining contrast between the Conservative party led
by me standing for social responsibility and the Labour party led by Gordon
Brown standing for state control.

"And all I can say at the beginning of this new year is I'm looking forward to
it."

Mr Cameron's remarks came as he tried to reassure traditional supporters he was
a true Tory and more the heir to Mrs - now Lady - Thatcher than to Tony Blair.

He told the conference: "Mrs Thatcher's been a bit in the news today. She said:
'Never call me laissez faire, government must be strong to do those things which
only government can do.'

"And I think on that, that she was absolutely right."

In an article in today's Daily Telegraph, he said that he would replace - not
ape - the New Labour experiment in a careful renunciation of the centre-left.

Rumblings over Mr Cameron's approach to Europe caused defections to the hardline
UK Independence Party (Ukip) last week.

Major party donor Stuart Wheeler and former treasurer Lord Kalms also threatened
to back Ukip today unless Mr Cameron hardened his position.

But, taking questions, Mr Cameron dismissed the need to focus on Europe. He
instead insisted his ideas were entirely consistent with traditional
Conservative thinking - that stronger individuals made for a stronger society.

He added: "The Conservative party has never been the party that is just
concerned with tax cuts, Europe and crime.

"That is a complete misreading of the history of the Conservative party."

Mr Cameron said his philosophy of social responsibility would inform all his
decisions.

"Instead of asking, when confronted with a problem - homelessness, poverty,
health service - instead of always asking 'what is the state's responsibility,
what can the government do, what can I as a Whitehall politician with a large
open chequebook do?'

"Instead of asking that question, you are asking at the same time, 'well what is
there already, what can people do, what can the voluntary sector do, what could
we achieve with more professional responsibility?'

"'What is business doing in the area, what more could business do in this area?'

"It is an approach to every subject which I think will lead to quite a different
outcome."

Writing in the Telegraph today, Mr Cameron said those who questioned his Tory
credentials should know that Mrs Thatcher's ideas were what had persuaded him to
join the party.

"Far from copying Tony Blair, I am learning from his many and serious mistakes,"
he said.

"Instead of simply accepting the political consensus of the time, as Blair did,
I am challenging it.

"New Labour was all about coming to terms with Conservative victory in the
battle of ideas.

"The modern Conservative party is about replacing the failed New Labour
experiment, not aping it."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               50 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 15, 2007 Monday 10:22 PM GMT

Flirting with Ukip

BYLINE: By Shane Richmond

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 187 words


David Cameron's "heir to Thatcher" article has gone down a storm at Westminster
today.

Cameron faces embarrassment close to home

"Phew! What a relief  our leader's a Tory," quipped one MP arriving from his
constituency.

But Mr Cameron's intervention has come too late to head off an embarrassment
close to home.

Lord Chadlington, the president of Mr Cameron's local West Oxfordshire Tory
association and brother of ex-Cabinet Minister John Gummer, hosts a breakfast
meeting next week at which Ukip leader Nigel Farage will be the star speaker.

According to this afternoon's Evening Standard, other big-name Thatcherite names
likely to attend include Lord Bell  Lady Thatcher's favourite image minder  and
businessman Lord Young.

Mr Farage confesses, though, he does not expect the noble peers to be jumping
ship for Ukip.

But who knows? After all, the Ukip leader is currently basking in the praise of
Tory donor Stuart Wheeler today who says that he is "an impressive figure".

"Well, that just shows you can fool some of the people some of the time," quips
Mr Farage.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

How the spectre of Europe returned to haunt the Tories As rebellion grows, peer
who defected to Ukip claims it could stop Cameron winning election

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 835 words


AS LORD PEARSON of Rannoch tucked into a plate of tea cakes in the House of
Lords dining room last week, a small queue formed at his table. Fellow peers
were eager to talk about his defection to the UK Independence Party.

One Tory peer congratulated him for extracting a "very good deal'' from Ukip.
Then a veteran Labour peer asked for a meeting.

Lord Pearson claimed this was typical of the reaction to his and Lord Willoughby
de Broke's defections, which have given Ukip its first foothold in Parliament.

Two more Conservative peers, including a former minister, are threatening to
join them if Mr Cameron does not adopt a more hardline stance on Europe.

Of more concern to the Conservative leader is a small group of Tory MPs who have
been toying with the idea of signing up to a rebel EU withdrawal declaration
endorsed by Ukip. Mr Cameron must be reflecting with some disbelief that,
despite being ahead in the polls with his strategy of rebranding the Tories as
"modern and compassionate'', the spectre of Europe has risen again to haunt him.

Over tea and fruit buns, Lord Pearson, 64, said that the Tory leader had taken
his eye off the ball in dismissing Ukip as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists''.

"If we organise at all properly, Cameron cannot win the next election,'' he
warned. "At the last election, the Ukip vote denied the Conservative Party 26
seats and the probability must be that that will go up a lot at the next
election, the psephologists think to 47 seats. Cameron has taken his goalkeeper
out of the goal.''

Lord Pearson said he felt no guilt in damaging his old party and was barely able
to disguise his contempt for Mr Cameron.

"He doesn't understand Europe. His focus groups tell him people aren't
interested in it. Vision doesn't come from focus groups. Cameron is too
respectful of people like Kenneth Clarke. Clarke's a nice man but he's
completely bonkers on this one.''

Lord Pearson was a leading fundraiser for the Tories and adds with a hint of
gentlemanly menace: "I know quite a lot of people who give quite a lot of money
to the Conservative Party. I think if you are a Conservative donor and you are
worried about the direction Cameron is taking the party then the only thing you
can do now is to give to Ukip. You may want to give money to both, but I'm
convinced that Ukip is the instrument to use to influence the Conservative
Party.''

As a condition of joining, Lord Pearson insisted Ukip drop its policy of
fielding general election candidates against eurosceptic sitting MPs.

He and Lord Willoughby, who were sitting as Independent Conservatives after
being stripped of the Tory whip in 2004 for aiding Ukip in the European
elections, jumped ship on Tuesday after Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, wrote
to all MPs declaring that they would be unopposed if they signed an online EU
withdrawal declaration called Better Off Out.

Six Tory MPs have already signed it: Sir Nicholas and Lady Winterton, Douglas
Carswell, Philip Davies, Philip Hollobone and Bob Spink.

The campaign is organised by the Freedom Association which advertises itself as
a "non-party organisation committed to making the case for leaving the European
Union''.

Mr Farage's letter on Monday prompted a swift and unusually hardline reaction
from the Tory leadership.

The next day, the Chief Whip, Patrick McLaughlin, emailed all Tory MPs ordering
them not to respond as it would be "colluding with our rivals'' and "dancing to
their tune''.

Anyone who did want to reply was told to contact Mr McLaughlin before doing so.

The warning came despite a previous pledge by Mr Cameron to MPs during his
leadership campaign that they would be free to call for withdrawal from the EU,
although that would bar them from a position on the front bench.

The new strategy appears to have worked for now. MPs rumoured by Ukip to have
been in talks about signing the pledge this week have denied that they are about
to sign. However, some may still do so.

David Davies, MP for Monmouth, said last night: "I support the sentiments of
Better Off Out. I attended the launch and if there are other events I will go
along.'' Asked whether he would sign the pledge, he said: "I don't rule it out.
I might sign up to it in the future.''

Eurosceptic Tories have been increasingly impatient with Mr Cameron since he
kicked into the long grass a promise to withdraw the Tories from the federalist
EPP grouping in the European Parliament.

Today, Michael Brotherton, the former Tory MP for Louth, and John Ireland, a
Tory branch officer with Calne Conservatives, announce their defection to Ukip.

Mr Brotherton said: "The only political party in the UK that now reflects the
true values of Conservatism is the UK Independence Party.''

Mr Farage said: "What started as a trickle of defections looks as though it may
turn into a flood. People are coming out of the woodwork.''

Mr Cameron remains resolute. His spokesman said last night: "We are not going to
let fringe parties have an impact on our policies. We are taking a robust
position.'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

The fatal fringe

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 362 words


David Cameron has moved quickly and quietly against those within his
parliamentary group who are flirting with the UK Independence Party. The Tory
leader is right to have reminded his MPs that they should not dance to the tune
of a rival party that wants them each to promise they are committed to
withdrawal from the European Union. Those who do not sign "the Ukip pledge'' -
shades of the temperance movement here - are warned they will face a challenge
in their seats at the next election. This is effectively blackmail and Mr
Cameron deserves praise for stamping on the small band of Tory MPs who have had
talks with former Conservatives now in self-exile on the rag-bag fringes of
politics.

There are few evangelists for ever-closer European union left in national life,
thank goodness, and there is widespread unhappiness with the waste and
incompetence of Brussels. But single-currency membership is off the agenda and
Europe will not, despite what the fundamentalists think, be the defining issue
at the next general election.

During that closely fought contest, those of a Conservative disposition will
need to stick together if Gordon Brown is not to win by default. The portrait
painted above, of a country let down by Blair and Brown on defence, the
constitution, crime, education and their joint failure to run the machinery of
government with even basic efficiency, illustrates the damage done to Britain by
this Labour Government. A change to a Tory administration, determined to clean
up the mess left behind by Labour, should be the primary aim of those who call
themselves Conservatives.

There is, however, a lesson in this Ukip affair for the Tory leadership. It is
that if, however unfairly, there is perceived to be a vacuum of ideas at the
heart of Mr Cameron's leadership, then extremists will move to exploit it. That
does not mean a detailed manifesto should be produced in a hurry. It does mean
that traditional Tories and floating voters alike need to hear more of the
"grittiness'', on subjects such as dealing with crime, that the Tory leader
promised for the year ahead. They need to be reminded why a Conservative victory
will make a difference.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

There are Tories who would rather lose than change

BYLINE: Matthew d'Ancona

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1289 words


The defection of an economist from one party to another would not normally make
headlines. But Tim Congdon, who announced his transfer of allegiance from the
Tories to the UK Independence Party in the Telegraph last week, is no ordinary
economist. As one of the most articulate champions of monetarism, he has been a
luminous presence in the world of conservative ideas for a quarter century. His
decision to leave the Tory mainstream for a fringe party, therefore, cannot be
dismissed as an irrelevance.

David Cameron, I am told, was "livid'', and it is not hard to see why. However
proud his record as an empiricist and analyst, Professor Congdon's charges
against the Tory leader represent a complete misunderstanding of what Mr Cameron
stands for, and where he is trying to lead the party.

"I never imagined,'' writes Prof Congdon, "that the modern Conservative Party
would again embrace old-fashioned Tory paternalism.'' Nor, as it happens, does
Mr Cameron. Tomorrow, he is hosting a one-day conference in London on "social
responsibility'', the idea at the heart of his politics. Far from encouraging
the paternalist state, the Tory leader wants to limit its interventions and to
"roll forward the frontiers of society'' instead.

What does this mean? For a start, it signals a radically increased role for
charities and voluntary groups in the provision of welfare, rehabilitation and
other local services, and the slashing away of the red tape that presently
constricts such organisations. This would not involve, as Prof Congdon alleges,
"expanding the state's responsibilities'', but precisely the opposite. A
consistent theme in Mr Cameron's rhetoric since he stood for leader has been the
desirability of enabling charities and voluntary groups to perform tasks that
state bureaucracy does badly.

True, the Conservative leader believes, in common with 99 per cent of the
population, that the state should continue to provide free education and
health-care, and we need to hear much more from him about how a Tory Government
would deliver value for money to the taxpayer and rigorous consumerist reform
for parents and patients. But to say that Mr Cameron is an old-fashioned statist
is simply incorrect. His ethos has much more in common with the "compassionate
conservatism'' espoused by George W Bush when he was Governor of Texas than with
the Butskellism of the old Tory wets.

The most vigorous champion of the party's new preoccupation with social justice
is a man of the Right: Iain Duncan Smith. David Davis has said that the test of
all Tory policies should be whether they help the vulnerable. In John Redwood's
recent book, I Want to Make a Difference, there is an impressive chapter
entitled "The assault on poverty'', devoted to the encouragement of neighbourly
conduct. Does Prof Congdon accuse such Tories of "holier-than-thou 'social
inclusiveness' '', as he does Mr Cameron?

Still more bizarre is the economist's claim that the Tory leader has signed up
to the "European social model''. It is unclear how this squares with Mr
Cameron's promise to withdraw Britain from the Social Chapter. For this
Conservative leader and his generational peers, robust Euroscepticism is the
default position rather than a matter of contention. They talk about it less
than their predecessors because they take for granted principled opposition to
British membership of the euro, to an EU constitution and to federalism. It is
true that Mr Cameron has yet to complete his plan to withdraw all Tory MEPs from
the European People's Party bloc, but the fact that he made this pledge at all
horrified older Tory Europhiles.

Ukip, now led by Nigel Farage MEP, presents itself as the home of staunch
principle in a world of shifty centrism and ideological treachery. In practice,
it is the most mutable, say-anything party of the lot. Basically, if you are
against something, or want to leave something, Ukip is for you. In its rhetoric,
it reminds me of Rik Mayall's brilliant slogan: "Never, ever, bloody anything,
ever.'' Founded to campaign for exit from the European Union, it now seems to
stand for exit from the Tory party. Where once it protested against Brussels, it
now protests against Notting Hill.

These days, the party also devotes a suspicious amount of time to immigration.
As Godfrey Bloom, Ukip MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber, put it in an article
for the Yorkshire Post earlier this month: "What happens when the music stops
and some economic force takes away a few chairs? Where will we all sit?'' Oh
dear. Will someone please prepare a hammock for Mr Bloom, in case all the chairs
are taken by wicked Romanians, Bulgarians, gypsies, travelling tinkers, circus
performers, swarthy types and other undesirables? We don't want him to end up on
the floor, do we?

Mr Bloom, you may recall, rose to prominence in 2004 when he declared that "no
self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right place would ever
employ a lady of child-bearing age'' and that women (of all ages, one assumes)
do not "clean behind the fridge enough''. When not electrifying politics with
such interventions, Ukip tends to fight itself. Who could forget Robert
Kilroy-Silk's election as a Ukip MEP in 2004, and his rapid departure to form
the breakaway Veritas? No less excitingly, the party's Plymouth branch closed
last week when the chairman departed to form his own popular movement, "New
Battle for Britain''; however, the branch has now, it appears, been saved, and
the fight to stop Plymouth being overtaken by an army of slant-eyed Euro-Slavs
speaking Swahili goes on.

What a shower. How has a serious man like Prof Congdon ended up in their midst?
The answer is a sad one, and it has to do with the fundamental problem facing
the Conservatives: not failure, but success. It is hard for a party that has
been so successful so relevantly recently, to swallow the medicine of
modernisation. For more than a decade, the Tories under Mrs Thatcher were
utterly dominant, electorally and intellectually. But what made the Thatcherite
movement so awesome was its aggressive modernity, its fearless capacity to ditch
old solutions and adapt timeless Conservative principles to the challenges of
the time (inflation, union power, international communism).

It is depressing that a figure of Prof Congdon's stature cannot see that the
challenges facing conservatism in 2007 are quite different (for a start:
globalisation, international terror, environmental degradation, the need to
modernise health and education services). For Mr Cameron simply to repeat the
mantras of the 1980s would be like Mrs Thatcher repeating the rhetoric of
Macmillan.

When Prof Congdon writes that he "was one of the foot soldiers'' of the
Thatcherite revolution, he betrays its spirit, replacing pulsing energy with
curmudgeonly nostalgia: it is a sorry sight when an intellectual buccaneer
becomes the curator of what he sees as immutable doctrinal verities; so
defensive he leaves the only party with a chance of implementing the values he
holds dear. True Thatcherism, that wave of change that saved and transformed the
country, was never meant to be fossilised into stone tablets, protected by a
jealous priesthood. It was certainly not meant to spawn Tories like Prof Congdon
who would rather see the party lose than admit the need for it to change.

I would simply ask this brilliant economist: who is more likely to lead a
Eurosceptic government, to reduce the tax burden when the public finances allow,
and to tame the centralised state? David Cameron or Gordon Brown? At least Prof
Congdon will have plenty of time to mull over this question as he languishes on
the margins of politics with his angry new friends.

Matthew d'Ancona is Editor of The Spectator

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 14, 2007 Sunday

Tory MPs ordered to shun Ukip poll offer

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 237 words


DAVID CAMERON has acted to stamp out Tory discontent over Europe by ordering his
MPs not to accept a UK Independence Party invitation to sign an EU withdrawal
pledge.

Six Tory MPs have already signed the pledge. The anti-EU party has promised not
to field candidates against any MP signing up to the Better Off Out campaign.

Patrick McLaughlin, the Tory chief whip, warned MPs in a private email last
week: "Anyone who does this is colluding with a rival party and dancing to their
tune. Our strong advice to you is not to respond to this.''

During his leadership quest, Mr Cameron promised to let MPs campaign for a
British pullout from Europe if they felt strongly about it.

His new hardline stance follows last week's defection of two former Tory peers,
Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke - giving Ukip its first
foothold in Parliament.

Two more Conservative peers, including a former minister, are threatening to
defect if Mr Cameron does not adopt a more hardline position on Europe.

Ukip says that one Labour peer and two crossbenchers are also considering
joining up. However, at least three Tory MPs threatening to sign up to Better
Off Out backed down this weekend.

Mr Cameron's spokesman vowed to maintain a "robust'' stand against Ukip. But
Lord Pearson, a former fundraiser, said he was urging Tory donors to give to
Ukip instead, adding: "If we organise properly, Cameron can't win the next
election.''

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 13, 2007 Saturday

EU Right's new leader at heart of funds inquiry

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 490 words


THE newly-elected leader of the European Parliament's centre-Right bloc started
his tenure under a cloud of revelations that he is under investigation for the
alleged misuse of public funds.

Joseph Daul, a French MEP and former beef farmers' leader, was elected president
of the European People's Party on Tuesday, beating off a challenge from
reformist centre-Right MEPs, including the British Conservatives.

Mr Daul, 59, has been under investigation since 2004 as part of a broader
judicial inquiry into the alleged misuse of agriculture funds worth euro16
million ( pounds 10.6 million) by French farming unions between 1991 and 1999.

He stresses that he "co-operated fully'' with the French authorities and that he
"has not been charged or indicted''.

Mr Daul is not accused of having personally benefited from mismanaged cash but
of "complicity and concealment of the abuse of public funds''.

He accuses the UK Independence Party of exhuming the affair for political
purposes and is said to have announced his intention to "bring an action''
against the group's leader, Nigel Farage.

"Mr Daul does not and will not accept that honesty and propriety have been
called into question,'' said his spokesman.

"Mr Daul has not been challenged personally. It is an investigation into the
method by which public funds were distributed in the past.''

Mr Daul is a central figure in the politically powerful French farming lobby. He
led calls for a ban on British beef during the BSE crisis of the 1990s.

Close to President Jacques Chirac and his heir apparent Nicolas Sarkozy, the MEP
represents East France. His election to lead the European People's Party was a
close fought race as Nordic, Eastern European and British centre-Right Euro MPs
mounted a reformist challenge, taking 46 per cent of the vote. "This latest
twist will be a shot across the bows of the Franco-German alliance. It will not
upset the reformers if Mr Daul suffers,'' said one source.

Ukip has sought to use the affair to put pressure on the Conservatives after
David Cameron delayed a decision to leave the EPP grouping.

"I hope the Tories are happy with their new leader in the EPP,'' said Mr Farage.

The Conservatives have declined to comment on Mr Daul's difficulties, stressing
they are not fully associated with the EPP.

"We are pulling out anyway in 2009,'' said a spokesman.

The scandal has not only ensnared Mr Daul. Two French agriculture ministers and
one finance minister have been sucked into an investigation led by an
investigating judge, Henri Pons.

Mr Pons is said to have handed papers on the case to the legal authorities.

A trial decision is not expected until after the French presidential elections
in April.

Mr Daul is not thought to have discussed the investigation with colleagues.

"His examination was reported in the French press, so he may have felt there was
no need to tell everyone, he may have assumed they knew. But nothing was
hidden,'' said his spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 13, 2007 Saturday

CLEMENT CRABBE;
More from our columnist, the scabrous Clement Crabbe, of The Rockpools
Register,who takes a wry, whimsical look at a world increasingly beyond parody

BYLINE: CLEMENT CRABBE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1144 words


More from our columnist, the scabrous Clement Crabbe, of The Rockpools Register,
who takes a wry, whimsical look at a world increasingly beyond parody

NO ONE involved with air travel can fail to be anything but thrilled by the
holiday period.

The paralysis of southern England thanks to fog; then the priceless closure of
Bristol Airport because the runway was 'too skiddy'. Not even Laurel and Hardy
would have dared such a plotline. Gentlemen, you distinguished yourselves.

With Mrs Crabbe and the nippers, your correspondent was becalmed for several
hours at Chambery Airport, France. First a light morning mist meant there were
no aeroplanes. Then the airport became too crowded and the terminal staff could
not 'process' the throng (ie shout loudly enough to get everyone to assemble in
the right place). What genius to ask people to pay hundreds of pounds for such
misery.

At George Monbiot Airport, they need to lift their game. 'We know there haven't
been any major delays here and that is a concern,' said spokesman Becca Burnish,
shouting over the whine of her Dalmatian puppies, Pratt & Whitney. 'Lounge seats
need to be more uncomfortable, prices must be quadrupled, and baggage handlers
must lose more suitcases.' Flicking back the fringe of her intellectual
pudding-bowl, Ms Burnish added: 'Chambery is an example to us all. And we're in
awe of Bristol.' Pronunciation guru Sylvia Rasp, having nearly eradicated
southern vowels from Radio 4, has been hired to ensure that George Monbiot's
Tannoy operatives lower their game. They will be told to place a sock over the
microphone to achieve the required level of maddening incoherence.

'Check-in queues will be lengthened to bring them in line with our international
rivals,' said Ms Burnish. 'Slow-moving buses are being acquired to transport
passengers all of 75 yards across the apron to their planes. We know it just
slows down the journey. Why else do you think we're doing it?'

Air travel: if you didn't need a holiday beforehand, you will afterwards.

FROM Chequers, Bucks, comes much banging and bustle. We go straight to reporter
Reynold James. 'Clem, thanks. Yes, you join me here at a Chequers filled with
activity. Everything remotely valuable is being nailed down.

We've got clerks compiling an inventory. TV sets, spoons, even the bog brushes.
Unprecedented, Clem, but when will Cherie leave?

It's a race against time. Back to you in the studio.' SOMETIME Ghanaian
duty-free shop manager Kofi Annan may have retired as UN Secretary-General, but
the world moves on. His successor, Ban Ki-moon, is described as a
'mild-mannered, low-profile South Korean public servant'.

Lord Hannay, a mild-mannered, low-profile British public servant, has said Mr
Ban was 'the best in a thin field'. What? Were no fatties considered for the
job? Were porkers ruled out? Discrimination!

Lady Taupe, in New York for a shopping blow-out, caused a security stir when she
was overheard telling a friend in the foyer of the Carlyle Hotel that she was
'pretty sure I can get little Ban Ki'. Federal agents reported this up the line
of command.

Minutes later, while placing Carmen rollers in her hair, Lady Taupe was arrested
by a fully-armed SWAT team.

It was three hours before the desk sergeant let her go, after finally accepting
her explanation that by 'getting' Mr Ban she intended nothing violent or
sinister, but rather 'get him, when he was next in London, to come to dinner at
her home in Holland Park, next to the Pinters'.

SCHLOSS Furey, the Essex redoubt of polemicist Dr Jonathan Furey. The talk is of
one thing only: should the Doc quit Cameron's Tories and sign up to UKIP?

The self-appointed keeper of the Thatcherite flame is in two minds.

UKIP's membership fee is Pounds 20, a good fiver less than demanded by the
Conservatives. Hmmn. But UKIP's membership look like harder drinkers.

That could mean more competition for the Chateau Agitator-in-a-bag at wine and
cheese functions.

This could be one heck of a hard decision.

DEFENCE budgets, already stretched, took another hit this week.

Admiral Basil Angostura, purplenosed Chief of Home Defences, demanded an entire
new unit of simultaneous translators. These will be deployed whenever Admiral
Basil or one of his fell generals has a powwow with the Defence Secretary, Des
'Windy' Browne. 'Can't understand a blasted word Windy says,' barks Admiral
Basil. 'He seems to jabber away in an entirely foreign language.' Mr Browne, to
our relief, could not be reached for comment.

GRISLY film footage was passed to Western diplomats last night showing the final
minutes of Greg Dyke's director-generalship of the BBC.

The scenes, shot shortly before Dyke's brutal assassination by BBC governors in
January 2004, show him protesting to the last.

He is seen wheedling, 'you can't do me in, I've got a Cockney accent', and 'you
posh ladies will pay for this'. With that he is approached by the then acting
chairman, Lord Ryder, and two others, thought to be Lady Hogg and Dame Pauline
Neville-Jones.

There is a muffled sound of violence and a shout of 'Inshallah!'(or maybe
'Inshalastair', the cry of followers of Alastair Campbell) before Mr Dyke's
broken body is carried away to Whitehall, where Tessa Jowell is ululating like a
crazed vixen.

Dame Pauline last night declined to elaborate on the matter, saying only: 'As a
trained killer, I would have to slit your throat with cheese wire if I told you
anything. Thank you so verray much for your call. Good night.'

The final frontier

THERE is talk of a space mission taking British astronauts to the Moon.

Are we sure it is such a good idea? Will Friends of the Earth not demand that
the Government cough up for the carbon offsetting for the journey? Could cost a
fortune.

There has, however, already been interest from would-be rocket-jockeys. An
orange Metro was seen pootling down Whitehall. It pulled up and out stepped two
elderly ladies wearing oil-spattered goggles and flying helmets.

'Astronaut Edith Marmite, 73, reporting for duty,' barked the senior figure.
'And this is my navigator Phyllis. She can sit down with the payload if
necessary. Brain doesn't use much oxygen. Now, when's blastoff?'

NEANDERTHAL NORM, flower of British youth, is not a natural balletomane but he
went along to see 'the BNP ballerina' Simone Clarke. Miss Clarke, who is dancing
the role of Giselle at the Coliseum, has caused much neck-clutching by
supporting the British National Party.

Enter Giselle, stage far right. A lovely arabesque (Arabesque?

How did 'e get through immigration?). A pirouette, right arm held high in
salute.

Neanderthal Norm is entranced.

Looking down the row of seats, he sees several single men with shaved heads and
facial studs. It's just like a BNP meeting, really.

Norm feels well at home. Yeah, it's awright, this ballet fing, even if the
Leftwing politics of some of the dancers is a downright bleedin' disgrace.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 12, 2007 Friday

The Tories will have to think about UKIP now

BYLINE: ANDREW ALEXANDER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 823 words


READING or listening to much of political comment these days, you get the
impression that it is the most natural thing in the world to hate the
Conservative Party.

Curiously, this is not because of the run-of-the-mill, inter-party abuse which
is commonplace and generally ineffective. It is, rather, a notion spread by the
Conservatives themselves, or, more specifically, the Cameron wing.

When these people are not actually running down the party and its history, they
are briefing journalists along these lines. So a generation of voters is growing
up with the belief that the Tories are a bad lot by their own admission and
nothing but penance and apology can make them worthy of election, if then.

There is alongside this the real problem with the previous generation, say, up
to the age of 40, that few of them have much notion of what life was like
pre-Thatcher - when income tax could be up to 98 per cent, the daily diet of
news was of strikes, strikes, strikes and Britain was seen as the economically
sick man of Europe. 'Surely not 98pc!' even a Treasury official said to me,
until he checked and found this was so.

Yet we find leading Tories still apologising for the Thatcher years and the
wonderful transformation it brought about. It is a spectacular own goal.

We are told, though fewer and fewer now believe it, that David Cameron's great
skill lies in 'marketing'. Yet even the dimmest practitioner of that art knows
that it is a great mistake to start any campaign by apologising for a product.

If some retailer says that, honestly, we are now looking at the quality of our
fruit and vegetables and we really will make improvements, then you would be
foolish not to believe that there was something seriously wrong with them in the
first place and that you should buy from him with caution, if indeed at all.

This self-abasing line is, of course, an obvious kick in the teeth for the
party's foot soldiers who have been proud to do all those thankless tasks at and
between elections. But it has long been part of the new Conservative approach
that there is no need to worry too much about these people or, indeed, the
traditional hard core of Tory electors because they have nowhere else to go and
no one else to vote for.

But as we have been reminded this week, there is UKIP. It has had a modest
fillip with the defection to it of a couple of traditional Tory peers: Lord
Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke.

This gives UKIP its first voices at Westminister, having won seats only in the
European Parliament hitherto.

There is a fair chance that four more peers, one Labour, one Tory and two
cross-benchers may join the drift reasonably soon. This is no political
landslide. But for UKIP it does not need to be; it has high leverage.

Its total vote may have been small in the last contest but is thought to have
cost the Tories between 20 and 30 Parliamentary seats, again small beer in the
grand scheme of things.

But on present trends, it could cost the Tory Party maybe half as many again. In
a close contest, that could keep Cameron out of No10.

UKIP is prepared to offer a deal. It will not oppose any MP of any party who
signs up to the 'Better Off Out' declaration, which says we should leave the
European Union. MPs have until July to sign, after which UKIP will start
selecting candidates.

That will be harsh enough, even though the number of Tories who agree in their
heart of hearts with the proposition is substantial. To sign up will effectively
bar them from the Tory front bench.

Moreover, Cameron himself has dismissed UKIP as made up of 'fruitcakes, loonies
and closet racists'. He does seem to enjoy offending natural Tory supporters,
doesn't he?

UKIP also plans to monitor the signatories to the declaration - some politicians
will sign anything for a few votes. The MPs will be required to act as if they
meant it.

The odd call for this or that amendment to the Treaty or the new Constitution
will not be enough. It has, you must agree, interesting possibilities.

Some drivers have no road sense

THE gathering campaign against road pricing suggests that many are losing a
sense of proportion. Do they really imagine that roads can somehow come 'free',
like the wind and the rain?

The cost of maintaining and improving our highways and byways is massive.

The question is not whether they are paid for by the public, but how.

Currently, they are mainly funded out of general taxation.

But high users pay more tax through fuel tax, it will be argued.

Yes, but that does not measure how they use the roads which are most expensive
to maintain (and the most crowded).

The reality is that opponents of the current proposals do not want to pay for
the above-average costs they impose on the road system.

They want to be subidised by the below-average users.

Students of the whole issue of subsidies will not be surprised. The principle of
the better off being funded by the worse off is a standard feature of our way of
life.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 11, 2007 Thursday

I'll be voting UKIP if Cameron stays

BYLINE: Tim Congdon

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1115 words


Well-intentioned politicians are of two kinds, those who want to help people
directly and those who want to free people so that indirectly they can help
themselves. The distinction may sound like a quibble, but it is not.

The politicians who want to help people are in favour of an active state. They
believe that the ordinary citizen is in some way inadequate (unhealthy, badly
educated, even nothing more alarming than "beneath average''). The government
must then do something (build more hospitals and schools, recruit more doctors
and teachers) to ensure that no one is left behind and the nation becomes more
"socially cohesive''.

These paternalists see their job as being the application of their superior
knowledge to state action of some kind. Their political impulses are to tax and
spend, to meddle and regulate, and to interfere and control; they welcome state
involvement in "socially desirable'' activities.

All parties - including the Conservatives - have a fair proportion of
paternalists. Indeed, Tory paternalism was historically one of the strongest
traditions in British politics. When articulated by a Disraeli or a Macmillan,
it made a powerful appeal to voters as well as promoting necessary social
legislation. But most paternalists nowadays belong to Labour. A clear lesson of
the 20th century was that societies with free markets and large private sectors
are richer and happier than those with state planning and extensive government
ownership. The dominant theme of Conservative politics in the past 30 years has
been to diminish the role of the state in society, on the grounds that
individuals know their own interests and abilities far better than anyone in the
centre.

At some stage in her career, Margaret Thatcher ought to have said: "The man in
Whitehall doesn't know best.'' The central tasks of the 1979-97 Conservative
government - tight control over public expenditure, reducing taxation,
privatising state-owned assets and removing a variety of impediments on free
action by individuals (exchange control, credit restrictions, price and incomes
policies) - were motivated by the wider argument for personal freedom.

People were being freed so that they could help themselves. The Tories' approach
worked. Indeed, so successful were the policies of privatisation, exchange
freedom and financial liberalisation that the Labour Government elected in 1997
has left them alone, and accepted that the case for traditional socialism is
invalid.

I was one of the foot soldiers in the battles of opinion fought in the 1980s. In
numerous newspaper articles, I was a consistent and loyal defender of the
smaller-state, free-market policies identified with the Conservatives. The line
was often unpopular, but I always felt that - in pressing the case for personal
freedom against state action - I was on the winning side.

I never imagined that the modern Conservative Party would again embrace
old-fashioned Tory paternalism, with a frank advocacy of expanding the state's
responsibilities. The election of David Cameron to the leadership therefore came
as a shock to me. No doubt many of those who voted for him have been surprised
by what he has done in the past 15 months. But - to give him his due - Mr
Cameron is industrious and prolific, at least in the sense of producing large
numbers of words. In early October 2005, he wrote a number of articles that
spelt out what kind of beliefs he held.

An article in The Spectator was enough for me. "Time for a completely new
party'' contained several hundred words of flannel ("the need for fundamental
change'', "the problem is our culture'', etc.) and one possibly substantive
proposal. This was an "exciting new policy direction'', with his "proposal for a
national school-leaver programme - involving schools, businesses, community
organisations, charities and the Armed Forces - to prepare young people for
their adult responsibilities and to create a greater sense of national
cohesion''.

What sense is to be made of all this? No doubt "schools, businesses etc.'' do
many wonderful things, but it is sadly true that their hands are full. They
cannot just drop what they are doing and suddenly commit themselves to one of Mr
Cameron's pet initiatives. If Mr Cameron were prime minister, he could - I
suppose - give orders to "the Armed Forces'' to return from Afghanistan and
Iraq, and to help in his new "national school-leaver programme'' in order to
advance "social cohesion''. But I don't think that is what he meant.

Mr Cameron's supporters might tell me that the sort of phrases used in the
Spectator article, and reproduced on many subsequent occasions, are part of a
rebranding exercise. They might say that the politically correct and socially
acceptable phrases are necessary to shift the party's "culture'' towards the
centre and capture more votes. I might also be reassured that the phrases have
no implications for actual policy.

But I think this is unfair and dishonest. Mr Cameron should be taken at his
word. When he says he is in favour of "national school-leaver programmes'',
"social action zones'' and suchlike, and when he says that the Tories should
become "the champions of social action'', he really does mean what he says.
Whether his words have any genuine meaning is another topic, but of his
sincerity in uttering them there should be no doubt.

On the main issues of the day, all the big parties are now close together.
Unless the Tories drop Mr Cameron with all his misguided baggage (a badly
rationalised environmentalism, Third World do-goodism, holier-than-thou "social
inclusiveness'' and the rest), I cannot vote for it. I believe today - as I did
in the 1980s - in a small state, low taxes and free trade. Under the leadership
of Roger Knapman and Nigel Farage over the past five years, UKIP has endorsed
the kind of economic policies I favour. If Mr Cameron is still Conservative
leader at the next general election, I will definitely vote for UKIP.

Mr Cameron might claim that the one big area where he differs from Labour and
the Liberal Democrats is Europe. But that remains to be seen.

The European social model - with its high spending and heavy burden of
regulations, its preference for state action, and its suspicion of private
initiative - was opposed by the Conservatives under Mrs Thatcher and John Major,
and is opposed by UKIP now. But the Cameron rhetoric ("social action zones'') is
plainly in accord with it. For the many people in Britain who support
free-market economic policies, conservatism on social issues and the continued
independence of their nation, now is the time to consider supporting UKIP.

Professor Congdon is managing director of Lombard Street Research

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 11, 2007 Thursday

Thatcherite economist is the latest Tory defector to Ukip

BYLINE: George Jones and Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Politics; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 391 words


A LEADING Thatcherite economist, Prof Tim Congdon, is quitting the Conservatives
and joining Ukip.

Describing himself as a "lifelong Tory'', Prof Congdon said he was leaving
because the party no longer stood for an independent Britain, low taxation and a
smaller state.

Announcing his decision in The Daily Telegraph this morning, Prof Congdon
accused David Cameron of landing the party with the "misguided baggage'' of
"badly-rationalised environmentalism, Third World do-goodism, holier-than-thou
social inclusiveness and the rest''.

Prof Congdon's defection comes 48 hours after two former Tory peers, Lord
Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke, announced they were joining
Ukip, giving the anti-EU party its first foothold at Westminster. It also comes
as Ukip seeks to broaden its appeal by developing a range of policies on issues
other than exit from the EU.

Prof Congdon was one of the intellectual forces behind monetarism, which formed
the basis of economic revival in the Thatcher years.

He was also a member of the Treasury panel of independent forecasters, the
so-called wise men, between 1992 and 1997, and has lectured widely on economics.

He has consistently opposed Britain's membership of the EU and describes himself
as "Thatcherite through and through''. His decision to join Ukip will be seen as
a further sign of the growing discontent among traditional Tories over Mr
Cameron's approach to public services and his ditching of the party's
Thatcherite legacy of cutting taxes and opposition to the EU.

Although Mr Cameron's aides have played down what they describe as a "tiny''
number of defections, Tory MPs are alarmed by what they see as a Ukip
resurgence.

They fear that Mr Cameron's strategy of taking the Tories back to the Centre is
leaving an opening on the Right for Ukip to fill. Prof Congdon, 55, said he
would hand back his Conservative membership card to his local party in
Gloucestershire. "I am joining Ukip because I believe in an independent Britain
and because Ukip reflects the economic views I have always held. Once these were
core to Conservative economic and political philosophy. They are no longer,''
Prof Congdon said.

"Over the last five years, Ukip has endorsed the kind of economic policies I
favour. If Cameron is still Conservative leader at the next election, I will
definitely vote for Ukip.''

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 11, 2007

British MEP joins far-right group

LENGTH: 452 words



HIGHLIGHT: A former Ukip member has become the first British MEP to join a new
neo-fascist grouping in Brussels.


A former Ukip member has become the first British MEP to join a new neo-fascist
grouping in Brussels.

Ashley Mote, an MEP for south east England, will sit with the newly-formed
"Identity, Sovereignty and Tradition" grouping, which also includes Jean-Marie
Le Pen of the French National Front and similarly far-right groups from Italy,
Poland, Romania and Bulgaria.

Mr Mote was originally elected as a Ukip MEP in 2004, but had the whip withdrawn
almost immediately due to a prosecution for housing benefit fraud. Since then he
has sat as an independent.

Today Ukip distanced themselves from their former member, saying it was "good
riddance" to him.

But the Liberal Democrats turned on Ukip, saying it exposed the party's "true
nature".

The development is an early result of the accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
Ironically, given the hostility of the west European far right to expansion,
immigration and eastern Europe, it is Romania's entry that has made the caucus
possible.

The EU parliament's rules stipulate that an official caucus in the chamber needs
to have representatives from at least five countries, and a minimum of 19 MEPs.
They now meet this requirement.

The grouping, which is also considering calling itself the "Europe of
Fatherlands", also comprises hard-right nationalist MEPs from Austria's Freedom
party, Bulgaria's Ataka, Romania's Greater Romania party and the Belgian Flemish
separatists, Vlaams Belang.

The leader of the grouping, Bruno Gollnisch, is currently awaiting a verdict on
a Holocaust denial charge in Lyons.

Today Mr Mote defended his actions to the BBC, telling them it would be "good
for the parliament".

He said: "The formation of a genuine centre-right multinational group in the
European parliament is long overdue.

"So is the need for the clear expression of the views held by millions of
European Union citizens who profoundly disagree with the federalists and their
vocal leftwing."

Ukip have called on him to resign his seat - won in the 2004 breakthrough of 12
MEPs led by Robert Kilroy-Silk, who later deserted Ukip after failing to become
leader, and formed his own party, Veritas.

Diana Wallis, leader of the Liberal Democrats in the European parliament, said:
"Finally the true nature of UKIP is exposed.

"One may think they are voting for anti-European sentiments by ticking the Ukip
box, but this latest move by Ashley Mote shows a much darker and sinister side
to the party.

"Let's be absolutely clear, this new parliamentary group are fascists. Mr Mote's
new colleagues include Jean-Marie Le Pen and Alessandra Mussolini and its leader
is on trial for Holocaust-denial.

"This should be a wake up call for those in Britain considering voting for Ukip
in future elections."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2007 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               61 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday

Britain - Former Tory peers announce plans to join UKIP

LENGTH: 165 words


Two former Tory peers announced on Tuesday that they were joining the far-right
UK Independence Party.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke will give UKIP a presence
at Westminster for the first time.

The action follows increasingly vocal criticism of Tory leader David Cameron
from the party's right wing, who accuse him of abandoning right-wing values in
favour of populist measures.

Lord Pearson, who was nominated for his honour by Margaret Thatcher, said that
he had given up hope of fitting into the Conservative fold under Mr Cameron.

Both he and Lord Willoughby held the party whip for 15 years before having it
withdrawn in 2004 after urging voters to support UKIP.

UKIP has a handful of members in the European Parliament, but it has failed to
get anyone elected to the House of Commons.

The announcement will offer a welcome boost for UKIP after its branch in
Plymouth, Devon, closed on Monday night amid members' dissatisfaction at the way
in which the party was being run.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Two Tory peers defect to UKIP

BYLINE: Ben Russell Political Correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 162 words


The UK Independence Party will gain its first foothold in the House of Lords
today after two former Conservative peers defected to the Eurosceptic party.

Lord Pearson and Lord Willoughby de Broke will formally announce that they are
joining UKIP this morning, declaring they have "given up hope" on the Tories.

Lord Pearson, chairman of PWS insurance brokers, said he was concerned by David
Cameron's softening stance on Europe. "We've given up hope that under its
present leadership the Conservative Party will be appropriately Eurosceptic by
the next election," he told The Times.

The two peers, who had the Conservative whip withdrawn in 2004 after urging
voters to support UKIP, say they plan to persuade major Conservative donors to
change allegiance.

Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP, said: "To have a foothold in Westminster will make
quite a difference. It means we have a voice inside the Westminster village,
which has been badly needed. It will also help us raise money."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            January 9, 2007 Tuesday

Britain - UKIP branch faces unrest as members threaten to walk out

LENGTH: 161 words


A regional branch of the UK Independence Party faced meltdown on Monday, after
members threatened to walk out in protest against their own MEPs.

Plymouth branch chairman Tom Williams and most of the controlling committee said
that they would resign at Monday night's annual general meeting.

The group blamed UKIP MEPs for the party not capitalising on success in the 2004
European elections.

Mr Williams, who has started another group called New Battle for Britain, said
that they had received no applications to run the branch and that it was "more
than likely" to close.

"I know that there is, for some members, complete disillusionment with the way
the party is going," he said.

"I think the MEP influence on the party is not very productive. At the last
European elections, we had 12 MEPs.

"Two have gone by the wayside, but the ones that are left don't really seem to
be interested in the UK."

The AGM took place on Monday night at the United Reform Church in Plymouth.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            January 9, 2007, Tuesday

Tory peers defect to UK Independence Party

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 731 words


Two former Conservative peers will defect to the United Kingdom Independence
Party today, giving the Eurosceptic group its first foothold in Parliament.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke will create a UKIP group in
the House of Lords, promising to recruit other members and to persuade leading
Conservative donors to switch allegiance.

The development is a severe blow for David Cameron, whose leadership faces
mounting criticism for ditching traditional Conservative beliefs, with warnings
from his own MPs that he is losing the support of core voters.

Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, said: "It's an important step in UKIP's
development. To have a foothold in Westminster will make quite a difference. It
means we have a voice inside the Westminster village, which has been badly
needed.

It will also help us raise money."

Lord Pearson, who was put forward for his peerage by Margaret Thatcher, and Lord
Willoughby de Broke, a former member of the House of Lords EU Scrutiny
Committee, will enable UKIP to fulfil its long-held aspiration of a Westminster
power base.

UKIP has ten members in the European Parliament, but has failed to get anyone
elected to the House of Commons.

Several former MPs, including Roger Knapman and the television presenter Robert
Kilroy-Silk, defected to UKIP, but only after they had left Parliament. Lord
Pearson, chairman of PWS insurance broker, said that he was joining UKIP because
Mr Cameron had softened his stance on Europe, particularly after a recent trip
to Brussels, when he promised to work with the European Commission on tackling
climate change.

He said: "We've really given up hope that under its present leadership the
Conservative Party will be appropriately Eurosceptic by the next election. Under
David Cameron, the leadership has become a lot more Europhile even than it was
under Michael Howard," he told The Times.

The two Lords took the Conservative whip for 15 years, but had it withdrawn in
2004 after they urged voters to support UKIP. They are now embarking on a
full-scale defection, insisting that the interests of the country must be put
before those of the Conservative Party.

Lord Willoughby de Broke, who is posting back his membership card to his local
Conservative association, of which he is still a member, said: "This country's
best interests are served outside the European Union, and UKIP is the only party
campaigning for that. Some will say we have let the Conservative Party down, but
the party has let us down, and the country down."

The peers hope that about half a dozen of their colleagues will follow their
lead.

Lord Pearson, who was offered a ministerial position by John Major, has been a
leading party fundraiser. He is confident that donors will also make the switch.

He said: "If you are a big funder of the Conservative Party, you are likely to
be frustrated with the current leadership, and I know quite a few who are. I
don't see why people who have been funding the Conservative Party for a long
time shouldn't put their country before the current leadership."

UKIP has been targeting disaffected Conservative supporters, recruiting several
highprofile activists and former Tory candidates. However, the breakthrough into
Parliament was possible only after UKIP dropped its previous pledge to destroy
the Conservative Party. It recently said that it would not stand against any
Tory MP officially supporting Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

Last night the Plymouth branch of UKIP closed amid dissatisfaction at the way
the party was run.

Tom Williams, the chairman of the branch, resigned at the annual meeting with
eleven others, including three other officers and six committee members. He said
after the meeting that he formally closed the branch because there were no
nominations to take over from the officers.

* CONSERVATIVES WHO MOVED ON

* Shaun Woodward left the Tories for Labour in 1999. He is now the Tourism
Minister

* Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne (then Emma Nicholson), a former Tory vice-
chairman, joined the LibDems in 1995. She became an MEP in 1999

* Alan Howarth, a Tory minister, went to Labour in 1995. He became an arts
minister

* Sir Oswald Mosley left the Tories to be independent in 1920. He joined Labour
in 1924, and formed the New Party in 1931

* Sir Winston Churchill "ratted" from the Tories to the Liberals in 1904. He
switched back in 1922

* Source: Times database

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             January 8, 2007 Monday

Ukip's Tory threat

SECTION: FEATURES; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 85 words


SIR - The threat that the UK Independence Party (Ukip) poses to the
Conservatives should not be overstated (report, January 6). The Tories have been
ahead in the opinion polls for a year and won 40 per cent of the vote at last
year's local elections. The Tories must not allow their small but vocal
"militant tendency'', which mostly comprises dinosaur Eurosceptics still
fighting the battles of the early 1990s, to derail the only electoral strategy
capable of defeating Labour.

Philip J. Duly

Haslemere, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             January 8, 2007 Monday

Ukip's Tory threat

SECTION: FEATURES; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 28 words


SIR - Ukip promises what the Tories should be offering: selection at schools,
lower taxes, controlled immigration and withdrawal from the EU.

Gerry Hanson

Iver Heath, Bucks

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             January 8, 2007 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Romanias first gift to the European Union - a caucus of neo-fascists and
Holocaust deniers: Recent accessions mean group has enough MEPs Le Pen deputy
set to be leader of far-right alliance

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Europe editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 725 words


In France, the group's prospective leader has been barred from teaching at his
university and is awaiting a court verdict for questioning the Nazis' mass
murder of Europe's Jews.

His Bulgarian colleague brags that his country has the "prettiest Gypsies" and
says he knows where to buy 12-year-old Gypsy brides for "up to euros 5,000"
(£2,250).

Then there is the Polish professor who uses public office to pay tribute to
General Franco, the late Spanish dictator. Or the intellectual strategist of an
Austrian party whose ideology, according to a Vienna court, is similar to that
of Hitler's "national socialism".

Such are the leading lights of "Europe of the Fatherlands", the world of
politically organised European far-right extremism who are expected to form
their first transnational organisation next week by establishing a formal caucus
in the European parliament.

The development is an early result of the accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
Ironically, given the hostility of the west European far right to expansion, to
immigration, and to eastern Europe, it is Romania's entry that has made the
caucus possible: the EU parliament's rules stipulate that an official caucus in
the chamber needs to have representatives from at least five countries, and a
minimum of 19 MEPs. They now meet this requirement.

Efforts have been under way for years to increase the clout of the far right in
Europe by pooling assets and resources. The former pioneer of the modern
European populist right, Jorg Haider of Austria, was wooed as a possible
European leader. But the plans foundered because of differences among the
notoriously fractious national leaders. These frictions remain. Italy's Northern
League, for example, is boycotting the caucus because the league's head, Umberto
Bossi, cannot stand the leader of France's National Front, Jean-Marie Le Pen.

"It's pretty much watertight, although there are still a few imponderables," the
far-right Austrian MEP Andreas Moelzer told the Austrian press agency. "We've
already got a common programme."

The plan is to announce the creation of an official parliamentary caucus during
the first session of the year on January 15. The caucus will bring together
about 20 MEPs from at least six countries. Mr Moelzer said the numbers could
expand to 40. Ashley Mote, an MEP for south-east England who sits as an
independent and was previously from the UK Independence party, is being
mentioned as a member.

Bulgaria's quota of European parliament seats includes one held by the extreme
Ataka party of Volen Siderov, which campaigns against Gypsies or Roma and Turks,
while Romania has supplied a breakthrough for the hard right by gaining five
seats for Corneliu Vadim Tudor's anti-Hungarian, anti-Semitic and anti-Roma
Greater Romanian party.

The turnaround came last week when Mr Tudor said his delegates would join the
new caucus, expected to be named either "Europe of the Fatherlands" or
"Identity, Sovereignty, Tradition".

The brains behind the new movement are Mr Moelzer, who was an ideologist for Mr
Haider for years before falling out with him, and Frank Vanhecke, the leader of
Vlaams Belang, Belgium's separatist Flemish nationalist party. Ironically, Mr
Moelzer's Austrian Freedom party voted against letting Romania join the EU.

Bruno Gollnisch, a French MEP and a deputy leader of Mr Le Pen's National Front,
is expected to lead the new group, with Mr Moelzer as its general secretary.

The members include Alessandra Mussolini, granddaughter of the Italian former
fascist leader Benito, and Dimitar Stoyanov, a new Bulgarian MEP who circulated
an email saying there were much "prettier Gypsies" in Bulgaria after a Hungarian
Roma woman was named European MP of the year a few months ago. "You can even buy
yourself a loving (Gypsy) wife aged 12 or 13 . . . The best of are very
expensive, up to euros 5,000 each."

Mr Gollnisch is awaiting a verdict from a Lyon court on charges of questioning
the Holocaust. Other possible members of the group include the League of Polish
Families, a junior partner in Warsaw's centre-right government, regularly
accused of gay-bashing and anti-Semitism.

By establishing a formal caucus, the extreme right will benefit from greater EU
funding. A priority, said Mr Moelzer, will be to fight any German-led attempts
to revive Europe's comatose constitution.

guardian.co.uk/farright >

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2007 Monday



CORRECTION: * Our report Romania's first gift to the European Union - a caucus
of neo-fascists and Holocaust deniers, page 3, January 8, carried an
accompanying picture captioned Dimitar Stoyanov, who is a Bulgarian MEP. The
actual photograph, however, showed an older and more leftwing politician,
Dimitar Stoyanov Dabov, of the Coalition for Bulgaria, which is composed mainly
of socialist and social democratic parties.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            January 8, 2007, Monday

There's more to Lib Dems than Lembit's libido

BYLINE: Tim Hames

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1056 words


One year after his predecessor's downfall, it isn't all bad news for Ming

Were Sir Menzies Campbell and Sian Lloyd, the weather presenter traded for a
Cheeky Girl by Lembit Opik MP, to meet, they would be entitled to mutual
sympathy. Both have spent many years building up their reputations. Each was
entitled to think that they had secured a long-term commitment from the Liberal
Democrats. Ms Lloyd has, alas, already been discarded in favour of a far younger
and more exotic item. Sir Menzies took to the airwaves last week to deny that
there are MPs who want something similar to happen to his leadership.

Not that Mr Opik should be cast as the villain of the piece in this saga; there
are rational explanations for his behaviour. One is that this outburst of
vigorous public heterosexuality is but a noble attempt to redress the balance in
the minds of voters over the private lives of his parliamentary party. Another
is that his new squeeze, being responsible for hit tracks with titles such as
Cheeky Song (Touch My Bum), is obviously an authentic Liberal Democrat
sympathiser.

Furthermore, in view of Mr Opik's well-publicised interest in the risk to of our
planet being hit by asteroids, it is understandable that he may be intrigued by
the problem of making the earth move with safety.

But will Sir Menzies have to move on in 2007? That some of his parliamentary
colleagues are feeling frustrated is not surprising. The original complaint
about his leadership -unimpressive performances at Prime Minister's Questions
-has eased substantially, to be replaced by mutterings about the "skeleton
factor" and concern that Mr Opik's colourful love life has seized more media
attention than anything that Lib Dem spokesmen have said or proposed.

That there is a publicity drought at the moment is undeniable. For example,
yesterday was the first anniversary of Charles Kennedy's enforced resignation.
One scoured the serious newspapers in vain for words about him, his successor or
their party. Hence, there are Liberal Democrats who still hold a candle for
Chris Huhne, the man defeated by Sir Menzies ten months ago. A more
sophisticated set favour, sooner or later, Nick Clegg, the youthful, able and
telegenic home affairs spokesman.

The Liberal Democrats would, however, be insane to engage in yet more
introspection about who leads them. There are three solid reasons why this would
be neither necessary nor rewarding.

The first reason is negative. Of all the years in this decade when a change in
the Liberal Democrat leadership would win scant attention, this is it. Compared
with the arrival of a new prime minister and a wholesale turnover in the Cabinet
and Downing Street staff, swapping a Campbell for a Clegg would be utterly
inconsequential. Sir Richard Branson or Paris Hilton (calm down, Lembit) could
take charge of the Liberal Democrats in the next 12 months and those who report
Whitehall and Westminster to the wider world would not alter their focus. The
Liberal Democrats had to tough out a shift at the top of the Conservative Party
in 2006. They have to endure the fact that this may be the sole column written
about them in 2007.

The second, more positive, point is that the publicity obtained by the Liberal
Democrats and their performance at the polls are not intimately related. The
chances are that Sir Menzies will have much to smile about after the May
elections. His party will do well in Scotland, better in Wales and should pick
up council seats in urban England. If there is a parliamentary by-election
almost anywhere this year, they will be in the running.

In this respect it is David Cameron who has grounds to be wary. The worst-case
scenario for him in 2007 involves Gordon Brown revitalising the Labour Party,
his policy reviews failing to produce results for his party and the hard Right
defecting. If the recent pattern of council by-elections holds firm, the hidden
story of the English council elections this year could be how well UKIP and the
BNP do in middle-class areas.

The Tories have also offered a hostage to fortune by suggesting that Mr Brown
should hold a general election soon after acquiring power. It makes it
impossible for them to protest later that he is "cutting and running",
abandoning a perfectly decent majority in the House of Commons prematurely, by
seeking a swift personal mandate on the basis of a surge in his favour in
opinion polls. Mr Cameron could and should have been more circumspect. He may
have mused whether Mr Brown was planning to act like a man aggressively pressing
a marriage proposal on a woman on the basis of a fairly congenial first date.

Compared with the Conservatives, therefore, electoral strategy for Sir Menzies
and the Liberal Democrats this year is mercifully straightforward.

Finally, there is what might be described as the "dark side of the Moon" aspect
to party leadership -that which the electorate cannot see. It involves chairing
committees with competence, overseeing a campaign organisation and driving
policy in the right direction. Even those of his MPs who wish that Sir Menzies
looked and acted more like James Bond, concede that he is effective at
fulfilling these worthy functions and is a huge improvement on the chaotic
Kennedy era.

The Liberal Democrats, steered by Vince Cable, their Treasury spokesman, have
framed a more coherent stance on tax and may well have settled on sizeable and
credible cuts in central government spending by the time of their annual
conference. If the Conservative policy exercise does not work well, the contrast
could be striking. It will make it harder for their opponents to claim, as they
invariably do, that Lib Dem sums "do not add up" or that if voters were to
deliver a hung parliament they would risk placing into partial power a party
that is the political equivalent of the Addams Family.

In short, there is more to the Liberal Democrats than Mr Opik's libido. And
despite the absence of Sir Menzies from television screens nightly, the party is
in a more robust condition today than it was when Mr Kennedy fell so
spectacularly 12 months ago.

There will come a time when it makes sense for Mr Clegg, the party's own Cheeky
Boy, to take over the mantle of leadership. But, for the coming 18 months, at
the very least, Sir Menzies should not fear sharing the same misfortune of poor
Ms Lloyd.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

Europe, that old thorn in the side, returns Analysis: Brendan Carlin on Ukip's
revival and its threat to the Cameron Conservatives

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 454 words


IT was a stunning political success, but was always doomed to be shortlived.

The so-called "breakthrough moment'' for the UK Independence Party - the 2004
European elections - sent shockwaves through the political establishment. More
specifically, the Conservative Party - a big, humming, locomotive compared to
Ukip's plucky little Thomas the Tank Engine of a Right-wing poltical force - got
into a terrible state. Was the dreaded issue of Europe which had so riven the
Tories in the 1990s, going to rip them apart once more?

These were heady, exciting days for Tory Eurosceptics.

A motley band of anti-Brussels campaigners - they included Robert Kilroy-Silk,
one of many Ukip figures for whom the term "colourful'' was so apt - had just
won roughly 16 per cent of the vote and 12 seats on the European Parliament.

They had even shoved Charles Kennedy's Liberal Democrats into a humiliating
fourth place.

Some leading Tories even contemplated a post-general election vista in which the
Conservatives did indeed split into pro- and anti-Brussels factions.

The bubble burst within weeks, as it was destined to do.

The cheque book of Paul Sykes, the Eurosceptic Yorkshire millionaire, had done
overtime for Ukip in European elections. But it slapped shut when the ex-Tory
pondered the damage he could do at a general election.

He was appalled to hear Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, exhort the Ukip
faithful to "kill'' the Tory party. Ukip also inflicted own gaping wounds on
itself in a bitter - and hilarious - attempt by Mr Kilroy-Silk to seize the Ukip
leadership from Roger Knapman, a Barney Rubble lookalike who then led the party.

Europe - such a burning issue in 2004 with rows raging over the proposed EU
constitution and Britain's rebate to Brussels - receded into the background.

At the 2005 general election, Ukip registered just over two per cent of the vote
and membership has plummeted from a high of about 26,000 to 17,000.

But over the last year, signs of a recovery have emerged.

David Cameron is partly responsible. The new Tory leader's determination to
drive his own party to the centre and to stop "banging on'' about Europe has
left many Eurosceptic Tories searching for a new home.

But Ukip, particularly in the shape of its populist new leader, Nigel Farage,
has realised that it must broaden its support by adopting policies on non-EU
related subjects.

Mr Farage is also keen to exploit the perception that with Labour, the Tories
and the Lib-Dems all parked in the centre, the time is right for a radical
alternative.

But while there is a clear threat to Mr Cameron from a resurgent Ukip, the
moderniser in him may relish the departure of the sort of Eurosceptic
troublemakers who so troubled his predecessors.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

Ukip opens arms to Tories with pledge not to fight Eurosceptic MPs

BYLINE: Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 495 words


DAVID CAMERON faces further desertions by traditional Conservative members after
the UK Independence Party announced a decisive move to capture support from
disaffected Right-wingers.

At least two peers are poised to sever links with the Tories next week and join
Ukip as the anti-EU party tries to capitalise on Mr Cameron's alleged
"Brussels-friendly'' strategy. The Daily Telegraph understands Lord Pearson of
Rannoch and Lord Willoughby de Broke are expected to join Ukip after Nigel
Farage, its leader, wrote to all 646 MPs to announce that he would no longer
field candidates against proven Eurosceptics.

The strategy is designed to woo disaffected Tories by ridding Ukip of its
reputation as a party bent on destroying the Conservatives.

Ukip may also rebrand itself as The Independence Party to broaden its base and
mount serious challenges in local and general elections. The moves come amid
increasing realisation on the Tory Right that Mr Cameron, elected leader in
December 2005, will not waver in his mission to put the Tories in the centre
ground.

Ukip shook the political establishment in 2004 by coming third in the European
elections, ahead of the Liberal Democrats. But it fell far short of a similar
breakthrough in the 2005 general election, and Mr Cameron felt confident enough
to dismiss its members as "fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists,
basically''. The Tory leader's determination to end his party's perceived
obsession with Europe, together with controversial decisions to downgrade
tax-cut pledges, now appears to be driving traditional party members into Ukip's
arms.

Last month, Toby Horton, a former chairman of William Hague's Richmond
constituency, and Mark Hudson, a vice-president of the Bank of America and an
approved Tory candidate, quit to join Ukip. Now the two peers - both stripped of
the Tory whip in 2004 for aiding Ukip in the European elections but still
sitting as Independent Conservatives - are expected to sign up.

Neither was available for comment yesterday but Mr Farage confirmed he had been
persuading them to defect to Ukip for months.

The Daily Telegraph understands that Lord Pearson insisted that as a condition
of joining, Ukip drop its policy of fielding general election candidates against
even arch-Eurosceptic sitting MPs. The policy was adopted after Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former BBC presenter and anti-EU campaigner, urged Ukip to
"kill'' the Tory party.

But in what appeared to be an announcement to pave the way to defections next
week, Mr Farage wrote to all MPs yesterday declaring that the old policy was
dead.

MPs would have to demonstrate their Eurosceptic credentials by signing up to the
Better Off Out campaign by June this year after which Ukip would begin selecting
general election candidates, Mr Farage said. The Better Off Out campaign, set up
last year by the Freedom Association, advertises itself as a "non-party
organisation committed to making the case for leaving the European Union''.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

Cameron must heed the threat of UKIP

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 469 words


Publicly, David Cameron dismisses the UK Independence Party as a collection of
fruitcakes. Privately, he is too clever not to be watching its steady progress:
he knows that, at the next election, the Tory must-win seats are vulnerable to
the lure of a minority voice. The defection of two former Tory peers, Lords
Pearson of Rannoch and Willoughby de Broke, has been a long time in the making.
They lost the Conservative whip in 2004, when they urged people to vote UKIP at
the European elections. Still, if they should adhere formally to the
anti-Brussels party, it would be a bit of a moment in Right-of-centre politics.
Traditional Tory supporters - indeed, many Tory activists - are toying with
voting UKIP. When they see two respected Conservative parliamentarians making
the journey, their personal odysseys become that little bit easier.

UKIP has been on the move since it elected Nigel Farage as its leader in
September, nudging up in the polls and parading several new deserters. The
conventional explanation for its recent appeal is that Mr Cameron has vacated
tracts of terrain on the political Right. This analysis is shared by many
Cameroons, who believe that an obsessive guarding of their right flank
contributed to two general election defeats, and argue that, from now on, the
party should concentrate on attracting the larger number of potential voters in
the political centre.

It is true that UKIP is pitching consciously for the support of disgruntled
Tories. Since being elected, Mr Farage has spoken surprisingly rarely about the
EU, instead emphasising his party's commitment to selection in schools,
controlled immigration and lower taxes. But UKIP's success should also be seen
in the context of a wider turning away from the established parties. The last
two general elections saw the highest rates of abstention since universal
suffrage. Of those who did vote, unprecedented numbers abandoned all three
traditional parties.

This is not just a Right-wing phenomenon. The ghastly BNP, for example, markets
itself chiefly as an alternative to Labour. The Greens differentiate themselves
from what they call the "grey'' parties. None the less, Right-of-centre parties,
being traditionally supportive of small government, ought to be better placed
than Leftist ones to benefit from anti-politician sentiment.

Up until now Mr Cameron has concentrated on removing barriers to entry. So far,
the tactic has worked well; but it may be reaching its limit. When 79 per cent
of voters tell the pollsters that they don't trust any MPs, the party promising
"independence'' - for Britain from the EU, but also for the individual from the
state - suddenly seems appealing. This is the sort of territory that Mr Cameron
should not cede by default. Not being Gordon Brown will not, of itself, win him
the election.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

National: Anti-European boss criticised for 'hypocrisy' over Polish staff

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 432 words


An anti-European boss and donor to the United Kingdom Independence party was
yesterday under fire for "hypocrisy" after employing Polish workers at his
shopping centres in the west country while denouncing their right to be in
Britain.

Bruce Robertson, owner of the Trago Mills shopping complex near Newton Abbot,
Devon, has taken on 30 Poles to fill staff vacancies among his 360 employees.

He is the second prominent figure in Ukip to be caught employing migrant labour.

Roger Knapman, the party's leader and MEP, employed Polish labourers to restore
his country mansion after warning that open borders in the European Union would
lead to a "flood of migrants" that would be "bad for Britain".

Mr Robertson, who donated £13,200 to the party's 2001 general election campaign,
said his east European staff were "hard-working, cheerful and friendly".

"Unfortunately I have no alternative to employ foreign workers to keep our
business going."

The businessman, who runs three shopping complexes in Devon, blamed EU
legislation passed by Britain and Gordon Brown's tax credit scheme for making it
difficult to recruit full-time workers locally.

Mr Robertson said: "Increasing legislation by our own parliament and the EU has
provided a mass of red tape for employ ers. It may seem like a degree of
hypocrisy on my part but I just cannot recruit enough local staff to keep our
business flowing successfully and giving a service to our customers.

"If it wasn't for European legislation it would be a lot easier to recruit UK
staff. The EU has been a disaster for this country. I am making the best of a
very bad job. I have nothing against Polish or any other European people
individually."

He admitted that the Polish workers were popular with local staff and customers
and praised their work ethic.

Mr Robertson did not want to comment further yesterday and had instructed staff
he was "not to be disturbed".

He was criticised by Susan Kramer, the Liberal Democrat trade and industry
spokeswoman.

Ms Kramer said: "This is just another example of the illogicality and
inconsistency of the Ukip position.

"It is rather below the belt to complain about immigrant labour and then use it
to advantage your business."

A local estate agent, Richard Copus, also attacked his double standards.

Mr Copus said: "It smacks of hypocrisy and Mr Robertson has been hoisted by his
own petard.

"Surely it's a bit incongruous to be greeted on entry to the (shopping) complex
with a huge placard proclaiming 'the EU is a euphemism for disaster', together
with half a dozen further anti-European jibes."

guardian.co.uk/immigration >

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

National: Ukip backer defends Polish staff

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 161 words


An anti-European boss and donor to the United Kingdom Independence party was
under fire for "hypocrisy" yesterday after employing Polish workers at his
shopping centres in the west country while denouncing their right to be in
Britain.

Bruce Robertson, owner of the Trago Mills shopping complex near Newton Abbot,
Devon, has taken on 30 Poles to fill staff vacancies among his 360 employees.

He is the second prominent figure in Ukip to be caught employing migrant labour.
Roger Knapman, the party's leader and MEP, employed Polish labourers to restore
his country mansion.

Mr Robertson, who donated £13,200 to the party's 2001 election campaign, said:
"Unfortunately I have no alternative to employ foreign workers to keep our
business going."

The businessman, who runs three shopping complexes in Devon, blamed EU
legislation passed by Britain and Gordon Brown's tax credit scheme for making it
difficult to recruit full-time workers locally.

guardian.co.uk/immigration >

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

Weekend: Mind: THIS COLUMN WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman:

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 471 words


By the time you read this, I will have entrusted to a close friend an envelope
containing a cheque for £100, made payable to the United Kingdom Independence
Party.

I feel like I probably owe you an explanation.

I'd been thinking about new year's resolutions and how fundamentally evil and
depression-inducing they are: around half of us make them, depending on which
survey you trust, but a tiny fraction actually keep them. Telling yourself you
have to start doing something - or, even worse, refrain from doing something -
for the whole of the rest of the year, or even for the rest of your life, has
got to be just about the most perfectionistic, high-pressure demand you could
make of yourself. We don't like being told we have to do things, even by
ourselves, so subconsciously we rebel. And the nation's gym-owners are left
cackling with manic glee at how much money they've amassed, and how little
they'll have to do in return, since by February their gyms will be ghost towns
again.

So if you haven't already abandoned your resolutions, I urge you to do so now,
and do this instead: decide to do something for just 30 days - much less
pressure that way - and then write a cheque to a cause you really dislike. Give
it to a friend who likes you enough that if you don't stick to your plan, he or
she will mail the cheque. This is why, if I don't go to the gym three times a
week, starting today, for the next 30 days, this nation's vibrant community of
swivel-eyed far-right eccentrics will be 100 traditional British pounds better
off. (I couldn't quite stomach choosing the British National Party, though the
logic of the idea surely demands it.) I've also signed up to the insanely clever
website HassleMe.co.uk, which will remind you by email about anything you want,
but does so - crucially - at unpredictable intervals so that your brain can't
easily adapt to ignoring the prodding.

The cheque technique comes from the psychotherapist Albert Ellis, who notes that
one of its effects is to put things vividly in perspective: going to the gym on
a dark winter morning might seem awful, but is it really as awful as those
people you detest getting that cash? You need to choose a sum of money that
hurts, which might be much less or much more than £100. There's a possibly
apocryphal story about a Las Vegas casino owner who put up billboards around the
city promising £100,000 to anyone who caught him smoking.

There is, I realise, something rather aggressive, even militaristic, about this
approach: in the long run, I'd rather want to go to the gym for positive
reasons. In the meantime I'm just happy to know I'll actually be going, spurred
on by the bright orange mental image of Robert Kilroy-Silk MEP. I know he's
technically not in Ukip any more. But talk about a powerful motivator.

oliver.burkeman@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            January 5, 2007, Friday

Migration from East Europe is beneficial, says top Bank official

BYLINE: Gabriel Rozenberg Economics Reporter

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 646 words


* New workers help keep inflation down

* Unemployment is also kept in check

Britain is reaping substantial economic benefits from the increase in migration
from Eastern Europe, a top official at the Bank of England said yesterday.

David Blanchflower, one of the nine members of the Bank's Monetary Policy
Committee, which sets interest rates, said that immigration had helped to keep a
lid on inflation.

Professor Blanchflower has regularly cited migration as a reason why interest
rates need not rise as high as his more hawkish colleagues believe.

He said the evidence showed that immigration had reduced joblessness to a level
below which the economy starts to overheat, in turn causing inflation, the
so-called "natural rate" of unemployment. Rather than taking jobs from Britons
the new workers had, instead, helped unemployment to stay relatively low without
forcing interest rates to climb.

His report argued that competition in the jobs market from the new workers -
mostly young and male and earning on average 14 per cent less than non
immigrants -had helped to keep the pace of increase in earnings at a sustainable
level by keeping a lid on workers' bargaining power over wages during periods
when strong economic growth and high employment levels might in the past have
fuelled excessive pay demands.

His speech was made after a report by the anti-immigration group Migrationwatch,
which argued that the benefits of immigration were trivial at best. The group
said that mass immigration had brought financial benefits of only 4p a week to
every person in Britain. Its analysis essentially reproduced government data on
the effect of migration on economic growth.

Professor Blanchflower said that there was "little evidence" that immigrants
from Eastern Europe had significantly affected the wages or employment chances
of Britons. A paper published alongside his speech said that the 0.8 per cent
rise in unemployment in the past 18 months had little to do with the arrival of
about 500,000 workers from Eastern Europe. It also noted that a significant
proportion of those workers had now probably returned home.

The report said that population growth had been "extremely low by international
standards" over the past 30 years -7 per cent compared with 42 per cent in the
US and 18 per cent in France. But the rate of growth has shot up in recent
years, with the British population increasing by 1.8 million (3.2 per cent)
since 1999, largely because of the inflow of Eastern European migrants.

"It would seem likely that the UK could absorb a relatively small inflow of
immigrants, by international standards," the report said. "It appears that it
has already done so to a considerable degree."

Around the world, the report said, there was little or no evidence that
immigrants had a significant impact on wages or unemployment. The paper was
published days after the entry into the EU of Romania and Bulgaria, whose
citizens have been granted restricted access to jobs in Britain.

City analysts are divided over whether the Bank will put up interest rates next
month to 5.25 per cent. But Professor Blanchflower's speech was taken as a sign
that he would oppose any increase.

A superstore tycoon and avowed Eurosceptic has defended his decision to hire
more than 30 workers from Poland. Bruce Robertson, who owns Trago Mills and is a
member of the UK Independence Party member, employs the workers at his complex
near Newton Abbot in Devon.

He said: "I have no alternative than to employ foreign workers to keep our
business going. Increasing legislation by our own Parliament and the EU has
provided a mass of red tape for employers."

NEW ARRIVALS

380,000 left the UK in 2005

565,000 people immigrated in the same year, the equivalent of 1,500 a day

84% of immigrants are aged between 15 and 44

25% of incoming migrants in 2003 came to study

Source: Office for National Statistics

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 77 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 2, 2007 Tuesday

Hunting ban is top in radio poll of which Act to repeal

BYLINE: Charles Clover Environment Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 502 words


LISTENERS to BBC Radio 4's Today programme have voted overwhelmingly for the
repeal of the 2004 Hunting Act which banned hunting with dogs, it was announced
yesterday.

Some 52.8 per cent of votes cast in the online poll were for the repeal of the
Hunting Act, well ahead of the European Communities Act of 1972, which took
Britain into the Common Market, with 29 per cent.

There was some controversy over the result when it was revealed that the panel -
which selected five Acts to be included in Today's end-of-year poll - considered
excluding the hunting ban because of evidence of a concerted campaign to skew
the result.

Ed Stourton, the programme's presenter, said there were "suspicions that there
was an organised campaign at work'' and the Countryside Alliance confirmed that
it had reminded supporters to vote on its website.

Ann Widdecombe, the Conservative MP, an opponent of hunting and member of the
panel that assessed nominations for the poll, told Today: "Undeniably, the
Countryside Alliance pulled out every last stop to get this result.

"We did hesitate on the panel to put this one forward because there was already
evidence of links from the Countryside Alliance. And of course we had the Boxing
Day meets, when just about everybody who actively supports hunting would have
been out and could have been reminded.''

Baroness Mallalieu, the Countryside Alliance's president, told the programme:
"What we did was to notify people on the website that this vote was taking place
and suggest that they vote.

"The truth of the matter is that, of all the Acts on the list, this is the one
that no case can possibly be made for retaining, because it has been a total
failure all round.

"Whatever your views on hunting, this Act is a fiasco and it is not surprising
that it received a mass vote.''

Since Dec 22, visitors to the Countryside Alliance website have seen an appeal
to vote in the poll, along with a link to the Today site to make it easier for
them to take part.

A message from Simon Hart, the Alliance's chief executive, read: "Of course this
Government is not going to admit the gross error of allowing the Hunting Act on
to the statute book by legislating for its removal, but winning this vote will
add to the growing momentum for a future Parliament to scrap it.''

Other votes in the poll went to provisions of the Serious Organised Crime and
Police Act that require police permission for protests in Parliament Square (6.2
per cent) and the Human Rights Act (6.1 per cent).

Just 3.6 per cent voted to overturn the 1701 Act of Settlement, which bars
Catholics from taking the throne, and 1.6 per cent to repeal the Dangerous Dogs
Act 1991.

An Alliance spokesman described the controversy over the result as "sour
grapes''. He asked: "Are you seriously suggesting that the UK Independence Party
did not try to get its supporters to vote for a repeal of the European
Communities Act?

"The piece of legislation with the most support for repeal was the Hunting Act.
There was nothing covert about this.''

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 77 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             January 1, 2007 Monday
                                 Fourth Edition

Reid warns new EUpartners not to turn up without a permit

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 628 words


The Home Office has spent nearly £280,000 on an advertising campaign warning
Bulgarians and Romanians not to come to Britain unless they are skilled and have
been offered a job.

The campaign is designed to deter nationals from the two newest EU members who
join today from arriving in the UK in search of work only to find they are
liable to be fined for illegal entry.

The Government has been heavily criticised for underestimating the number of
migrants likely to seek work in the UK after the last major expansion of the EU,
when eight former communist states became members in May 2004.

For Bulgaria, one of the first costs of membership is that two of its nuclear
reactors will close today, after the EU ruled that they were unsafe. The
Bulgarian government has protested that the closure will push up electricity
prices, and that the £145m compensation it has been promised by the EU is
insufficient to cover losses.

In October, the Home Secretary, John Reid, risked accusations of xenophobia by
announcing strict measures to restrict the number of arrivals, including fines
up to £1,000 to any who take jobs without a permit. The only Bulgarians and
Romanians permitted to work here will be a small number of highly skilled
employees with jobs waiting for them, 20,000 agricultural workers, and the
self-employed.

Potential travellers have been warned: "You should consider carefully whether
you are likely to find work that will meet the requirements of the United
Kingdom's work permit arrangements. In most cases, this means that you will need
an offer of skilled employment."

The Government has been using television, radio and hoardings to get the message
across in Romania and Bulgaria. Some 8,000 posters have been put up and 40,000
leaflets distributed across the two countries. The campaign is being run by the
International Organisation for Migration but funded by a Home Office grant, and
will run until 30 March.

A Home Office spokesman said: "It's in everyone's interest to ensure that people
from Bulgaria and Romania clearly understand the rules we are putting in place.
This will help to ensure that people won't arrive here under the illusion that
they will be able to enter jobs straight away or to claim benefits."

Mr Reid's approach contrasts sharply with the Home Office's attitude in 2004,
when it adopted an open-door policy, predicting that the numbers coming in from
countries such as Poland and Hungary would be low. Officials expected 5,000 to
13,000, but in fact, 447,000 registered for work in the first two years,
including nearly 265,000 from Poland. The overall total of people who found work
in the UK, including the self-employed, could be 600,000, although many were
here temporarily and have returned home.

The familiar sight of the Polish plumber, or the Lithuanian student serving in a
fast food restaurant, has led to complaints that they are adding to the
unemployment level of young Britons. The number of jobless in the UK rose during
2006, at the same time that record numbers were in work.

However, the biggest concentrations of east European migrants are in areas where
employment levels are high, such as East Anglia, and the Home Office turned out
to be correct in predicting that most would be young and keen to work. Eighty
per cent were under 34, and fewer than 1 per cent applied for unemployment
benefit, of whom only 768 were deemed eligible. Fears that they would drive up
waiting times for council housing have not been borne out. In two years, just
110 council homes have been let to east Europeans.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, claimed yesterday: "The
accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union will lead to another
wave of mass migration and a time when the UK can ill afford it."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
