
                               1 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 29, 2007
                                 Fourth Edition

'Bad smell' still lingers around Tories, says poll

BYLINE: Francis Elliott WHITEHALL EDITOR

LENGTH: 157 words


David Cameron's Conservative Party resembles a traditional telephone box "which
looks appealing on the outside, but if you open the door it smells really bad",
according to private polling shown to Tory shadow ministers.

Conservative front-benchers have been told that the party is doing "very badly"
with middle-class, male voters in the Midlands, is losing ground among the young
and "is not doing very well at all in the North".

The polling research, leaked to The Independent on Sunday, was carried out by a
former senior party official, Stephen Gilbert, and presented to the "shadow DTI
team" last Monday. Entitled The State of the Conservative Party Brand, a summary
of the research finds "there is a far greater risk of losing votes to the centre
ground than to the margins represented by UKIP and the BNP.

Mr Cameron's efforts to court the youth vote and break into Labour's heartlands
in the North and the Midlands, it says, are failing.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 8bn new wave of migrants for UK

BYLINE: By Jason Groves

SECTION: NEWS; 47

LENGTH: 684  words


BRUSSELS is preparing the way for the next wave of mass immigration to Britain w
ith a secret GBP 8billion fund to bring Europe's poorest countries into the EU.

Just months after the controversial move to give full European Union membership
to Bulgaria and Romania, the European Commission has already begun plotting the
next stage of expansion.

A secret deal has been agreed to pump GBP 8billion into some of Europe's poorest
countries to enable them to join the EU within the next few years.

The new fund is supposed to help to root out corruption, develop democracy and
tackle human rights abuses. But Foreign Office officials fear that most of the
cash will end up being channelled into big infrastructure proj ects that are
little more than bribes to encourage the countries to join the EU.

Countries set to benefit from the lavish aid programme include Turkey, Albania
and Serbia, where wages are far less than those in Britain. Critics fear the
deal will spark a fresh w ave of mass immigration to Britain, already struggling
to absorb hundreds of thousands of w orkers from Eastern Europe.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said it was wrong to
encourage further EU expansion while the fall-out from the last wave of
enlargement w as still continuing. "It seems the EU knows no limits to its
territorial ambitions to be a superpower, " he said.

"This scheme is nothing less than bribery - w e are being forced to subsidise
the next massive wave of immigration. It is a very bad deal for Britain. It is
perfectly clear that Romania was not fit to join the EU this year and yet now we
are encouraging countries that are even less fit to join up.

"Far from sorting out corruption in these countries, the injection of huge sums
of money is going to make corruption worse."

The new EU fund, the Instrument for PreAccession Assistance, is supposed to help
countries prepare to join the EU by building democratic institutions. But
internal Foreign Office documents show British officials fear that most of the
money will go to huge infrastructure projects of the kind that have often been
dogged by allegations of corruption.

A briefing note prepared by civil servants for Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett warns: "There is obvious temptation for both host governments and the
Commission to channel money into infrastructure projects which absorb cash
easily and are relatively easy to contract."

Officials say this would clash with Britain's aim of targeting money from the
fund at tackling corruption and human rights abuses. But they warn that the UK
will have "little formal influence" over how the cash is spent.

EU enlargement has encouraged massive immigration to Britain in recent years.

An estimated 800,000 Eastern Europeans are thought to have come here since 2004.

New figures this week showed the number of Bulgarians and Romanians heading for
our shores has trebled since the countries joined the EU at the start of this
year.

The latest deal is all the more surprising because of the human rights records
of many of the countries involved.

Turkey, which has a population of 72 million, is singled out by Amnesty
International for major violations of human rights.

Albania, which has also been criticised by the international community for its
human rights record, is the poorest country in Europe, with gross domestic
product per head equal to only eight per cent of the EU average.

Serbia is accused of illegally harbouring war criminals, including the notorious
Bosnian Serb general Ratko Mladic, who is charged with genocide over the 1995
Srebrenica massacre.

So-called EU candidate countries such as Croatia, Turkey and Macedonia will be
asked to meet the EU's minimum membership standards in return for the cash. But
other countries classed as potential candidates for membership will only have to
"approximate" to the EU's standards.

The European Commission was asked to comment on the scheme but did not respond.

A statement on the Commission's website said the fund was designed to "support
efforts to enhance political, economic and institutional reforms" in the
countries concerned.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday

Apathy rules as Tory and Labour leaders vie for barometer seat

BYLINE: ROYA NIKKHAH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1060 words


DARTFORD

THE RECENT visits of Gordon Brown and David Cameron to Dartford and the
surrounding area are testament to its importance as a barometer seat.

In the past, when Tories have taken the council, it is said to be an indicator
that the party may sweep to national power. When Labour prevails, it has
historically gone on to a general election win.

The north Kent town is controlled by a Conservative-led coalition, which broke
an eight-year period of Labour power in 2003. Unemployment is above the national
average, exacerbated by the recent closure of a local paper mill.

The Tories have pledged tax cuts and promised to tackle hospital superbug
infections, while Labour is offering discounts to residents using the Dartford
river crossing.

Conservatives are aiming for overall control, but disillusion and apathy
threatens to dash their hopes. Keith Bennett, 77, a retired technical salesman
from east Dartford, said: "People have not been made aware there is an election
going on. Then again, some people don't care.''

Alan Brightman, 55, a local machine operator, said: "Whoever gets in probably
won't listen to us anyway.''

Sixty Tory candidates are standing, with 50 for Labour, eight for Ukip and one
for the BNP. There are 68 independent candidates.

KINGSTON-UPON-HULL

IT IS the home of William Wilberforce, who helped to abolish slavery 200 years
ago, but few people in Hull today appear to share his sense of civil motivation.

Despite an unemployment rate of 7.7 per cent - and 16 per cent of the 249,100
residents on income support - there seems little interest in this week's
elections.

The city has the third highest burglary rate in the country, with 33 incidents
per 1,000 homes. Despite a council pledge to spend pounds 200 million over the
next four years, poor housing remains a central issue.

In Queen Victoria Square, where banners reading "Pride, Freedom, Belief,
Change'' fly in honour of Wilberforce, voter apathy is clear. Julie Lofthouse,
46, was unaware of Thursday's poll, despite John Prescott and Alan Johnson, two
of the city's three MPs, being members of the Cabinet. She said she had received
no leaflets and no candidate had visited her.

A student, Robert Smith, 25, plans to vote Tory because one of his housemates is
standing as a party candidate, but he admitted: "I am not particularly
political.''

The Conservatives, Labour and Liberal Democrats are each fielding 19 candidates,
with six for the Green Party and three each for the BNP and Ukip. There are 11
independents.

KIRKLESS

IN THE British National Party's stronghold of Heckmondwike, part of the Kirklees
borough in West Yorkshire, you might expect a flurry of campaigning from rival
parties.

However, most residents of the traditional market town have seen little evidence
of the looming elections, a situation which, they say, has played into the BNP's
hands.

The BNP gained control of Heckmondwike, one of three seats it holds in Kirklees,
in a council by-election in August 2003. Its candidate, David Exley, won after a
Labour councillor resigned.

Council tax has become a particularly important issue. Last week the local
authority launched an inquiry after it emerged that council tax cheques had gone
missing from a local library.

A pensioner, Arthur Brook, 75, said: "Anybody with any savvy this year will be
voting BNP because they tell it like it is. All the major parties have had their
turn and done nothing with it. It's time for us to give a fringe party the
chance to change the status quo.''

David Brown, 52, a retired father of two, said he was considering voting for the
BNP.

"I think they take a stronger view over some of the issues that are ruining the
country at the minute,'' he said. "I'm not racist, but I've lived here all my
life and I've seen the area change, and not for the better.''

Four candidates are standing - one each for the Liberal Democrats, the BNP,
Tories and Labour. Across Kirklees, there are 23 candidates standing for the
Conservatives, Labour and the Lib-Dems, 22 for the BNP and the Green Party, and
11 independents.

BATH

WITH THE Tories and Liberal Democrats hopeful of profiting at the expense of
Labour, the hung council of Bath would be a prize for either David Cameron or
Menzies Campbell. Yet, despite the controversy surrounding the recently opened
Bath Spa development, the electorate appears to have a

distinctly lukewarm attitude with regard to local politics.

Tourism, which sustains more than 8,000 jobs locally, is a crucial issue.
Despite the city's famed classical Georgian architecture, the council has
controversially suggested a series of modern buildings, including the pounds 350
million Southgate shopping centre. Conservative hopes suffered a recent blow
when it emerged that Brian Webber, one of its councillors, had been cautioned by
police for assaulting a female resident.

Lorna Stokes, 21, a management and modern languages student at the city's
university, said: "We've had a leaflet from an independent candidate, and that's
all I've heard of it.''

Ellen Long, 71, a retired guesthouse owner has received no literature or visits
from candidates. "I want to make my vote count but I seem to have been given the
task of finding out what the councillors' views are myself,'' she said. "Surely
they should be trying to find out what the people think - not the other way
round?''

Two candidates are standing for the BNP, 67 for the Tories, 19 for the Green
Party, 34 for Labour and 63 for the Liberal Democrats, with 16 independents.

TEWKESBURY

THIS GLOUCESTERSHIRE market town is seen as a bellwether for the hopes of the
Tories. Already dominant in the town, they are bidding to wipe out the
representation of Labour, which holds just two seats.

However, residents feel that candidates have made little effort to connect with
voters. Business leaders say it is symptomatic of a local government that has
"given up'' on the public.

Tewkesbury borough council's popularity plummeted last week when its plans to
switch to fortnightly bin collections emerged. It has also been criticised for
increasing prices in the town's car parks.

Tim James, 38, a property conveyer, said: "I am disappointed that I haven't been
approached by any councillors. They have not come forward into the public
arena.''

The Conservatives and the LibDems are each fielding 38 candidates, Labour has
14, the Green Party two and there are 11 independents.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 29, 2007 Sunday

EU's back door is at No 308

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 380 words


As our EU partners, led by Angela Merkel, flounder about trying to find ways to
get the EU constitution back on track without any need for those beastly
referendums, startling light has been shed on another way the EU is already
misusing the famous Rome treaty to extend its powers.

The importance of the treaty, of which the constitution was merely another
instalment, is that everything the EU does has, in theory, to be legally
authorised by the articles it contains. These represent the powers legally ceded
by nation states to Brussels. But when the original treaty was signed 50 years
ago, it included a catch-all Article 235, which could be used to justify laws
not authorised elsewhere in the treaty - so long as they served the purposes of
the "common market''.

In 1997 the article was renumbered as 308 and has long been used to smuggle in
laws which had nothing to do with the "common market''. Only now, thanks to the
persistence of a Ukip peer, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, has the Government finally
come clean on how extensively Article 308 has been abused.

A list placed in the Lords Library shows that since 2004 the EU has used it no
fewer than 45 times. Many of these laws represent major extensions of its power,
such as that setting up an agency to administer the Charter of Fundamental
Rights, a significant part of the as-yet unratified constitution. Article 308
has also been used to authorise a whole range of other important measures, from
setting up a European Health and Safety Agency and increasing the powers of
Europol, the EU's police force, to co-ordinating national social security
systems.

When Lord Blackwell recently asked the Government how it could justify the
misuse of Article 308 in this way, he was sent a letter written in 2004 by Jack
Straw, as foreign secretary, explaining that 308 was no longer considered to
serve just its original "narrow and restrictive'' purpose of promoting the
common market. It can now be used to justify anything that would help to achieve
"one of the objectives of the Community''. Since one of those objectives is to
pursue "ever closer union'', it is hard to see how, by Mr Straw's logic, Article
308 could not be used to whistle into law the whole of the constitution. Perhaps
Mrs Merkel would like to suggest it?

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2007, Saturday

Is he the champion of democracy? Or a technocrat in charge of the low turnout?

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow and Alice Miles

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1144 words


The Electoral Commission has a mission to get us into the polling booth. But the
man at the top seems at odds with such a dynamic role British democracy has been
hard fought: by the barons demanding Magna Carta at Runnymede, Oliver Cromwell
executing an arrogant king, suffragettes chaining themselves to Parliament and
Winston Churchill committing us to "wage war against a monstrous tyranny".

Step forward Sam Younger, the new guardian of your vote. This mild-mannered
gentleman in a poky Westminster office has to fight against fraud, and whatever
it is that leaves our polling booths increasingly deserted.

Next week are the local elections, and many predict that record numbers will not
bother to exercise their democratic rights. As Mr Younger spoke, however, it
occurred to us that even if he were not the problem he certainly sounded like
the problem. If he accuses parties of merging into the middle ground, Mr Younger
is, by his own admission, someone who seeks consensus rather than confrontation.
Could it be that he is not the champion of what is most sacred in British life,
but rather the living symbol of what our democracy seems to have become?

He began by telling us that voter turnout had tumbled since the commission was
set up six years ago. "I think quite often more transparency and more focus
brings out the warts and the problems rather than instantly leading to
improvement," he said.

So if he has had a part in turning people off voting, what can he do to switch
them back on? Mr Younger insisted that it was not up to him: "There are certain
things a body like ours can do and should do, and they centre mainly around
making sure that, at the point where people say they would like to go out and
vote, that they know how to do so, they are on the register and able to do so...
What we can't do, and I don't think should do, is to make the effort actually to
persuade people specifically to go out and vote." This is not a speech to set
the blood, or the voters, racing. It is also at odds with the mission statement
of the Electoral Commission: "To foster public confidence and participation in
the democratic process in the UK."

The role of the Electoral Commission appears to have shrunk in the six years of
its existence from champion of democracy to technocratic regulator of the
sometimes minor transgressions of political donors. The UK Independence Party,
for instance, may be bankrupted by a court battle with the commission all
because its biggest donor was not technically on the electoral register at the
time, having recently moved house.

Politics, Mr Younger says, is in his blood but, like any family relationship, it
is not always easy. His father was a minister in the Attlee Government, his
cousin was Sir George Younger, the former Conservative Scottish Secretary, and a
great-grandfather was chairman of the Conservative Party. He was even christened
in the House of Commons chapel.

Mr Younger was plagued throughout his youth by family friends asking him when he
was to become an MP. He realised that he did not have it in him. "My interest on
an issue is looking for common ground. I would have been a rotten barrister, I
think. Just never thought of myself as a great debater and I think that is part
of the reason. Politics is, of its nature, contentious and I am more interested
in consensus than contention."

His new mission is to guard the security of the ballot. There is a lot of fuss
over the security of postal voting, but we wondered about voting in person. You
traipse along to a polling station, claim to be whoever you like and they tick
you off and you vote. No ID, no proof of address, nothing.

"There is a case for saying that we need to look again at voting in polling
stations," he said. In Northern Ireland they have to produce photographic ID
before they can vote, "and I think on the agenda now for the rest of the UK is
what would be appropriate...I think there is a very strong case for making sure
we go down the road of tightening up the identification of polling station
voting."

Fingerprinting or other biometric identification could come into play; it might
dovetail pretty neatly, we suggested, with the introduction of compulsory
identity cards. "Were there to be compulsory ID cards, then they would
undoubtedly be applied in elections," he said. "There is no doubt if you had
something that is a universal identifier, then you would use it in the electoral
context as in others ... It would be very good to have a way of doing this for
elections -having incontrovertible identity."

Some say that Mr Younger's low-key approach has achieved much to clean up public
life; others have been critical. Mr Younger's term was recently extended by
another two years taking him, conspiracists whispered, up to the denouement of
the cash-for-honours inquiry and making him a convenient fall guy for the whole
affair if the Government needed one.

Sir Hayden Phillips, author of a government-comissioned report on the
cash-for-hours scandal, said that his work was not good enough. Sir Alistair
Graham, the head of the political sleaze watchdog, said that Mr Younger's
passive approach to regulation amounted to regulatory failure.

For the first time, he flashed with emotion. "It would be quite wrong to do that
and I cannot believe that that sort of view would actually pass scrutiny...I
just don't see this as an issue that can be laid at the commission's door. And I
don't think any reasonable person would."

Should he have acted, faster and earlier, at the first hint of impropriety? "You
could have an argument ex-post about whether we could have focused more activity
on that over the period after the general election of 2005."

Next Thursday he will be up all night, rushing from Leeds to Edinburgh and back
to observe counting. He has voted in every single election he has ever been
eligible to cast a ballot, making him possibly the ultimate political anorak.
So, we asked, trying to spark his enthusiasm, did he have a preference for
postal voting, or a fondness for the traditional stubby pencil of the polling
booth? It was a dull question, admittedly, but the answer was even duller:
"Personally?" he looked alarmed. "No, I can see both as equally good ways of
casting a vote."

Forget the great, inspiring orations of Cromwell, or Churchill. There is a
better quote to sum up Mr Younger, and it is from Tom Stoppard: "It's not the
voting that's democracy. It's the counting."

Leading article, page 20

CV

Born October 5, 1951

Education Westminster School, Oxford

Family Married, one son

Career BBC World Service, joined as a producer, then head of Arabic Service,
1989-92, Controller, Overseas Services, 1992-94; managing director, 1994-98.

Director of English Touring Opera, 1999-; chief executive of the British Red
Cross

1999-2001; first chairman of Electoral Commission 2001-

Recreations: choral singing.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Brown dragging Labour to defeat in polls low

BYLINE: George Jones and Andrew Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words


GORDON Brown is becoming a growing electoral liability to the Labour Party as a
YouGov poll for The Daily Telegraph today shows that he is falling even further
behind David Cameron.

The poll points to Labour's worst local election performance in two decades,
with the party poised to lose hundreds of seats in England and Wales. Labour is
also facing a catastrophic loss of power to the nationalists in Scotland,
opening up the prospect of a referendum on the end of the Union within four
years.

The Tory leader has surged into a 10-point lead after voters were asked if they
would prefer a Cameron-led Conservative government to a Brown administration.

The rapidly growing gap has triggered the first signs of panic within the Labour
Party leadership that the local elections will give a powerful boost to Mr
Cameron's aim to be regarded as a potential prime minister.

The Daily Telegraph has learned that Tony Blair has been urged by some of his
closest advisers to announce that he is quitting as Labour leader before next
week's local elections to try to regain the political initiative.

If Mr Blair made the announcement on Tuesday, the 10th anniversary of his
election as Prime Minister, or the following day it would eclipse the local
elections and any ensuing inquest into the scale of the defeat.

The triggering of a leadership contest involving Mr Brown and a candidate on the
Labour Left would also overshadow any bloodletting over who was to blame for
Thursday's predicted rout.

Tory MPs will be buoyed that the YouGov poll has put the Conservatives in the
lead for the 12th consecutive

month for the first time since Margaret Thatcher was prime minister in the late
1980s. The Tories are now on 37 per cent to Labour's 32 per cent but still way
below the 40 per cent threshold needed to regain power.

However, the closer Mr Brown comes to crossing the threshold of 10 Downing
Street, the more the public antagonism towards him increases. When the question
was posed whether voters would prefer a Cameron or Brown government the
Conservatives soared to 45 per cent, compared with 35 per cent for Labour. Yet
only 18 months ago a majority of voters indicated the opposite.

Mr Brown, who has based his appeal on his record as the "Iron Chancellor'', has
suffered a further blow to his reputation. The poll indicates that the
Conservatives are now narrowly ahead of Labour on the question of who is best
suited to run the economy - a huge turnaround from the last election, when they
were 22 points behind Labour.

The poll confirms an adverse public reaction to the Budget, when Mr Brown's
much-vaunted income tax cut was exposed as a sham by the abolition of the 10p
starting rate and to continuing anger over his pounds 5 billion annual raid on
pensions when Labour came to power.

Mr Brown may also be suffering from voter fatigue, having been at the heart of
the Blair administration for 10 years.

Last night the chances of Mr Brown facing a contest for the leadership also
increased.

It is understood that the two declared candidates from the Left of the party,
former environment minister Michael Meacher and John McDonnell, have agreed that
one of them will withdraw.

They are expected to meet on the day Mr Blair announces his departure, and
compare how much backing they have among Labour MPs.

The candidate with the fewest nominations will then step aside and offer his
support, boosting the prospect that the other can garner the 45 nominations
required to be entered in the ballot.

With the poll showing Labour facing virtual obliteration on many councils in the
south of England, it is also in deep trouble in its Scottish heartlands.

Mr Brown, who has dominated the campaign north of the border, is dismayed not to
have made any real headway in his home territory, where Labour has held sway for
50 years.

According to YouGov, the SNP is on course to become the largest single party in
the Scottish Parliament, with its leader, Alex Salmond, likely to take office as
First Minister.

Labour is down five points to 30 per cent in the constituency vote from four
years ago and down two points in the regional vote to 27 per cent.

Mr Blair, campaigning in Scotland yesterday, blamed mid-term blues for his
party's poor showing, which was confirmed by two other polls in Scotland that
showed the SNP in the lead. Mr Blair said: "When you're mid-term, third term,
it's always tough.''

The YouGov survey suggests Tory gains on Thursday may be blunted by growing
support for small parties such as the UK Independence Party and the British
National Party.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Brown treads water behind Tories

BYLINE: Anthony King Professor of government at the University of Essex

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 571 words


GORDON BROWN must have hoped - and even assumed - that he would eventually ride
into No 10 on the crest of a wave. Now he finds himself and his party in a deep
electoral trough.

Labour looks likely to lose hundreds of seats in next week's local elections and
YouGov's latest monthly survey for The Daily Telegraph shows the Conservatives
maintaining their modest but steady lead over Labour. The Tories have now been
ahead for 12 consecutive months for the first time since Margaret Thatcher was
in No 10 in the late 1980s. Worse from the Chancellor's personal point of view
is the evidence from YouGov's standard "forced choice'' question that Labour may
fare worse under Mr Brown than it is already under Tony Blair.

North of the border, the heir apparent's home town already has a Liberal
Democrat MP and a separate YouGov survey of Scottish voters suggests that Labour
is about to be swept from power in Edinburgh.

As the figures in the chart show, 37 per cent of voters say they would vote Tory
at an early general election - four points up since 2005 but two points down
since last month. Labour's trough, although deep, shows no immediate signs of
deepening. Labour was on 32 per cent in each of the last two months. It still
is.

YouGov now consistently finds approximately 14 per cent of voters - nearly one
in seven - saying they are leaning towards voting for some party other than one
of the big three, a far higher proportion than in the past.

The fine print of YouGov's data, not set out in the chart, shows the nationalist
parties, the SNP and Plaid Cymru, with the backing of five per cent of voters,
Ukip and the BNP with three per cent each and the Green Party with two.A large
proportion of voters continue to regard the country's entire political class
with considerable disdain.

"The leaders'' section of the chart tells a dismal story. Only about a quarter
of voters think that any one of David Cameron, Tony Blair or Gordon Brown "would
make the best prime minister''. The Liberal Democrats' Sir Menzies Campbell
remains the invisible man of politics. "Don't know'' is the clear winner.

Mr Brown's political star, once so bright, is obscured by dense cloud. Only a
year and a half ago a clear majority of voters indicated that, if asked to
choose, they would prefer a Labour government led by Gordon Brown to a revived
Tory administration. Now the positions have been reversed. As the figures in the
chart show, fully 45 per cent of YouGov's respondents say they would prefer a
Cameron-led Conservative government to a Brown-led Labour administration. Only
35 per cent opt for Labour.

The news from north of the border is even more depressing from the Chancellor
and Labour's point of view. Mr Brown's secure base is secure no longer.

YouGov's Scottish survey suggests the SNP will almost certainly emerge next week
as the party with the largest share of the Scottish vote and also as the largest
single party in Holyrood. The formation of an SNP-led administration seems all
but inevitable.

The SNP's share of the constituency vote has soared from 24 per cent four years
ago to a projected 39 per cent. Labour's has shrunk from 35 per cent to 30 per
cent. The Liberal Democrats, on 15 per cent, and the Scottish Conservatives, on
13 per cent, still trail far behind.

Support for independence is no more widespread than a generation ago but
Scotland looks increasingly like moving towards a referendum on the issue.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

My Old Man's An Alternate Week Coordinator ...

BYLINE: RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1070 words


NOT a lot of people know this, but I was Britain's first 'green' journalist.

I've been recycling all my old columns about rubbish collection for years.

Now the rest of the world has finally caught up, there's not much left for me to
add.

But I couldn't help wondering what the late Lonnie Donegan would have made of it
all, had he been writing his classic hit My Old Man's A Dustman today.

(It helps if you sing it.) Now here's a little story I can't believe it's true
About how local councils Won't do what they're paid to do.

Our bins are overflowing And though they stink and leak They'll only come and
empty 'em Every other week.

Oh, my old man's a dustman He wears a dustman's hat With 'Environmental
Protection Team' Written on the back.

He used to drive a dustcart And always came on time Now he searches dustbins For
signs of eco-crime.

Some folks they recycle And some of them forget So if they use the wrong bin He
leaves it on the step.

One old boy got sloppy And didn't close his lid So my old man went round there
And fined him fifty quid.

Oh, my old man's a dustman The planet he must save He wears recycled trainers
Just like Call Me Dave.

I say, I say, I say (Yeah) I found a bug in my dustbin (Did you kill it?) No, it
was an electronic bug.

Now one old girl in Rochdale Had trouble with her feet So she couldn't push her
dustbin Right into the street.

My old man got his tape measure out And checked it on his list Said: 'That's not
out for collection So it's staying where it is.' Though my old man's a dustman
He's getting rather grand Thinks he's an eco-warrior Under General Miliband.

I say, I say, I say (What?) I found a rat in my dustbin (You sure it's not an
inspector from the council?) That's what I said: I found a rat in my dustbin.

One day while in a hurry He missed a lady's bin He'd only gone a few yards When
she chased after him.

She said: 'It's full of chicken bones It isn't going to keep.' He said: 'I'm
only doing bottles today, See you Tuesday week.' Oh, my old man's a dustman He
wears a Greenpeace pin He's fighting global warming But he won't empty your bin.

A buxom housewife on his round Asked: 'Why won't you take my sacks?' My old man
said: 'Don't blame me, love Blame Gordon's landfill tax.' They make us sort our
rubbish It's gone beyond a joke Then they send it off to China Where it all goes
up in smoke.

I say, I say, I say (Yes?) I've just found a gas bill in my compost box (Then
put your trousers on, chummy, You're bleedin' nicked.) One day I said to my old
man 'Dad, don't you find it strange?

That they'd endanger public health In the name of climate change?' He said: 'Now
you look here, my son They couldn't give a toss.

It's nowt to do with climate change, It's showing you who's boss.' Oh, my old
man was a dustman He wore a dustman's hat Now he's an Alternate Week Coordinator
And he lives in a penthouse flat.

So if your bin is full to the brim And you just can't stand the smell Don't
bother ringing my old man 'Cos you can go to hell.

Please don't vote for these Toytown Nazis

WHILE we're talking rubbish, a couple of weeks ago I asked where were the
candidates in the local elections who would promise to keep or reinstate weekly
collections.

If you look down the list in the Mail of those councils who have scrapped them,
all three main parties are guilty.

Since our campaign started, it has become the big election issue.

A number of people have written to tell me that the BNP is pledged to empty the
bins every week. For quite a while, I have been concerned that decent people are
contemplating voting BNP because they think that Labour, the Tories and the
LibDems are all as bad as each other.

This column doesn't go in for endorsing any party. It's up to you how you cast
your vote.

But I would implore you not to vote for the BNP.

They may have been to Man at C&A, but underneath they're still the same
unpleasant bunch of racist, anti-Semitic skinheads they've always been.

If you want to protest, try UKIP or the English Democrats, or the Monster Raving
Loony Party, for that matter. Anyone but this bunch of disgusting Toytown Nazis.

Democracy encompasses the right not to vote.

That's also a protest against the system.

I don't care if the BNP promise to empty the dustbins twice a day.

Frankly, I'd rather put up with an overflowing wheelie bin, full of six-month
old waste, crawling with rats.

It's bad enough having vermin in our rubbish without having them infest the Town
Hall, too.

A triumph for the Man Who Stole Your Old Age

ONE IN five of all homes bought in Britain today are buy-to-let investments.

People have piled into property because their pensions have gone belly up.

Since Gordon Brown wrecked one of the world's finest systems, with his callous
tax grab, tens of thousands have decided that they are better off putting their
money in bricks and mortar.

This has inevitably contributed to a shortage of homes on the market and the
insane increase in house prices.

The Man Who Stole Your Old Age has now ensured your children and grandchildren
struggle to get on the housing ladder.

The only way some young people can buy a home is taking a mortgage of more than
five times their income.

Another triumph for the Iron Chancellor.

Still, the good news for Gordon is that when he retires, he can look forward to
an index-linked Pounds 100,000 a year, paid for out of the money he has robbed
from our pensions.

(I believe I may have mentioned this before.) That means that he won't have to
rent out his second home - bought in a fire sale from the estate of Robert
Maxwell, another notorious pension thief - to make ends meet.

Now that's what I call prudent.

LESLIE GRANTHAM, once of Dirty Den fame in EastEnders, is to play Private Walker
in a stage production of Dad's Army.

As Mail reader Tony Towers points out: At least there'll be one member of the
cast who has actually shot a German.

Bag me up, Scottie

IF the inhabitants of our recently discovered parallel universe were looking at
us through their own telescope this week, what would they have made of the
thousands of people who queued up outside Sainsbury's from 2am to buy a Pounds 5
shopping bag?

Looking at the pictures, I'm beginning to feel as if I'm from another planet.

Anthony Sinclair, 26, said he was going straight home to wake his girlfriend. I
hope she'll be impressed. Who said romance is dead?

In my day, it was dinner or a box of chocolates. Not an empty carrier bag.

It's life, Jim, but not as we know it.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Please don't vote for these Toytown Nazis

BYLINE: RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 231 words


WHILE we're talking rubbish, a couple of weeks ago I asked where were the
candidates in the local elections who would promise to keep or reinstate weekly
collections.

If you look down the list in the Mail of those councils who have scrapped them,
all three main parties are guilty.

Since our campaign started, it has become the big election issue.

A number of people have written to tell me that the BNP is pledged to empty the
bins every week. For quite a while, I have been concerned that decent people are
contemplating voting BNP because they think that Labour, the Tories and the
LibDems are all as bad as each other.

This column doesn't go in for endorsing any party. It's up to you how you cast
your vote.

But I would implore you not to vote for the BNP.

They may have been to Man at C&A, but underneath they're still the same
unpleasant bunch of racist, anti-Semitic skinheads they've always been.

If you want to protest, try UKIP or even the Monster Raving Loony Party, for
that matter.

Anyone but this bunch of disgusting Toytown Nazis.

Democracy encompasses the right not to vote.

That's also a protest against the system.

I don't care if the BNP promise to empty the dustbins twice a day.

Frankly, I'd rather put up with an overflowing wheelie bin, full of six-month
old waste, crawling with rats.

It's bad enough having vermin in our rubbish without having them infest the Town
Hall, too.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Blair 'to announce next week when he will stand down

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 589 words


' TONY Blair could announce his resignation as Labour leader before the local
elections next week, it emerged last night.

Such a move would deflect attention from the drubbing Labour is tipped to suffer
in Thursday's polls, according to reports in Westminster.

Advisers close to the Prime Minister are urging him to set out his timetable for
standing down earlier than expected.

A possible date is Tuesday May 1, which would mark exactly ten years in office.
An alternative is the following day, just before the local elections.

The actual date of his departure is expected to be around two or three months
later.

The news would dominate the media for at least 48 hours, helping to overshadow
the council results, where an authoritative analysis last night suggested Labour
is heading towards electoral catastrophe.

Local election experts at the University of Plymouth predicted the party would
come a distant third behind the Tories and the Liberal Democrats in a result
even worse than that achieved by Michael Foot in 1982, its previous nadir.

They forecast Labour would achieve only 24 per cent of the vote, with the
LibDems a strong second on 29 per cent and the Tories well ahead on 38 per cent.

An early announcement by Mr Blair rather than the long-predicted date of May 9
would also cushion any political fallout for Gordon Brown.

However, sources close to the Chancellor say they are still working on the
assumption that Mr Blair will announce his resignation date after Thursday's
local elections.

Separately, a poll today casts fresh doubt on Mr Brown's chances of reviving
Labour's fortunes.

The YouGov survey for the Daily Telegraph found that the Tories are leading
Labour by 37 per cent to 32 per cent, not enough to command a Commons majority.
However, the gap stretched to 10 per cent 45 per cent to 35 per cent when people
were asked whether they would prefer to see the Chancellor or Mr Cameron as
Prime Minister.

The poll comes as Mr Brown's chances of facing a challenge for the Labour
leadership increased markedly.

Two Leftwing contenders John McDonnell and Michael Meacher are understood to
have struck a deal so that whichever of them has attracted less support from MPs
will step aside to allow the other to mount a challenge.

There are doubts that either can attract the backing of the 45 MPs necessary to
stand on their own.

Alarmingly for the Chancellor, the poll also shows the Tories have enjoyed an
extraordinary turnaround in the crucial issue of who voters trust to run the
economy.

They now hold a narrow advantage, compared to the last election when they were
22 per cent behind.

It is the first time YouGov polls have put the Tories ahead for 12 consecutive
months since Margaret Thatcher was in Downing Street in the late 1980s.

However, the survey also shows significant support for smaller parties with the
anti-EU UK Independence Party on 3 per cent, the far-Right BNP on 3 per cent,
and the Greens on 2 per cent.

Despite steering Labour to what is almost certain to be electoral disaster, Mr
Blair was yesterday trumpeting his legacy and achievements.

In a 24-page document sent to all Labour MPs, he defended the record of New
Labour claiming to have resolved many longstanding problems in Britain and to
have inflicted a 'serious identity crisis' on the opposition.

He said: 'New Labour was founded on an idea . . . that there was no need to
choose between social justice on the one hand and economic prosperity on the
other.

'Ten years on, this is the governing idea of British politics.'

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

BIG TEST AT THE BALLOT BOX

BYLINE: JANE MERRICK; IAN DRURY; PAUL SIMS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 769 words


THE revolt over fortnightly rubbish collections will be a key issue for half of
councils in next week's local elections, a Daily Mail survey has found.

Councillors from all parties face losing their seats as voters register their
anger at the removal of the weekly bin round.

Fortnightly collections have already been introduced in more than 140 local
authorities often without warning.

Even in those councils which still have the weekly bin round, parties are
battling it out with pledges to keep the status quo.

Five days ago, the Mail launched a campaign to save weekly household rubbish
collections. It has been extended to ridding Britain of excess supermarket
packaging.

Our research shows the decision to change to fortnightly collections could cause
dozens of councils to change hands on May 3.

The backlash could embarrass David Cameron and Tony Blair as many independent
and UKIP councillors are pledging to restore weekly collections, threatening the
major parties' chances.

Among the 312 councils going to the polls, 50 per cent of local campaigns
featured the issue, the survey found. The Mail contacted 97 councils to have
elections.

In 49 of these, the rubbish revolt is a key issue. In 16, it could see a change
of power because the majorities are so slim.

In Rushmoor, Hampshire, Peter Sandy, an independent councillor, has collected
6,000 signatures on a petition which condemns the Tory-controlled council's
decision to introduce fortnightly collections a month ago as 'greed'. He
predicted the Conservatives' ten-seat majority could be wiped out on polling
day.

'It absolutely reeks around here. The Conservative council are pushing Labour's
policies and it doesn't make sense.

'They are risking introducing plague on our streets.' At Blackburn with Darwen
Borough Council, Labour introduced fortnightly rounds 18 months ago.

But Colin Rigby, Conservative group leader, said the Tories would switch back if
they win a balance of power.

'I can't believe that leaving a rotting carcass in a bin for 14 days is not
unhygenic. It seems to have slipped the mind of the Labour-run council that
there is also a problem with vermin.' In Waverley, Surrey, queues of cars have
formed at the rubbish dump, after the LibDem-controlled council axed weekly
collections a year ago.

Tony Rooth, a Tory councillor in neighbouring Guildford, where weekly rounds are
safe, said residents decided to dump their black binbags themselves rather than
wait for the binman.

'I live 50 yards away from Waverley and it is frankly a disgrace. We have had
problems with maggots and rats.' In Chesterfield, a leaflet handed out by the
Liberal Democrats blames feckless families for problems with bins not
fortnightly collections.

It says: 'Flies and other pests are attracted by exposed foods and poor
housekeeping no matter what type of refuse collection is in operation.

'Good hygiene in the home is the best way of minimising the problem.' Hints on
reducing the chance of maggots and vermin include covering pet food so flies
cannot lay eggs on it, scraping solid waste from disposable nappies, wrapping
meat and animal waste in two plastic bags and using fly spray.

Council chiefs caved into people power in Dacorum, Hertfordshire, by announcing
plans to scrap fortnightly collections after protests.

But the Conservative-controlled authority was immediately accused of performing
the U-turn to head off the risk of losing next week's election.

Fortnightly rubbish collections are being considered in the Cotswolds, but the
Liberal Democrats, who need eight seats to snatch overall control from the
Conservatives, have promised voters a referendum.

Councillor Shirley Alexander said: 'People are very concerned that kitchen
rubbish will be left to pile up outside their homes.' In North Lincolnshire, the
Tory-controlled council introduced fortnightly bin collections in 2006.

A year later, residents will go to the polls with the promise of a full review
of the policy if they propel Labour, who are just one seat behind the Tories,
back into power.

Nicholas Dakin, Labour group leader, said: 'It may well be that voters want to
return to weekly collections and if that is borne out by the results then we
will abide by their desire and reinstate them.' ENVIRONMENT Minister Ben
Bradshaw has dismissed claims that fortnightly collections are a health risk.

Despite evidence showing an increased risk of rats and other vermin where bins
are left for days, Mr Bradshaw told GMTV: 'There's no evidence, and we have
commissioned independent research, of more health risks from alternate weekly
collections.

Littlejohn Page 17 j.merrick@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 27, 2007

Cameron opens door to race-row shadow minister

LENGTH: 563 words



HIGHLIGHT: David Cameron said today that there would be room in a future
Conservative government for the Tory MP sacked over comments about racism in the
army, as he defended a Welsh assembly candidate's remarks about homosexuality
and creationism.


David Cameron said today that there would be room in a future Conservative
government for the Tory MP sacked over comments about racism in the army.

Mr Cameron, who has vowed to modernise the Conservative party's image, told a
BBC radio programme that Patrick Mercer, the disgraced former shadow homeland
security spokesman, could one day be a minister.

Mr Cameron told BBC Radio Five Live: "I think Patrick is a very talented MP. I'm
sure there is room for him in a future Conservative government."

Mr Mercer, a former colonel with the Worcester and Sherwood Foresters, remarked
to a journalist that he had known many "idle and useless" ethnic minority
soldiers who "used racism as cover for their misdemeanours".

The Newark MP, who claimed he had been misinterpreted in the wake of the row,
also said it was normal in the army for an ethnic minority soldier to be called
a "black bastard".

He was fired by Mr Cameron shortly after the Tory leader had the comments
relayed to him.

Mr Cameron's plans to reinstate the disgraced shadow spokesman came just hours
after he was forced to defend a Welsh assembly candidate who allegedly said that
homosexuality was a "sin".

The Tory leader was forced to use a campaign visit to south Wales to answer
questions about the alleged comments made by Darren Millar, the Tory candidate
in the north Wales target seat of Clwyd West, in a hustings last night.

The party sought to limit the damage caused by the claims as two successive
polls put the Conservatives in third place behind Labour and Plaid Cymru in the
race for Welsh assembly seats.

Other parties said that Mr Millar also told the meeting in Ruthin, north Wales,
that creationism should be taught in science lessons.

A Conservative party spokesman said that the comments attributed to Mr Millar, a
committed Christian, were wholly inaccurate and an attempt to smear him.

The spokesman said that Mr Millar was asked if he thought homosexuality was a
sin, to which he said "he was against all forms of discrimination on the grounds
of sexuality" but added that "there are certain religious texts which think
homosexuality is a sin. But they say that many other things are a sin, such as
gossiping."

Mr Cameron said of Mr Millar: "He has already clarified and made clear that we
should not discriminate against people on the grounds of their sexuality, and
that's the position of the Conservative party."

He added: "Personally I don't support the teaching of creationism."

Mr Cameron sought to stay upbeat about the party's prospects at the Welsh
assembly elections next Thursday.

Last night's ITV Wales/NOP tracker poll found a drop in support for the Tories.
An instalment at the start of the month had them edging ahead of Plaid.

By last night they were back down to third after a big nationalist revival. The
Conservative slump coincided with a growth in support for the UK Independence
party among voters on the regional ballot.

A poll for today's Western Mail by Beaufort Research also had the Conservatives
trailing Labour and Plaid in both the first-past-the-post and regional votes.

Mr Cameron said: "I don't bother with polls because we are going to have a big
poll on election day when real people can get out and cast real votes in real
ballot boxes."

Decisions about siding with other parties in a coalition after next Thursday
were up to the party's Welsh leader, Nick Bourne, he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               13 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 27, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

GOD, U2 AND SADIE: ANEW LABOUR QUIZ;
They've been running our lives for 10 years but have you been paying attention?
Concluding our series on Labour 's decade in power, Simon O'Hagan invites you to
pit your political wits

BYLINE: Simon O'Hagan

LENGTH: 2355 words


Life with the Blairs

1 Mary McCartney, daughter of Sir Paul, was chosen by the Blairs to be the
official photographer on what assignment?

2 What is Myrobella? 3Which leading author's wife shocked Cherie Blair when she
asked if she could smoke during a visit to Chequers?

4 And which newspaper editor and proprietor were reported to be shocked when
Cherie breastfed baby Leo? 5Guests at Chequers once included a showbiz star whom
Clare Short suggested was there because Cherie admired a "Scouser who done
good". Who was the star?

6 Another Chequers guest became a patron of the United Kingdom Independence
Party. Which one?

7 And another guest was a Tory fundraiser and former senior party treasurer of
the Conservatives. Who?

8 Which chocolate-loving associate of the Blairs called the PM "Toblerone"?

9 What's the name of the law practice that Cherie Blair helped found in 2000 and
where she continues to work as a barrister?

10 Under Vatican convention, women should wear black when meeting the Pope. What
colour did Cherie Blair wear when she met him in 2006?

They said it

1 Who told the 2006 Labour conference: "I know in the last year I let myself
down, I let you down. So conference, I just want to say sorry."

2 Who in 2004 said: "Tony Blair is no longer Prime Minister of Britain. He is
the foreign minister of the United States"?

3 In 2005, who said, "I never thought I'd see the day when the general public
was to the left of a Labour Government".

4 What prompted Tony Blair to defend himself with the words, "I think most
people who have dealt with me think I'm a pretty straight sort of guy, and I
am."?

5 "I'm a fighter, not a quitter." Who said this and when?

6 According to Alastair Campbell, what was it that "we don't do"?

7 To which TV interviewer did Tony Blair say: "I think if you have faith about
these things, you realise that judgement is made by other people ??? and if you
believe in God, it's made by God as well."

8 Who caused controversy by going on Newsnight and declaring that Peter
Man-delson was "certainly gay".

9 Who got into trouble for remarking of Palestinian suicide bombers: "As long as
young people feel they have no hope but to blow themselves up, we're never going
to make progress, are we?"

10 Which world figure said in 2005 that if Cherie Blair, "ever campaigned for
office and wanted me to go ringing doorbells for her, I'd be happy to do it."

Westminster hour

1 Which rock star's son found his way on the floor of the Commons chamber as
part of a protest against the Government's hunting bill?

2 Labour's majority after the 1997 election was the largest since the Second
World War. How many seats was it?

3 Name the four Conservative leaders who have opposed Tony Blair since 1997.

4 In 2004, Fathers4Justice protesters hurled a purple flour bomb at Tony Blair
in the Commons. Why was the colour purple chosen?

5 In June 2002, Tony Blair was accused of "muscling in" on whose funeral?

6 In 2003, which left-wing Labour MP got into trouble for sending her son to a
fee-paying school?

7 How did farmer Craig Evans create controversy during the 2001 election
campaign?

8 In 2004, which cabinet member became a Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society
to acknowledge its contribution to education and in memory of his father, who
had been a statistician?

9 In 2003, who devised the menu when George Bush had lunch at No 10?

10 In 2006, in which Cabinet member's home did police find a small quantity of
cannabis?

Seen and heard

1 In 2005, Tony Blair called which DJ's breakfast show to raise money for
charity?

2 When the DJ invited Mr Blair to choose his favourite song from the 1980s,
which U2 track did he nominate?

3"On this sad day is there anything you would like to say, prime minister?" On
what occasion did ITN's Michael Brunson put this question to Tony Blair?

4 In 2006, Tony Blair said: "When you have teenagers you can listen to a lot of
the same stuff as them." Name one of the two bands he then cited as an example.

5 Michael Sheen played Tony Blair in The Deal and The Queen, but who played him
in the TV films A Very Social Secretary and The Trial of Tony Blair?

6 In 1998, the film minister Tom Clarke was sacked on the same day he was due to
dine with two of the biggest stars of the British film industry. Who were the
stars?

7 In 2006 which senior Labour figure presented the lifetime achievement award to
George Martin at the UK Music Hall of Fame awards?

8 Which senior Labour figure, a member of the Cabinet between 2001 and 2006, is
proficient in Cuban Spanish?

9 Which one-time union leader stood against Peter Man-delson in the 2001 general
election?

10 A 2003 film comedy showed a Blair-like British PM standing up to a US
president. What was the film?

Write stuff

1 Political theatre: David Hare had a play on at the National Theatre about rail
privatisa-tion and another about the build-up to the war in Iraq. What were the
plays called?

2 In 2005 Labour's election slogan was the subject of a complaint by the Plain
English Society because of bad grammar. What was it?

3 Cherie Blair wrote an article in Catholic weekly The Tablet damning which
aspect of American life?

4 Which senior Labour figure is the author of the following works: The Courage
of Our Convictions; Leading the Way: New Vision for Local Government; Let Us
Face the Future; and What Price a Safe Society?

5 David Blunkett's affair with Kimberly Quinn was the basis of a play which ran
in London in 2005. What was the title of the play?

6 The husband of which Labour MP is a best-selling thriller writer?

7 The publication of which former ambassador's memoirs in 2005 were described by
the Government as an unacceptable breach of trust?

8 The Rivals: The Intimate Story of a Political Marriage was a 2001 book about
Gordon Brown and Tony Blair written by which BBC broadcaster?

9 Which one-time Cabinet member wrote a book called An Honorable Deception? New
Labour, Iraq, and the Misuse of Power?

10 In 2006, which one-time Cabinet member published his diaries under the title
My Life in the Bear Pit?

Love and war

1 Which Cabinet member was reunited with a son who had been given up for
adoption 30 years earlier?

2 Which now senior Labour figure spent three days in 1993 at a luxury hotel in
Geneva as a guest of Serb war leader Radovan Karadzic?

3 Cherie Blair got into hot water when it emerged that she had used a convicted
fraudster to negotiate savings on two flats in Bristol. What is his name?

4 Which senior Labour figure has a Brazilian wife?

5 In 2004, who returned to the Cabinet, having resigned 15 months earlier in
order to "spend more time with his family"?

6 Who are Ruby, Teddy, Offa, Lucy and Sadie?

7 Whose marriage ended in a VIP lounge at Heathrow?

8 In 2003, lawyers from which European capital's Bar Association filed a lawsuit
against Tony Blair accusing him of war crimes in Iraq?

9 In 2001, how did Tony Blair get into hot water with the Canadian government?

10 Members of which organ-isation slow-handclapped and heckled Tony Blair when
he made a speech in which he claimed to have much improved the National Health
Service?

So farewell then

1 In 2001, who retired 51 years after he first became a Labour MP?

2 In 2005, who retired 43 years after he first became a Labour MP?

3 Who gave an address at the funeral of Robin Cook in which he lambasted Tony
Blair for his failure to attend?

4 In 2003, which member of the Cabinet resigned saying she didn't think she was
good enough at the job?

5Which Labour MP died while walking on a Scottish hillside?

6 In 2003, who resigned from the Cabinet, describing Tony Blair as a "control
freak"?

7 Who resigned as Secretary of State for Wales after what he called a "moment of
madness" on Clapham Common?

8 Of the Labour MPs who lost seats at the 2005 general election, who is the only
one known to sport a belly button piercing?

9 Which one-time Cabinet member, who died in 2005, was the subject of a memorial
event at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane?

10 On the death of whom in 1998 did Tony Blair say: "I counted him as a friend.
He was a truly outstanding journalist. He never lost his love and enthusiasm for
his chosen profession and never lost his eye for a good story."

Fun and games

1 In 1998 Gordon Brown attended the opening match of the World Cup. Which two
teams were playing?

2 Tony Blair played keepy-uppy with which England legend?

3 Which of Gordon Brown's advisers became a football columnist on The Observer?

4 The central stage show at the Millennium Dome was accompanied by music by
which musician?

5 There were 14 zones in the Dome, of which the Talk zone was sponsored by BT,
and the Journey zone by Ford. But which corporation sponsored the Learning zone?

6 Where was John Prescott photographed playing croquet when he was acting prime
minister?

7 Tony Blair and Labour fundraiser Michael Levy often met up for games of what?

8 In 2001, the year of the foot and mouth crisis, the Blairs helped the tourist
industry by spending a week of their summer holiday where?

9 An episode of The Simpsons featured Tony Blair and which two other Britons?

10 Which one-time senior Labour figure appeared on Comic Relief Does the
Apprentice last month?

On the move

1How did Tony Blair upset people when travelling into London in his
chauffeur-driven car along the M4?

2 Who asked for his ministerial limousine to be converted into running on LPG?

3 In 2004, BA was criticised for flying a jet 1,450 miles to pick up dinner for
Tony Blair. Which country was he visiting?

4 What's Bailey Pageant Champagne?

5 Which grand opening got off to a bad start when VIP guests were forced to
stand outside, freezing in evening dress, while their bags were checked?

6 The Blairs have taken a number of family holidays in Barbados, staying at a
house owned by whom?

7 Which US politician did Jack Straw take on a visit to his Blackburn
constituency?

8 In 2004 which member of the Cabinet helped save a kayaker from drowning in a
river in north Wales?

9 Which Cabinet member split from her husband after he was caught up in charges
of money-laundering in Italy?

10 Which Cabinet member complained about sexist adverts at the 2002 Birmingham
Motor Show?

Numbers up

1 The target number of visitors to the Millennium Dome was 12 million. How many
people ended up visiting it?

2 Who donated £1m towards the Dome's Faith Zone?

3 In 2002, the TUC Congress heard the first speech by a non-Labour leader in its
history. Which leader?

4 One of Tony Blair's first acts as PM was to replace two weekly 15-minute
sessions of Prime Minister's Questions on a Tuesday and Thursday, with a single
30-minute session on which day?

5 How many Cabinet positions has John Reid held since joining it in 1999?

6 Peter Mandelson first resigned from the Cabinet in December 1998. How long was
it before he returned?

7 How much was Cherie Blair's hair stylist paid (out of Labour party funds) for
the month-long duration of the 2005 election campaign?

8 Altogether 120 women won seats in the 1997 election. How many were Labour?

9 Peter Mandelson was forced to resign a Cabinet post after he had not declared
a £375,000 loan from whom?

10 In 2002, after five years and two months in the job, Gordon Brown overtook
whom to become the longest-serving Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer?

Picture round

Can you name the members of New Labour's first cabinet

And here are the answers

Life with the Blairs

1 Photographing new-born baby Leo; 2 The Blairs' Sedgefield constituency home; 3
Penny Mortimer, wife of John; 4 Paul Dacre and Lord Rothermere of the Daily
Mail; 5 Cilla Black; 6 Joan Collins; 7 Michael Ashcroft; 8 Carole Caplin; 9
Matrix Chambers; 10 White.

They said it

1 John Prescott after the revelation of his affair with diary secretary Tracey
Temple; 2 Nelson Mandela; 3 Tony Benn; 4 The Bernie Ecclestone affair; 5 Peter
Mandelson after winning his seat at the 2001 general election; 6 God; 7 Michael
Parkinson; 8 Matthew Parris; 9 Cherie Blair; 10 Bill Clinton

Westminster hour

1 Otis Ferry, son of Bryan; 2 179; 3 William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith, Michael
Howard, David Cameron; 4 Because it was the colour adopted by the suffragette
movement; 5 The Queen Mother's; 6 Diane Abbott; 7 By throwing an egg at John
Prescott, for which he was punched in return; 8 Charles Clarke; 9 Nigella
Lawson; 10 John Reid's

Seen and heard

1 Christian O'Connell; 2 "Where the Streets Have No Name"; 3 The death of Diana,
Princess of Wales; 4 Coldplay and Foo Fighters; 5 Robert Lindsay; 6 Hugh Grant
and Elizabeth Hurley; 7 Gordon Brown; 8 Charles Clarke; 9 Arthur Scargill; 10
Love Actually

Write stuff

1 The Permanent Wayand Stuff Happens; 2 Forwards not Backwards; 3 Capital
punishment; 4 Tony Blair; 5 Who's the Daddy? 6 Barbara Follett; 7 Christopher
Meyer, former ambassador to the United States; 8 James Naughtie; 9 Clare Short;
10 David Blunkett

Love and war

1 Clare Short; 2 John Reid; 3 Peter Foster; 4 John Reid; 5 Alan Milburn; 6 Guide
dogs that have helped David Blunkett; 7 Robin and Margaret Cook's; 8 Athens; 9
By including two Canadians in the Queen's Birthday Honours List; 10 The Women's
Institute

So farewell then

1 Tony Benn; 2 Tam Dalyell; 3 John McCririck; 4 Estelle Morris, the Education
Secretary; 5 Robin Cook; 6 Clare Short; 7 Ron Davies; 8 Oona King; 9 Mo Mowlam;
10 Sir David English

Fun and games

1 France v Scotland; 2 Kevin Keegan; 3 Charlie Whelan; 4 Peter Gabriel; 5 Tesco;
6 Dorneywood, his grace-and-favour home; 7 Tennis; 8 Cornwall; 9 Ian McKellen
and JK Rowling; 10 Alastair Campbell

On the move

1 By using the bus lane; 2 John Prescott; 3 Ethiopia; 4 The type of caravan
owned by Margaret Beckett; 5 The Dome; 6 Cliff Richard; 7 Condoleezza Rice; 8
John Prescott; 9 Tessa Jowell; 10 Patricia Hewitt

Numbers up

1 Seven million; 2 Srichand and Gopichand Hinduja; 3 Charles Kennedy; 4
Wednesday; 5 Seven; 6 10 months; 7 £7,700; 8 101; 9 Geoffrey Robinson; 10 Denis
Healey

Picture round

Back row, (l-r) Nick Brown, Alistair Darling, David Clark, Clare Short, Mo
Mowlam, Chris Smith, Frank Dobson, Ann Taylor, Harriet Harman, Ron Davies, Lord
Richard, Gavin Strang, Sir Robin Butler

Front row, (l-r) Donald Dewar, Margaret Beckett, Jack Straw, Robin Cook, John
Prescott, Tony Blair, Gordon Brown Lord Irvine, David Blunkett, Jack Cunningham,
George Robertson

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 26, 2007 Thursday

Politics: Political briefing: Times changing for old duopoly

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 446 words


Times have changed since Labour and the Conservatives took 96.8% of the vote
between them in the 1951 general election. Oddly enough, Labour got 230,000 more
votes, but the Tories won the election, Churchill's first and only victory
against a civilian enemy.

Yesterday's Guardian/ICM poll gave the Tories 37% and Labour just 30%, while the
Liberal Democrats, squeezed to 2.5% (six MPs) in 1951, rose to 21%. Other
smaller parties, including the nationalists, buoyant on the Celtic fringes, Ukip
and the Greens (2% each), took 12% between them.

The 1951 election was a 20th century high for the two-party duopoly, though
interwar Lib-Lab-Con battles reached 98.7% between them in 1929. Recent decades
have seen a relentless atrophying of the Lab-Con dominance, 35.2% and 32.3%
respectively in 2005. Why?

Their rivals, from the BNP and Ukip to Greens and left-leaning nationalists and
socialists, say that ideological convergence on middle Britain's centre ground
and a waning trust in leadership are crucial.

The Lib Dems claim to be the only party fighting a truly national campaign.
Labour is feeble in much of the south, the Tories marginal in Scotland and the
north, less so in Wales, and eager to retake seats from the Lib Dems in the
south, lost when IDS was Tory leader and Iraq a Lib Dem ace. Four-party
coalition politics are a reality in Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast, as in some
English cities. Westminster remains fundamentally a two-party system, one reason
why non-establishment challengers for the Labour leadership, John McDonnell and
Michael Meacher, find it hard to attract mainstream media attention.

It forces small parties to resort to old-fashioned public meetings and word of
mouth. The Greens are fielding a record 1,421 local government candidates, twice
as many as the BNP's 746 and 400 more than Ukip, which is contesting all seats
in the devolution elections in Wales and Scotland.

Ukip hopes to attract disaffected Tory voters alarmed by David Cameron's
centrism. The BNP looks to Labour voters disappointed with Tony Blair and
dismayed by immigration levels which put pressure on public services and jobs.
Rhodri Morgan's canvassers in the well-heeled Cardiff suburbs stumbled on a BNP
voter last week - "never done that before", one said.

The Greens, who have just recruited the ex-Labour radical gay spokesman Peter
Tatchell, believe that voters understand the environmental challenge of global
warming more clearly than the government - the exact opposite of what ministers
fear.

What unites the minor parties is their determination to expand beyond one-issue
politics and publish full manifestos. But mainstream parties fight back and
pinch their ideas.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 25, 2007 Wednesday

Voters turn their backs on Labour and Tories

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words


Both Britain's big political parties are under heavy pressure ahead of next
week's elections across England, Wales and Scotland, a Guardian/ICM poll
published today shows.

One in three voters have turned their backs on Labour and the Conservatives and
now back the Lib Dems or a smaller party such as the Greens or the SNP. Support
for Labour is down one point on last month, at 30%. The Conservatives have
dropped four points to 37%.

The Liberal Democrats, campaigning hard to defend half their council seats on
May 3, rise three points to 21%. Other smaller parties climb to 12%, including
2% each for the Greens and Ukip.

The poll sets out the landscape across which Labour's next leader - almost
certainly Gordon Brown - will have to rebuild support if he is to have a chance
of winning Labour a fourth term in power.

A majority of voters, 54%, say the next general election should bring a change
of government. Only 21% think Britain should stick with Labour.

Labour support is now at bedrock. The party has only twice scored below 30% in
the Guardian/ICM series, which began in 1984. Over a quarter of the people who
say they voted Labour in 2005 have switched to either the Conservatives or
LibDems.

It is now more than a year since Labour led the Conservatives in a Guardian/ICM
poll. The seven-point Tory lead, the narrowest recorded by the Guardian since
January, would probably leave the Conservatives as the largest party in the
Commons, although it would be well short of a majority.

Mr Brown's dominant role as chancellor means that voters inevitably connect him
with Labour's decade in power: only 22% think that his arrival at No 10 would
represent a fresh start for the government.

Most, 71%, including 53% of Labour voters, think he would offer continuity.

A large majority of voters, 78%, including most Labour supporters, would also
still like to see a contest when Tony Blair steps down this summer.

The prospect of a cabinet-level challenge all but vanished at the weekend after
David Miliband, the environment secretary, ruled himself out. The former home
secretary Charles Clarke is thought unlikely to secure the necessary 45
nominations and the current home secretary, John Reid, is not planning to stand.

Mr Brown has a narrow one-point lead - 40% to 39% - over David Cameron as the
man voters think would be most likely to take the right decisions when the going
got tough. But the Tory leader has closed the gap since September when the
question was last asked. Then, he trailed the chancellor by seven points, 32% to
25%.

That strengthening of Mr Cameron's underlying position is mirrored in two other
character questions. He has a six-point lead over Mr Brown as the man voters
think has the most potential as prime minister, 43% to 37%.

He also has an 11-point lead as the person voters think would be most likely to
take Britain in the right direction. When asked in September last year, voters
picked him by six points over Mr Brown, 31% to 26%. Now he scores 45% to Mr
Brown's 34%.

The poll, in line with recent results from ICM and other companies, also
suggests that Mr Cameron could be headed for a narrow overall majority in an
election facing Mr Brown as Labour leader.

In that situation, Conservative support would rise to 40% - three points lower
than ICM's finding last month. Labour lags 12 points behind on 28%, the same as
last month. The Liberal Democrats would score 20%.

These results cannot be compared directly to the normal monthly survey of party
support, as they involve a differently worded question. It is also probable that
voters would respond differently once Mr Brown is in office. But the result
suggests that hopes that Mr Blair's departure will single-handedly restore
Labour fortunes are misplaced.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,005 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on April 20-22. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

Continued on page 2

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 25, 2007 Wednesday

Politics: Labour faces fight to survive in the south: Government has same
'tribal migration' problem as Tories in May local elections

BYLINE: Will Woodward, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1071 words


Labour's ailing support in the south of England could soon mirror the
Conservatives' problems in the north. In the May 3 local elections Labour is
struggling in southern towns and cities which have helped deliver the party
three election victories. Labour could also be virtually obliterated from
another raft of southern councils, particularly in rural and suburban districts,
according to Tony Travers, the local government expert at the London School of
Economics.

Gordon Brown, whose appeal to the south is already in doubt, may find that
element of the New Labour coalition has disintegrated before he becomes prime
minister. While the losses may be relatively small on each council, they could
cause the party significant long-term damage, just as the Conservatives are
finding it much harder to make gains in the north since they were excised from
several city councils. "The Labour party is beginning to suffer the same kind of
tribal migration in the south of England. The difficulty is where the party dies
out in local government it can't win any parliamentary seats," Mr Travers says.

The weakness of its local organisation is evident in figures showing Labour is
fielding candidates in only 60% of seats, with its presence least in the
south-west (44%) and south-east (52%). Increasingly, Mr Travers argues, England
is split, with the Liberal Democrats, albeit the weakest of the three major
parties, the only national contender - they fight the Conservatives in the rural
south and Labour in the urban north.

Fifty years ago Labour and the Tories carved up 95% of the vote between them.
Now not only the Lib Dems, but minority parties such as the Greens, Ukip and the
BNP are fielding more candidates and are likely to make gains. Proportional
representation for European elections has helped people to "become slightly more
promiscuous in their vote", Mr Travers says.

The Conservatives have no councillors in Manchester, Newcastle-upon-Tyne and
Liverpool; and none in Chesterfield, Easington, Gateshead, Knowsley, Wear
Valley, York, Wansbeck, Bolsover, Durham and Derwentside and Cambridge. They
also have no councillors in Oxford, which isn't electing this year, suggesting
that they have a problem in university towns, where dissatisfaction reaps big
gains for the Lib Dems.

This time, the Pennine belt (West Yorkshire and East Lancashire) could be the
area to watch for the spread of the "Cameron effect". The Tories must win some
seats there. But last year they failed to achieve a net gain of council seats in
Yorkshire.

Labour's problem, though different by geography, could prove equally
significant. It is already absent from several district councils in the west
country and the Fens. This year it will be under pressure in places such as
Castle Point - which went to Labour for one parliament in 1997 - where its only
seat is up for re-election; and in Chelmsford and Guildford. In both Broxbourne
and Daventry, Conservative-dominated councils, losing the one seat up for
re-election would half Labour's representation. All three Labour's seat are up
for re-election in Lib Dem Bournemouth, in Tory South Northants and hung
Tewkesbury.

Most of those can be written off by Labour as no longer natural territory.
However, in Milton Keynes and South ampton, where Labour has won all or some of
the seats in last three general elections, the party could be third on the
council by May 4.

Kent could be a critical battleground for Labour. Hung Dartford - where David
Cameron launched the local election campaign last week - Dover and Maidstone are
all Tory targets. Gravesham, where Labour has a narrow council majority, could
go Conservative, just as the parliamentary seat did in 2005, though most of the
council seats are solid for either party.

Three Labour MPs won in 2005 with majorities of less than 300. Swale council,
which includes Sittingbourne and Sheppey constituency, won by Derek Wyatt by
just 79 votes, is Tory controlled and Labour could slip to third.

Asked recently what Labour had to offer the south, Mr Brown said the party's
appeal, there as elsewhere, remains the economy, though he offered a hint that
the budget income tax cuts had precisely those voters in mind. Eric Pickles, the
Tories' local government spokesman, resists, at least until election night, the
opportunity to describe the local elections as a referendum on Mr Brown.

All the parties are downplaying their chances now to claim great success later.
The Conservatives will hail a triumph if they reap a few hundred gains, but Lord
Rennard, the Lib Dems' elections guru, argues they have to do much better. He
says the Tories will have to win 700 seats to do as well as last year, when they
won more than 300 with far fewer up for election. In 2003, when most of these
seats were last contested, the Tories won just 35% of the vote. On the eve of
their last victorious general elections they were taking 45% (1979) and 46%
(1992) , Lord Rennard says.

The Lib Dems will work to hold Newcastle and Liverpool, win in Hull and become
the largest party in Northampton. Gains from the Tories may be more elusive.
There is a chance, albeit a slim one, that the Lib Dems will push Labour into
third place in English local government. Figures released by the Tories show the
Conservatives on 8,297 seats, Labour on 5,175 and the Lib Dems on 4,372. The
Tories, who believe Labour are already down to their "rock" and regard talk of
600 losses as Blairite spin, dismiss that idea. Nonetheless, it would offer an
altogether different kind of nightmare for Labour MPs, and one in particular, if
it turned out to be true.

Leader comment, page 28>=

At a glance

Issues The main parties are campaigning on local council issues, but all accept
they will be judged partly on broader national issues. Labour is emphasising its
record on tackling crime and disorder in general and antisocial behaviour in
particular. The Liberal Democrats are focusing on crime and the environment. The
Conservatives are delivering a similar "crime and grime" attack, and repeating
their Vote Blue, Go Green slogan from last year's elections.

Expectations Labour can expect losses in the low hundreds, but it could be
worse. The Conservatives will hope for big gains and the Lib Dems will hope to
make more gains than losses. Share of vote could be the more telling factor. The
Tories must hit 40%; Labour must not go below 25%; the Lib Dems will hope for
26% and upwards.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 24, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Labour slumps to lowest poll rating since 1983

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

LENGTH: 545 words


Support for Labour has fallen to its lowest level since 1983 in the approach to
next week's local elections, the latest monthly poll for The Independent shows.

CommunicateResearch puts the Conservatives on 36 per cent (up one point on last
month's survey), Labour on 27 per cent (down four points), the Liberal Democrats
on 22 per cent (up two points) and other parties on 15 per cent (up one point).

The poll was taken between Friday and Sunday and Labour's level of support may
have been affected by damaging headlines over the cash-for-honours affair after
the Metropolitan Police completed its 13-month inquiry and submitted its report
to the CPS.

The figures suggest that Labour will suffer heavy losses in the Scottish
Parliament, Welsh Assembly and English councils on Thursday week, giving Tony
Blair a farewell kicking in his last contest as Labour leader.

Labour's support is the lowest in any opinion poll since 1983, the year in which
it won 27 per cent at the 1983 general election under the leadership of Michael
Foot. Labour has lost ground among women in the past month, with support falling
from 32 per cent to just 24 per cent. But it has the backing of 31 per cent of
men. Support among those aged 18 to 24 has dropped from 39 per cent last month
to 24 per cent.

Another worrying finding for Labour is that its natural supporters are less
likely to vote for it than those of the two other main parties.
CommunicateResearch found that the Tories continue most effectively to retain
the loyalty of their natural supporters, with 90 per cent of those identifying
themselves most closely with the party intending to vote for it. Eighty-one per
cent of people who regard themselves as Liberal Democrats say they will back the
party, while for Labour the figure is 80 per cent.

Although the Tories will be happy to be nine points ahead of Labour, they will
be disappointed not to have benefited more from Labour's slump. The Tories' 36
per cent rating is still short of the 40 per cent they hope to achieve in the
council elections in England to show they are on course for victory at the next
general election.

The big two parties' declining share of the total vote is another feature of the
poll. Among the other parties, 4 per cent of people support the Scottish
National Party, which is ahead of Labour in Scotland and is on course on become
the largest party in the Edinburgh Parliament. The Green Party is on 3 per cent,
the British National Party is on 2 per cent, with the UK Independence Party and
Plaid Cymru both on 1 per cent. Other parties scored 4 per cent.

Likelihood to vote among young people is dwindling. This month, only 17 per cent
of 18 to 24-year-olds said they were certain to vote, compared with 26 per cent
last month. Thirty per cent in this age group say they are certain not to vote,
twice as many as last month.

CommunicateResearch telephoned 1,000 adults between 20-22 April. Data were
weighted to take account of expected turnout and party identification for those
who declined to say how they would vote. The sample was also weighted by how
respondents said they had voted in the 2005 general election.

CommunicateResearch is a member of the British Polling Council and abides by its
rules.

Full tables are at www. communicateresearch.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 22, 2007

Comment: As a Scot, I hate this idea of a neutered nation

BYLINE: Ruaridh Nicoll

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 886 words


Born out of hatred and arranged by the aristocracy, the Union that created Great
Britain has always been troubled.

In Scotland, the marriage was initially so unpopular that Edinburghers waited in
the closes, the narrow passages off the Royal Mile, so they could throw turds at
the passing carriage of the Duke of Queensberry, the main matchmaker.

In England, the feeling was reciprocated. By 1762, a Scot, the Earl of Bute, was
Prime Minister and Londoners rebelled, mocking a pair of Highland officers in
front of James Boswell. 'I jumped up on the benches, roared out, "Damn you, you
rascals!", hissed and was in the greatest rage,' he wrote. 'I hated the English;
I wished from my soul that the Union was broke and that we might give them
another Battle of Bannockburn.'

For Scots, like myself, who spend time discussing Gordon Brown's aspirations to
Downing Street with today's Londoners, it is easy to know how he feels. In 1700,
the Union was called a 'marriage with a beggar'. Today, Scots are seen to be
sucking greedily on the teat of the Treasury while creating, in the words of one
commentator, the 'Albania of western Europe' in a 'wet-weather theme park'. It's
lucky we have been married long enough that we can laugh.

So I wouldn't care about the insults if I weren't so worried for the Union. Back
in the 1990s, I was drawn to the SNP. No more. For while many Scots have been
seduced by a superb nationalist campaign, wholly positive and making leader Alex
Salmond seem fit for government, they have fallen for the party line that
independence is a distant distraction. It is not true - the Union is in serious
trouble.

There seems to be a view in England that Scots are toying with separation, as if
we are somehow cocking a snook. That is self-regard. The rise of the SNP in the
run-up to the 3 May elections is solely due to an urge to punish Scottish Labour
for a lacklustre eight years in office north of the border.

The insults, however, are having an effect. Scotland is more than capable of
destroying the Union if only to prove it doesn't like being called a subsidy
junkie. To taste the flavour of the debates, enjoy some of the vitriol being
poured on the Liberal Democrats because they refuse to endorse a referendum on
independence.

'Who the hell are the Liberal Democrats [to reserve] the right to decide when
the people of Scotland can or, more importantly, cannot decide the future of
their nation?' asked one columnist. Another put it this way: 'Their [position]
is constitutionally unsustainable, morally insupportable and politically inept.'

Given such attitudes, why worry about a split? Well, to me, Scotland going it
alone, of being 'independent in Europe' as the SNP like to say, is an act of
retreat, not adventure. A separate Scotland would be a neutered nation. Our
influence is revealed in the names of the party leaders in Britain, whether or
not they are Scottish: Cameron, Blair, Campbell. All the leaders, that is,
except Ukip's Nigel Farage and the BNP's Nick Griffin (French and Welsh
respectively). Ambition requires the range of both countries.

At present, in the face of the misery of Iraq, many Scots would prefer to give
up the power to invade other countries, preferring life in a quiet, harmless
nation looking after its own.

Ignoring the moral cowardice of this, such protectionism has, for 300 years,
been anathema. Last week, I was rooting around in the John Murray archive, the
papers of the famous Scottish family who published, among many others, Byron,
Darwin and Austen. Unified, two peoples were forced to work together and the
result was a liberalism which was exported. Are the Scots saying these good
times have gone? The Scotland I admire has never aspired to be small-minded. Why
would we want to cede power?

For England, disunion would mean losing five million allies. The country would
become a strangely shaped rump (with Wales and Northern Ireland still attached),
caught in a Home Counties Conservatism while falling down the European rankings
as a powerful nation.

It would be harder to justify the permanent place at the Security Council, or at
any other top table.

And if England drifted politically towards the Tories (who would have won the
2005 election without Scotland), then Scotland would move towards the likes of
George Galloway and Tommy Sheridan. Understandably, those who are most baffled
by the urge to break the Union are recent immigrants. They understand these
nations' tolerance, the result of being forced together in 1707.

Three hundred years ago, Queensberry ducked the flying shit and politicked his
way to creating a union that pushed two peoples together. The English
negotiators set one condition, that the Union must see Scotland incorporated.
When I voted SNP, it was because I resented the lack of Scottish self-control;
it was that incorporating Union I pushed against.

The original architects realised that a federal system would be far harder to
work. With the introduction of devolution, they are fast being proved right as
the system plays to the separatist SNP. Yet a split would be the easy option. To
create a workable federal union is a far tougher proposition, but far better
too, a union of nations still pushing against each other, producing ideas.

Ruaridh Nicoll is The Observer 's Comment Editor and Scotland columnist


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 22, 2007

Business & Media: Media: Media Diary: Bye bye, Blair: Mail is repeat offender:
Slow to go online: Fair pay?

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 436 words


Who's fooling who?

Journalist Tom Harper, of the Sunday Telegraph , has tried - and failed - to
infiltrate Ukip by posing as an intern. Harper used his middle name to fool his
new colleagues, but forgot to use his fake email address. He was uncovered by
Ukip last week, and promptly thrown out, or so a party spokesman claims, adding
that his behaviour was 'underhand, and not at all in the decent style of
undercover journalism. What really annoys us is that he wasn't any good at it.'
Our message to Ukip? Despite his slip-up Harper is better at journalism than you
are at politics, so why not keep your smart comments to yourselves?

Bye bye, Blair

The Sun is to publish a glossy standalone tribute to Tony Blair, featuring
heartfelt goodbyes penned by personalities from politics, the arts, showbiz and
sport - think of it as a kind of extended 'goodbye card'. It's difficult to know
who will be more irritated by this shameless show of partisanship: Blair's rival
Gordon Brown, who can't count on such effusive support from the paper, or David
Cameron - whose efforts to woo its owner Rupert Murdoch have so far come to
nought.

Mail is repeat offender

Hell hath no fury like a billionaire retail guru scorned. Topshop boss Philip
Green was furious about a hatchet job in the Daily Mail last week, supposedly
ordered by editor Paul Dacre after a mix-up over a photo-shoot. Green spent most
of Friday raging at Mail executives, and threatening to punch Dacre on the nose.
That elicted the reply 'I'll hold your coat, mate' from one of them, who
eventually managed to placate the Topshop boss. Imagine his horror when he left
his office to find that columnist Amanda Platell, pictured, had laid into Green
in the next day's paper. 'It was a head-in-hands moment,' says one insider.

Slow to go online

The Daily Telegraph may have a shiny new interactive future ahead of it, but not
everyone is embracing it. A survey of the reader polls on its website shows they
are attracting about as many votes as a North Korean by-election. A single vote
in last Wednesday's (are you worried about the prospect of food shortages in
Britain?) moved the 'yes' vote up by one percentage point, implying that about
100 people had taken part. A respondent to a similar poll noticed a 50 per cent
figure became 75 per cent after he cast his ballot, meaning only three people
had voted. Still, it's early days.

Fair pay?

' What's a reasonable wage in the UK?' asks the Your Shout section of the Virgin
Media website this week. Interesting timing for a debate, since it's just
emerged that Virgin executives were paid £ 22.4m between them last year.


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 22, 2007

Number 30 to 48

SECTION: FEATURES; Profit Track 100; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1788 words


30

BARRETT DESIGN & BUILD

Steelwork subcontractor

69.73%

WHEN its parent company faced dire straits in 1992, brothers Richard and James
Barrett and business partner Paul Chasney rescued Barrett Design & Build from
receivership. Fast forward 15 years, and business is booming for this Bradford
steel frame builder. Recent projects have included designing the structure for
the Ikea store at Milton Keynes and a large residential development at Dickens
Heath, Solihull. Fuelled by careful

cost control and investment in new technologies, profits have risen 70%

a year from £ 716,000 in 2003 to £ 3.5m in 2006.

31

BE WEDGE HOLDINGS

Galvaniser

69.30%

THE largest galvaniser in Britain,

BE Wedge's techniques protect the Pepsi Max rollercoaster in Blackpool from
salty sea air as well as the gates at Ascot. Founded in the 1850s, the firm
galvanises steel and iron components for buildings, crash barriers, cars, phone
masts and electricity towers from its 15 plants in Britain. Expansion into
America has helped to boost profits 69% a year from £ 1.5m in 2003 to £ 7.1m in
2006 under owner Jeremy Woolridge.

32

HALCROW

Engineering consultancy

69.24%

HALCROW is helping to plan one of the great engineering projects of our age. The
engineering consultancy is part of the team designing the £ 10billion Crossrail
line, which will tunnel under the capital to link east and west London.

Halcrow's previous achievements include the Chengdu panda park in China, flood
alleviation in the Norfolk Broads and the £ 5billion Channel rail link. It is
currently designing the new tower blocks at Canary Wharf Riverside. Headed by
chief executive Peter Gammie, the London firm has pushed up its profits 69% a
year from £ 2.9m in 2002 to £ 13.9m in 2005.

33

UKIP MEDIA & EVENTS

Magazine publisher

68.73%

UKIP's business-to-business magazines have circulations of between 12,000 and
20,000, boosted by international exhibitions and conferences held mainly in
Germany, America and Asia. Its specialist publications focus on transport and
include Crash Test Technology International and Passenger Terminal World.

Previously known as Autointermediates, the Surrey company rebranded itself after
selling off its aviation side in January. Under founder and chief executive Tony
Robinson, profits have grown 69% a year from £ 855,000 in 2002

to £ 4.1m in 2005.

34

MALTHURST

Petrol station operator

67.98%

DRIVERS nationwide can top up their tanks at 155 petrol stations run by
Malthurst, the fuel company founded by Graham Peacock, Susan Tobbell and Brian
Thompson. The outlets are branded with the names of the fuel suppliers, which
include leading oil companies such as BP and Shell. Malthurst's profits have
jumped 68%

a year from £ 2.5m in 2003 to £ 11.8m in 2006, boosted by economies of scale as
the company buys and revamps forecourts. The founders are also shareholders in
Pace Petroleum,

a joint venture that was formerly known as Q8.

35

SOUTHDALE HOMES

Housebuilder

66.90%

FOR the past two decades, this Halifax homebuilder has been erecting social
housing across north England. Working with local councils and housing
associations, Southdale Homes builds social dwellings for rent or for sale. It
is also diversifying into property development, with its newly founded Circa
Homes division contributing 41% of group sales in 2006, its first trading year.

Under founder and managing director Chris Harris, profits have grown 67% a year
from £ 789,000 in 2003 to £ 3.7m in 2006.

36

CARE PRINCIPLES

Mental healthcare provider

66.16%

THIS FIRM was founded in 1997 by health specialists who opened a hospital in
Suffolk to care for patients with learning disabilities. Purpose-built sites in
Staffordshire, Kent, East Yorkshire and Norfolk quickly followed, with services
being extended to people with personality disorders and autism. The company now
has 380 beds, including secure care for

the most challenging patients. The business is part-owned by 3i, which installed
Paul Preston as chief executive in 2005. Profits surged

66% a year from £ 1.9m in 2003

to an annualised £ 8.7m in 2006.

37

TITAN AIRWAYS

Airline

65.76%

GENE WILLSON, a founder and the main shareholder of this airline, still pilots
some of its 13 planes. About half the company's revenue comes from transporting
mail and freight, but Titan also operates a variety of charters. Recent
passengers have included Premiership and national football teams, rock groups
and even royalty. Titan says it can get a Boeing 757 airborne from its main
Stansted base with just an hour's notice. Profits have grown 66% a year from £
1.4m

in 2003 to reach £ 6.5m in 2006.

38

CASTLEBECK

Care home operator

65.61%

THIS company works with the NHS and local authorities, looking after adults with
learning disabilities in 17 homes across Britain. It also runs five children's
homes and a fostering agency. Last summer, Castlebeck was sold for £ 255m to
Lydian Capital, a Swiss private-equity firm backed by Irish investors Denis
Brosnan, Dermot Desmond, John Magnier and JP McManus, who also own Barchester
Healthcare (No11). Profits at the Dar- lington firm have grown 66% a year from £
2.2m in 2002 to £ 9.9m in 2005.

39

IDIS

Pharmaceuticals supplier

65.45%

IDIS can provide patients with medicines that are not available in their
country.

It also supplies drugs for clinical trials and provides health services with
alternatives when medicines are in short supply. The Surrey company delivers to
70 countries, and says it can supply 20,000 products to customers who include
doctors, the NHS and pharmacies. Managing director Natalie Douglas says
patients' awareness of treatment options and the growth in clinical trials have
pushed up profits 65% a year from £ 980,000 in 2002

to £ 4.4m in 2005.

40

BES CONSULTING

Asbestos risk consultancy

64.87%

FROM its base in Huddersfield, this company helps property owners and tenants to
manage asbestos safely in their buildings. BES performs some 18,000 on-site
inspections a year for clients that include Barclays, HBOS and Waitrose. It also
tests samples

and supervises asbestos removal. Founded by chief executive Simon Farrar and his
wife Sally Rhodes in 1997, the company has boosted its profits 65% a year from £
812,000 in 2002 to £ 3.6m in 2005.

41

AZZURRI COMMUNICATIONS

Telecoms services provider

64.72%

A FIFTH of FTSE 100 companies turn to Azzurri for telecoms services, including
Tesco, HSBC, Cadbury Schweppes and BSkyB. Founder and chief executive Martin St
Quinton has built up the company through 16 acquisitions since its inception in
2000, and he aims to triple turnover in the next three years. Last year PPM
Capital bought a majority stake in the company from founding investor 3i

for £ 182.5m. Profits grew 65% a year from £ 3m in 2003 to £ 13.4m in 2006.

42

OSSIAN RETAIL GROUP

Clothing retailer

64.65%

THE Ossian Retail Group trades on the high street under two fascias. Its 69
Internacionale outlets sell affordable young women's fashions, while

Au Naturale sells homewares from 82 shops. Ken Cairnduff founded the company in
1979. A management buyout last year put an estimated £ 30m in his pocket and
handed the reins to chief executive Norrie Stewart. The Glasgow company plans to
open 40 stores over the next 18 months, expanding southwards. Profits have
swelled 65% a year from £ 1.3m in 2003 to £ 6m in 2006.

43

MARK GROUP

Insulation contractor

64.09%

MARK claims it is Britain's biggest domestic insulation company, doing work on
3,000 properties every week to keep out the cold. Founder John Cottingham handed
control to his son Lee in 2005 after more than three decades in charge. Since
then, a nationwide expansion has grown the business from four depots to 14.

Customers range from homeowners to local councils and utility companies. Mark is
also branching out into small-scale sustainable power projects, installing wind
turbines, solar heating and ground heat pumps. Profits grew 64% a year from £
1.1m in 2003 to an annualised £ 4.7m in 2006.

44

INCISIVE MEDIA

Magazine publisher

64.02%

SINCE exiting the London Stock Exchange last year, Incisive Media has been able
to accelerate its expansion. Backed by the private-equity group Apax, the London
firm says it doubled sales in six weeks by acquiring MSM International and VNU
Business Publications, where founder and chief executive Tim Weller began his
career. The company's key publications include Investment Week, Risk and Legal
Week. Profits surged 64% a year from £ 3.1m in 2002 to £ 13.8m in 2005,
underpinned by strong growth in events and online publishing.

45

AARDMAN

Animated film producer

62.91%

PETER LORD and David Sproxton started this animation studio in a Bristol back
room in 1976. A slot on BBC TV's Vision On provided the breakthrough for them
and, after director Nick Park joined in 1985,

the company found fame with Oscar-winning Creature Comforts and Wallace &
Gromit.

It screened its first feature film, Chicken Run, in 2000

and more are on the way through a new partnership with Sony Pictures. Aardman
also makes commercials and TV series, including Shaun the Sheep, which is
showing on the BBC. Profits have risen 63% a year from £ 1.6m in 2002 to £ 6.8m
in 2005.

46

NP AEROSPACE

Protective equipment maker

62.62%

BBC news crews under fire in Iraq are grateful for NP Aerospace's bullet
resistant helmets, body armour and armoured vehicles. The company also
safeguards the military, police forces and aid agencies. Applications for its
advanced composite and moulded materials include shields for hospital x-rays and
strong, light components for planes and cars. Founded in 1926, NP Aerospace is
owned by the Carlyle Group. Chief executive Roger Medwell has boosted profits
63% a year from £ 1.3m in 2002 to £ 5.4m in 2005.

47

ARGUS MEDIA

Market data publisher

62.33%

THIS London company sells daily price information and analytical reports on the
international oil, gas, power, emissions and coal markets. Customers include
multinational companies such as Shell, BP, Total

and Exxon, as well as banks and governments. The business was founded in 1970 by
Jan Nasmyth, a former Treasury official, journalist and Shell-Mex employee who
also did a stint at the United Nations in New York. Argus now has offices around
the globe from Houston to Tokyo. Profits have grown 62% a year from £ 936,000 in
2003 to £ 4m in 2006.

48

MOUSSAIEFF

Luxury jeweller

62.04%

ALISA and Shlomo Moussaieff are the third generation of the family to lead this
master jeweller. With London boutiques in Bond Street and the Park Lane Hilton
and an outlet in Geneva, the firm caters to some of the wealthiest people in the
world. Several have been customers for generations. The family claims it is
descended from Genghis Khan's goldsmith and says it owns the Moussaieff Red, the
world's largest red diamond, worth £ 3m. Profits rose 62% a year from £ 2.7m

in 2003 to £ 11.4m in 2006.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday

The House needs to hear from Hague Notebook

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 631 words


'It's true hard work never killed anybody, but I figure why take the chance?''
Sadly, it's not one of mine. It was the riposte from the great communicator
Ronald Reagan, when challenged about why his working day in the White House was
considerably shorter than most of his predecessors'.

William Hague, the Tories' best communicator, clearly takes the same attitude
when it comes to putting in the hours at Westminster.

In his second job as MP and shadow foreign secretary, Hague rakes in only pounds
60,000, which might explain why we hear so little from him. However, according
to figures released this week, he has trousered no less than pounds 800,000 in
two years through his principal occupation as after-dinner speaker, author and
master of ceremonies on Have I Got News for You.

The rich trappings of commercial life might explain why, in the past year, Hague
as shadow foreign secretary has been quoted in the national and regional press
1,100 times compared to 3,800 name checks for David Davis the shadow home
secretary.

Now to be fair, that old bruiser David Davis has been kept busy brutally
exploiting, with his usual charm and charity, the almost weekly blunders by the
Home Office.

But Hague's watch has hardly been quiet in the past year - particularly since
the embarrassing Margaret Beckett took over the Foreign Office.

Iraq has descended into an even deeper abyss; the Israelis used
"disproportionate'' force, according to David Cameron, when they bombed Lebanon;
there is trouble in Afghanistan, crisis over the Iranian hostages, and, of
course, Europe, which once greatly troubled Just William. From him, though,
there is now only silence - hence the rise of UKIP.

Even the saintly Ann Widdecombe, also a big outside earner, not least because of
the huge nursing costs involved in caring at home for her 95-year-old mum, was
quoted 1,460 times.

I have nothing against MPs having outside interests. But, as the Tory leader who
led his party to its worse defeat in 150 years, you would have thought that
Hague would get it.

You would think he knows that his first job should not be lining his deep
pockets, but helping Cameron, whose shadow cabinet is short of talent, to land
some blows on this discredited Government.

Hague, like him or loathe him (I am a fan), is the biggest beast in the Tory
jungle. He earns his fat fees on the after-dinner speaking circuit because he
brings the house down every time.

It's time he brought the House down at Westminster.

I thought I must be imagining it. Did I really read that Gordon Brown had
decided that Britain had fallen out of love with celebrity and people who are
famous for being famous?

That would be the same Gordon Brown who posed with the Hollywood actress
Angelina Jolie for a photo-opportunity - sorry, educational initiative - last
year.

And the same Chancellor who allowed his tour of India in January to be
completely overshadowed by the row over Celebrity Big Brother whose inmates are
the very definition of famous for being famous.

But I must have got things mixed up, as I recall last month reading that Brown
had dinner with Kylie Minogue, who I'm not even sure is registered to vote in
Britain.

I am confused, though, because I do distinctly recall that Brown has pledged
that his premiership would mark an end to spin. So who am I to disbelieve him?

The last word, I hope, on whether Carole Middleton was too common for the Royals
because of her penchant for saying "toilet'' rather than "lavatory''. I can
bring you the real exclusive about what the Queen really thought of Kate's
former air stewardess mum when they were introduced at William's passing out
ceremony at Sandhurst. Sorry to disappoint, but the Queen has not aired any
views on Ma Middleton at all. Which is hardly surprising. They have never met.
Ever

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday

Blair 'trying for an EU constitution without a referendum'

BYLINE: George Jones and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 440 words


TONY Blair was accused yesterday of preparing to introduce a scaled-down
European constitution by the "back door'' before he quits as Prime Minister this
summer.

The Conservatives and the UK Independence Party reacted angrily after Downing
Street confirmed Mr Blair did not believe a referendum would be needed on a new
European treaty expected to be agreed during his final days in office.

After the European constitution was rejected in referendums in France and the
Netherlands, EU leaders are looking at ways of introducing many key changes by
amending existing treaties.

Mr Blair told journalists on Thursday that a treaty amending the existing legal
base would not have the characteristics of the constitution which aimed to
re-establish the Union with the trappings of statehood, such as a flag and
anthem.

A Brussels summit on June 21 will be Mr Blair's last appearance on the European
stage and will tie the hands of his successor on key EU constitution issues.

Germany, the current holder of the EU's rotating presidency, has confirmed that
talks will go beyond setting a timetable for a new European treaty to tackle the
substance. Berlin has sent a questionnaire to all Europe's capitals and is
asking for feedback on a 12-point checklist of controversial points from the
former EU constitution.

Britain, the Netherlands and Czech Republic have all called for elements that
have constitutional trappings to be dropped in order to avoid a requirement that
it be approved by a referendum.

But the 18 EU countries that have already ratified, or largely ratified, the
constitution will resist fundamental change.

Both Labour and the Conservatives were committed to a referendum on the original
constitution, but it was shelved after the No votes in France and the
Netherlands.

Mr Blair expects to agree the basic outline of a new treaty at the June summit,
leaving his successor to oversee negotiations on details and ratification by
Parliament.

Downing Street confirmed yesterday it was Mr Blair's view that a referendum on
proposed changes in Brussels would not be needed. It declined to say to what
extent Gordon Brown, Mr Blair's likeliest successor, had been involved in
discussions.

William Hague, the Conservative foreign affairs spokesman, said: "What he is
saying now sounds suspiciously like an attempt to introduce elements of it by
the back door, despite its decisive rejection by the voters of France and
Holland.''

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said: "The British people have not
had a say on our position in the EU for 32 years, and we must have a referendum
on any treaty which transfers power away from Westminster.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday

WOULD YOU VOTE FOR DIRTY DAI?;
(1) Rake, drunk, rampant lothario but apart from that, Dai Llewellyn is no
ordinary politician.So will he seduce the voters as easily as his countless
conquests ...(2) HOW I SEE IT

BYLINE: ROBERT HARDMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 1838 words


THE election candidate walks into the butcher's shop and surveys the immaculate
spread of lamb chops and sausages. At this point, most politicians would make
some grovelling remark about the food and ask the butcher for his vote.

This, though, is no ordinary candidate. 'Got any squashed badger?' he asks the
speechless butcher. 'I like it really crispy.' Over the road, he invents a new
policy as he enters a video hire shop: 'Elect me and I'll make sure that anyone
who doesn't rewind their tapes before they bring them back is shot.' The shop is
full of DVDs which don't need rewinding but the manager is too polite to point
it out.

Outside, a spotty youth recoils from a leaflet with the word 'Europe' on it.

'I ******* hate Europe. It's all ********,' says the youth. 'Hear, hear,' says
the candidate. 'I knew I could rely on your vote.' 'Ooh, is that Dai Llewellyn?'
a lady pensioner asks me. I reply that it is. 'He's a one, isn't he?' She
marches off laughing.

Pausing for a coffee and cigarette, the would-be Assembly Member for Cardiff
North is rather enjoying this political lark. 'Do you know, I think my
constituents have got prettier over the years,' he observes. 'But, God, some of
the new buildings round here are ghastly. Have a look at the new opera house.

'Adolf would have been proud of it. That bloody Assembly's not much better.

You should hear the c**p they talk in there.' He puts on his strongest Welsh
accent to mimic a political debate about paperclips.

I have never encountered a would-be politician quite like Sir Dai Llewellyn.

The voters of Cardiff North are equally surprised.

And so are Sir Dai's family and friends.

A few weeks ago, the 'Seducer of the Valleys' was going about his usual business
of international party-going, chatting up girls, descending on friends' stately
homes and doing the occasional television appearance to pay the bills.

For decades, the antics of this boisterous 61-year- old baronet have entertained
or shocked readers of this paper and others. The most recent stories have
featured his ongoing feud with his brother, Roddy (Princess Margaret's old
flame), his latest broken engagement and the farcical scenes in a Cape Town
villa, where he was entwined with the girlfriend of a friend when the bed
collapsed and he was clobbered by a wardrobe.

But, after a 'sudden conversion' to politics, he is returning to his Welsh roots
and deploying his considerable reservoirs of charm in a bid to seduce the
electorate of Cardiff on behalf of the United Kingdom Independence Party.

It must be said, that he has more chance of bedding a Mother Superior than being
elected to the Welsh Assembly on May 3.

Cardiff North should be a straight Tory-Labour struggle in leafy suburbs.

But Sir Dai could hold the balance. At the last Assembly elections, Labour won
here by just 540 votes. The UKIP candidate came last but picked up nearly 1,300
votes. What's certain is that his arrival has enlivened an election so dull that
it could give a general anaesthetic a run for its money.

'Shockwaves as Sir Dai says: Wales, vote for me,' ran the front page of the
Welsh daily, the Western Mail. Inside, the paper not only devoted a whole page
to the life and times of the 'high-living socialite' - complete with a picture
of Sir Dai in fancy dress wearing a pink frock and a walrus moustache - but it
carried a half-page editorial welcoming him to the fray.

'If it takes a man of his background to inject some extra public interest into
the Assembly elections,' declared the paper, 'then so be it.' His opponents have
endless muck to chuck at him and he cheerfully pleads guilty to most of it. For
a start, he has committed the basic 21st-century sins of being a posh, Old
Etonian, foxhunting smoker.

Then there was the year when he got engaged to two - or was it three? - girls
including Beatrice Welles, daughter of Orson.

That one bust up when he poured a glass of brandy over her head.

His 1980 marriage to Vanessa, niece of the Duke of Norfolk, produced two
daughters whom he adores, but divorce came seven years later and did little to
curtail his wandering eye.

The gossip columnists nicknamed him 'Dirty Dai' and 'The Seducer of the
Valleys', names which endure to this day, even if his frame is considerably
larger than the one which spent all those years dodging the horsewhips of
outraged husbands and fathers.

'If you seek publicity, which I do, then you can't complain when it goes against
you,' he says. 'I was rather cross when that EastEnders chap was christened
Dirty Den. It was my nickname.' He loves jokes but he is taking this electoral
seduction very seriously.

'I can't bear mornings,' he admits as he thrusts UKIP leaflets at commuters
outside Cardiff Central railway station. He is the only candidate on show at
7.30am, though. He spots a blonde woman handing out leaflets and makes a beeline
to see if she is opposition.

'Hello, we're UKIP,' he cries. The lady explains that she's with the Jehovah's
Witnesses. 'Jolly good.

We're the same sort of thing!' he says cheerily. The suit is crumpled and an
unsightly piece of loo paper is covering a dawn shaving disaster which has
stained his shirt.

But Sir Dai is in his element. 'I wouldn't vote for you - ever!' rasps a
furious-looking giant of a man with mad white hair, a beard and a donkey jacket.
'Smashing!' replies Sir Dai, delighted to have evoked such passion.

'Don't you love that?' he says as the man walks off.

'Actually, I'd be rather worried if that chap did vote for me.' His pledges in
this election are to pull Britain out of the European Union and to make himself
redundant. UKIP wants to scrap the Pounds 35million-a-year Welsh Assembly and
replace it with a committee of the MPs who are already being paid to represent
Wales.

Sr Dai thrusts a leaflet into the hands of a young woman who tosses it aside,
shouting: 'But I work for the Welsh Assembly!' Sir Dai roars with laughter.
'Good for you!' he cries.

Several people recognise him from the papers and say 'hello'. A woman stops to
tell him how she was a big fan of his late father, Sir Harry Llewellyn, the
gold-winning Olympic showjumper.

He has supporters, too. 'I'm right behind you,' says a man called Andy Moss.

'I used to vote Labour but now it's UKIP.' Unfortunately for Sir Dai, Andy wants
to emigrate to Australia. Even so, the candidate is delighted. 'See? If I'm
going to do damage, it will be against the socialists,' he says.

But why is he bothering? Just four years ago, he announced that he was leaving
Wales following arson attacks on some cottages which he owned, and would only
return in a coffin. And he hasn't cast a vote since 1970. So, what has happened?

'First, I'm a lot Welsher than I sound,' he says. 'I was never going to leave.
It was just a fit of pique after these chippy yobs tried to burn me out.' The
Llewellyns are not ancient Welsh toffs. His grandfather made a mint in coal and
bought the baronetcy in one of Lloyd George's notorious sale of honours. 'Better
to have paid for a title than never to have one at all,' says Sir Dai proudly.

'My mother's family were much grander.' His father sold the family seat years
ago and Sir Dai now owns a 'small house and a small piece of enclosed land' near
Abertillery. 'I know it sounds nauseating,' he says, emphasising the point by
putting his fingers down his throat, 'but I like to stay in touch with my
Welshness.' The rest of the time, he lives in a rented flat in London. 'I'm as
poor as a church mouse but I've had a trillionaire's life.'

His last vote was for the Conservatives in 1970. 'I was utterly betrayed because
Edward Heath then sold us to Europe, and what has been the point of voting
since, when we don't govern ourselves?' In the Seventies, he produced a pop
record urging Britain to pull out of the Common Market. 'My instincts have
always been Conservative and everyone has always said "don't split the
Conservative vote" so I haven't done - until now. But, frankly, who cares?

Cameron is the same as the rest.' No Etonian loyalties then? 'I've never met
him.' Sir Dai launches into a long rant about 'faceless Brussels bureaucrats'.
He insists he has read the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of the European Union,
and that the final straw was the Government's Sexual Orientation Regulations,
pushed through Parliament without proper debate.

'Why should Christians be prosecuted for not wanting their children adopted by
gays?' A month ago, he was talking in a similar vein at a dinner where the
guests included the UKIP leader, Nigel Farage. The two men hit it off and Sir
Dai was persuaded to join the party. Days later, he was asked to speak at the
party's spring conference. 'They gave me a standing ovation.'

And here he is in a UKIP rosette fighting for the same seat which his uncle held
as a Tory MP during the Fifties. After a morning of comic canvassing, the UKIP
machine halts at a pub. 'I need a spot of vod to rejuvenate me,' he announces,
ordering a vodka and orange.

This campaign is a spin doctor's nightmare. Neither Sir Dai nor his UKIP
supporters can name the sitting Assembly Member. They don't even have a map of
the constituency.

How will Sir Dai live up to UKIP's pledge to slash council tax by 40per cent? He
looks down gravely.

'With, er, a great deal of thought,' he replies utterly unconvincingly.

But later on, the campaign trail leads to a Baptist church hall where all the
candidates have their first public debate. They are not an inspiring bunch.

As far as I can work out, Sir Dai is the only one who is not paid for by the
taxpayer. The Tory candidate, Jonathan Morgan, a regional Assembly Member (as
opposed to a constituency one), is the slickest - articulate, local and full of
facts.

The Labour candidate, Sophie Howe, a legal services manager for the Equal
Opportunities Commission, bleats the party line about improvements under Labour.

Why, she is asked, have hospital waiting times got longer? 'Because we have been
focussing on wellbeing rather than illness,' she says. Yes, that is what she
says.

The Liberal, Ed Bridges, is doing a PhD on public library provision, and the
Plaid Cymru candidate, Wyn Jones, hasn't turned up but is represented by a woman
who calls herself a political theory researcher.

The Old Etonian party animal no longer seems quite so detached from the real
world after all. In fact, he must be the only net contributor to the public
purse.

Sir Dai turns out to be the best speaker by far, even if his theatrical rant
about 'mealy-mouthed socialist claptrap' and 'faceless bureaucrats' is pretty
light on facts.

Asked a question about the Kate/William saga, he replies: 'She's quite a looker
so she won't have a tough time.' Hastily, he remembers that he is a politician
now: 'Sorry, that's a bit lookist. But she's a lovely girl.' He gets one of the
loudest cheers of the night as he promises to 'give you back your kingdom' and
demands: 'We should have a voice!' What happens if he is actually elected to the
Assembly? 'Well, I'll be here until we've scrapped it,' he says. 'But I'm
certainly not missing the Monaco Grand Prix.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday

Blair 'showing his contempt for voters' over new EU treaty

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words


TONY Blair was last night accused of treating the British people with 'contempt'
after axing plans to allow them a vote on a new EU treaty.

The Prime Minister was accused of bringing in the controversial EU constitution
by the back door by promising to spend the dying days of his premiership
securing a deal.

A leaked letter from German Chancellor Angela Merkel further fuelled these fears
by suggesting that 'presentational changes' are simply made to the constitution
rejected by French and Dutch voters in 2005 and that ' different terminology' is
used without changing 'the legal substance'.

The letter, which was sent to member states ahead of a June summit of EU leaders
to agree the treaty, contains a number of questions. It adds: 'Every effort will
have to be made to restrict changes to what is absolutely necessary to reach an
overall agreement and ensure ratification.' Neil O'Brien, director of campaign
group Open Europe, said: 'This leak shows that we are going to have the exact
same proposals pushed through under a different name, with a few "presentational
changes".

'It's incredibly cynical, but the voters are not stupid and will not be fooled.
Brown would be mad to go along with Blair's plan to take away our right to a
vote.' In an astonishing U-turn, Mr Blair has made clear the British people will
not be given a referendum on the new 'scaled down' version of the constitution.

The deal is due to be approved by June, only days before he is expected to quit
Downing Street and make way for his successor expected to be Chancellor Gordon
Brown.

Following a public outcry over the constitution back in 2004, the Prime Minister
promised that British voters would be given a say.

But Mr Blair yesterday insisted there was 'no case' for a public vote on the new
treaty which agrees rules under which the 25 member states must operate.

Critics point out that it will also lead to a permanent EU president and foreign
minister and it takes away Britain's veto on areas such as law and order.

In an interview with European newspapers, Mr Blair said: 'If it is not a
constitutional treaty so that it alters the basic relationship between Europe
and the member states, then there isn't a case for a referendum.' The Prime
Minister went on to admit that he would be pilloried for agreeing the new treaty
and revealed that the plan has the backing of Mr Brown.

'We are going to get attacked whatever we do, but Europe needs to move forward,'
he added.

In June Germany, the current holder of the EU presidency, will present EU
leaders with a roadmap for the adoption of a new constitutional treaty.

It has said it wants to preserve as much of the old constitution as possible and
has support from 17 other states which have all ratified, or nearly ratified,
the text.

But Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague pointed out that French and Dutch
voters had rejected attempts to bring in the last EU constitution.

He said: 'Tony Blair was previously committed to campaigning for the European
constitution and to hold a referendum on it in the country.

'What he is saying now sounds suspiciously like an attempt to introduce elements
of it by the back door, despite its decisive rejection by the voters of France
and Holland.

'This would go against the Government's previous assurances and be totally
unacceptable to the people of Britain. It is vital that any new treaty that
transfers power from Britain to the EU should be subject to a referendum.' UK
Independence Party leader Nigel Farage also branded Mr Blair's comments
'outrageous'. He said: 'I am not interested in what the new treaty is called, I
am interested in what it does.

'The British people have not had a say on our position in the EU for 32 years,
and we must have a referendum on any treaty which transfers power away from
Westminster.' But Mr Blair said there was a need for a watered- down treaty
after rejection of the old constitution.

He admitted that he would be accused of 'selling out' and said that the dilemma
for all British premiers was that they were accused on the EU of either
'isolation or treason'.

Tory MP Bill Cash, chairman of the European Foundation, said: 'As a democratic
country, it is essential that we put in place national referendums on the new
treaty and all other existing treaties.

'To not do so is a gross injustice. It is undemocratic and treats the British
people with contempt.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday

Reply: Letters and emails: Stick to the facts

BYLINE: Nigel Farage

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 107 words


You report (Blair plan to avoid referendum by calling for amended EU treaty,
April 17) that the prime minister said "we have to understand that . . . there
are 18 of the countries that have ratified the constitutional treaty". That is
not true and Blair knows it. Neither Germany nor Slovakia have ratified the EU
constitution, and have no plans to do so, as in both cases the process is
blocked by their constitutional courts until 2009. This is part of the EU's big
lie. If they can claim Germany, then they can claim that 50% of the EU's
population are in favour, thus everybody else should be.

Nigel Farage MEP

Leader, UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 April 21, 2007
                                 First Edition

Britain's Drowned World: a Time Team Special 9pm C4;
PICK OF THE DAY

BYLINE: Gerard Gilbert

SECTION: THE INFORMATION; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 32 words


Like a UKip nightmare, 8,000 years ago Britain wasn't an island, and the Thames,
Rhine and Seine were one. Tony Robinson tells a story with contemporary
resonance in times of rising sea levels.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IF


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 19, 2007 Thursday

Tories have everything to play for on May 3

BYLINE: Tony Travers

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 814 words


Don't think the Conservatives have nothing to worry about come May 3, even
though they will predictably win council seats galore. There are more than
10,000 seats up for election within district and unitary councils, covering much
of the country outside London. This is a big test of the public mood and all
three parties, including the Tories, have much at stake.

David Cameron has been inching his party forward in the opinion polls towards a
voting share of 40 per cent. The figure is well below the numbers achieved by
the main opposition party during an unpopular government's mid-term in days gone
by, but it would mark a key stage on the Tories' road to election success in,
say, 2009. Last year's local elections saw the Tories hit 39 per cent. They need
to do better this time.

Gordon Brown, glowering, will watch the council elections to see just how
ghastly his inheritance will be. Last year, Labour polled an equivalent national
vote share of 26 per cent, dire by any standards. Recent local by-elections have
seen this figure dip to 24 per cent. The party risks being wiped out in many
parts of southern England. Brown should be worried.

Meanwhile, the Lib Dems will be watching to see if their leader's oft-criticised
style has damaged their vote. Last year saw the Lib Dems on 25 per cent. Even a
middling result should see the party overtake Labour, though the touchy-feely
Cameron Tories may well make inroads into the Lib Dems' vote in the rural south.

Growing lack of faith in the big three machines has led to a significant growth
in minority party and independent voting recently. The Greens have been able to
exploit affluent Leftish distaste for Tony Blair, while UKIP will be hoping to
take advantage of Cameron's abandonment of the Tory core Essex and Kent. The BNP
is capable of winning votes anywhere Labour is strong and there is little
effective challenge from other parties.

But these elections are more than publicly funded opinion polls. The votes will
affect the cleanliness of local streets, the level of council tax and,
indirectly, the effectiveness of policing. These are the issues that lurk
outside our front doors.

The electorate is increasingly likely to vote on "single issues'', flexing their
muscles on policies affecting parking, school places and - in Ealing - a new
tram. Candidates opposed to the closure of a local hospital, linked to football
clubs and with other off-centre concerns have won council seats in the past
years. In addition, electors will often swing away from an incumbent majority
party.

So how might Cameron capitalise on his recent advantage? The Conservatives, who
launched their local election campaign yesterday, are stressing the party's
safer, cleaner, greener, cheaper credentials. Given these are council elections
and that there are concerns about the experience of the Tory front bench, the
Tories must make more of their successes locally to point to where they are
already running government efficiently and effectively.

Moreover, council tax in Conservative authorities is, on a like-for-like basis,
lower than in Labour and Lib Dem areas. Cameron's New Conservative Party still
needs to find a way of hardening up its appeal to core, Thatcherite voters in
places such as Essex, Kent and parts of the Midlands. Offering lower local
taxation - perhaps as a signal about overall tax intentions - is a neat way of
offering "traditional'' Tory policies but without threatening the party's new
centre-ground supporters.

But more than anything, the Tories have a big problem in Scotland, much of Wales
and in the urban north of England that desperately needs to be addressed. There
are still no Tory councillors in Liverpool, Manchester or Newcastle and only two
in Sheffield. It would be easy to dismiss these as traditionally dead zones for
the party, yet, at the end of the Callaghan government, the Tories had 46
councillors in Manchester and 33 in Newcastle. Eric Pickles, the shadow local
government secretary, has recently admitted it may take years for his party to
win back seats in many northern cities. This needs to be addressed if Cameron
wants to do better than a hung parliament.

Prepare for a three-day marathon of results between election Thursday and the
following Saturday. Some councils will count immediately, with results through
the night. Others will declare on Friday afternoon, while the Scots, because of
their new voting arrangements, may not finish counting until Saturday.

David Cameron, Gordon Brown and Sir Menzies Campbell will want to see the final
numbers before they judge who - and it could be any one or two of them - is most
likely to be standing in Downing Street in 2009 or 2010. Whichever party "wins''
in this year's super-Thursday elections will have the early momentum in the
first months of the post-Blair era.

Tony Travers is director of the Greater London Group at the LSE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Robert Mugabe, Ukip supporter?;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

LENGTH: 137 words


Zimbabwe's crackpot dictator Robert Mugabe and the UK Independence Party:

not likely bedfellows. Unless, heaven forbid, you subscribe to David Cameron's
description of the Ukip as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly".

With perfect timing ahead of the local elections, an outspoken Ukip staffer has
declared his sympathy for the current Zimbabwean regime. In a leaked letter,
Andrew Reed, an aide to Ukip leader Nigel Farage, attacks what he describes as
the "politically motivated broadcasts" on Zimbabwe, before claiming that the "EU
is a dangerously non-democratic organisation with no prospect, unlike Zimbabwe
??? of ever becoming otherwise."

Reed has been ritually disembowelled by the party leadership. Sighs a spokesman:
"This certainly doesn't represent the view of Ukip. He's been advised to be more
careful."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

FURY AS BLAIR SNUBS PUBLIC VOTE ON EU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 158 words


THE British public will not get a referendum on the future of Europe, Tony Blair
ruled yesterday.

The Prime Minister said he was urging EU countries to amend current procedures
rather than replace them in a new constitution.

That would mean there would be no need for a nationwide vote.

But Eurosceptics accused the Government of trying to force a new constitution by
the back door.

Mr Blair said: "It is important we go back to the idea of a conventional treaty,
where the idea is to make Europe more effective.

"There is all the difference in the world between a constitutional treaty and an
amending treaty."

But Derek Scott, of Open Europe, said: "The Government is spinning that the new
treaty will no longer be called a constitution.

"But everyone knows it's likely to contain the same proposals."

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said: "These are more weasel words
from the Prime Minister to avoid a referendum that he would lose heavily."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2007, Tuesday

Blair prepares for final test as polls plunge to new low

BYLINE: Philip Webster Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 631 words


* Party faces worst drubbing in 13 years

* Tories still short of overall majority

Tony Blair is heading towards his final electoral test with Labour on 29 per
cent, its lowest rating since he became leader 13 years ago and its most lowly
position in the run-up to local elections for more than 20 years.

Today's Populus poll for The Times suggests that Mr Blair will depart office
after ten years as Prime Minister with one of his party's worst-ever drubbings
behind him.

Labour's rating has sunk to a level previously seen in the early 1980s during
Michael Foot's troubled leadership.

But although the Conservatives have led for a year the survey suggests that
their leader, David Cameron, has still not made the breakthrough to give him an
overall majority at the next general election.

That is Labour's only consolation as troubles mount. Two Cabinet ministers were
forced to apologise to the Commons yesterday -Des Browne over the debacle in
which the Iran captives sold their stories and Patricia Hewitt over the medical
training row. Meanwhile, Gordon Brown faces a vote of no confidence in the
Commons today over his 1997 decision to scrap tax relief on dividend payments to
pension funds.

The survey, conducted over the weekend, shows the Conservatives on 37 per cent,
maintaining an eight-point lead over Labour. Both were down 1 per cent on last
month.

But it also shows that at least a third of voters are withholding their support
from the two main parties, with the Liberal Democrat rating rising two points to
20 per cent, and 14 per cent of electors preferring other parties including the
Greens, the nationalists and the United Kingdom Independence Party.

The poll suggests that voters will use the forthcoming elections for the
Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and English town halls to cast a verdict on
Labour's record overall.

The survey will make grim reading for Mr Blair and his successor. Labour has a
similar level of support to that accorded the Conservatives under John Major at
the same point of the 1992-97 Government.

But the Conservatives are nowhere near where Labour were at this point of the
1992 government. Then, Labour's rating had risen to 44 per cent and remained at
that level for the whole of the second half of the Parliament. The Conservative
average in polls published this year is 38 per cent.

The steady rise of minority parties is a worry for both parties. The number
voting for "others" has moved from 8-9 per cent at the last election to 10-11
per cent last November, and is now around 14 per cent. In the Times survey the
Greens are on 4 per cent, the SNP 3 per cent, Plaid Cymru 2 per cent, UKIP 2 per
cent, and the British National Party 1 per cent.

Labour's support has fallen lower than in any Populus survey for The Times,
though three polls this year have put Labour on 29 per cent, including ICM last
month. The last time ICM recorded Labour as low as 29 per cent was in April
1987.

The survey suggests that 39 per cent of those voting on May 3 will treat the
election as an opportunity to cast a vote on the Labour Government's record.
Some 24 per cent say that they will treat it as a verdict on Mr Blair and 16 per
cent on Mr Brown, with 14 per cent saying they will be influenced by local, not
national factors.

Significantly, 30 per cent of Labour voters believe that the elections will
involve people reflecting their views on Mr Blair, and 18 per cent think that it
will be about Mr Brown as well as Mr Blair. Some 25 per cent of Labour voters
think that it will be a verdict on the Government's record.

Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,503 adults across the country aged over
18 by telephone between April 13 and April 15. The results have been weighted to
be representative of all adults. For details go to www.populuslimited.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 15, 2007

OPINION: Stand by for the most violent turf wars you've ever seen

BYLINE: Jasper Gerard

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 290 words


War has been declared by the the president of the French Horticultural Society
on those of his compatriots wishing to recreate le jardin anglais . And far from
defending these corners of Britishness, our nation of garden-keepers is joining
in the rout. This may surprise those who spent last weekend truffling for
two-for-one trays of pansies at B&Q, a pilgrimage that has replaced egg hunts as
the way devout Britons mark Easter, but the British garden is wilting. Because,
increasingly, all that sprout in back gardens are Wimpey houses, springing up
more evilly than stinging nettles. London alone is going to need 450,000 new
homes in a decade, to be built to Parisian density.

Front gardens, meanwhile, are concreted over to house off-roaders. And where
lawns remain, gardening supplements seeking a bit of the global warming
editorial action command us to take a scythe to every evil lupin and larkspur in
favour of palm trees, cacti and yuccas. Perhaps, for the complete Arizonan
aesthetic, they will soon suggest tumbleweed to blow across the desert that was
Dorking. Bad timing, this, for those of us who have only just seen the point of
gardening. I always felt it a pernicious activity, practised by a) members of
Ukip who drove around in regimental ties visiting National Trust properties, and
b) owners of slippers with aspirations to buy stairlifts.

But since moving to the garden of England, or, as a friend cruelly calls it, the
garden centre of England, I have been seduced. The cottage garden with its
changing shades and scents is arguably Britain's greatest work of art. We must
hope the French resistance holds out against the anti-garden Nazis, for Brittany
could soon be the last refuge for the persecuted British garden.


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 15, 2007

Escape: The back page: The Slow Traveller: Ed Gillespie is on a mission to
travel around the world without setting foot on a plane. Six weeks in, Europe is
speeding past the train window, leaving Ed's language skills in a blur

BYLINE: Ed Gillespie

SECTION: OBSERVER ESCAPE PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 726 words


'If it's Wednesday, then it must be Serbo-Croat.'

Since leaving Paris three weeks ago, Fiona and I have travelled through seven
European countries and often found ourselves mentally slipping the linguistic
clutch and grinding through the language gears in our brains. 'I can't seem to
engage German, it must be here somewhere.' We waggled the gear stick in vain as
a nonsensical squeal of twisted vocabulary and misaligned grammar structures
poured from our mouths. 'Una biere, bitte?' I asked at a bar in Berlin, mangling
three dialects into my own uniquely incomprehensible version of Esperanto.

Tackling Europe's more testing tongues, such as Polish and Dutch also leads to
peculiar losses in translation. My friend Tom is married to a Dutch woman and
has long battled with what, from an Anglophone perspective, are the slightly
deviant trickeries of her language. Producing the guttural, expectorant sounds
characteristic of Dutch requires dedicated practice. Having emphysema is also an
advantage.

Apparently relaxing the lips and letting the jaw hang loose helps. Tight-lipped
Englishmen can thus get themselves into sticky situations. Tom once proudly
congratulated his sister-in-law on completing her degree. 'So nice to see you
being slaughtered,' he purred politely to the initial horror, then amusement of
all around. The Dutch words for graduation and butchery being distinguished only
by one all-important letter.

It's also strange how people's expectations of your linguistic ability shift as
you move from country to country. Parisian waiters sneered and sniffed at my
inept touristic murdering of 'la belle langue', while Ljubljanans reacted with
glee that I had managed to grasp a single word of Slovene ('Hvala' - thank you).
As Tomasz, our excitable host in Prague put it: 'Why should you learn Czech?
Nobody speaks Czech!'

As well as the flabby language centre of our brains getting a good work-out, we
have also had to flex our atrophied mental arithmetic muscles.

Want to persuade a rabidly frothing eurosceptic member of the UK Independence
Party of the benefits of a single European currency? Easy, just give them a
series of exchange rate calculations. 'So, let's get this straight, £ 1 is equal
to euros 1.47, which is 10.86 Croatian kuna, or 361 Hungarian forints. Now if
you can just give me what you owe me in Czech koruny (41 to the £) we're all
square.' The euro suddenly makes perfect sense.

We have covered more than 6,500km over the last month, largely by train. This
has led to some idle musing on 'things you can do on a train that you can't do
on a plane'. Favourites include making your own sandwiches with a Swiss army
knife (attempting this on a plane these days is decidedly ill-advised - even if
you can get the knife through security - unless you fancy being shot by a nearby
undercover sky marshal).

Sitting opposite your fellow passengers in train compartments is another of
those special benefits of rail travel, as you can actually have a normal
face-to-face conversation without developing a chronic crick in your neck. It's
not always visually pleasing, or necessarily desirable however. Particularly if
your companion is a chain-smoking Croat whistling through the gap in his front
teeth and playing loud tortuous Europop medleys on his mobile phone speaker (a
privilege we enjoyed on the train from Zagreb). It is heartening to know the
public use of mobile phones as 'personal' stereos is not confined to south
London buses.

Last, but by no means least, is the luxury of a little legroom. The head-rest of
the seat in front isn't constantly about to chin you as it is on a plane. You
can stretch out your limbs, flex your buttocks with relish and relax, safe in
the knowledge that you don't have to constantly jiggle your thighs up and down
or wear those super-sexy surgical socks to avoid deep vein thrombosis.

So, trusted with our knives, 'interesting' compartment companions and bums that
are not yet numbed we're currently exploring Budapest (enjoying ghoulash, a good
hot bath and a bit of massage 'punishment'). After a quick shimmy through Krakow
and Warsaw we will hit Moscow as this goes to print.

There we will steel ourselves to face the linguistic and financial/mathematical
challenges to come on the big push East and the Trans-Mongolian express.
Langsam, au naturellement amigos!

www.lowcarbontravel.com


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 15, 2007

There are people out there prepared to fork out £ 50,000 for lunch with David
Cameron

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 80 words


There are people out there prepared to fork out £ 50,000 for lunch with David
Cameron (who won't promise to cut taxes but might use the proceeds of growth to
order an extra starter). The fundraising plans of the UK Independence party are
rather less ambitious. At a rally in Exeter yesterday, supporters got the chance
to have their photograph taken with party leader Nigel Farage for a fiver. You
could, of course, also have your picture taken without Farage. But that'd be
extra.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday

Cameron launches attack against crime and grime

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 371 words


DAVID CAMERON will put the environment at the heart of his party's local
election push this week, alongside a pledge to crack down on "crime and grime''.

The Conservative leader will launch his campaign with the slogan "Vote Blue Go
Green'' and a package of measures to target graffiti and boost recycling.

He will link the environment to crime and say that green issues run alongside
protecting communities from yobbishness. Anti-social behaviour and
anti-environmental behaviour are one and the same, he will say.

The Tory leader's insistence on the green message for the election campaign will
be seen as a clear signal that he is determined not to cave in to Right-wingers
who have been demanding a more traditional Tory approach that emphasises lower
taxes.

The Tories are fielding a record number of council candidates in the May 3 poll.
They are contesting 9,264 seats, or 88 per cent of the total. By contrast,
Labour is fielding its lowest number of candidates amid signs that it is heading
for a disastrous result.

Apathy among Labour activists as the Government plumbs new depths of
unpopularity is being blamed for the record low number of candidates with Labour
contesting just 60.6 per cent (6,360) of all the seats up for election. The
figure is 5 per cent down on last year and the lowest number of candidates
fielded by any party of government at this point in the electoral cycle.

The Liberal Democrats are contesting 64 per cent (6,667) seats - marginally
better than Labour and slightly more than last time.

The British National Party is running 717 candidates and the UK Independence
party 805 candidates, fewer than the 1,000-plus it claimed last week.

The Green Party said it was fielding 1,400 candidates.

Eric Pickles, the shadow minister for local government, said: "Labour activists
are turning their backs on Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. It is a sure sign that a
political party is in deep trouble when it cannot find candidates for almost
half the seats up for election.''

With control of 166 councils, the Tories are significantly ahead of Labour on 55
and the Lib Dems on 34.

Mr Cameron will embark on a tour of the north this week as he attempts to
demonstrate that his party is reaching out to voters there.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday

French go ahead with 'Sangatte 2' despite warnings

BYLINE: Peter Allen in Calais and Martin Banks in Brussels {CC} An estimated
1,500 refuges are currently camping in woodland around Calais or sleeping rough.
The French town is now building a centre, inset, to feed them.

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 653 words


A NEW refugee centre is being built in Calais despite warnings that it will
become "Sangatte 2'' and lead to a fresh build-up of migrants seeking to enter
Britain illegally.

The centre, taking shape on wasteland close to the town's main ferry port, is
being built by charities to offer free meals, showers and advice to hundreds of
refugees camping out in woodland and living rough in the town.

Although the centre will not provide overnight accommodation, it has already
drawn protests from within Britain, with Opposition politicians saying it will
become a stop-off point for thousands more immigrants attempting to enter
England.

Comparisons are already being made to the infamous Sangatte Red Cross Centre,
which finally closed in 2002 following an agreement between the French and
British governments.

Before its closure, refugees regularly made the short walk from Sangatte - which
housed 67,000 immigrants over three years - to the nearby Channel Tunnel
entrance, to try to jump on to slow-moving trains, or hide inside lorries
crossing to Britain on ferries.

Reports suggest that gangs of people smugglers are already preparing to target
those using the new centre.

Richard Ashworth, the Conservative MEP for the South East, said: "I'm sure the
charities behind this centre have the right intentions, but ultimately they are
creating another hub for people wanting to enter the UK unlawfully.

"This would create similar images to the ones we saw before Sangatte was closed
- large groups making a dash for the tunnel. A makeshift refugee camp would form
on the UK's border with detrimental consequences for both refugees and for
residents of south-east England.''

Mr Ashworth said he was urgently trying to arrange a meeting with the communist
mayor of Calais, who is currently involved in the French presidential election,
to discuss the issue. The MEP also called on the Home Office to intensify its
efforts to block the proposed centre.

Another south-east MEP, Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence party
said: "Sangatte 2 will provide the French authorities with an opportunity to
pass their own problems on to us again.''

David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "This blows out of the water
Labour's assurances they had reached an agreement to resolve this issue. Yet
again we see that under John Reid the shambles at the Home Office is getting
worse.''

A report by the charity Médecins du Monde warned of a "major humanitarian
crisis'' if the refugees in Calais were not given shelter.

There are currently an estimated 1,500 living in squalid makeshift camps -
including one in a wood nicknamed "The Jungle'' next to the new centre.

Yesterday dozens of them - many from Afghanistan, Iraq, Sudan and Iran - watched
the new centre take shape, with workmen hauling prefabricated sections into
position.

One, Ahmed, who described himself as an 18-year-old Somalian refugee, said: "The
centre will give us hope. There are vulnerable people among us, including women
with babies. The winter was terrible, but now we hope we can look forward to a
place which will welcome us.''

A spokesman for Calais Town Hall said: "The consensus is that it would be
preferable to have a permanent centre where charities could care for the
migrants instead of them sleeping rough.''

His comments were echoed by a spokesman for the Red Cross in Calais who said a
welfare centre was "vital'' on humanitarian grounds.

"We realise this is a sensitive matter but any new centre would offer basic
facilities such as showers and advice and, unlike Sangatte, people would not
necessarily be sleeping there.''

The Home Office said the number of refugees caught entering Britain illegally
from Calais fell to 1,500 last year from 10,000 in 2002, when Sangatte closed.

A spokesman said "There have always been humanitarian services for refugees in
Calais. There are no plans from the French Government to establish a new
Sangatte-style camp.''

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 14, 2007, Saturday

Labour will contest only two thirds of seats in town hall elections

BYLINE: Jill Sherman, Angus Macleod and Philip Webster

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 673 words


Labour has already thrown in the towel in four out of ten town hall seats to be
fought in the local government elections on May 3, it emerged last night.

Amid fears that it is facing one of its worst electoral drubbings, the party
will contest only 60 per cent of the seats up for grabs, the lowest figure since
Tony Blair came to power. In some areas it has been unable to find a candidate.

The statistics were released as the Prime Minister, facing a voter backlash in
Scotland and Wales, pleaded with Scottish voters not to punish him, because he
was going anyway. In his most explicit admission that his resignation statement
will follow soon after the elections, Mr Blair said that voters might "give me a
kicking one last time on my way out of the door".

But the consequences of voting for the SNP would be there for four years, and if
they went for independence it would be there forever. It would be a "crazy risk"
to elect the SNP, he said.

In an interview with The Times, Mr Blair said the idea that voters could back
the SNP in the belief that it would not open the door to the break-up of Britain
was "nuts".

Mr Blair said that he "despised" the SNP for attacking him over Iraq and
cash-for-peerages, when these were issues over which the devolved Parliament in
Edinburgh had no control.

Labour's decision to fight only 60 per cent of seats is a dramatic contrast to
1999, when it stood in 77 per cent. The drop is most marked in rural areas. In
the South West it is putting up candidates in 34 per cent of seats and in the
South East in 52 per cent.

As a result of the move, which will concentrate resources in more winnable
areas, some results have already been settled. In Fenland, for example, 18 Tory
candidates are standing unopposed.

Labour is contesting only 6,360 seats, down nearly 5 per cent since similar
elections four years ago. The Tories are contesting 88 per cent (9,264), higher
than 2003, while the Liberal Democrats are fielding candidates in 64 per cent
(6,667).

Labour sources conceded part of the reason for the drop was because of the
difficulty of finding activists willing to stand. They said that in some cases
it was a tactical decision not to field candidates in solid Tory or Lib Dem
areas.

But the figures, released by the Electoral Reform Society and the Tory Party,
also show that the Tories and Lib Dems have ceded seats. In Easington, Co
Durham, for example, 25 Labour councillors are standing unopposed.

Ken Ritchie, chief executive of the Electoral Reform Society said: "I urge the
parties to pause before breaking out the bubbly. This isn't a victory. This is a
very substantial defeat for the people of Easington and Fenland, who have been
denied their right to choose their local government."

The Tories claimed that Labour's organisation was in tatters. "Labour activists
are turning their backs on Tony Blair and Gordon Brown," said Eric Pickles,
deputy chairman of the Tory Party. "It is a sure sign that a political party is
in deep trouble when it cannot find candidates for almost half the seats up for
election."

The Tory figures show that the BNP is running 717 candidates while UKIP is
fielding 805, though the party says it is contesting more than 1,000 seats.

Mr Blair said: "The SNP are trying to say to people -which is another trick in
their campaign -that you can vote for the SNP and that won't be a vote for
independence but the point is, it is. That idea is obviously nuts. If you vote
for the SNP you are voting to start off down the track of independence, with
them in the driver's cab."

Rob Hayward, a local government analyst, said the proportion of seats contested
by Labour was the lowest of any set of elections while Tony Blair has been in
power.

"It is the lowest percentage since Tony Blair took power and probably in the
last 20 years. It reflects the current state of politics and the relative
weakness of the Labour Party."

Lord Bruce-Lockhart, chairman of the Local Government Association, said: "It
shows a worrying lack of belief in local democracy."

Leading article, page 20

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 60 DOCUMENTS

                            April 14, 2007 Saturday

Local elections

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 46 words


In yesterday's preview of the May local elections the map stated that in 2005
Cardiff North was narrowly held by Labour "against Tory candidate Sir Dai
Llewellyn''.The Tory candidate in 2005 was Jonathan Morgan, who is also the
candidate in May. Sir Dai is the Ukip candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 13, 2007 Friday

Cameron can't ignore devolution for England

BYLINE: Iain Dale

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 734 words


John Major is rarely seen as a visionary, but in the case of Scottish and Welsh
devolution he was ahead of his time. During the last, desperate days of the 1997
election campaign, he made an impassioned plea for voters to vote Conservative
to save the Union. His call fell on deaf ears. Few understood the consequences
of Labour's plans for devolution for Wales and Scotland for the Union and few
were even interested. They are now.

Devolution has always been a tricky issue for the Conservative & Unionist Party.
In 1976, a young Malcolm Rifkind and shadow Scotland spokesman Alick
Buchanan-Smith resigned from the front bench over their support for it. Between
then and the end of 2005, the party remained implacably opposed to any form of
devolution. The "D'' word was seen as a precursor to an inevitable break-up of
the United Kingdom. David Cameron's election changed that.

He made it clear that he believed devolution had to be made to work. This came
as something of a shock to the three anti-devolution Welsh Conservative MPs.
Cameron had little alternative but to appoint an English MP, Cheryl Gillan, as
shadow Welsh secretary. Gillan has charmed the Welsh politariat and worked
hand-in-glove with the leader of the Welsh Assembly Conservatives, Nick Bourne,
as well as the party's young Welsh director, Matthew Lane, who has quietly
rebuilt the party's campaigning structure.

Their mark of success will be to become the largest opposition party in the
Assembly and it looks as if they will achieve it. If only the same could be said
of the Scottish Tories.

Cameron is far more popular in Scotland than the party he leads. The Tory brand
in Scotland is so contaminated that many feel it is beyond rescue. We hear a lot
about shy Tories who won't admit they vote Conservative in opinion polls, yet in
Scotland the shy Tories have become virtually invisible - or they've decided to
vote SNP to give Labour a bloody nose. For a party that only 50 years ago
achieved 50 per cent of the popular vote to be floundering on 12 per cent is not
a blip; it's terminal unless something radical is done.

The radical option would be for Cameron to give the Scottish Tories full
independence. Cameron's inner circle believes the Scottish party is virtually
independent anyway. They have their own structure, their own list of candidates
and they write their own manifesto. The problem is that no one in Scotland
believes it. They believe that Edinburgh still takes its orders from London.

There is only one way to change that. The Scottish Conservatives need to become
the Bavarian CSU of British politics. The problem is that to carry through
change, you've got to have people capable of doing it.

But it's not just Scotland that is giving Cameron a headache. One of the great
mysteries of modern times is the failure of politicians of all parties to
grapple with English devolution. It's a bit like the Fawlty Towers sketch where
one can imagine Basil whispering: "Don't mention England. I did, but I think I
got away with it.''

The Conservative response has been to adopt a policy of "English Votes for
English Measures''. On the face of it, it's fair and easy to explain, but only
now are some Tories waking up to the fact that it's a short-term fix. English
nationalism is stirring.

In several recent polls, more than 60 per cent of the English believe that there
should be some form of English Parliament. Several members of the shadow cabinet
agree. So far, Cameron does not. In his article in this newspaper on Wednesday
he said that the answer was "not a separate English Parliament with more
politicians spending taxpayers' money''. He's ignoring the evidence. This is an
issue that is rising up the political agenda. It's also an issue where, if he
handles it correctly, he can regain support on the Right.

An English Parliament need not result in more politicians, bureaucracy or
spending. John Redwood has argued recently for English MPs to sit at Westminster
for three days a week and in an English parliament - still in the Commons - for
the other day. Sir Malcolm Rifkind wants an English Grand Committee - a proposal
also supported by UKIP and former Liberal leader Lord Steel. It's up to Ken
Clarke's Democracy Task Force to come up with recommendations, but "English
Votes for English Measures'' can form only an interim part of a long-term
solution.

Iain Dale is a former chief of staff to David Davis

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 13, 2007

Website reveals Brown and Cameron's shared Highland heritage

LENGTH: 393 words



HIGHLIGHT: Scotland's grip on the commanding heights of British politics was
confirmed yesterday by newly-indexed census data which shows that the country's
next prime minister is all but certain to come from Highlands farming stock.


Scotland's grip on the commanding heights of British politics was confirmed
yesterday by newly-indexed census data which shows that the country's next prime
minister is all but certain to come from Highlands farming stock.

Checks on 24 million names in seven censuses between 1841 and 1901 reveal that
both Gordon Brown and David Cameron's great-grandparents earned a living
shifting neeps and taties on late-Victorian Scottish farms.

Unfortunately the ancestral smallholdings were 150 miles apart, near Aberdeen
(the Browns) and in Invernesshire (the Camerons). The chances of historians
unearthing some fearful feud over sharp practice or poor quality beasts brought
to market were therefore dismissed by archivists as "close to nil".

Nonetheless, the findings may give a small boost to Ukip or to New Labour
plotters who still hope to find a credible alternative to the chancellor. Sir
Menzies Campbell of the Liberal Democrats completes a Scottish clean sweep in
the major parties, while Tony Blair was born in Scotland and educated at its
Eton, Fettes public school.

The censuses, indexed on ancestry.co.uk, show how the Brown family soldiered
along as agricultural labourers in succeeding generations, adding a little
stonemasonry and eventually, in the person of Gordon's father, ministry in the
Kirk. The Camerons rocketed ahead via rewarding marriages, which relate the Tory
leader on his mother's side to King William IV.

The data, the first full indexing carried out on Scottish census returns, also
reveals the humble origins of other Scots who were to become eminent in
different fields of British life. The Socialist pioneer and co-founder of old
Labour, James Keir Hardie, appears in 1871 as a coal miner in a Lanarkshire pit
and John Buchan, celebrated writer and governor general of Cathcart, is listed
in 1861 as an unemployed teenager in Renfrewshire.

Simon Harper of ancestry.co.uk said: "To have all the Scotland censuses fully
indexed online for the first time is exciting news for the millions of Scots and
those with Scottish ancestry who are thinking about or currently researching
their family history.

"The 1841 entries for Brown and Cameron's ancestors highlight the modern
relevance of historical records and in this case may further motivate Mr Brown
to ensure his family's upward political mobility by keeping blue-blooded Cameron
at bay."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               40 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 13, 2007 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

BNP goes bourgeois as party aims to take its message to rural seats

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Home Affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 1030 words


The British National Party has launched a push for Middle England votes as it
fields a record 754 council candidates - more than twice as many as last year -
and attempts to take its message out of cities into rural and suburban areas.

The extreme right-wing party had previously tended to focus on the regions where
it believed its appeal was strongest, including parts of Lancashire, West
Yorkshire, the West Midlands and the east London/ Essex borders.

Its progress until now has mainly been in former Labour strongholds, where it
cashed in on white working-class hostility to recent immigration to the areas.
But the BNP has now set its sights on previously unpromising territory well away
from the inner cities. From Cornwall to Cumbria, it is turning its attention to
a very different group of electors, with a view to building a more widely spread
national vote.

Voters in the North Yorkshire spa town of Harrogate, which has no tradition of
far-right activity, are to be presented with BNP candidates in 16 of its 19
wards. Five BNP supporters are standing in Torbay, Devon, three in North
Wiltshire and four in the Cumbrian council of Allerdale.

And for the first time the party will be fighting for votes in such areas as St
Austell, Cornwall; King's Lynn, Norfolk, and Bridling-ton, East Yorkshire. All
are predominantly white areas with a much stronger Conservative tradition and
presence, and anti-fascist campaigners suspect the BNP is attempting to exploit
fears over the arrival of eastern European workers to pick up support.

The BNP is also targeting right-wing voters who previously flirted with the UK
Independence Party but have been put off by its infighting. It is confident that
the new-look Tory Party under David Cameron has little appeal to these electors.

Nick Griffin, the BNP's national chairman, is leading the new strateg y by
making campaigning visits to areas - such as the Yorkshire cathedral city of
Ripon - where the party was previously invisible.

Although many of its new representatives are "paper candidates" with no
realistic hope of winning, the BNP still has a realistic chance of substantially
increasing its current tally of 56 councillors on 3 May. It has high hopes
particularly in the East Midlands, where it is fielding a total of 102
candidates, including 14 in Charnwood, Leicestershire, 12 in Lincoln, and 10 in
Broxtowe, Nottinghamshire. And it is also attempting to widen its support in the
West Midlands away from the region's major urban centres, fielding up five
candidates in Solihull, four in Shrewsbury and three in Worcester. The party is
also putting up 32 candidates for the Scottish Parliament and 20 for the Welsh
Assembly, entitling it to public funding towards its campaigns and party
political broadcasts.

It has a further strategy, targeting parish councils where it has picked up a
handful of seats where it has stood unopposed. It also has 75 candidates in town
and parish council elections next month.

Phil Edwards, the party's spokesman, said: "Many people are joining us - they
are fed up with the situation in the country. It's going to the dogs.

"There's a widespread fear we're losing our national identity and culture
through globalisation, mass migration and the expansion of the European Union.
No mainstream political party will tackle this."

Weyman Bennet, the joint secretary of the Unite Against Fascism campaign, said
the number of BNP candidates was a "wake-up call" that the party was trying to
emulate the electoral success of Jean-Marie Le Pen in France. He said: "It's
alarming that a party that denies the Holocaust and whose members are involved
in racist attacks are trying to win electoral respectability."

All the BNP's increased activity is part of a longer game, with the European
Parliament elections of 2009 in the party's sights. At the last elections three
years ago, the party came close to winning a big enough proportion of the vote
to secure its first Euro MP. Anti-racist activists also believe the BNP is on
course to capitalise on its surprise success in last year's local council
elections in Barking and Dagenham, where it captured 12 seats.

The party aims to build on that base to win one or two seats in the 2008
elections for the Greater London Authority, as well as securing a healthy vote
in the elections for London mayor.

There is little doubt that support for the BNP is on an upward curve, although
it gained less than 1 per cent of the national vote in the last general
election.

Its emphasis on "pavement politics" and the exploitation of fears over the
rapidly changing make-up of communities is reaping rewards in local elections.
It did not win its first council seat until 1993, when Derek Beacon was briefly
elected in Tower Hamlets, and 10 years ago only fielded 53 candidates.

It did not make its electoral breakthrough until 2002, when it captured three
seats on Burnley council, and has since then consistently increased its number
of candidates.

It is still invisible in the vast majority of the country, but has made in-roads
in locations including Dudley; Sandwell; Halifax; Bradford; Stoke-on-Trent and
Epping Forest.

Last year, when it picked up an average of one-fifth of the vote in the 356
wards it contested, it gained single seats in Redditch, Solihull, Leeds and the
east London councils of Redbridge and Havering.

The BNP is fielding five candidates in the "English Riviera" seaside town. The
local authority is dominated by Liberal Democrats. Adrian Sanders became the Lib
Dem MP in 1997 and retained a 2,000 majority in 2005.

BNP is standing in 16 out of 19 seats in the Yorkshire spa town, best known for
its conference centre and tea rooms. The council is split between Tories and Lib
Dems, who hold the Parliamentary seat.

The middle-class commuter town near Birmingham was a Tory stronghold until the
Lib Dems won the parliamentary seat in 2005. Last year the BNP won a foothold on
the council in a ward centred on a huge housing estate, and is now fielding five
candidates. The Tories are the largest party in a hung council.

Tories have a small majority in the council and won the constituency back from
Labour in 2005. The BNP is fielding four candidates.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 Fourth Edition

Cameron's test is to secure Tory votes 'north of Watford'

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

LENGTH: 645 words


Labour is bracing itself for the loss of about 600 seats in the local authority
elections in England on 3 May. But the elections also pose a headache for the
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, who may also face awkward questions
when all the results are known the following day.

What would normally be described as a "mid-term" poll should perhaps be regarded
as an "end of term" vote as Tony Blair leads Labour into his last election.

It offers voters disenchanted with Mr Blair or his government a free hit, making
it inevitable that the Prime Minister - who is expected to announce he is
standing down in the week following the elections - is booted towards the exit
door by an ungrateful public. The number of Labour councillors has fallen from
10,608 in 1997 to 6,176 (the lowest since 1977) and a further significant drop
is certain when 10,455 seats on 312 English councils are contested next month.
Labour hopes another "bloody nose" will soon be forgotten when the party elects
a new leader around the end of June. But poor results would further erode its
local activist base, adding to the sense that, after 10 years in power, its time
may be running out.

Conversely, the local elections should show that the wind is in David Cameron's
sails and the Tories hope that he is gaining enough momentum to carry him across
the finishing line at the general election. But it will not be as easy as it
looks.

Election experts think the Tories should gain at least 600 seats. More
importantly, they also need to win at least 40 per cent of the votes cast - a
necessary hurdle for the general election, although not enough to guarantee
victory (which depends on the gap between the two main parties).

Another crucial test for Mr Cameron will be to disprove claims by Labour that
the Conservative Party "barely exists north of Watford". The Tories should have
little trouble picking up council seats from Labour and the Liberal Democrats in
southern England. But Mr Cameron needs to make progress in the north, where his
party holds only 19 of the 162 council seats. Cities such as Liverpool,
Manchester and Newcastle, where the Conservatives used to win parliamentary
seats, are Tory-free zones. To look like a credible prime minister, Mr Cameron
needs to bridge that north-south divide but officials say it will be an uphill
struggle.

The battle to control the town halls is not a two-horse race as the two main
parties' share of the local vote has declined. The Liberal Democrats, who have
4,723 councillors in Britain to the Tories' 8,495, insist that three-party
politics is alive and kicking locally.

But the third party faces a tough fight and experts say 3 May could see a
"triangle effect", in which Sir Menzies Campbell's party takes seats from Labour
in the North but loses ground to the resurgent Tories in the South - not a good
omen for the Liberal Democrats at the general election. Sir Menzies may have to
explain very mixed results: his party could end up with more councillors but
lose control of some authorities.

The Green Party, which has 91 councillors in England, will contest more than
1,200 seats, while the far-right British National Party (BNP), which has 47
councillors, will contest a record 750 seats and the UK Independence Party,
which has about 12 councillors, will fight more than 1,000, also its most ever.

About 900 of the 1,134 independent councillors in England, such as those
standing for ratepayer or single issue groups, will defend their seats.

As usual, all the parties are insisting they have no great expectations. They
are highlighting issues such as crime and antisocial behaviour in an attempt to
overcome the apathy of voters. Local issues can sometimes be important, but most
of the one in three people who bother to vote on 3 May will be giving their
verdict on the national political scene as the Blair era comes to an end.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 11, 2007 Wednesday

Ukip plans to field 1,000 candidates in local elections

BYLINE: Toby Helm Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 361 words


THE UK Independence Party is to treble its number of candidates to more than
1,000 in next month's local elections, it announced yesterday.

The move is the latest stage in the eurosceptic party's plan to build strong
local power bases from which it hopes to launch an eventual push for seats at
Westminster.

At the launch of its campaign for the May 3 elections, the party's leader, Nigel
Farage, said that national success could only be built on local achievements.
This meant Ukip had to graduate from being a single-issue organisation
preoccupied with getting the UK out of the EU, to broader themes relating to
"independence''.

"We have been very successful in telling people what we are against. We are now
out there trying to tell people what we are for,'' he said.

"The key word is independence. We believe in national independence because the
best people to govern Britain are the British people themselves. But we also
believe in the independence of local government.''

Ukip is promising to give councils greater control over their own finances,
introduce binding referendums for residents on key local decisions and to end
outside appeals against planning decisions.

Mr Farage conceded that the party, which has around a dozen council seats across
the country, is unlikely to win many more on May 3, but he hoped it would gain
votes from people who felt their councils had become so "emasculated'' that
local elections had become pointless.

He denied the campaign was aimed at wooing Tories unhappy with their party
leader David Cameron's attempts to re-occupy the political centre ground.
However, he took his chance to highlight concerns among Tory right wingers.

"We are going to be targeting David Cameron as such. It's not our fault he has
decided to abandon the few sensible things the Tory Party stood for,'' he said.
"But this is about being positive, about providing real opposition.''

Ukip is modelling its attempts to build local networks on the success of the
Liberal Democrats.

"Look at how they built themselves, especially under Paddy Ashdown, from a party
that could hold its annual conference in a telephone box to one with 60 MPs,''
Mr Farage added.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 11, 2007 Wednesday

Ukip trebles candidates for local elections

BYLINE: Will Woodward, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 322 words


The UK Independence party yesterday said it has trebled its number of candidates
for the local elections in England in May but acknowledged it would do well to
return more than 15 extra councillors.

Launching Ukip's local election campaign at Westminster yesterday, leader Nigel
Farage promoted the party as a libertarian band of bureaucracy-busters that
would slash council tax, put power back in the hands of local leaders and give
people more control over their lives.

"If you want to hunt foxes, smoke cigarettes or ride fast motorbikes, that
should be your decision," he said.

Ukip is fielding 1,001 candidates, with its best hopes in Hull, Hartlepool,
Stockton-on-Tees and West Wiltshire.

The party fielded 319 candidates in last year's local elections and claims to
have won an average of 10.5% of the vote in those seats. Steve Allison, the
party's local election organiser, said the party had "15-18 councillors"
nationwide.

While often written about as a threat to the Conservatives, Ukip had done better
in Labour-held seats, with 14.5% of the vote compared with 9.2% in Tory seats,
Mr Allison said.

"I do not think we are going to be targeting David Cameron as such," Mr Farage
said. "It's not our fault he has decided to abandon the few sensible things the
Tory party stood for."

Mr Farage said his target in this year's local elections was to double the
party's share of the vote in contested seats to 20%. "I want to see us
increasing our number of councillors but I'd say I'd have to be surprised if we
won more than 15-20 new seats."

Most of the party's efforts are being concentrated on the Welsh assembly, where
Mr Farage believes Ukip can win two seats, in south-east and north Wales.

David Campbell-Bannerman, Ukip's deputy leader, unveiled plans for a six-month
policy review in 14 areas, mostly chaired by a mixture of academics and former
Thatcherites, to develop a fully-fledged programme beyond opposition to the EU.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           April 11, 2007, Wednesday

UKIP has town halls as target to grasp power

BYLINE: Anthony Browne Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 390 words


The UK Independence Party is to make its biggest assault on town hall politics
in the local elections next month by trebling its number of candidates to more
than 1,000.

Nigel Farage, the party leader, launched a manifesto yesterday aimed at wooing
voters with a range of local government policies, including giving residents the
right to demand binding referendums on any issue, enabling them to veto big
developments such as supermarkets.

UKIP also wants to give town halls far more powers over taxation, and to have
elected police chiefs. The party also suggests that English MPs should sit alone
at Westminster for one week a month to make England-only laws.

The manifesto is aimed at shedding UKIP's image as a single-issue party,
concerned only with withdrawal from the EU. Instead, it wants to woo disaffected
Conservative voters by moulding itself as a mainstream right-wing party, with a
variety of policies covering voters' concerns.

Mr Farage suggested that the local elections were the start of a concerted
campaign to use local success as a springboard to national recognition. At
present UKIP has about a dozen local councillors, but it expects to double that
and hopes to get 20 per cent of the vote in some areas. It also has nine members
of the European Parliament and two members of the House of Lords.

Mr Farage insisted that freeing town halls from Westminster's control was part
of the same "independence" message as taking back powers from Brussels. The
policy on allowing voters to demand referendums if they collect enough
signatures is based on policies in the US and Switzerland that have proved very
popular.

"We have been very successful in telling people what we are against; we are now
out there trying to tell people what we are for," he said. "The key word is
independence: we believe in national independence because the best people to
govern Britain are the British people themselves. But we also believe in the
independence of local government."

He said he hoped to win the votes of people who felt that councils were so
"emasculated" that local elections had become pointless.

His party was looking to emulate the Liberal Democrats' tactic of building a
reputation through targeted local successes, he said.

The real measure of the party's success on May 3 would be its results at the
Welsh Assembly election, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 10, 2007

Ukip to field record number of candidates

LENGTH: 452 words


Ukip is to field its biggest ever number of local election candidates in a bid
to shed its "single issue" image, the party announced today.

More than 1,000 candidates will be standing across England at the May 3
elections, on a manifesto of local referendums to decide local issues and
cutting council tax by 40%.

But launching the party's manifesto today, its leader, Nigel Farage, admitted
that Ukip was unlikely to add more than 15-20 seats to its current tally.

The Conservatives immediately dismissed a vote for Ukip as a wasted vote.

Eric Pickles, the deputy Tory party chairman, said: "A vote for UKIP is more
likely than not to end up helping Labour or the Liberal Democrats sneak in the
municipal backdoor."

Mr Farage, an MEP who was elected party leader last year, said that his party
intended to use the local elections as a "springboard" for later elections. The
party hopes to get its first assembly member in Wales on May 3.

He added that Ukip had to show it stood for more than just withdrawal from the
EU.

"We have been very successful in telling people what we are against; we are now
out there trying to tell people what we are for," he said.

"The key word is independence: we believe in national independence because the
best people to govern Britain are the British people themselves.

"But we also believe in the independence of local government."

He said he hoped to win the votes of people who felt that councils were so
"emasculated" that local elections had become pointless.

Mr Farage denied that the campaign would be directed particularly against David
Cameron in a bid to woo disaffected Tory voters - but he did take a swipe at the
Conservative leader.

"I do not think we are going to be targeting David Cameron as such; it's not our
fault he has decided to abandon the few sensible things the Tory party stood
for," he said.

His party was looking to emulate the Liberal Democrats' tactic of building a
reputation through targeted local successes, he said.

"Look at the way they built themselves, especially under Paddy Ashdown, from a
party that could hold its annual conference in a telephone box to one with 60
seats at Westminster," he said.

"This is the first year we have had a really collective effort to move forward."

Ukip's manifesto suggests that English MPs should sit alone at Westminster for
one week a month to make English-only laws.

Among other proposals in its manifesto are: a 40% cut in council tax paid for by
cutting government "waste" and boosting the local economy; axing regional
government, votes for local businesses; and elected police chiefs.

It also complains that "too many" immigrants are settling in the UK and promises
to "take back control" of the country's borders.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               46 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Ukip tries to rebrand itself for council campaign

BYLINE: Ben Russell Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 342 words


The UK Independence Party (Ukip) will today attempt to shrug off a string of
troubles as it launches its campaign to win a stronghold in local government.
The Eurosceptic party will attempt to re-brand itself the "independence" party,
with a local election manifesto under the slogan "Make May 3 Independence Day".

The party will field a record 1,000 candidates in the local elections in an
attempt to broaden its appeal away from the single issue of the European Union.
The Ukip leader Nigel Farage aims to emphasise the party's opposition to central
control from Whitehall as well as Brussels.

However, plans to change the party's name to the Independence Party have been
dropped after the Electoral Commission ruled it could clash with non-party
candidates standing as independents.

The party has faced a string of troubles in recent months. Last month Mr Farage
suspended Tom Wise, MEP for the East of England, after it emerged that Mr Wise
was facing an investigation into his expenses. Ukip also faces legal action over
donations totalling £360,000 which the Electoral Commission says are
impermissible because the donor Alan Bown, a former bookmaker, was not on the
electoral register when he gave the party the money. Mr Farage said he wanted to
gain support in local government to support a campaign for a Ukip seat in the
Commons. Ukip recently gained its first parliamentary seats when two peers
defected to the party.

Mr Farage said: "We have over 1,000 candidates standing in the local elections,
which is three times the number last time. For it to be a real platform for
Westminster we have to start winning seats in real numbers. At present we have
about a dozen councillors.

"Our ambition is to win seats in the Welsh Assembly and win some seats in
England. We want to look at independence in local government and the extent to
which it is undermined by Westminster as it has been since the Tories took away
power."

Mr Farage said his party was "old-style liberal" and aimed to take votes from
disaffected Conservatives as well as Labour voters.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 10, 2007 Tuesday 7:47 PM GMT

Lessons from the 1992 election

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 474 words


At the risk of inviting attacks for being sad and/or a political nerd, I did
spend much of yesterday watching BBC Parliament's coverage of the 1992 general
election, which I previewed here last week.

A much younger looking Tony Blair

And it was absolutely fascinating viewing, to see the events of the most
dramatic election night in recent years unfold again 15 years after they
occurred. The prime lesson for any observer of politics which I draw from
watching it all over again is to remember just how quickly the unimaginable can
become possible.

As Labour suffered its fourth successive defeat, there was a seemingly
never-ending stream of observers and politicians of all parties reckoning a)
that Labour could never win an election again on its own; a b) that there was a
need for a realignment of politics involving some level of co-operation between
Labour and the Lib Dems if the Conservatives were ever to be defeated.

As we know now, the events of Black Wednesday barely six months later put the
Tory poll rating down to 30 per cent - where it remained until about a year ago
- and the Major Government went down to that huge landslide defeat five years
later. But that didn't stop people like David Mellor confidently declaring in
1992 that his Putney constituency was by then "irrevocably" Tory.

Most of the commentators predicted that John Major's majority of 21 was
sufficient to see comfortably him through a full Parliament; again, that was
without the knowledge that there would be a string of by-election defeats and
defections - and of course the case of the euro-rebels who had the Tory whip
suspended for part of the Parliament.

In fact Europe barely merited a mention in the programme: the candidacy of a few
activists from the fledgling Anti-Federalist League (the forerunner of the UK
Independence Party) was not enough to prompt anyone into predicting just how
problematic an issue Europe would be for Major.

The amusing thing about it was to see how well both the presenters and the
politicians have aged over the years (or not, as the case may be). Youthful
Blair and Brown made appearances as did moustaches on the faces of Peter
Mandelson and Ken Livingstone. And the more observant will have had fun spotting
- in the footage filmed inside Tory HQ - the youthful press officer by the name
of Shaun Woodward who fifteen years is a Labour Government minister...

By the way, BBC Parliamenthas two further treats in store this year for fans of
archive election footage. On May 7, the May Bank Holiday, the channel is showing
the 1997 programme, ten years to the week after Tony Blair marched into Downing
Street. And on Friday October 5, at the end of the week of the Conservative
Party Conference coverage, there is a chance to watch the 1987 election night.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        April 9, 2007 Monday 7:55 PM GMT

A Eurosceptic in the body of a Tory?

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 284 words


David Cameron is a convinced Eurosceptic trapped inside the body of a Tory
leader who wants to win a General Election.

Should Cameron up the ante over the EU?

Or so his people would have us believe. Mr Cameron would presumably love to
"bang on" - to use his phraseology about Europe - as much as anyone, but just
doesn't think this is what will get him into Downing Street.

The problem is, much of the party rank and file - the ones who often win and
lose their council seats without overly disturbing the sleep of Tory HQ - are
still preoccupied with Brussels.

They see a direct connection with the apparent threat at grassroots level of
"fringe parties" such as the UK Independence Party and the far-Right BNP, and
mutterings over immigration from new Eastern European members of the EU.

Hence our story today about hundreds of Tory councillors defying party bosses
and backing Yorkshire multi-millionaire Paul Sykes's Speakout campaign for a
referendum on repatriating key powers (yes, including over immigration) from
Brussels.

They think their party leader is missing a trick by not upping the ante over the
EU.

They probably also think that Mr Cameron's dismissal of Ukip as mostly
"fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists" was a gratuitous insult to Tory
voters who often freelance with the anti-Brussels mob outside general elections.

On the bridge of SS Cameroon, the latest grassroots revolt won't force a radical
change of course but you might see the sails trimmed a bit. Mr Cameron said
recently that he needs Liberal Democrat votes to beat Gordon Brown.

A few traditional Eurosceptic Tory votes might come in handy too, I suspect.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 8, 2007

Review: ON TELEVISION: Hell's teeth, they really are serious

BYLINE: Kathryn Flett

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1457 words


WHAT SHE WATCHED

THE MOST HATED FAMILY IN AMERICA BBC2

SHRINK RAP MORE4

IN THE NIGHT GARDEN CBEEBIES

THE MOST Hated Family in America ? Says who? Louis Theroux? BBC2? Ooh, I don't
like a sweeping statement of a documentary title. Not that the family who
comprise the majority of the 71 congregants of the Westboro Baptist Church of
Topeka, Kansas, aren't appalling, but the title definitely infers that they are
the family most hated by most Americans, when I doubt most Americans have the
faintest idea who they are.

Hair-splitting aside, Theroux was on fine and comfortable form with this latest
bunch of scoop-your-jaw-from-the-floor sorts, whose potential to offend pretty
much everybody was awe-inspiring. You have to work really, really hard to be
this convinced you're right and the rest of the world is wrong, and - you had to
hand it to them - the Phelps clan are not slackers, cheerfully picketing the
funerals of dead American soldiers as far away as Chicago in order to preach
their frankly demented message: 'God Hates Fags', 'God Hates America' (because
it's full of fag-loving Americans), 'God hates dead American soldiers' (because
they have been fighting a war to defend American fags -yup, the logic gets a bit
skewed roundabout here), and that while you, I and all the other billions in the
world are straight off to hell in a V8 handcart with go-faster stripes, only the
71 members of the Westboro Baptist Church, Kansas, are on the fast-track to
heaven.

So far, so predictably Theroux, but the most interesting and, therefore,
baffling thing about the Phelpses, a cult by any other name, is that they are
not your average stoop-squattin', tobacco-chewin', banjo-strummin' bunch of
hayseed inbreds but a rather handsome, indubitably intelligent, articulate and
high-achieving extended family, who live in the world (the children go to local
schools and universities, the adults hold down good jobs, many as lawyers) even
while they are not remotely of it. They sing hymns well, too.

Fred 'Gramps' Phelps is the patriarch and preacher for whom fire and brimstone
are merely amuses bouches for a main course of eternal damnation. He was
underwhelmed by, and dismissive of, Theroux, curtailing their two brief meetings
with a barely suppressed rant:

Theroux: Isn't it an act of presumption, when you don't have all the information
about all the other churches, to assume you have privileged access to Grace?

Gramps: Oh, I know all there is to know about 'em.

Theroux: How?

Gramps: I'm not going to keep on talking to you. I know what you are. . . you're
an evil. . . (unleashes a terrifying smile). I don't even wanna go there. Good
luck to ya!

Gramps was an angry man, as was his daughter, the definitively charmless Shirley
('God hates fags. . . but don't think it's just those people who take it up the
tailpipe. . .'), another lawyer, mom of 11 fresh-faced, lean-limbed,
all-American (whether she likes it or not) kids, and prime mover in the
picketing. No target is too small for Shirley's placard-waving: on one occasion,
a hardware store selling Swedish vacuum cleaners was targeted on the grounds
that Sweden tolerates fags.

Interestingly, Shirley was filmed wearing a Nike T-shirt, even though I'm fairly
sure Nike tolerates fags too, possibly even allowing them to buy their brand,
but hey - Shirley has her hands full spreading the word of hate and presumably
if she thought too hard about the fags-as-consumers angle she wouldn't ever get
a night's sleep.

Theroux failed to find common ground with Shirley, unsurprisingly, but during
his three weeks with the family, he definitely made inroads with the younger
generation, not least with Shirley's rather charming and pretty niece, whose
name sounded like Jail, but probably wasn't, and who protested too much about
her desire never to get married and therefore live in the service of God, not
least because she was flirting with Louis as she said it.

Anyway, just as I was starting to think there were some upsides to living in a
tight-knit and supportive extended family, I checked out the family's entirely
insane website, godhatesamerica.com, which I recommend, if only to remind
oneself that America is not only the land of the free but also the
free-to-hate-each-other. It wasn't very pleasant watching Shirley's
seven-year-old son, Elijah, at the roadside carrying a placard, and it wasn't
very pleasant watching him looking small and sad and seven when a passing
motorist threw a drink at him. 'I'm sorry,' said his mom, 'I'm really, really
sorry' - but not as sorry as we were.

Sharon Osbourne would probably envy some aspects of the Phelps' tight familial
bond. On Shrink Rap (More4), she was interviewed by Dr Pamela Connolly, formerly
the artiste known as Pamela Stephenson, about her miserable upbringing, and it
was touching stuff: 'I wanted to come home and have my bed made and tea on the
table and do my homework. . . everyday family things. Dad [infamous rock manager
Don Arden] had a temper. . . I'm not saying I was abused, but. . .' But of
course she was. 'Surrounded by violence - violent people, violent talk, violent
behaviour' - out it all came, the beatings, being locked in the coalhole with
her brother. 'I wanted to go on picnics, for drives in the country and have a
normal family and do nice things. . .'

Instead, she followed Daddy into rock management where she earned herself a
reputation as a tough nut, and married Ozzy, who, coming from an equally
dysfunctional background, hit her when she was pregnant. 'But I was hitting him
back. And I could have left him and I didn't.' Having got herself a family, she
was apparently going to hang on to it by any means necessary. In her way as
fiercely focused as Shirley, you had to admire Osbourne's single-mindedness and
determination, if not her logic.

Meanwhile, I'm not sure how much Connolly brings to the party, apart from the
fact that celebrities are perhaps considered to be more likely to open up to her
rather than some civilian they don't recognise. She's a slightly irritating
interviewer, in fact, wearing the actress's version of a therapist's 'caring'
expression. And she butts in, which I'd always thought was a therapy no-no. But
it's undoubtedly a winning formula, and last week's guests - Osbourne, Stephen
Fry, David Blunkett, Sarah Ferguson, Robin Williams - were well chosen.

None the less, I can't help agreeing with the viewer who posted a comment on the
More4 site: 'I'm not convinced that televised therapy can ever be remotely
ethical. . . it is potentially extremely anti-therapeutic to expose someone. . .
to the scrutiny of a world which is unable to grasp the complexities of the
relationship between therapist and client. I feel it's basically exploitative.'
Well, of course it is - it's showbusiness. Good telly, though.

And so, briefly, to The Mark of Cain , the Channel 4 drama that was pulled from
the schedules at the precise moment I was talking about it on air to Jeremy Vine
while also getting berated for being a brown rice-munching, sandal-wearing,
liberal-lefty, Observer -reading sort (guilty as charged) by the rather irate
Ukip MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber region, Godfrey Bloom, who accused me of
selfishness - for admitting that I couldn't see a direct cause and effect
between the cogs of Channel 4's schedules and the wheels of the international
diplomatic process - and wondered if I had any children of an age to go and
fight in the war against terror, who might then get detained by some angry
Iranians for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. And I thought: steady
on, Godfrey - run too far amok with the logical inconsistencies and you'll have
that Louis Theroux round before you know it.

Anyway, though I obviously won't be reviewing it this week, I watched The Mark
of Cain on DVD alongside the father of my two sons, and I did say something to
the effect of 'please God they never join the army'. But before they both go and
sign up for the war on terror, this week has seen the appearance of the first TV
programme they have ever watched together, and both enjoy. In the Night Garden
(CBeebies) is the latest flight of surrealist primary-coloured fantasy from Anne
Teletubbies Wood, and it's fantastic.

We are all obsessed (the baby claps, the four-year-old thinks 'he's a bit
spooky!') with the little character called Makka-Pakka, who has a Princess Leia
'do and (I quote from the CBeebies website) 'lives in a little cave with his
favourite stones. He has a little soap and sponge to make sure all of the Garden
stones and all of the faces of the other characters are clean and tidy. He
travels around the Garden pushing his Og-Pog, which carries his sponge, his
uff-uff dryer and his special trumpet'.

Adorable! And so obviously a fag.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 8, 2007

UKIP man used public cash to gag accuser

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 278 words


A BRITISH MEP at the centre of a fraud investigation has used taxpayers' money
to prepare a libel action against a critic accusing him of wrongdoing.

Tom Wise, of the UK Independence party, used £ 8,000 of public money to take
legal action to silence someone accusing him of misusing public funds.

He used his MEP assistants' and secretarial allowance to pay his solicitor to
prepare a libel case over claims by Greg Lance-Watkins that he was abusing the
same fund by getting money under false pretences. Lance-Watkins, who runs a
Eurosceptic website, had accused Wise of having acted inappropriately by
claiming £ 36,000 a year from his assistants' allowance to pay for his
researcher, when he had arranged to pay her a fraction of that sum.

European Union rules state that in order to avoid fraud, payment for assistants
must be made direct to them or to a third party. The MEP is not allowed to
handle the money.

Wise had ensured the money was paid into his own bank rather than that of the
researcher by placing his account number next to her name on the form submitted
to the EU payments office. Once the money was put in his account he began to
spend it. Olaf, the European commission's anti-fraud body, is investigating the
case, which was exposed by The Sunday Times in February. Wise has repaid £
25,530 to the EU.

Following Lance-Watkins's comments about the case on the internet, Wise
consulted Stephen Welfare, a solicitor, who prepared a libel writ. Although no
action was taken, Welfare's bill of about £ 8,000 was paid for through the same
account Wise had been accused of misusing.

Welfare last week confirmed he had acted for Wise and had been paid by the EU.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 8, 2007

UKIP man used public funds to gag fraud claim

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 358 words


A BRITISH MEP at the centre of a fraud investigation has used taxpayers' money
to prepare a libel action against a critic accusing him of wrongdoing, writes
Daniel Foggo.

Tom Wise, of the UK Independence party, used £ 8,000 of public money to take
legal action to silence someone accusing him of misusing public funds.

He used his MEP assistants' and secretarial allowance to pay his solicitor to
prepare a libel case over claims by Greg Lance-Watkins that he was abusing the
same fund by getting money under false pretences.

Lance-Watkins, who runs a Eurosceptic website, had accused Wise of having acted
inappropriately by claiming £ 36,000 a year from his assistants' allowance to
pay for his researcher, when he had arranged to pay her a fraction of that sum.

European Union rules state that in order to avoid fraud, payment for assistants
must be made direct to them or to a third party. The MEP is not allowed to
handle the money.

Wise had ensured the money was paid into his own bank rather than that of the
researcher by placing his account number next to her name on the form submitted
to the EU payments office.

Once the money was put in his account he began to spend it. Olaf, the European
commission's anti-fraud body, is investigating the case which was exposed by The
Sunday Times in February. Wise has repaid £ 25,530 to the EU.

Following Lance-Watkins's comments about the case on the internet, Wise
consulted Stephen Welfare, a solicitor, who prepared a libel writ. Although no
action was taken, Welfare's bill of about £ 8,000 was paid for through the same
account that Wise had been accused of misusing.

Welfare last week confirmed he had acted for Wise and had been paid by the EU.
He said he had performed a similar function for other MEPs and had been paid in
a similar way.

Lance-Watkins said: "It does not surprise me that Wise has consulted lawyers
because UKIP is a party that has pursued me for speaking the truth about it.

"This is an another example of how they are misusing public funds.

"Having been elected to expose EU fraud and corruption they now seem to consider
public money to be readily available for their convenience."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday

Ukip's secret donor? No surprises there

BYLINE: JASPER COPPING AND ROBERT WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


WHEN THE leader of the UK Independence Party boasted that he had secured a
"mystery donor'' to save it from bankruptcy, supporters were left wondering who
their new saviour might be.

Now it can be revealed that the anonymous benefactor was none another than Alan
Bown, the retired bookmaker who landed Ukip in financial trouble in the first
place.

A court case due to take place in July, over pounds 363,000 of illegal donations
made when Mr Bown was not registered on the electoral roll, has left the party
facing financial ruin.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph last month, Ukip's leader, Nigel
Farage, said an "anonymous donor'' would save the party if the case was lost.
However, a statement slipped out on Ukip's website confirmed: "Alan is the
anonymous donor. He has also agreed to pay the party's legal bills.''

Ukip claimed the intention had not been to mislead, but a spokesman said some in
the party had feared that naming Mr Bown as donor might prejudice the court
case.

"It was important that we showed our members and supporters that Ukip was not
going to be bankrupted by this case. We wanted to show people that we were
covered,'' he added.

The dispute with the Electoral Commission centres on money donated by Mr Bown
between 2004 and last year.

Under British law, individual donors must be registered on the electoral roll.
Mr Bown dropped off the register for more than a year, making his donations to
Ukip in that time illegal.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 7, 2007, Saturday

Prescott sees himself as an ambassador to the world

BYLINE: Sam Coates, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 575 words


John Prescott is trying to hang on to the trappings of office after he stands
down as Deputy Prime Minister this summer, unwilling to give up his first-class
travel, five-star hotels and top-level junkets.

The Times has spoken to several of those close to Mr Prescott, who reveal that
he wants a seat in the House of Lords and to continue his role as an
international ambassador for Britain. He embraced his international
responsibilities enthusiastically after an affair with his secretary forced him
to relinquish his government department last May. Between September and December
alone he visited ten countries.

He is understood to be particularly keen to continue his work with the China
task force that he has chaired since 2003. This is not a government position and
would be in the gift of Gordon Brown, who may welcome the opportunity to keep
him out of the country.

One friend said: "John knows he played a key role in securing the Kyoto
agreement.

In China he has been developing a whole range of relationships with a society
that is different from ours. I would be highly surprised if he didn't continue
being involved."

Mr Prescott has also told friends recently that he wants to end up in the House
of Lords, or its successor. The offer of a peerage is a virtual certainty for
someone who spent a decade as Tony Blair's deputy.

He has emphasised that he is unwilling to force a by-election in Kingston upon
Hull by resigning from Parliament when he relinquishes his job as Deputy Prime
Minister, and would stay as an MP for the rest of this Parliament, friends say.

The only exception would be if he were offered a prominent international job
that would prevent him from sitting in Parliament, such as president of the
World Bank.

Adjusting to the back benches would be difficult, not least because of the £
75,000 drop in salary. Friends believe that he is unlikely to seek directorships
in the private sector and he has been very hostile towards those politicians who
have written memoirs.

One way of boosting his status emerged last week when Mr Prescott told friends
that he had been approached informally by the Council of Europe. He said he was
taken by the idea because it would not conflict with his being an MP or a peer.

Based in Strasbourg, it would provide an opportunity to travel between the
council's 46 member states. The council has a strong human-rights record, which
Mr Prescott is keen to advance after his work raising awareness of William
Wilberforce, the Hull MP who was instrumental in the abolition of slavery. A
colleague said: "John used to be a Member of the European Parliament and he
obviously sees the importance of Europe. He also used to be a member of the
council."

One Labour backbencher who saw Mr Prescott working with European colleagues
expressed surprise that he would want a role in Europe. "I heard him in meetings
sounding more Eurosceptic than Nigel Farage (leader of the UK Independence
Party).

He is monolingual and has no profile in Europe.

"Also, working with the Council of Europe, you don't have any staff to accompany
you and you fly economy."

'Two jets' John

Mr Prescott has visited the following countries since 2005:

Austria, Bulgaria, China, Congo, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Belgium,
Germany, Ghana, France, Finland, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia,
Mexico, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia,
United States of America

Source: John Prescott's office

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday

A new Dai dawns in Wales

BYLINE: Celia Walden

SECTION: NEWS; Spy; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 126 words


After getting their fingers burned with Robert Kilroy-Silk, you might have
thought that the UK Independence Party would be steering well clear of celebrity
candidates.

But no - who should the party be putting up in the Cardiff North constituency
for next month's Welsh Assembly election but the colourful playboy, Sir Dai
Llewellyn.

Launching his candidacy yesterday, the 61-year-old aristocrat described the
Assembly as "a load of horlicks'', adding that its debates were so insignificant
that "children in kindergarten have more important things to discuss.'' Ukip
scored nearly 1,300 votes in the seat last time, when the Conservatives lost by
a mere 540 votes. As such, Sir Dai's intervention is unlikely to be welcomed by
the Tory candidate Jonathan Morgan.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday

BYLINE: EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 431 words


JAMES Naughtie of Radio 4's Today show showing his 'sensitive' side, God help us
hosed down luvvies Sir Trevor Nunn and Sir Ian McKellen with flattery over the
Royal Shakespeare Company's new production of King Lear. The Highland-reared
Renaissance man purred reverently: 'Nunn and McKellen share a friendship, a
passion for Shakespeare's text and a burning commitment to the theatre and now
you can see it each night, there, on the stage..And still it grows, night by
night..Ian McKellen has taken the character of the king into himself, but only
so that it can be released again and confronted.' Look out!

SALMA Hayek ( pictured) is to portray notorious 1940s murderess Martha Beck,
with John Travolta as the policeman who arrests her. Beck and her lover Raymond
Fernandez terrorised Michigan, luring 17 women to their deaths. The murderess,
who weighed 200lbs, had to perch on the armrests of the electric chair. Quite a
challenge for gorgeous Hayek. So the producers decided to make Beck 'a
beautiful, troubled woman'.

THE Duke and Duchess of Marlborough are living it up in Palm Beach separately.
While the Duchess, Rosita, arranges an art exhibition, 'Sunny' Marlborough is
escorting Indian millionairess Lili Mahtani, 48 (pictured) to parties. Mahtani
described as 'a bit of a hot tamale' by a fellow socialite persuaded the Queen
Mother's hard-up cousin, suave bachelor John Bowes-Lyon, to launch her into
London society.

ROLLING Stone Keith Richards's claim that he 'snorted' his father's ashes
prompts a pop music source to call wondering if Yoko Ono devoured the
post-cremation remains of John Lennon without absorbing his musical talent.

Miss Ono is from Japan, where ancestor worship involved eating a 'spiritual
tablet' containing something belonging to the deceased. However, forthright Miss
Ono is bound to have told us if she did dispose of her husband in this way.

WILL thirsty playboy Sir Dai 'Seducer of the Valleys' Llewellyn, 61, invite his
old friend, society drone Rupert Deen, to help him canvass votes in Cardiff,
where he's standing for UKIP in the Welsh Assembly elections? If so, I hope no
one there remembers that Old Harrovian Deen required police protection after
remarking in a 1970s TV documentary, while drinking champagne in a bubble bath,
that 'pheasants are for shootin', dogs retrievin' and Welshmen for goin' down
coal mines'.

DR Eamonn Butler of the Adam Smith Institute introduces his latest bulletin
tastefully with 'the awful news that the England football coach was found alive
and well in his hotel room. . . ' Email:

ephraim.hardcastle@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Y

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday

Comment & Debate: How to win an election: Cameron has three big obstacles to
clear if he's going to take advantage of Labour's state of decay

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 628 words


For the past decade, Tory strategists vainly attempted to encourage media
indignation at Gordon Brown's 1997 raid on pensions. Peter Lilley, shadow
chancellor at the time, awarded it the Robert Maxwell Memorial prize for
services to the pensions industry. But no clever line or empirical analysis
could deliver the desired breakthrough.

All that changed last weekend, when a civil service warning from 1997 was
released. Brown was buried in an avalanche of negative headlines. When his aide
suggested that the CBI had recommended the policy change there was a furious
denunciation from the director-general of the time. The whole episode points to
the transformation of British politics. Journalists, bullied for years by the
New Labour machine, have turned. Lobby groups like the CBI are no longer afraid
to criticise Labour. They have seen the polling on the wall and are more
interested in establishing good relations with Cameron's Tories. In a few months
the Tories have seen a modest opinion poll lead grow into an election-winning
advantage, but there is no room for complacency. Three major hurdles stand
between Cameron and a bottle of bubbly at No 10.

The biggest obstacle is the persistence of the Lib Dems. They are the bindweed
of politics. Once they've invaded territory they are stubbornly resistant to
eradication - and they hold seats the Conservatives need for a working
parliamentary majority. Although Ming Campbell's uninspiring leadership has
knocked a few points off his party's standing, there is no guarantee that
well-regarded Lib Dems will be ousted. The Tories need to match their local
energy as they did in Ludlow, Guildford and Newbury at the last election. Tory
HQ also needs every middle-English voter to understand that a Conservative vote
is the only sure way of ending Labour government. Campbell's five tests for
Brown were a strong hint that he is inclined to prop up a minority Labour
government.

Obstacle two is an unhappy right flank. A YouGov poll found that 30% of Tory
voters chose Ukip or the BNP as their second choice. Others could stay at home
if they find nothing appealing on the Tory menu. Cameron must be as greedy for
political territory as Tony Blair once was. While the Tory leader competes for
new voters in the centre ground, he must also jealously guard his natural base.
This shouldn't be too difficult. Combining, for example, a commitment to helping
the world's poorest people with tough immigration policies will appeal to a
broad cross-section of voters. Punishments for persistent offenders do not mean
that Cameron can't explore ways of helping young men off the conveyor belt to
crime. Recent policies on marriage and police reform suggest he is sensitive to
maintaining the breadth of the party's coalition, but too many missteps like the
green tax consultation will split the core vote.

Macmillan's famous "events" represent the third obstacle, but some are not
unpredictable. Brown may look best against Cameron in a crisis. An economic
downturn may play into his hands as it benefited John Major in 1992. "Hold on to
nurse for fear of something worse" could be Labour's YouTube strategy, as images
of Brown alongside world leaders are spliced with images of a bicycling Cameron.
The Tories need more greybeards - voters will not entrust a troubled Britain to
inexperienced hands.

It's a little too early to say that this election is Cameron's to lose, but
there is a stench of decay about Labour. Finding ways of unseating Lib Dems,
maintaining the breadth of the Tory coalition, and demonstrating a maturity on
issues of prosperity and security, are now Cameron's keys to No 10.

Tim Montgomerie is the editor of ConservativeHome.com and former chief-of-staff
to Iain Duncan Smith tim@conservativehome.org

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 60 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 5, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Bouncing Baronet heads off to seduce the valleys;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

LENGTH: 242 words


A short public service announcement for female members of the Welsh Assembly:
the international boulevardier Sir Dai Llewellyn - also known as "the Bouncing
Baronet" and "the Seducer of the Valleys" - hopes to soon be among you.

Sir Dai will stand in May's Assembly elections in Cardiff North as a candidate
for the UK Independence Party. He vows, should he somehow win the seat, to fight
to destroy the Assembly from the inside. The rotund, zippy cad, 61, will be
closely observed on the campaign trail lest he add to his multifarious romantic
endeavours. On one occasion in South Africa, he literally, in his own words,
"fell through the floor attempting to roger a girl called Nettie" - a friend's
girlfriend.

His return to Wales is a surprise: only four years ago he fled the land of his
father (the 1952 Olympic gold medallist showjumper Sir Harry Llewellyn) for his
pad in Mayfair, claiming that he had been driven out by Welsh "xenophobic
nationalism". The promotion of the Welsh language was part of a "racist agenda",
he claimed, adding that he would only return to the country to be buried.

Sir Dai tells Pandora that he feels "betrayed" by the Tory Party over the
European Union - whereas with Ukip he can campaign "to get out of Europe, and to
abolish the Welsh Assembly", which is "a waste of money obsessed mostly with
putting up signs".

He adds: "I speak four languages - German, French, Spanish and Italian - so you
can't call me xenophobic."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday

All 129 MSPs face the sack under UKIP

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 103 words


UKIP has launched its Holyrood election campaign by calling for all 129 MSPs to
be sacked.

The UK Independence Party, which aims to pull Britain out of the EU, says
Westminster should sit as a UK-wide parliament for three weeks a month debating
laws affecting the whole of Britain.

On the fourth week, it would become an English parliament, while Scottish MPs go
to Holyrood to debate Scottish laws.

UKIP's chairman, David Campbell Bannerman, said the move would save around
Pounds 10million a year in MSPs' salaries and expenses.

He added: 'We will keep the Scottish parliament, but we think MPs can do the job
of an MSP.'

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday

Anti-smoking fanatics

BYLINE: Chris Buckland

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 135  words


THE anti-smoking fanatics got their claws into Wales yesterday, forbidding the
dreaded weed three months ahead of prohibition spreading to England. But at
least the European Parliament has gone remarkably quiet about its plans for a
Euro wide ban after it miserably failed to exclude ciggies from even its own
premises. The Brussels building that houses MEPs was supposed to go smoke-free
on January 1. But a dedicated band, led by UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage, refused to obey stub-it-out jobsworths. He tells The Whip: "We
overturned the ban by sheer bloody- mindedness. Now there are smoking areas back
in bars, coffee rooms and offices. Once one person refused to obey, then
everyone else joined in. It was my first proper victory in Europe." Wales
beware: Farage is heading for Cardiff tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 60 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             April 3, 2007, Tuesday

Something odd from UKIP down with the dinosaurs

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 524 words


A party which cannot drum up its leader to launch its manifesto is clearly
facing a handicap. When the leader in question is awaiting a court hearing over
the source of party donations, then the handicap is an impediment. And when his
deputy prefers taking questions from the media rather than his supporters,
something odd is going on.

UKIP, the Eurosceptic party, has never done well in Scotland. With no Tory party
of any consequence to challenge from the right, it lacks a rationale. On the
basis of its present plans, that trend is unlikely to be reversed. Proposals to
sack all MSPs, reduce debates on Scottish affairs to one day a month, to abolish
the Welsh Assembly and set up an English Parliament, as well as leaving the EU,
does not quite add up to a roller-coaster campaign in a country which voted
solidly for devolution, and takes Europe in its stride.

The launch was held at Dynamic Earth in Edinburgh, an exhibition centre devoted
to the history of geology. At the entrance was a man dressed up as a dinosaur.

This is the kind of thing that politicians dread, which may account for the
absence of the party's controversial leader, Nigel Farage, who is mounting a
legal challenge to demands that he repays his foreign donations.

In his place was David Campbell-Bannerman, who is a great-great-great grand
nephew of the Liberal Prime Minister, Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, and,
therefore, has politics in his blood. The Liberal gene, however, appears to have
by-passed him. Sir Henry was a champion of devolution. Not so his descendant. He
unveiled his party's slogan: "Sack MSPs. Restore Democracy." This seemed like a
contradiction in terms, but Mr Campbell-Bannerman said that the plan would be to
replace MSPs with Scottish MPs, who would travel north for debates on Scotland
once a month. This was precisely the situation which Scots voters rejected so
decisively a decade ago, but Mr Campbell-Bannerman was undeterred:

"Devolution has been expensive and disappointing," he said. Scrapping MSPs would
save £ 10 million a year. How much would it cost to pay them off? he was asked.
"What pay off?" he demanded. "They've done pretty well out of Holyrood already."

Mr Campbell-Bannerman moved on to UKIP's favourite theme -Europe. Brussels
accounts for 70 per cent of our laws and interferes with every aspect of our
lives. Did we realise that light-bulbs were governed by EU rules; that Scottish
regiments had been sacrificed to European demands for a single army; that even
our traffic was going to be monitored by a system which could be exploited by
foreign powers?

"Do we want the Chinese looking at where we're driving in Scotland?" The
audience seemed undecided, but the prospect of Peking being able to study the
short-cut to Lesmahagow seemed to leave them unmoved.

Questions from his own supporters, who included a "lay apostle" wanting to know
about UKIP's policy on shared needles, and another demanding rhetorically
whether we were in favour of fraud, began to test Mr Campbell-Bannerman's
patience. "Are there no more questions from the media?" he asked despairingly.
We smiled politely, pushed past the dinosaur, and left.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
