
                               1 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday

Don't take them for granted, Mr Cameron

SECTION: 1ST

LENGTH: 599 words


THE Daily Mail has considerable admiration for David Cameron. We were the first
paper to back him for the leadership because - as we said at the time - he has
'the X-factor or charisma to reach voters in a way no Tory leader has in years'.

And what an impact he has made. In just 18 months, his energy and flair have so
transformed his party that it is possible to believe it might (just) win the
next General Election.

But behind that achievement lies one worrying question: why does he feel the
need repeatedly and gratuitously to offend his friends and natural supporters?

Take the wholly unnecessary furore over grammar schools - a subject that wasn't
even on the political agenda.

Admittedly, in his remarks over the weekend, Mr Cameron had some sensible things
to say about the need for smaller schools in the state sector, better discipline
and a 'grammar' stream in every subject.

So why, earlier, did Shadow Education Minister David Willetts claim that grammar
schools 'impede social mobility' - a preposterous charge to lay at the feet of
aspirational parents? To make matters worse, Mr Cameron - who was privileged
enough to attend the most rigorously competitive school in the world - then
denounced supporters of grammars as 'delusional'.

But then, this isn't the first time the Tory leader has seemed positively eager
to pick a fight with the very people who should be firmly on his side.

Remember how one of his mouthpieces urged them to reject Churchillian values and
embrace instead the views of the Leftwing Guardian commentator Polly Toynbee,
whose visceral loathing of middle-class values knows no bounds?

Remember his denunciation of UKIP members - most of them disillusioned Tories
whom he needs to tempt back into the fold - as 'fruitcakes' and 'closet
racists'? And now Tory supporters are presented with the most gratuitous insult
of all. Hard on the heels of the grammars row, he authorised Shadow Chancellor
George Osborne to claim that the Tories are the 'natural heirs' to Tony Blair.

Wiser Tory advisers were so horrified by the fateful words 'the heirs to Blair'
that Mr Osborne took them out of his speech at the last minute. But it was too
late. The news had already leaked..

Now the damage is done. A sensible speech on the need for more choice in health
and education - which Mr Osborne says would be threatened by Gordon Brown - is
now overshadowed by a deeply damaging unuttered soundbite identifying the Tories
with Blairism.

Never mind that Mr Blair's record on both education and health is hugely
disappointing despite the extra billions.

Of course this is all part of a cynical strategy devised by Tory spinmeisters.

What a clever wheeze, they say, if we paint ourselves as Blair's allies to
expose the Left-wing, statist, high-spending Brown.

Even more worrying is the eagerness of the party's high command to appease the
liberal commentariat and the BBC, who have so damaged the Tories over the past
ten years But this course is full of risks. Mr Cameron's support in the polls is
slipping. And if he really thinks natural Tories have nowhere else to go he may
be making a huge mistake.

David Cameron is a seriously talented politician with so much to offer. He is
right to court those voters who in the past have rejected the Tories' harsher
policies.

But the unhappiness on his own benches is a warning of what could happen if he
takes his core support for granted.

For the first time in years, the Tories are a credible political force.

Shouldn't they unite behind what they believe instead of parading their
differences? And stop gratuitously offending their supporters?

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 31, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

The UK Inebriation Party;
Pandora

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

LENGTH: 140 words


Earlier this month, the UK Independence Party's communication boss resigned, was
fined £60 and ordered to pay £400 compensation after drunkenly harassing a
Yugoslavian rail worker at 3am in Victoria station. Adrian Lithgow called the
Eastern European "a piece of shit", asked, "Have you got a work permit?" and
then launched a hot pasty at nearby staff.

I hear that just hours before, Lithgow was clinking glasses with none other than
the gadfly Ukip leader Nigel Farage and his deputy David Campbell Bannerman.
Fancy! Elephant-minded readers may recall how, in February, Farage was found in
an "extremely weary" state in one of Strasbourg's Irish-themed watering holes.

Blurts Farage, who behaved himself during the evening with Lithgow: "We had a
committee meeting and had dinner. It was nothing terribly substantial. He was
fine when I left."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday

CARIBBEAN IMPOSTERS HOUNDED INTO THE DOGHOUSE

BYLINE: PATRICK COLLINS

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 124

LENGTH: 815 words


KEVIN PIETERSEN is not famous for his sensitivity, yet there was a moment
yesterday when he seemed to find events here at Headingley vaguely distasteful.
He had just swatted another inept delivery to the cover boundary when he stared
back down the pitch in bewildered concern.

It was not right. This was a Test match, a contest between a superior pair of
cricketing nations. You ought to earn your runs in such matches, they should not
hand them to you like food parcels.

Those of us who sat at ringside when Larry Holmes punished the elderly Muhammad
Ali all those years ago could recognise Pietersen's agitation.

The moment passed,of course, and just as Holmes renewed his murderous assault
upon Ali, so Pietersen returned to the task of pulling, driving, hooking and
cutting his way to the most comfortable double-century he will ever

score. But his brief unease had registered with his audience.

It is strange to feel sorry for a West Indies cricket team; rather like feeling
sympathy for Tiger Woods or Brazil or the All Blacks or even an Australian
cricket team.Memories of all that raging pace and hostility are too fresh for
pity, even when they have only started to suffer the kind of punishment which
they routinely inflicted.

But the feeling is genuine, for their decline has been dramatic. The
disappearance of the great fast bowlers has been scrupulously chronicled.

Their

journeymen successors barely aspire to first-class standards, being almost
wholly devoid of the speed and control which their predecessors took for
granted.

Yet the batting is equally disturbing.

Time was when an England team would pause in their celebrations of a West Indies
wicket to look at the pavilion.

There they would see a Richards, a Richardson or a Lara sauntering down the
steps,arms swinging and mayhem in mind. And the smiles would freeze on English
faces.

All is changed.Yesterday at Headingley, as the wickets went clattering,
England's bowlers rubbed their hands and polished their averages. Memories of a
traumatic winter were put far behind them.

For the most part, these were the same bowlers who had been battered in Brisbane
and pasted in Perth by the likes of Ponting and Hayden.

One or two of them then moved on to further suffering all over the Caribbean as
their one-day game was found miserably wanting. But here they were, charging in
with something like menace, while the West Indies batsmen cheerfully committed
all kinds of suicide.

We suspected that England's bowlers were being seriously flattered, but we knew
beyond question that the heirs to Richards and Lara were far worse with the bat
than anybody had feared.

In fairness, the Headingley crowd was not much given to excessive reflection.

In the West Stand, once the infamous Western Terrace, they wore the colours of
Bradford City, Sheffield United or Leeds United. They drank lager by the gallon
and they bellowed their songs; louder still and louder as the day wore on and
the drink took hold.

It was fancy dress Saturday, which Yorkshire crowds observe with disconcerting
relish.

All the usual suspects turned up; nuns and nurses, cops and convicts, a swagger
of matadors and one worrying fellow

who sat alone at the end of a row, dressed as a St Trinian's schoolgirl.

You found yourself hoping he had not arrived by bus. Not that all Yorkshiremen
share the same tolerance of eccentricity.

My drive to Leeds on Friday evening was enlivened by Geoffrey Boycott's outrage
at the incursion of a streaker.

He did not appreciate the efforts of the pursuing stewards. 'We don't need
stewards,' spluttered the sage, 'we need Alsatians!' Christopher
Martin-Jenkins,a solicitous soul, asked what might happen if the dogs bit the
stewards rather than the streaker. Boycott snorted. Alsatians knew precisely who
to bite, he declared.

What is more, they should be encouraged to sink their teeth into 'anything
dangling'.

Some might find that rather alarming.

In fact, given Geoffrey's political leanings, it was probably an exposition of
UKIP penal policy.

There were no streakers yesterday.

Indeed, there was nothing to agitate the Greatest Living Yorkshireman, save for
the mindless mediocrity of the visitors' batting. It was a veritable orgy of
hapless swishing against the swinging ball, a refusal to strive for the
standards which Test cricket demands.

Late in the afternoon, with the light failing and the West Indies floundering,a
leglessly intoxicated young man was ejected from the West Stand by a couple of
policemen.

At his side, a figure in flowing white bridal dress and lace veil clutched his
arm and pleaded with the officers to show mercy.

Closer inspection revealed that the 'bride' had the shoulders of a second-row
forward and a chin as blue as ink.

The pleas went unheeded, and as the couple were marched away, the West Indians
stared across from their dressing room, envying them their early escape.

Boycott would have sent in the dogs.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGHS AND LOWS: RYAN SIDEBOTTOM IS MOBBED (FAR LEFT) AFTER DISMISSING
DWAYNE BRAVO, WHO TRUDGES OFF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 27, 2007

7 days: People: Pendennis: Oh, those Ukip 'moderates'

BYLINE: OLIVER MARRE

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 126 words


A blow to Nigel Farage's attempts to portray his UK Independence party as
moderate and welcoming. A detailed complaint, in 40 sections, has been received
by broadcast regulator Ofcom about a Channel 4 programme called The Nazi
Expedition , which told the story of Bruno Beger's 1938 trip to Tibet in search
of the origins of the master race. An outraged viewer says that the film was
biased and damaged the Nazi doctor's reputation. Beger was an officer in the SS
and a convicted war criminal who wrote approvingly of the elimination of Jews.
So who is his staunch defender? None other than Roger Croston, an enthusiastic
member of Ukip who has stood for the party in several elections, both general
and local. At least he is sticking up for those he admires.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Stop this eco garbage

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS; 31

LENGTH: 1412  words


GLOBAL warming is the burning issue of today. It has become a modern religion,
but I confess I'm a heretic. Hundreds of years ago, I would have been burnt at
the stake. Thank goodness that couldn't happen now.

In eco-obsessed Britain we would be too worried about the "carbon footprint" of
the bonfire - too much ozonedepleting carbon dioxide, you see.

This week, we are all talking rubbish. Local councils have already
surreptitiously fitted micro-chips to the wheelie bins of four million
households to monitor how much waste they are generating.

What next?

Methane is 20 times more likely to contribute to global warming than carbon
dioxide. Will we have microchips fitted to our loos? Will we be forced to wear
underpants with integral gas holders to contain vapour emissions?

You think I'm joking? You heard it here first. I would like to take such
predictions with a pinch of salt but the Health and Safety Police have issued a
warning that salt is dangerous, too.

Now Environment Secretary David Miliband wants us to have five bins - one each
for paper, card, plastic, glass and food scraps. Garbage Police will, no doubt,
be appointed with powers to dish out on-the-spot fines for the heinous crime of
putting the cornflakes packet into the newspaper bin. As regards organic waste,
this may be academic. Many councils want us to have our own recycling plant at
home. They want to string out the gaps between bin collections for so long that
the maggots will eat everything anyway.

What does all this contribute to saving the planet? It is mostly hot air, in my
view. I'm all for cost-effective, commercial recycling and, as a gardener, I am
an enthusiastic composter. But, very often, all the effort involved in carefully
sorting the rubbish is wasted.

The garbologists (binmen as we used to call them) dump it all together in the
one truck. And individual outings to the bottle bank often consume more energy
in fuel and the mechanics of waste transformation than is recovered from the
recycled materials.

Recycling has become a ritual, rather like the rain dances of past cultures. It
may not do any actual good but it makes us feel we can assuage the terrifying
forces of nature which are actually beyond our control.

POOR John Prescott. How unfair to get flak for jetting off this week to the US
and the Caribbean on his "farewell tour".

Understandably, he and his entourage of six are flying first-class and staying
in top-class hotels. What is the point of the trip?

In the US, he will speak for 15 minutes on "sustainable cities, tackling climate
change and the global economy". In view of his natural talent for shredding the
spoken word, I'm not expecting to hear a definitive answer to the w orld's
problems.

The Foreign Office has refused to disclose w hat he is doing in Barbados. Anyone
for croquet, perhaps?

Some people have criticised this jaunt as an egotistical waste of money. They
point out that Two Jags became No Jobs in the last Cabinet reshuffle because
Tony thought him too useless to be given any serious responsibilities.

How ungenerous!

I must come to my old parliamentary colleague's defence here. I, for one, am all
for him going abroad. In fact, it would have been cheaper for us all if he had
chartered the SAGA Rose and spent the entire last 10 years cruising the oceans.

Instead of which, he has been blundering around Whitehall, presiding over
expensive disasters from transport to regional assemblies and hatching plans for
concreting over southern England.

That said, I shall be sorry to see Prescott go. In a way, he is a comic genius
like Tommy Cooper.

The difference is Cooper was trying to be funny. To paraphrase Disraeli: "If a
traveller from afar were to be informed that such a man were Deputy Prime
Minister, he might well begin to comprehend how the Egyptians worshipped an
insect."

THE fiasco over Home Information Packs is quite a balls-up indeed. The Minister
directly responsible is Yvette Cooper. But she also happens to be Mrs Balls.

Her husband is Ed Balls, one of Brown's junior M inisters at the Treasury and
widely tipped f orCabinet promotion after the Second Coming in June.

On the evidence of Mrs Balls's total ineptitude, she ought to be on the way out
just as he is on the way in - like one of those old-fashioned novelty weather
forecasting devices.

EVEN the judges are calling for a review of Britain's divorce law after a GBP
48million payout to Beverley Charman (above). But I am totally against any
change. Having been bankrupt until three years ago, I want my share of the pot
if Christine dumps me for a toyboy like Louis Theroux.

Although the current law looks pretty barmy, it plays very well for m'learned
friends.

London is now the divorce capital of the world for two reasons. First, because
pre-nuptial agreements are unenforceable here and, secondly, the half-and-half
rule declares that the house-spouse gets an equal share of the assets even
though she (or he) did not actually make the fortune.

So, it's trebles all round in The Wig & Pen. In Legal London, business is
booming at the Bar - both types in fact. Rich potential divorcees flock to
London as their preferred forum.

It used to be said that a lawyer is a learned gentleman who will rescue your
estate from your enemies only to keep it himself. Now, the settlements are so
large, even the most rapacious legal fees make only a tiny dent in the most
spectacular awards.

This reminds me of when Christine interviewed Ivana Trump for her BBC TV series.
This took place on Ivana's yacht in Monaco harbour, and we had to remove our
shoes when we went aboard as they might have soiled the six-inch pile white
carpets (I kid you not). But Ivana had some good advice for deserted wives:
"Don't get mad. Get everything."

I hope I never have to.

WHAT on Earth is "Dave" Cameron up to? Many of his party's supporters were
volubly upset by what he had to say about grammar schools recently, so what
soothing words did he have for them? He called them "delusional".

I detect a trend here.

UKIP clocked up 2.6million votes at the last Euro elections in 2004. A
respectable tally, considering the Tories managed only 4.4million. It is a fair
bet that at least 1.5million of those UKIP supporters formerly voted Tory, just
like me. At the 2005 General Election, the Tories were runners-up in 26 seats
where UKIP's vote exceeded the winner's majority.

Cameron needs these votes; yet last year, Cameron described UKIP voters as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

Dave thinks his party's traditional supporters have mental problems and the best
way to cure them is by administering electric shock treatment.

This is a fascinating electoral strategy. I have been wondering whose advice he
is listening to.

Could it possibly be Gerald Ratner? Remember his 1991 speech at the Albert Hall?
He described one of his firm's products as "total crap" and boasted that some of
his earrings were "cheaper than a prawn sandwich". His customers were outraged
and the company went into meltdown.

Dave thinks he can do better. We'll see. The trouble is that a growing number of
potential Tory voters think his new, Blairite policy, Tory Lite, is the one
that's "total crap".

THE Nazis and the Communists employed an army of spies and snoopers to control
the people living under their yoke. Every block of flats had its narks and paid
informers, noting who was coming and going, who was doing or saying what. Modern
Britain seems to be going the same way. Big Brother is watching you.

There are 4.2million CCTV cameras in this country - about one for every 14
people - and now traffic wardens are to be issued with spy cameras to strap to
their heads. These robo wardens are also to be given power to issue penalties
for litter, fly-posting, graffiti and dog-fouling.

Everyone wants to crack down on anti-social behaviour, but what happens to the
limitless amount of digital information coincidentally gathered on the
law-abiding majority? The Information Commissioner, Richard Thomas, recently
voiced fears that Britain was "sleep-walking into a surveillance society".

Under the guise of fighting terrorism, this Government has done more to curtail
civil liberties than any peacetime Government since Lord Liverpool's nearly 200
years ago.

Christine did well on I'm a Celebrity. . . Get Me Out Of Here! but do we want to
live a reality TV existence in our daily lives?

I WOKE up this morning and thought I'd gone deaf. Suddenly, I focused
remembered. . . Christine for a "girlie week" away, leaving me

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAREWELL: Prescott
CRITICAL: Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday

Tories and grammars

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 143 words


SIR - As former Conservative MPs, we have always regarded the sturdy defence of
grammar schools as an article of faith for the Conservative Party.

Their existence is essential if there is to be freedom of choice in education.
They have lifted thousands of able children to success out of social
deprivation. They have promoted the virtues of merit, hard work and competition.
They have trained fine young minds to contribute of their best to society.

Conservative MPs, councillors and activists have not fought for 50 years to
defend this key belief to see it summarily betrayed by the unprincipled clique
that has taken over the Conservative Party.

On this issue, as on others, only UKIP remains as a party of conviction,
defending great ideals, our freedoms and a country of which we are proud.

Sir Richard Body

Roger Knapman

Christopher Gill

Piers Merchant

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 26, 2007 Saturday

Comment & Debate: This will only be Camerons clause 4 moment if he wins: The
problem for the Tory leader is how to win an election in a post-Blair world with
a party tuned in to pre-Blair policies

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1052 words


David Cameron did not conspire to ignite the Conservatives' burning row over
grammar schools. The Tory leadership has stumbled into its so-called clause 4
moment rather than sought it. As so often, cock-up explains as much about this
standoff as conspiracy. Nevertheless, a defining passage in the inter-party
contest of the post-Blair era has arrived.

Tactically it would have made no sense to choose this, of all moments, to pick a
fight with the grassroots. This is inevitably Gordon Brown's time to shine, not
Cameron's. The Tory leader's eyes are on his upcoming Commons clashes with the
new prime minister in July, not on an education policy he thought had been
settled months ago.

However, Cameron has not hesitated to put the internal argument that has sprung
up to a wider purpose. At the heart of the Cameron project is the recognition
that the Tory party has unfinished business if it is to be electable. As Oliver
Letwin is fond of saying, the Tories have proved they are good at winning 32%
support. But 32% is nowhere near enough. The challenge is to win the further 10%
which could put Cameron into Downing Street. With the Tory share of the polls
averaging at about 38% (exactly the party's showing in this week's Guardian-ICM
survey), the Tories know they are still underperforming.

A report this week - not denied - claimed that Tory frontbenchers have recently
been briefed on polling showing that voters still believe that Cameron is
leading "the same old Conservative party" that has lost the last three general
elections. According to The State of the Conservative Party Brand - the title of
the briefing tells you a lot about the managerialism of modern politics - the
big threat to the Tories is not from Ukip or the BNP on the rightwing fringes,
but still from Labour and the Liberal Democrats in the electoral centreground.

Even so, the hostile internal response to the David Willetts speech of May 16
caught the Tory high command off guard. The explanation for their mistake is
straightforward. For Willetts, the speech promoting independent academies rather
than grammar schools as a motor of social mobility was primarily about fleshing
out a policy on the 11-plus already announced by Cameron 18 months ago. Yet for
many Tory activists this was not really about policy at all. It was totemic. It
was about trashing their culture.

Willetts is more aware than most Tory politicians that the meritocratic
individualism that has dominated Tory thinking for the past quarter-century
coexists with a more inchoate cultural conservatism. For many Tories, grammar
schools are not primarily about social mobility; they are just about maintaining
things as they once were. The Tory writer Sir Peregrine Worsthorne magisterially
upbraided the Spectator this week for promoting aspiration rather than
contentment. "The great majority of the nation, thank God, are not social
climbers," he pronounced.

This is a dilemma with which the Tory party is familiar. From Sir Robert Peel to
Cameron, Tory leaders have always agonised over whether to oppose change or to
embrace it. In the end, they have mostly adapted to it. The post-1997 Tory party
took a long time to reconcile itself to the fact that Tony Blair's ascendancy
rested on something other than presentational tricks. After three election
defeats it finally did so - and elected Cameron. But a new sort of leader did
not necessarily imply a new sort of party.

Stanley Baldwin's 1933 observation that "this postwar world is full of prewar
minds" precisely sums up Cameron's difficulty. Cameron's party will not easily
win an election in the post-Blair world by offering pre-Blair policies. Hence
the fresh embrace of academies and the abandonment of new selective schools in
Willetts's speech. Yet much of his party's mental apparatus, reinforced by the
columnar dinosaurs of the Daily Telegraph and the Daily Mail whom Cameron so
loathes, remains defiantly pre-Blair. Not all of it does, though. If the Tory
party went back to a grammar schools policy, claimed no less a Conservative icon
than Bill Deedes yesterday, it would be "insane".

That chimed with Cameron's own robust words this week, when he dismissed any
renewed debate about selection at age 11 as "pointless and delusional", and
challenged the Tories to decide if they wished to be "an aspiring party of
government" or a mere rightwing debating society. Echoes too of Blair's language
13 years ago, when he challenged the Labour party to delete common ownership
from its constitution - and won - thus cementing his credibility with the public
as a new kind of moderate who could tame his party.

Yet the two situations have differences as well as similarities. The voters may
like Cameron but - according to ICM this week - nearly one in three believes the
party is to the right of him. That gap in turn discourages them from believing
both that Cameron himself is a centrist or that he is as centrist as they are
themselves. Some 65% of voters in the ICM poll identify themselves as in the
centre, or slightly left or right of centre. Yet only 47% of them put Cameron in
that same territory. That is why Cameron has not yet clinched the deal and why
his party's ratings are in the high 30s not the low 40s.

Cue a "clause 4 moment"? Sort of. But don't forget the whole point of a clause 4
moment. You have to win it in order to have one. Blair confronted a totemic
anachronism and won. Cameron now finds himself doing something similar but on a
messier and more contentious issue without a defining ballot to cement his
victory. Without that proof he will always be vulnerable to the "more show than
substance" charge.

Actually that may not matter in the end. The Tory party has done very well under
intelligent showmen such as Baldwin or Harold Macmillan, and may do so again. No
one can yet say with certainty whether Brown will be a more formidable adversary
than late Blair or a weaker one. One must also beware of assuming that Blair's
triangulation strategy in the 1990s is the only one worth replicating for
Cameron. But Cameron's strategy is now delivering lower ratings than it was. He
is more vulnerable to his rejectionists than before. This is a pivotal moment.
Cameron knows it. His party knows it. And, most important of all, Brown knows it
too.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 25, 2007 Friday

Never underestimate Brown in battle

BYLINE: Denis MacShane

SECTION: FEATURES; COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1003 words


As Labour moves seamlessly from Blair to Brown, the Conservatives are finding
that the incoming Prime Minister is not living up to their expectations as an
easy skittle to knock over.

Any careful observer of Brown over the past three decades could have told them
that this Len Hutton of a politician, once at the crease, is very difficult to
get out. During the 18 months of Cameron's leadership, Brown has had to fight on
two fronts: the Tories attacking him as old Labour and the Blairites insinuating
he is insufficiently New Labour. But with the passage of Blair, and the swell of
Blairites swearing allegiance, he is free to come out of his lair and do battle.

First, Brown will highlight Cameron's three-front problem. The Tory leader has
to struggle against the hard Right of Ukip and the BNP as well as the solid
presence of the Lib Dems. So Brown will make Cameron do the splits as the
Conservatives have to talk Left to get Lib Dem voters and hard Right to stop a
few thousand Ukip or BNP votes preventing Tory gains. Cameron's third front -
and his biggest challenge - is to reform his party. Blair and Brown invented New
Labour; Cameron has to live with old Tories.

Second, Brown will not be outflanked on Britishness or on being tough on crime
and against terrorism. Ministers such as Liam Byrne and Margaret Hodge are
talking new language on immigration and social housing. Hodge's intervention
provoked a storm of protest from the multiculturalist intelligentsia but it is
Labour, not Cameron, talking language that makes sense to the millions who still
live on council estates. After years of denial over Islamist fundamentalism,
younger ministers are using a newer, more robust language.

Above all, Brown will focus on Cameron. Brown can be bold in areas such as
global warming, family breakdown, or Britain's relations with Europe because
Cameron has not thought through the consequences of easy first-draft policy
positions. The strongest opponents of almost any measure to reduce CO2
emissions, encourage recycling or renew infrastructure are nimbyish Tory
councils. Brown and Labour MPs will have fun exposing die-hard Tory councils'
refusal to sign up for the Notting Hill agenda.

As Blair and his fund-raising team quit No 10, Labour will encourage the media
to probe the occult party political financing which the Tories are involved in.
Brown has plenty of rough, crude backbenchers trained in the Norman Tebbit
academy of polecat politics ready to come out of the traps. By contrast, the
Eton, Oxford and Household Division Tories promoted by Cameron have effortless
charm but don't yet know how to land punches on Labour. In the past month,
Cameron has called three confidence votes: on the Chancellor, the Defence
Secretary, and the Health Secretary. The moves failed miserably with poor
dispatch-box performances from George Osborne and Liam Fox. And Cameron's best
parliamentary performer, William Hague, has been busy making more than pounds
400,000 from telling anti-European jokes at business dinners since he became
Cameron's No 2. Labour veterans are delighted with the dilettante approach of
Hague and other top Tories, for whom outside earnings are so enticing.

They cannot believe the prime minister in waiting's luck over the Tory
grammar-school debacle. For 15 years, Blair has patiently weaned his party off
its addiction to denying parents choice and selection as they worry over giving
their children the best start in life. Now the Conservatives pop up to announce
that it's game over for aspiring parents who do not have the money of the Tory
front bench to send their children to private schools.

Brown has many other weapons up his sleeve to transform the political landscape,
and he has an eager team of ministers of state waiting to replace old Labour
warhorses in the cabinet. He will remain ruthless on economic stability.
Interest rates rose to seven per cent early in his chancellorship but, as David
Blunkett notes in his diaries, Brown was ready to see them rise even higher to
squeeze out inflation. He will take no risks with markets and promote Britain as
an open economy.

Brown has begun to cut tax rates and will keep shooting Tory foxes as they
appear. He can turn the NHS into an agency or trust so that it would take its
own decisions on how to finance different needs and be able to move into the
co-financing territory which is sorely needed. He can decide that housing gets
the kind of priority Harold Macmillan gave it in the 1950s. The trade unions
detested Blair and the Prime Minister did little to hide the fact the feeling
was mutual. Brown has better relations with the unions, who will do their best
to deliver a benign industrial relations climate in the run up to the next
election.

Henry Kissinger has noted that Cameron appears to be simultaneously hostile to
the US and to Europe. Brown, by contrast, has said he backs Israel in "bad times
as well as good times''. Cameron has yet to learn that support for America, or
for European partnership, or for Israel, is not to be turned on and off
according to passing headlines. You either stand for something or you don't.
Brown has known for the last 15 or so years what he stands for. It is to keep
Labour in power. The Blair metaphor of a "clunking fist'' was only part right.
Brown in full political flow is not a fist-fighter. He is more like a D-Day
landing, meticulously planned and overwhelming in its force.

David Cameron has had the easiest of times since he was elected to face Blair in
his last going, going, gone 18 months. Now he will face a Brown ready and ripe
for battle. The casual assumption of many Tory MPs that the next election is in
the bag is conceit hiding a deeper complacency. Brown likes power and
understands how to use it. Cameron has yet to show he understands that
opposition is a full-time profession. The Bullingdon Club, PR work for Carlton
TV and accepting large cheques from Lord Ashcroft are not the best training to
enter No 10.

Denis MacShane is Labour MP for Rotherham

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday

Calling from a mobile in Europe will cost you less;
EU'S CAP ON PHONE TARIFFS WILL START AFTER THE HOLIDAY SEASON

BYLINE: SEAN POULTER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 670 words


THE cost of using a mobile phone in Europe will fall drastically over the next
three years following a decision to cap charges for calls between member states.

The EU's move will deliver savings to millions of holidaymakers and business
travellers.

The first cuts are not, however, expected to come into effect before September,
conveniently missing the summer holidays.

In addition, consumer experts claimed the tariff caps had been watered down too
far in the face of opposition from the telecommunications industry, with the
British Government in particular recommending less swingeing price cuts.

They also expressed concerns that phone companies could seek to recoup their
lost profits by raising charges elsewhere.

The controls were supported by a vote of MEPs in Strasbourg yesterday and final
approval is expected to be given at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on
June 7.

Currently, UK customers can be charged up to 94p a minute both to make and
receive calls from abroad.

These high charges, repeated across the EU, allow the big mobile networks, such
as Vodafone, Orange, T-mobile and O2, to make Pounds 5.7billion a year.

Those prices will fall in stages over the next three years, after which time the
caps will be dropped unless it is felt consumers still need protecting from
higher charges.

For the first year of the staggered reductions, the cost of making a call will
be capped at 33p a minute, plus VAT, which is higher than the original proposal
of 27p. The cap for receiving calls will be set at 16p a minute, plus VAT, which
is far above the 10p first envisaged.

Network operators will also be required to spell out charges more clearly,
sending text messages to customers informing them of the call charge when their
phone is used in another EU state.

British Trade Minister Margaret Hodge said the final deal was good news for
consumers.

She said: 'Price cuts on roaming are likely to be in place by late summer.

'This will be great news for holidaymakers using UK mobiles abroad as well as
bringing down costs for UK businesses when they travel overseas.' Fiona Hall,
Lib-Dem MEP and industry spokesman, was also enthusiastic, saying: 'Today we see
a clear case of the practical benefits of the European Union.

'Action at an EU level has come to the rescue of consumers, who had been
exploited and manipulated by the mobile phone companies for far too long.'

However, Euro- sceptic UKIP leader and MEP Nigel Farage dismissed the whole
process as 'a giant publicity stunt' for the EU.

Consumer experts shared his scepticism about the practical benefits to
consumers.

Rob Barnes, a mobile tariff expert at the price comparison website
moneysupermarket.com, said: 'While the new deal looks great. . .the EU seems to
have backed down when faced with stiff opposition from UK and European
operators.

'The average cost of making a mobile call in the UK is between 3p and 10p per
minute when on a contract, yet calling home from another EU state will still be
up to 33p per minute, plus VAT.' He added: 'Costs will be forced down over time,
but it seems we are a long way from fair call charges throughout Europe.' Chris
Frost, mobile phone expert at price comparison company, uSwitch.com, said the
move 'may not be all it is cracked up to be'.

He said: 'This new legislation does not take into account popular holiday and
business destinations outside the EU, such as the U.S., Canada, Australia,
Switzerland and Asia.

'We could potentially see roaming rates increased in these countries to recoup
the fall in revenue.' The European consumer body BEUC complained that the price
caps were not low enough and would allow the industry's big hitters to continue
to make huge profits.

A spokesman said: ' Unfortunately, the price caps are still too high and are not
linked to the actual costs for operators.'

s.poulter@dailymail.co.uk

How mobile roaming charges will fall

Prices per minute excluding 17.5% VAT

Outgoing call Incoming call Current standard charge 55-94p 30-94p

2007* 33p 16p

2008* 31p 15p

2009* 29p 13p

* Capped price

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHEAPER CALLS: BUT CRITICS SAY THE PRICE CAPS DO NOT GO FAR ENOUGH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 24, 2007, Thursday

Godfrey Bloom

BYLINE: Jeremy Austin

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 79 words


"When I suggested they could not earn their living as prostitutes it was because
of their high moral ethic and work rate." So says Godfrey Bloom, UKIP MEP, who,
as we reported on Tuesday, caused a rumpus when he contended that no member of
the parliamentary women's committee could earn a living thus. He also pointed
out that "no female MEP has ever been raped in the European Parliament, so it is
statistically unlikely that they ever would be". No doubt they are appeased.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 24, 2007, Thursday

Schools row was test of Cameron's leadership

BYLINE: Francis Elliott, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 242 words


David Cameron chose to make the grammar schools row a test of his leadership
after private polling gave a warning that deserting voters believed that he was
leading "the same old Conservative Party".

The Tories' biggest threat is not from UKIP or the BNP but the Liberal
Democrats, according to secret research presented to the party's front bench
last month and leaked to The Times.

The polling also showed that voters are clearer about what they like and dislike
about Mr Cameron than Gordon Brown and that Tory voters are much more positive
about the Conservatives than the party's activists.

Mr Cameron has faced the biggest revolt of his leadership over the past week
after a speech by David Willetts, the Shadow Education Secretary, in which he
said that the grammar schools were holding back children from poorer families.
The Tory leader insisted that he did not set out to "pick a fight" over the
issue of education and social mobility. But he had chosen to make it a "key
test" after coming under heavy attack from MPs and the Tory grassroots.

Close allies said that he was determined to prove that the party was being
consistent and to counter voters' suspicions that it cared only for the well
off.

Evidence to explain his decision is contained in The State of the Conservative
Party Brand. Stephen Gilbert, a former Tory campaign director, presented the
document's key findings to frontbenchers last month.

Letters, page 22

Anatole Kaletsky, page 23

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday

Dear Dave, please do not call us delusional

BYLINE: KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 424 words


DAVID Cameron's decision to drop traditional Tory support for grammar schools
provoked further anger from party members yesterday.

The Conservative leader has claimed supporting grammar schools is 'delusional'.

But in a series of leaked emails, his rank-and-file members accused Mr Cameron
of behaving like a 'head prefect' and showing them contempt.

Writing to the website ConservativeHome, one claimed: 'I find it extraordinary
that Mr Cameron should openly refer to a large swathe of Conservatives as
"delusional". He behaves like the Head Prefect knocking recalcitrant little
fourth-formers back into line.

'This is not leadership and illustrates his tendency to crack under pressure.'
Another wrote: 'Of course Cameron has been very patronising and rude.

'He is a condescending patrician who is born to rule. He isn't going to take
dictation from jumped-up petit bourgeois who went to grammar schools and
comprehensives.' One went as far as demanding an apology from the leader,
adding: 'We are not "delusional" and find that word extremely offensive.'

Lord Tebbit yesterday became the most senior party member to turn on Mr Cameron.

The former trade and industry secretary said: 'My own party has now rebranded
itself as the party to implement New Labour policies more effectively.

'God knows there is need of a party to do that but I thought it was the Labour
Party.' A Tory councillor last night announced he was defecting to the UK
Independence Party in protest at the policy. David Pickles, who sits on Sutton
Council in South London, said: 'The decision not to support grammar schools,
which are the best way for children from poor backgrounds to do well, is frankly
astonishing.' Mr Cameron denied he was trying to 'pick a fight' with his party's
Right wing.

'This is the direction which we must go to deliver the aspiration, the
opportunity and the social mobility that all of us Conservatives feel passionate
about,' he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme yesterday.

TWO OF THE FURIOUS TORY EMAILS

I cannot believe that Cameron's performance [on BBC Radio 4's Today programme]
would have made anyone more likely to vote Conservative.

He sounded a bit rattled, defensive, and most of all, contemptuous of much of
his own party. This is a mess and a wholly unnecessary one.

Cameron has little experience of having to struggle but those of us who
struggled to get into grammar schools will not forgive his latest sell-out.

Selection was only quashed to prevent the production of good, sound people who
were always the backbone of local Conservativism.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 23, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Cameron stands by grammar schools U-turn

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

LENGTH: 481 words


David Cameron has dismissed allegations that he does not understand why grammar
schools are popular because of his privileged background and Eton school
education.

The Tory leader is refusing to back down over his decision to drop his party's
pledge to create grammar schools, which has enraged many Tory MPs including some
of his frontbench team. Instead, he wants to expand Tony Blair's flagship city
academies.

Last night Lord Tebbit, the former Tory chairman, accused Mr Cameron of aping
New Labour. "My own party has now rebranded itself as the party to implement New
Labour policies more effectively. God knows there is need of a party to do that,
but I thought it was the Labour Party," he said.

Mr Cameron's background was put into the spotlight as the row over grammar
schools showed no signs of dying down. Some of his critics accuse him of not
understanding the "aspirational classes".

David Pickles, a Tory member of Sutton Council who has defected to the UK
Independence Party over the U-turn on grammars, asked: "What right do a group of
public schoolboys have to halt social mobility in this way, and instead support
city academies which are nothing more than a vanity toy for rich men?"

The criticism was put to Mr Cameron yesterday during a fiery interview on BBC
Radio 4's Today programme. He accused presenter John Humphrys of reviving the
"class war" after being challenged over the fact that more than half his
25-strong Shadow Cabinet attended private schools - five of whom, including
himself, went to Eton.

Humphrys, who was educated at Cardiff High School and did not go to university,
told him: "That is how you get on in this country. Are you honestly telling us
that those five people in your Shadow Cabinet are the best people, because they
went to Eton or what?"

The Tory leader, who spent two days working in a Hull secondary school last
week, said it was wrong to suggest that privately-educated people did not
understand what happened in comprehensive schools.

Mr Cameron accused Humphrys of making a "ludicrous argument" and said that his
Shadow Cabinet was chosen on merit. He insisted that he was "opening up" his
party by ensuring that more women and black and Asian people were chosen as
parliamentary candidates.

"I don't follow my party, I lead it," he said. "This is the direction in which
we must go to deliver the aspiration, opportunity and social mobility that all
of us Conservatives feel passionately about."

He warned that the Tories would not be "fit to govern" if they failed to meet
parents' priorities. He said selective education was unpopular with them because
they "don't want children divided into successes and failures at 11."

Later Mr Cameron told a press conference that he was not deliberately seeking a
battle with party traditionalists. "This is not some political strategy I am
engaged in. I'm not trying to pick a fight with anybody."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            May 23, 2007, Wednesday

Cut exams but make them harder, say Tories

BYLINE: Francis Elliott and Alexandra Frean

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 531 words


* Cameron faces new schools battle

* Tebbit attacks apeing of Labour

Pupils will face fewer exams under a review of Conservative education policy
being drawn up in response to concern about over-testing in schools.

The new policy document, being drafted by a Tory policy review group, is
expected to recommend the downgrading of national curriculum exams at age 14 and
more assessment by classroom teachers.

The move is likely to open up a new front in the battle between David Cameron
and traditionalists in his party. Last night the Conservative leader faced his
fiercest criticism yet over his education policy, as the party grandee Norman
Tebbit accused him of "rebranding (the party) to implement new Labour policy".
Mr Cameron defended his decision not to create any more grammar schools as a
"key test" of whether the Tories are fit to govern. He caricatured his critics
as a "right-wing debating society muttering about what might have been". But he
later suffered his first defection over the issue.

David Pickles, a councillor who sits on Sutton council, in southwest London,
switched to UKIP saying that Mr Cameron's claim that the 11-plus holds back
poorer children was astonishing. "What right do a group of former public school
boys have to halt social mobility in this way, and instead support the city
academies which are nothing more than a vanity toy for rich men?"

Lord Tebbit, former Tory party chairman, said: "My own party has now rebranded
itself as the party to implement new Labour policies more effectively. God knows
there is need of a party to do that, but I thought it was the Labour Party."

Mr Cameron has sought to reassure traditionalists, saying that he is determined
to improve discipline and scrap "faddish" teaching methods.

But The Times has learnt that he may face a new battle with the right of his
party as his policy review group prepares to recommend a reduction in testing. A
senior member of the policy review group told The Times: "We want fewer, but
tougher exams. We are overexamined and over-tested as a nation, but the
confidence of the public, universities and employers in standards has been
eroded so we need a tougher system.

"Testing at age 7 and 11 is important, but a lot of people are questioning
whether key stage tests at age 14 are fit for purpose? Teacher assessment might
be one alternative."

Mary James, deputy director of the Teaching and Learning Research Project at the
Institute of Education at the University of London, who has submitted a report
to the party's policy review group on education, is also a strong opponent of
the existing system.

"The current testing system carries too much weight because it is being used for
too many purposes -to evaluate pupils, teachers and schools. We need different
assessment systems for different purposes," she said, speaking in a personal
capacity.

Schoolchildren in England are the most tested in the world. They sit national
curriculum tests at key stages 1 (age 7), 2 (age 11) and 3 (14), which form the
basis of school league tables. But critics say that these encourage schools to
drill children to pass tests, resulting in a narrow curriculum and undue
pressure on pupils and teachers.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            May 23, 2007, Wednesday

Tory Right puts the boot into schools policy

BYLINE: Francis Elliott and Alexandra Frean

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 528 words


* Cameron accused of apeing Labour

* Now new battle looms over testing

The Tory Right has moved to exploit grassroots anger over David Cameron's
grammar schools policy, and Lord Tebbit has accused him of rebranding the
Conservatives as "the party to implement New Labour policies more effectively".

The Tory leader yesterday dismissed his critics as a "right-wing debating
society muttering about what might have been", but later suffered his first
defection over the issue.

David Pickles, a councillor who sits on Sutton Council, in South London,
switched to Ukip, describing Mr Cameron's claim that the 11-plus holds back
poorer children as "astonishing".

He said: "What right do a group of former public school boys have to halt social
mobility in this way, and instead support the city academies which are nothing
more than a vanity toy for rich men?"

Lord Tebbit, the former Tory party chairman, later lambasted MPs' failure to
hold Tony Blair to account.

He said: "My own party has now rebranded itself as the party to implement New
Labour policies more effectively. God knows there is need of a party to do that,
but I thought it was the Labour Party."

Mr Cameron defended his handling of the row by repeating his claim that dropping
the commitment to build more grammar schools was a "key test" of whether the
Tories were fit to govern.

At the same time he has sought to reassure traditionalists, saying that he is
determined to improve discipline and scrap "faddish" teaching methods.

But The Times has learnt that he faces a new battle with the Right of his party
as a policy review group on education prepares to recommend that school pupils
be given fewer tests.

Mary James, deputy director of the Teaching and Learning Research Project at
University of London, who has submitted a report to the Conservative policy
review group on education, is a strong opponent of the existing system.

"The testing system carries too much weight because it is being used for too
many purposes -to evaluate pupils, teachers and schools," she said, speaking in
a personal capacity. "We need different assessment systems for different
purposes."

Professor James favours a system of sampling in which key-stage school exams
taken by whole year-groups would be phased out and replaced by a mix of random
sample testing and teacher assessments that measure individual progress.

"You cannot properly test the whole curriculum on the basis of a single exam
paper lasting an hour," she said. "If you test different subjects with different
children you get a much better view of what's going on across the curriculum."

Another senior member of the policy review said that it was expected to
recommend reducing the number of tests for pupils.

In his own submission to the policy review group, David Willetts, the Shadow
Education Secretary has proposed abolishing the AS examination.

No expert is suggesting abolishing all tests. There are question marks over the
tests at 7 and 14, but most acknowledge that testing at 11 is necessary.

* 2m

children sit tests each year, at ages 7, 11 and 14

Source: Times database

Leading article, page 16

Letters, page 18

Alice Miles, page 19

A talent for maths, page 23

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 22, 2007, Tuesday

Godfrey Bloom

BYLINE: Jeremy Austin

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 99 words


Open season in Brussels once again on the, ahem, eccentric UKIP MEP Godfrey
Bloom. The man who suggested that small businessmen were lunatics if they
employed women of child-bearing age recently attended the Women's Affairs
Committee. "It did not take long before the conversation got around to rape and
prostitution," he says on his podcast. "Interesting that none of (its members)
are in danger of the first or could earn their living from the second."

"Outrageous," says Mary Honeyball, a Labour MEP.

"My eyes rolled when I first heard it," his spokesman sighs, wearily. "But he
stands by it."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

Top Tories ready to quit over Cameron attack on grammars

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 616 words


DAVID Cameron faces resignations if he refuses to back down over ditching the
Tories' traditional support of grammar schools.

Party sources spoke of 'more than one' shadow minister ready to quit because
they were so enraged.

David Willetts, the Shadow Education Secretary, yesterday repeated suggestions
that existing grammar schools are too elitist and endorsed Tony Blair's
controversial city academies instead.

MPs complained that Mr Cameron was attempting to turn the row into his 'Clause
Four moment' a reference to Mr Blair's definitive battle with the Labour Party
over changes to its constitution.

The Tory leader was accused of 'riding roughshod' over his Shadow Cabinet and
his education policy group after ignoring their advice on selection.

The speech by Mr Willetts which triggered the row was nodded through while Mr
Cameron spent two days working as a teaching assistant.

But one frontbencher told the Daily Mail: 'It was rushed through Shadow Cabinet
while David Cameron was in Hull pretending to be a teacher.

'Everyone who spoke on the issue raised concerns but William Hague, who was
chairing the session in David's absence, just moved the discussion on.

'It's a very silly fight to pick unless they want to get to the point where some
people actually decide to walk away.

'If it comes down to a choice between career and principle, then there isn't
really much of a choice. More than one person would be in that position.' Mr
Cameron's predecessor Michael Howard is understood to be furious at the
decision.

He credits the education he received at Llanelli Grammar School with enabling
him to go to Cambridge University and achieve success in later life.

Other frontbenchers with misgivings are understood to include David Davis, the
Shadow Home Secretary, and Liam Fox, the Shadow Defence Secretary.

While no resignations are expected from the Shadow Cabinet, some middle-ranking
shadow ministers are known to be considering their positions.

Mr Cameron stood firm yesterday. He insisted: 'Of course we support existing
grammar schools. But this is a key test for our party.

'Does it want to be a serious force for government and change, or does it want
to be a Rightwing debating society muttering about what might have been?' Mr
Willetts yesterday urged rebel MPs to 'confront the evidence' showing that
grammar schools are not the answer.

'The challenge for us is that even in areas where they are located they are not
taking the children from the range of social backgrounds that they used to
take,' he told the BBC.

Party sources insisted the row had not initially been generated to create a
'Clause Four moment'. One said: 'The intention actually was to create a
Blair-Brown split over academies by suggesting we're more for them than Brown
is.

'What they didn't understand is that there are many people who believe
viscerally in grammar schools and indeed have been elected after promising that
they will thrive in their areas. Now they seem to think it has become a defining
issue.'

Edward Leigh, a former Tory minister who now chairs the 40-strong Cornerstone
group of Rightwing MPs, added: 'By seeming to endorse the comprehensive
principle, I fear the party is embracing outdated ideas.'

And the UK Independence Party sought to increase the pressure on Mr Cameron by
saying that it continues to support grammar schools.

The party's leader, Nigel Farage, said: 'It's UKIP that believes in academic
selection and believes in grammar schools we know they work.

'The electorate will say, "What's the difference between the Conservative Party
and the Labour Party?" The answer is, not very much.

'I think this is a disconnect between the David Cameron set and real people.'

Melanie Phillips Page 12

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FROM SATURDAY'S MAIL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 21, 2007 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

TORY RAGE AT SCHOOL 'BLUNDER'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 123 words


TORIES are expected to defect to Ukip after David Cameron's plans to ditch
support for grammar schools caused outrage.

As fury mounted, Ukip leader Nigel Farage told BBC1: "I think this is a
disconnect between the Cameron set and the real people.

"There are a lot of Conservative MPs who are very, very tired of the Cameron
project.

"I don't know if this is the straw that breaks the camel's back. But I don't
think we're far away."

Ex-Tory leader Michael Howard and members of the shadow front bench are among
those demanding a policy U-turn.

But Mr Cameron hit back: "This is a key test for our party.

"Does it want to be a serious force for government? Or does it want to be a
right-wing debating society muttering about what might have been?"

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We make a living being ourselves. I make jokes and she likes to flirt;
FOCUS

BYLINE: By Jane Clinton

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 1277  words


HE HAS weathered his fair share of storms over the past decade and come out the
other side almost unscathed. But Neil Hamilton, who today joins the Sunday
Express as a columnist, has never been afraid of controversy.

And with his voluble, but equally likeable wife Christine, he has transformed
himself from vilified politician to one half of a couple who are now fast
approaching national treasure status.

"One thing I can say about our life is it isn't dull, " explains Neil from his
seven-bedroom grade-I-listed manor house near Chippenham in Wiltshire.

"Christine will tell you that I am a cold, analytical, bloodless lawyer so I
just analyse everything and I am not a human being at all.

"She is a great double act on her own. But she provides the part of me that is
lacking: she is the volcanic, explosive type, so between us I think we make one
average person."

Average, however, is not something you associate with either of the Hamiltons.

Born in March 1949 at Fleur-de-Lis, a Monmouthshire pit-village near Blackwood,
Neil went to grammar school in west Wales where he began to show an interest in
politics. He went on to read law and eventually became MP for Tatton, Cheshire,
in 1983.

"I grew up in a household which took the Sunday Express, so my political
ambitions were formulated by the paper, " recalls Neil, the grandson of miners
and the son of an engineer for the National Coal Board.

"When I was a little boy I would cut out the editorials of the paper to help me
with my debating at school. I wanted to be an MP from the age of 12 and it is a
disease from which I have never been able to recover."

Though he may prick pomposity with a witty aside, the loss of his seat in 1997
following the cash-for-questions scandal did, for a time, make him a social
pariah.

"I was not quite public enemy number one in 1997 but I was a candidate for that
unwanted honour, " he says. "I was effectively unemployed, I bore the indelible
stain of being a Conservative MP and the circumstances in which I lost my seat
didn't help either - to be a master of understatement."

He can joke now but it was a struggle to get work when he was defeated by the
Independent candidate and former newsman Martin Bell.

"Bell was a complete gimmick, a flop, " says Neil. "But there was no way I could
have got a job. I was 48 then and it was only in an unconventional world that I
would be able to earn a living again." The unconventional world he is talking
about, of course, is the world of celebrity. A turn on Have I Got News For You
in May 1997, a week after he lost his Tatton seat, marked the shift in the
Hamiltons' fortunes.

So well did they perform that the couple - who also own a flat in Battersea,
south London - were suddenly in demand as "personalities".

They have had their own show at the Edinburgh Festival, appeared in pantomime
and are regulars on the after-dinner speaking circuit.

While 58-year-old Neil is clearly irritated by the current crop of politicians
in both parties (he describes Mrs Thatcher as a "dragon-slayer", claims the
current crop "could barely slay a dormouse" while arguing that Tony Blair is "an
ideological amoeba") he has embraced the world of showbusiness with remarkable
ease.

"Television enabled us to outflank the prejudice about us, " he says. "We are
not stuffed shirts. We like a laugh.

She flirts with anything in trousers and likes a drink. I tell tasteless jokes
and get into trouble - it's the story of my life.

"We didn't set out with some deliberate campaign strategy to create a new life.
It is something that happened incrementally. We make a living just out of being
ourselves. And we would not be able to make a living if other people were not
interested in us."

Since that moment when Angus Deayton regaled them wearing a white suit - the
favoured colour of Neil's triumphant opponent - the couple dragged themselves
out of bankruptcy and reinvented themselves, to the incredulity of all around
them.

THEN in 2001 the Neil and Christine Show got the Louis Theroux treatment and
their madcap existence captured the nation's imagination. Even that moment was
not without drama. During filming they endured a false rape allegation by Nadine
MilroySloan, who was later jailed for attempting to pervert the course of
justice.

"It was ghastly to be arrested, " admits Neil, his eyes losing their twinkle.
"The trauma was huge."

And while they have their detractors, there were few people who did not admire
the strength they showed as a couple during that time.

"We are very good at laughing at life and finding the essential humour in the
darker moments, " he adds.

"Although that was a real test. As far as one can tell we seem popular. We are
regarded as cards and entertaining.

We don't take ourselves too seriously and I think a lot of people admire us for
overcoming adversity and turning a sow's ear into a silk purse.

"We have had our downs as well as our ups. There were times when Christine could
hardly get out of bed and hit the bottle a bit, in a drowningher-sorrows way.

"But, generally, I have found that so long as I do as I am told I am all right."

Christine, 57, happily refers to herself as a battleaxe - she appeared in the
jungle reality show I'm A Celebrity . . . Get Me Out of Here! to much acclaim in
2002 - while Neil is content to take on the browbeaten husband role.

This, of course, is not the true picture. The couple met in 1969 as students but
parted company after a brief fling. Or as Neil puts it: "She unceremoniously
dumped me." It was only when he took up a supper invitation five years later
that they made a go of things.

"I arrived for dinner and never left, " he adds. "We lived together for five
years and then one day she told me we were getting married and the rest is
history. We just found that we had personalities that gelled and have been
wobbling together ever since."

Although Christine was keen on becoming an MP herself, she took on the role of
his secretary and "life organiser" a week after they married in 1983 when he was
elected an MP.

"There is more that binds us together than drives us apart, " he says
matter-of-factly. "I found that over the years you have to work at a
relationship. There are many times I bite my tongue and don't offer a barbed
riposte.

"I am sure Christine has had a lot to put up with from me."

While Neil clearly revels in his new life as a media personality and actor - the
couple recently appeared in the gangster spoof Lady Godiva Rides Again and have
their own chat show travel and property programme, Destination Lunch on Sky 287
- you only have to mention the latest political stories and his hackles rise.

"I don't think Mr Cameron is looking for people like me, " he laughs, admitting
he voted for the UK Independence Party in the last European elections.

"He has a difficult task because having decided what we're not, he now has to
decide what we are, " he says. "I am not impressed by the stance on selection in
schools and all the other affronts to what instinctively Conservative people
believe - hug a hoodie and all the rest of it. I went into politics because I am
an idealist. I wanted to win elections for a particular purpose.

So I rather fear that David Cameron will live up to his description as Blair's
heir. Anyway I have been there, done that and thrown away the T-shirt.

"Even if I were able to become an MP again, what would the future hold for me? I
would just be a backbencher.

I have had the best years of the Conservative Party.

"That is one of the attractions of journalism: as a backbench MP I would have
virtually no voice but as a journalist you have a real platform.

"And in many ways writing for the Sunday Express is like coming back home."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NATIONAL TREASURES: Neil Hamilton, the new Sunday Express columnist and
master of the witty riposte, with his adored 'battleaxe' wife Christine at their
listed home in Wiltshire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 20, 2007 Sunday

The fastest voters in the West

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 219 words


One of the wonders of modern democracy is the voting system in the EU
Parliament. Most of the time, voting by the 785 MEPs in their vast glass and
concrete chamber in Strasbourg is by show of hands. But on contentious issues
they vote electronically. Visitors gaze in awe as MEPs punch away frenziedly at
buttons, deciding issues they know nothing about, according to detailed lists
supplied by their whips. In this way, as many as 1,500 amendments have been
dealt with in 90 minutes. Thus are the laws that govern us made.

A keen student of this system is Graham Booth, a Ukip MEP, who describes a
typical occasion this month when an amendment on a report on "EU Partnership in
the Horn of Africa'' was said to have been "rejected'' on a show of hands. A
call for an electronic vote proved that, on the contrary, the motion had been
accepted - by 567 votes to 17. The chairman blamed this discrepancy on MEPs not
"holding their hands high enough''.

When Mr Booth and a Czech colleague last year presented the president of the
parliament with a list of similar blunders, calling for electronic voting to be
mandatory, it was pointed out that the average two seconds longer needed to
record each vote electronically might cause MEPs to miss their lunch or even
their flights home. Naturally, lunch won over democracy.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 19, 2007 Saturday

You don't have to be a nationalist to take delight in the fact we have a leader
who looks the part. The numpties have been vanquished;
SATURDAY ESSAY

BYLINE: JOHN MACLEOD

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1928 words


NO one doubts the difficulties awaiting Alex Salmond and our new SNP Executive.
Elected by no more than a third of those who bothered to vote a fortnight ago,
and by very much a minority in Scotland's parliament as a whole, it will take
all Mr Salmond's guile even to survive as First Minister to 2011, far less
achieve anything radical or exciting.

The Nationalists, who had never before won a national election of any kind, must
quickly adapt from the mindset and relative ease of permanent opposition to the
realities of government. They must face the hard choices to be made invariably
alienating one constituency or another and, in months and years ahead, the
inchoate horror of 'events, dear boy, events'.

With barely 30 backbench MSPs, besides, they are already struggling even to man
the critical Holyrood committees with the power to review and, for that matter,
eviscerate any legislation the First Minister proposes. These are committees
where the SNP cannot command a majority.

But you need not be an SNP supporter to sense a certain expectancy, even
excitement, as we head into a wholly new order of politics in Scotland with a
parliament that may, at last, have truly come of age.

For Scotland voted emphatically, a fortnight ago, for a change of government and
a new sort of politics and at last overthrew an old, sour political order not
just at Holyrood, but in the mass of town halls, liberating them from a mean,
indefinably corrupt grip, deep in our nation's civic life.

That defeat for Labour, the first in half a century, is nothing short of a
revolution that may well prove irrevocable.

Yes, it was close. Just 49 more votes for Labour in Cunninghame North and Jack
McConnell would be yet in government and the toast of Downing Street.

But there weren't and he isn't.

Nor this time did we have tens of thousands of votes throughout Scotland from
the disaffected and the angry, for assorted minority and lunatic fringe parties.
Nor, yet again, could the Liberal Democrats defy political gravity, winning
ground as an opposition against the deeds of their own Executive.

To their dismay, they lost seats and votes even Nicol Stephen's seat, in
Aberdeen South, suddenly looks marginal and their refusal even to discuss
coalition terms with the SNP is down less to guile than to spite, the bitterness
of an unprincipled little band suddenly humiliated and disheartened.

IN fact, the Nats apart, only Scotland's Tories could take genuine cheer from
the result. To be sure, they had a net loss of one seat.

But they held their three constituencies with some ease, made an astounding gain
in Roxburgh and Berwickshire, and fought a gutsy, entertaining campaign in
difficult circumstances.

Alex Fergusson's decision temporarily to lay aside Conservative allegiance for
the Presiding Officer's gavel is no reverse, either. It is a clear signal that a
force so lately ostracised can produce new figures of real stature and that the
Scottish Tories have come to comfortable terms with a new devolved order.

But the laurels fly indubitably to the SNP. A party which, in its 73-year
history, had never won any national election of any kind splendidly trumped a
Labour Executive and a Labour Westminster government, to say nothing of most
pundits and the hysterics of the cheap press. The SNP more than doubled its
constituency seats. It holds today as many regional-list seats 26 as its entire
Holyrood tally before dissolution. It won seats in every Scottish city
(including its first breakthrough in Edinburgh), swept the floor in Dundee and
spectacularly ousted several MSPs, even coming from third place in many cases.

Such was the SNP constituency sweep that you might this weekend walk from
Fraserburgh to Campbeltown from Arbroath to Ardnamurchan crossing nothing but
SNP seats, or sail down by the west of the Butt of Lewis to Cumbrae on the Clyde
and pass nothing but SNP islands.

THE SNP can claim to be Scotland's national party from the Hebrides to
Musselburgh and has found at last that it can truly win a national election.

Don' t underestimate the power of that psychological breakthrough, or the
party's gratitude to the man who led it there internal political capital the
First Minister may yet find beyond price.

As Mr Salmond tastes power instructs civil officials, briefs new and happy SNP
ministers, samples the comforts of Bute House he will be well aware of reefs
ahead in these new, uncharted waters.

In London, he faces a formidable and really quite personal enemy in Gordon
Brown. In Holyrood, legislative success in time, his Executive's very survival
rests on the skill and judgment by which he can outflank rivals, placate his
party and confound and disunite any opposition.

He must do so in three entirely novel fields heading Scotland's first minority
Executive, her first SNP Executive, and her first of different party allegiance
from that in London.

There are some on his own backbenches SNP fundamentalists, in their humourless
tunnel-vision who could yet embarrass him. More encouraging, perhaps, is the
real possibility of David Cameron and a Tory government in London, before
Scotland's next election, opening further tantalising possibilities.

But he has also certain remarkable consolations. For one, he and the SNP now
enjoy all the resources of the Executive and the amassed talent of its Civil
Service, at their entire command.

He is also benefiting, most unexpectedly, from a honeymoon with the press.

That's not entirely surprising. Through the past decade, Labour's ruthless media
tactics have alienated very many journalists and that arrogance perhaps
fatefully continued during the last election. Through decades, too, reporters
have rather enjoyed the excitement that comes when the SNP is on a roll and a
change of government is always good copy.

But the truce and even, in some leader columns, support is a real treat.

Still more remarkably, some rapprochement is already apparent in Holyrood
between Salmond's benches and the Tories: personal relations are good and, on
such emphases as slashed taxes, small business needs and some Scottish fiscal
autonomy, there is real common ground.

And a wider anti-Labour coalition is hardening beyond Scotland's parliament.

Scottish Labour has lost more than a Holyrood election, or significant Holyrood
talent, or even her reputation for invincibility. She has lost her rotten
boroughs.

Barely a month ago, Labour had overall control of 16 Scottish councils. On May
4, it retained only two and lost a third of its seats, the SNP alone emerging
with 363 councillors to Labour's 348.

That was bad enough but, worse, in council after council, Nationalists, Liberal
Democrats, Independents and even Tories have cut affable deals and ousted Labour
from power.

Though that process continues, Labour has lost the likes of East Lothian, West
Lothian, West Dunbartonshire, Edinburgh and even the People's Republic of Fife
lost power, lost patronage, lost the longheld kindergartens of future national
leaders.

Such a base, so secure and unaccountable, will never return and, as Labour in
Holyrood faces opposition without, for instance, the advantage of Civil Service
briefing, or any means of intimidation, only now can the scale of the
catastrophe be sinking in. Jack McConnell, whatever his bluster, is today on
very borrowed time.

For the rest of us, that real sense of deliverance is part of our present
love-in with the new order. It's enhanced by the trim governance Mr Salmond
demonstrates fewer ministers, fewer fat- cat officials, fewer bombastic
nanny-state aims for government itself and by all the mood-music of conciliation
and accountability.

We are at last of age and our parliament can never again be run by a tattooed
Labour fist, as a Strathclyde Regional Council writ large.

That's a hard achievement for the SNP always classless, always a big tent, but
today far matured from its former, tweedy, Anglophobic nastiness.

WHEN Mr Salmond first won Banff and Buchan, in 1987, it was for an SNP that
resembled nothing as much as today's UKIP a one-trick pony of obsessives,
umpired by weak, sardonic leadership. The party the First Minister now leads is
one of government, not protest; a platform for ambition, not cranks.

And do not underestimate the journey Alex Salmond has taken himself. Only seven
years ago, utterly spent, he abandoned the leadership and shortly forsook even
the Scottish parliament itself.

His departure owed much to weariness, to chronic pain, to disaffection with
devolution itself, as successive First Ministers fumbled the levers and
determinedly dampened Scottish expectations. Despite the cult of Donald Dewar,
he and subsequent Labour First Ministers were a sustained, at times mortifying,
embarrassment.

The nervy, insecure Mr McConnell succeeded the inarticulate Mr McLeish, and Mr
Dewar let us not forget presided over what remain the worst months in our
parliament's history, an ageing man from an age when public men commanded
deference, contemptuous of opposition, incapable of taking good advice.

How Mr Salmond came back in 2004 to lead the SNP winning the vacant leadership
by a mile, only months after he had repudiated even the possibility in flat,
Shermanesque terms: 'If nominated, I will not stand; if elected, I will not
accept' is still the definitive act of chutzpah in Scottish politics.

It owed something, no doubt, to his contempt for Roseanna Cunningham and the
realisation that his protegEe, Nicola Sturgeon, hadn't quite got it yet to win
the top job.

A catastrophic appearance by Miss Cunningham on the BBC's Question Time that
June was one factor; desperate pressure (beseeching phone calls, for instance,
from Annabel Ewing) was another.

But the final shove, improbably, was Jack McConnell and the outcry when, with
more than a whiff of good old Labour junketing, he passed over the duty of
representing Scotland at the last great D-Day Anniversary in favour of a dinner
in St Andrews. The fury was such that Mr McConnell had to backtrack, forsaking
the St Andrews feting for Normandy and Row E (Centre).

That Christmas, musing over lunch, Mr Salmond would say: 'It was then I decided
that night on TV, when I saw our First Minister humiliating Scotland on the
world stage...' What he said, announcing his impudent candidacy, was: 'If I
could nearly beat Donald Dewar, I can certainly beat Jack McConnell.' Who
believed him? Who believed either, last year, that he would pull off the
implausible and win Gordon; or, weeks ago, that Mr Salmond and the SNP could
against long odds win Scotland's election? But he has, and emerges a new man, a
new sort of leader focused, unflappable, strangely tactile.

AS Mr Salmond took the stage for the Gordon declaration on that long, northern
night, near three in the morning in Aberdeen, there was a moment when he stood
slightly apart from the vanquished.

Unusually neat in a single breasted suit, hands thrust in pockets, his bearing
and the carriage of his head put one in mind of the iconic image of Isambard
Kingdom Brunel photographed by the great chain-links of a vast ship.

You saw in this Salmond, too, a man at entire ease in his own skin, the
confident master of his age.

We are not all Nationalists today: most of us value the Union and, in the years
ahead, we will hold Mr Salmond and his Executive to ruthless account.

At some point, some day, like all parties and every government, his time will
end and his party will fall.

But let this be said today we have at last a First Minister who looks and sounds
like a First Minister. Something has dawned and the numpties are vanquished with
the night.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAN OF DESTINY: SNP LEADER ALEX SALMOND IS SWORN IN AS SCOTLAND'S NEW
FIRST MINISTER, DETERMINED TO GOVERN WITH A MINORITY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              May 18, 2007 Friday

TV questions

BYLINE: Ally Ross

SECTION: OPINION; ALLY ROSS ON TV; TELEVISION

LENGTH: 57  words


TV questions: Why did BBC1 think a second series of Castaway would work?

How much less work would John Barrowman get if he was straight?

What level of desperation forces an actress to play Davina McCall's mum in a
hair dye ad?

And why wasn't Eurovision preceded by the announcement: "There now follows a
three-hour party political broadcast by UKIP?"

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 17, 2007, Thursday

Counting the costs of increasing immigration

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 104 words


Sir, David Aaronovitch (Comment, May 15) assumes that for the state to control
demographic change is tantamount to "causing intolerable hardship". Yet a
laissez faire attitude to population can have equally damaging consequences.

Land is a finite resource. Yet, as the country's population density increases,
caused in significant part by net migration, this can only mean increased
pressure on housing, infrastructure and our ecosystem.

Aaronovitch attacks the UKIP leader Nigel Farage for supporting "zero net
immigration". I regard this as eminently sensible; it allows us to have our
migrant cake and eat it.

Paul Farrow Lincoln

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 15, 2007, Tuesday

Don't try and put the ration into immigration

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1049 words


Life is, thank God, full of incongruities. One is that many of those who write
in to the comments part of the website complaining about too many foreigners
coming to the United Kingdom then give their location as somewhere abroad.

The very first reader's contribution to last week's Aaronovitch-Parris debate on
the Blair years, for example, asked simply, "What about immigration and the
failure to control the borders?", before signing off as "Mike, Sydney,
Australia".

It is amazing how often Gwen from Spain and Don from the Dordogne take up mouse
and keyboard to moan about people doing in the UK what they have so obviously
done themselves in some other country.

Their unconscious message is: you, alien interloper; me, seeker after better
life.

Yet this blitheness in the face of an obvious contradiction doesn't make Gwen
and Don wrong.

A few weeks back I received a free pamphlet from one of the fustier right-wing
think-tanks (the sort that campaigns constantly for fewer people to go to
university), arguing that while Britain had absorbed previous waves of
immigrants, this time the very existence of the UK was under threat. "Now our
culture and our nation," stated the author, "are in danger of fragmenting as
large immigrant populations decline to integrate." Back in 1905 the TUC had it
wrong about the Jews and in '68, one imagines, old Enoch was just foolin' with
his bloody Tiber.

Today, according to the boffins at Civitas, it's for real.

Civitas's case is in some ways confusing -the pamphlet speaks about the
"seemingly reckless pace and scale on which immigration has recently been
allowed to proceed", without ever spelling out what the problem with this is
supposed to be. Is it racial disharmony? Potential ethnic conflict? The
inability of different cultures to knock along together? The difficulty for the
latterday Enochs is, to be absolutely blunt, that the greatest number of new
migrants by far are simply not exotic enough to scare the indigenous population
into the arms of the self-de-Hitlerising racists of the BNP (all that anti-Jew
stuff and bombmaking being put down to youthful high jinks) or even the embrace
of the cuddly Von Papen chauvinists of UKIP. Who feels intimidated by a barful
of long-legged blondes from Krakow? Apart from Sir Patrick Moore, that is.

The irony is that the Krakowian waitresses do indeed represent part of the
greatest and fastest shift in population in the country's history. In Enoch's
time there were never more than 50,000 Commonwealth immigrants coming in per
year. In two years, from mid-2004 to mid-2006, 600,000 people from abroad came
to work here, mostly from Eastern Europe. So when it was announced yesterday
that four local councils had written to the Treasury to say that the Office for
National Statistics was undercounting their immigrants, I had no trouble in
believing it might be true, and not just another ploy to get more money. The
councils say that, by any measurement, there are simply more people in their
boroughs than there are supposed to be.

The straight numbers only tell you so much. 40 per cent of the newcomers are
under 24. Most do not come here to live, and many leave within months. A
substantial number now go to areas of Britain where there has never previously
been any large-scale immigration, such as East Anglia. They work full-time and
for relatively low wages.

Blonde or not, the numbers involved have inevitably led some people to argue
that "something must be done." I rather liked a recent headline in which it was
revealed with some horror that Tony Blair has admitted that "the UK has no
policy on controlling the size of its population", as though it was his job
secretly to have cooked up a Population Plan for how many of us there should be.

Once, 30 or so years ago, I might have bought the idea of central planning.
Didn't it win us a war? Didn't it propel Russia into the Space Age? Then I
visited the offices of Gosplan in Moscow and the whole notion didn't seem quite
so attractive any more. It is funny, therefore, to see how -when it comes to
that most intractable item, the human desire to go where its fancy takes it
-sections of the Right seem to want to take Mao as their mentor. Nigel Farage,
UKIP's leader, wants "zero net immigration", a concept whose policing would make
Beria blench.

"Yes, we've had one die in Oldham, so you can come in...whoops, no, sorry, Mrs
Baxter in Stoke has just had twins."

But is the Conservative Party's notion, as outlined in its policy paper
Controlling Economic Migration, any more realistic? This calls for a kind of
national economic assessment, so loved by the early '80s Footite Labour Party,
except this one would be for population movement. There would be "annual limits"
on economic migration, worked out in yearly consultation with local authorities,
businesses and sundry others, somehow "taking into account" the need for labour,
the availability of public services, the effect on the environment and something
slippery called "community cohesion". David Cameron couldn't tell anyone what
sort of figure a limit might be set at, but it would be "significantly less"
than now.

Think about this. We will have a national plan for immigration that would try to
second-guess the decisions of a zillion local businesses about who they want to
employ and when, would attempt to thwart the ambitions of hundreds of thousands
of qualified workers, and still expect our economy and our society to remain as
dynamic as they are today. And all of this will be on the basis of a best guess
made in committee by people who may have no idea what is going on in the world.
We should bring back the Prices and Incomes Commission while we're about it, and
renationalise a few key industries.

Am I alone in seeing the modern shades of Canute's courtiers urging the king to
hold back the tides? To keep this non-partisan, let's also attack the
Government's idea of a points system for incoming workers. Would such a system
be better at deciding the needs of the economy than Britain's employers? No.

Governments -except for genocidal ones -can no longer control demographic
change. To act otherwise risks incurring unreasonable cost or causing
intolerable hardship. So the job now -the huge job -is to predict such change
and manage it.

The rest is Stalinism.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 12, 2007 Saturday

Spin no substitute for substance as Blair takes to the stage for farewell speech

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 47 words


SIR - "We'll negotiate withdrawal from the EEC which has drained our natural
resources and destroyed jobs''. A quote from UKIP? No, just another unfulfilled
promise from Mr Blair. It was in his election manifesto for Beaconsfield and
Sedgefield in 1982.

Daniel Oxley

Prescot, Merseyside

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday

EU: Britain can sell by the pound

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 202  words


SHOPS won their seven-year battle to keep selling goods in pounds and ounces
yesterday after a dramatic U-turn by EU chiefs.

In 2000 Brussels ruled it would be a criminal offence to use imperial measures.

But Industry Commissioner Gunther Verheugen now admits that using only kilos
would dent trade with Americans.

It is a big victory for the metric martyrs who fought the law. Last night they
called for a royal pardon for two traders convicted of breaking the barmy law.

Greengrocer Steve Thoburn - nicked for using imperial scales in Sunderland - led
the fight but died in 2004, days after losing an appeal to the European Court of
Human Rights.

Ex-fishmonger Neil Herron, also convicted, hailed the U-turn as a "monumental
victory for people power", adding: "We stood toe-to-toe with the EU and won."

Traders would have been forced to use kilos ONLY from 2009 but Mr Verheugen
admitted that dual marking was "good for business", and should continue. He will
urge fellow commissioners to back his U-turn next week.

UK Independence Party chief Nigel Farage said: "£ and ounces have been granted a
reprieve." The EU said: "Research shows it will help trade with the
USA."d.wooding@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             May 9, 2007 Wednesday

Weigh to go!

BYLINE: David Wooding

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 248  words


U-turn is a victory for tragic Steve

EU rules pounds and ounces OK

SHOPS won their seven-year battle to keep selling goods in pounds and ounces
yesterday after a dramatic U-turn by EU chiefs.

In 2000 Brussels ruled it would be a criminal offence to use imperial measures.

But Industry Commissioner Gunther Verheugen now admits that using only kilos
would dent trade with Americans. He agrees British stores can use both systems.
It is a big victory for the metric martyrs who fought the law.

Last night they called for a royal pardon for two traders convicted of breaking
the barmy law.

Greengrocer Steve Thoburn -nicked for using imperial scales in Sunderland -led
the fight but died in 2004, days after losing an appeal to the European Court of
Human Rights. Ex-fishmonger Neil Herron, also convicted, called the U-turn a
"monumental victory for people power".

He added: "We have saved the pint, the mile, the yard, the foot as well as
pounds and ounces. We stood toe-to-toe with the EU and won." EU laws say goods
must be sold by the kilo -but traders can display price by imperial weight too.

They would have been forced to use ONLY kilos from 2009 but Mr Verheugen
admitted dual marking was "good for business" and should continue. He wants
fellow commissioners to back his U-turn next week.

UK Independence Party chief Nigel Farage said: "£ and ounces have been granted a
reprieve." The EU said: "Research shows it will help trade with the USA."

d.wooding@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says -Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday

Reply Letters and emails: The fallout from Super Thursday

BYLINE: John Rees

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 128 words


*I disagree with Will Woodward's assessment (Elections 2007, May 7) that Respect
had little to cheer in the English council elections. Firstly, Respect came
first, second or third in 26 of the 42 wards in which it stood. Three Respect
councillors were elected: one in the heavily contested Preston Town Centre ward,
one in a straight two-party fight with Labour in Bolsover, and the other in
Birmingham by a margin of over 1,000 votes.

Respect beat the Greens in 24 out of 25 wards in which they competed. We beat
the BNP in 11 out of 16 wards, and Ukip in five out of seven. Respect candidates
also defeated the Tories in 22 wards and the Lib Dems in 16. In the 42 wards in
which we stood, Respect won an average of over 15% of the vote.

John Rees

National secretary, Respect

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2007 Monday

Football: Barclays Premiership: Freak defeat justifies Coppell's European
scepticism

BYLINE: Russell Thomas, Madejski Stadium

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 453 words


Reading 0

Watford 2

Shittu 60, King 85

Steve Coppell's anti-European stance makes him sound more like a UKIP spokesman
than an executive of an enterprising company. For Reading's manager this
embarrassing, if freakish, defeat which damaged their Uefa Cup prospects may
count as a blessing - vindication, perhaps, for focusing next season on the
domestic market of the Premiership.

Reading are going to the Continent anyway - a four-day break on the Costa del
Sol - before travelling to Blackburn, rival Uefa Cup contenders, on Sunday. Add
the trip to the Peace Cup in South Korea in July and that, Coppell hopes, is the
extent of their travels for another year.

His side remain seventh, the final Uefa Cup qualifying place, but this home
farewell to an outstanding season demonstrated why he wants to put his own house
in order first. Two blunders, one collective and the other a rarity from the
goalkeeper, Marcus Hahnemann, meant defeat in a game Reading dominated. Such
generosity, of course, has come far too late for Watford.

Unlike the bottom side Michael Duberry has escaped the Championship and at 31
the former Chelsea and Leeds defender relishes the unexpected prospect of
playing in Europe again. But he conceded there would be a financial cost. "You
need a bigger squad, otherwise you can get burn-out before Christmas," he said.
"I think the manager's thinking about that." Duberry echoed Coppell's caution
about the Pre miership. "Everyone knows next season is going to be harder. The
surprise element has gone and we should learn from how hard Wigan have found
it."

Reading might start by tinkering with an offside-trap which has worked before
but backfired due to some inside information. At Lee Williamson's free-kick,
every home defender sprinted out save for Duberry, leaving Danny Shittu to tap
in. "I got blocked (by Darius Henderson)," Duberry said. "I even shouted to the
referee, 'Watch the blocks', but it went unnoticed." Watford, as their striker
Marlon King revealed, had been tipped off by Henderson, a former Reading
striker. "He knew the (offside-trap) shout from a few years ago. We worked on it
in training."

King gleefully accepted Reading's second gift, heading home after Hahnemann
palmed Tommy Smith's routine cross up in the air. It was the striker's first
goal since a serious knee injury devastated his season and so badly damaged
Watford's.

Coppell's team could have blamed refereeing decisions - Leroy Lita appeared to
be tripped in the area by the debutant Cedric Avinel - but most of all they
could blame Ben Foster, who saved well from Lita and magnificently from Seol
Ki-Hyeon. Little wonder he is being recalled from his loan by Manchester United.
Man of the match Ben Foster (Watford)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 6, 2007

The best of the week ahead

SECTION: FEATURES; Culture; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 296 words


Comedy

How To Be Edwardian (Saturday, BBC4, 9pm)

The revered thesp Nicholas Craig has not done nearly enough television since The
Naked Actor in the early 1990s, but his masterclasses are sine qua non among
today's Oscar winners and soap stars. Here, the emotional demands of playing
Edwardians are exposed: from parasol twirling to taking tea.

Pop Idols

The Eurovision Song Contest (Saturday, BBC1, 8pm)

Held a week after Britain's local elections in order to prevent a landslide for
UKIP, this year's shenanigans have so many drag acts (have you seen the state of
the UK entry?) that there is no clear favourite. Only Russia misread the
application form and sent three attractive, young, real women who sing in tune.
Boo! Art

Imagine (Tuesday, BBC1, 10.35pm)

The arts series returns with Alan Yentob in hot pursuit of Gilbert and George.
Not the best timing for the programme, as their exhibition at Tate Modern closes
24 hours earlier. However, viewers do have 48 hours after the screening in which
they will be able to download and own their own piece of G&G art.

Reason to go out

The History Of Mr Polly (Monday, ITV1, 9pm)

Originally scheduled for the festive fortnight last year, this Lee Evans drama
was mysteriously pulled and put back on the shelf next to The Block and Making
Waves. Perhaps an executive at ITV had sat down and watched it. It's a bank
holiday: how many more reasons to switch off the box and go out? Film

United 93 (Saturday,Sky Movies Premiere, 8pm)

Paul Greengrass's 2006 movie dramatises an informed theory about what happened
on 9/11 in the revolt that took place on the one hijacked plane that did not
reach its target. The film's compulsiveness is part of its value as a memorial:
the passengers' fear and bravery are depicted in utterly plausible style.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 6, 2007 Sunday 10:36 PM GMT

The statistical truth

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 717 words


Oh, come off it. The figures just don't make sense.

The Tories performed better thanthe BBC lead us tobelieve

According to the BBC, the Conservative Party, which picked up 898 seats on
Thursday, didn't increase its share of the national vote at all; and Labour,
which lost 495 councillors, supposedly saw its percentage of the vote rise by
two points.

The Beeb's figures are not meant to represent the votes actually cast: since
large parts of the country didn't vote at all, such a statistic wouldn't tell us
very much. Rather, they infer the national picture from a number of selected
wards.

There are methodological difficulties with any such study, not least because the
rise and fall of the parties is measured from last year, whereas it has
typically been four years since any given seat was contested. On this occasion,
the BBC's study  which has been uncritically parroted in almost every newspaper
significantly overstated the position of the Lib Dems and Labour, and
understated that of the Conservatives and "Others".

What follows is, I'm afraid, rather wonkish. Non-anoraks might like to skip on
to, say, Damian Thompson's gossipy blog about ecclesiastical affaires, or David
Blair's superb round-up of what's happening in hot countries, or Ceri Radford's
chronicle of her sketching classes.

For those still with me, here goes. The BBC estimates that, had this been a
national vote, the Conservatives would have won 40 per cent, Labour 27 per cent
and the Lib Dems 26 per cent. These numbers are skewed by two factors. First,
the 2007 local elections excluded London, where there has been a
disproportionate swing against Labour and to the Conservatives. Since London
returns 74 MPs, 11 per cent of the total, this is no small omission.

Second, the Beeb's method penalises parties for contesting extra seats. This is
most clearly demonstrated with reference to the minority parties: Greens and
UKIP. The Greens won 19 new seats, doing especially well in Brighton and Hove.
UKIP contested three times as many seats as last time, and attracted a
commensurately higher vote.

According to the BBC, both parties saw their share of the vote decline sharply.
But this is precisely because they had ventured beyond their heartlands.
Although their total vote increased, the average vote per candidate fell,
because they were trying their luck in more speculative areas.

Now consider the big parties. A striking feature of this contest was the
inability of the two Left-of-Centre parties to field candidates. There is some
dispute over precisely how many were in the field but, in rough terms, the
Conservatives contested about 10,000 of the 11,000 seats, while Labour and the
Lib Dems fought fewer than 7,000 each.

On any normal measure, this is good news for the Tories. It shows that people
are willing to don the blue rosette (or, nowadays, the turquoise ribbon) with
pride. It means more voters have the opportunity to place their cross by a
Conservative name. And, of course, it habituates the electorate: once people get
used to voting Tory at local elections, they find it easier to do so at general
elections. (This determination to contest seats wherever possible began when
Theresa May was chairman; although unremarked at the time, it is proving to be
one of her more important legacies).

The way the BBC makes its extrapolation, however, the sheer plenitude of
Conservative candidates serves to depreciate their national vote share. As
Labour and the Lib Dems retreat to their core areas, conversely, their projected
shares rise.

The insomniacs among you might recall that, even as the results were coming in
during the small hours of Friday morning, I found the BBC's estimates dubious.
The eventual tally of seats should have led pundits to question the national
percentages.

But, of course, this is rarely what happens in politics: because the
share-of-vote figures were put out at around 2.00 o'clock on Friday morning,
they have contextualised all subsequent commentary, not least in the Sunday
papers.

The truth is that the national position is much better for David Cameron, and
much worse for Labour, than most analysts think. Of course, anyone who actually
knocked on doors during the campaign could have told you that for free.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday

Unaccountable planners and the face of British countryside

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 134 words


SIR - Charles Clover ("The rape of Spain should be a warning to planners'',
Earth Log, May 4) warns us that it could happen here - but it already has.

In October 2004, the unelected, non-statutory regional assemblies were granted
statutory planning powers under the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act.

This was done precisely, as Mr Clover describes regarding Spain, "to speed up
our planning system by removing local accountability''.

This modus operandi faithfully follows the norm in many EU countries where
grandiose projects, funded with taxpayers' money, and decided on by the
political elites, largely avoid any involvement of what Lord Falconer refers to
as "ordinary people''.

The spurious consultations that preface these plans are an insult to the
democratic process.

Graham Booth MEP (Ukip)

Brussels

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday

The real winners as Labour slides

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 387 words


''We've confounded the pundits,'' insisted Labour's gnomic chairman, Hazel
Blears. True, but irrelevant. It wasn't the pundits Labour was running against;
it was the Conservatives, who have won around 900 council seats while Labour has
lost some 500. The governing party's collapse - including its eviction from
large tracts of England - is no less dramatic for having been forecast. These
days, political parties are said to do well when they beat the last opinion poll
rather than when they beat their opponents. Surpassing expectations is more
important than, well, winning. As a mental exercise, though, try excising from
your mind everything you were told in advance about what would constitute a good
result, and ponder the raw figures.

On any objective measure, Labour has lost badly. Swathes of England are now
without a single Labour councillor. In many Home Counties wards, Labour
candidates were beaten into fourth place by Ukip or the BNP. A great deal is
made of the absence of Tory councillors in Manchester, Liverpool and Newcastle.
Far more significant, however, both in population terms and geographical spread,
is the evacuation of much of England by the UK's ruling party.

For the Liberal Democrats, it is arguably the worst possible result. Theirs is
the only party to have registered a net loss of share-of-vote. Worse, though, is
the geographical spread of their gains and losses. In Westminster terms, the Lib
Dems are losing votes where they most need them, and picking them up where they
are of least value. Had the Lib Dems fallen any further behind, Menzies Campbell
would have had to go. Instead, he will be left precariously in place, continuing
to drag his party earthward.

Thursday's winners were, of course, Alex Salmond and David Cameron. It is again
true (and, again, irrelevant) that they could have done better still. It is
true, too, that most of their votes were cast against Labour rather than for the
Tories or the SNP. But this has probably been true of every successful
Opposition in post-war Britain. Both men know that they are short of the
majorities they need. But, at the same time, they are likelier than they have
ever been to become first ministers, respectively, of Scotland and the United
Kingdom. They won't be losing too much sleep over the range of their supporters'
motives.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday

Elections 2007: Up close

BYLINE: Will Woodward and Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 293 words


* Local concerns, especially rubbish collection, were thought to have made the
difference in several council elections in England yesterday. Complaints about
the move to fortnightly bin collections changed the political map in around 10
councils. In Bournemouth, Torbay, and Waverley, this played a part in the
Tories' triumphs at the expense of the Lib Dems.

The Conservatives suffered in areas where they have tried out the system,
notably North Lincolnshire, Hinckley, Bosworth, Salisbury, and West Somerset.
The issue played some part in Labour losing Blackburn with Darwen, after 24
years, and damaged the party in both Telford and Charnwood.

* The Greens made six gains in Brighton and Hove - leaving them only one short
of matching Labour as the second largest party - two in Wealden, also on the
south coast, and a sprinkling elsewhere, after fielding 1,400 candidates. There
was little, if any, cheer for other minor parties, such as Ukip and Respect.

* Two independent mayors were returned. Ray Mallon, the former detective known
as "Robocop", was easily reinstalled at Middlesbrough with 58.6% of the vote on
the first ballot. In Mansfield, Alan Meale, Labour MP in the town since 1987,
lost to independent Tony Egginton. "The people of Mansfield have again voted to
keep party politics out of running our district," Mr Egginton said.

* Blur drummer Dave Rowntree (below), standing for Labour in a byelection for
Westminster council, came third behind the Tories and the Lib Dems. "I have
really enjoyed it and I have learnt a lot," he said.

* Police had to step in when a minor scuffle broke out during a count in
Liverpool. Tempers frayed after a recount was ordered for the Croxteth ward.
Officers intervened as rival parties began pushing and shoving.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                              May 5, 2007 Saturday

Holyrood: The results

SECTION: ELECTION 2007

LENGTH: 5430  words


ABERDEEN CENTRAL

Lab hold

Electorate 46,588

Turnout 21,120 (45.33%)%Vote

Macdonald, L (Lab)7,23234.24

Shirron, K (SNP)6,85032.43

Stewart, J (LD)4,69322.22

Jones, A (C)2,34511.10

May 2003 Macdonald (Lab) 6,835 (32.60%); Lochhead (SNP) 5,593 (26.68%); Anderson
(LD) 4,744 (22.63%); Butler (C) 2,616 (12.48%); Cumbers (SSP) 1,176 (5.61%).

ABERDEEN NORTH

SNP hold

Electorate 51,507

Turnout 24,891 (48.33%)%Vote

Adam, B (SNP)11,40645.82

Thomson, E (Lab)7,65730.76

Delaney, S (LD)3,83615.41

Garvie, C (C)1,9928.00

May 2003 Adam (SNP) 8,381 (33.49%); Thomson (Lab) 7,924 (31.66%); Reynolds (LD)
5,767 (23.04%); Gifford (C) 2,311 (9.23%); Trolle (SSP) 644 (2.57%).

ABERDEEN SOUTH

LD hold

Electorate 56,700

Turnout 29,885 (52.71%)%Vote

Stephen, N (LD)10,84336.28

Watt, M (SNP)8,11127.14

Okasha, R (Lab)5,49918.40

Davidson, D (C)5,43218.18

May 2003 Stephen (LD) 13,821 (45.88%); Baker (Lab) 5,805 (19.27%); Duncan (C)
5,230 (17.36%); Watt (SNP) 4,315 (14.32%); Farnsworth (SSP) 953 (3.16%).

ABERDEENSHIRE WEST & KINCARDINE

LD hold

Electorate 65,233

Turnout 34,823 (53.38%)%Vote

Rumbles, M (LD)14,31441.11

Robertson, D (SNP)9,14426.26

Whyte, S (C)8,60424.71

Noble, J (Lab)2,7617.93

May 2003 Rumbles (LD) 14,553 (46.00%); Davidson (C) 9,154 (28.94%); Angus (SNP)
4,489 (14.19%); Hutchens (Lab) 2,727 (8.62%); Manley (SSP) 713 (2.25%).

AIRDRIE & SHOTTS

Lab hold

Electorate 57,660

Turnout 27,160 (47.10%)%Vote

Whitefield, K (Lab)11,90743.84

Coyle, S (SNP)10,46138.52

McGill, I (C)2,3708.73

Gorrie, R (LD)1,4525.35

Brown, M (Scot Voice)9703.57

May 2003 Whitefield (Lab) 14,209 (56.64%); Paterson (SNP) 5,232 (20.86%);
Melville (C) 2,203 (8.78%); Coats (SSP) 2,096 (8.36%); Lang (LD) 1,346 (5.37%).

ANGUS

SNP hold

Electorate 61,362

Turnout 31,960 (52.08%)%Vote

Welsh, A (SNP)15,68649.08

Johnstone, A (C)7,44323.29

Bradley, D (Lab)5,03215.74

Rennie, S (LD)3,79911.89

May 2003 Welsh (SNP) 13,251 (44.48%); Johnstone (C) 6,564 (22.03%); Denning
(Lab) 4,871 (16.35%); Speirs (LD) 3,802 (12.76%); Wallace (SSP) 1,301 (4.37%).

ARGYLL & BUTE

SNP gain

Electorate 48,846

Turnout 28,792 (58.94%)%Vote

Mather, J (SNP)9,94434.54

Lyon, G (LD)9,12931.71

McGrigor, J (C)5,57119.35

Galbraith, M (Lab)4,14814.41

May 2003 Lyon (LD) 9,817 (35.13%); Petrie (C) 5,621 (20.11%); Mather (SNP) 5,485
(19.63%); Raven (Lab) 5,107 (18.27%); Divers (SSP) 1,667 (5.96%); Walker (SPA)
251 (0.90%).

AYR

C hold

Electorate 55,034

Turnout 23,946 (43.51%)%Vote

Scott, J (C)12,61952.70

Duncan, J (Lab)8,71336.39

Ritchie, S (LD)1,7417.27

White, I (SNP)8733.65

May 2003 Scott (C) 12,865 (40.72%); Miller (Lab) 10,975 (34.74%); Dornan (SNP)
4,334 (13.72%); Ritchie (LD) 1,769 (5.60%); Stewart (SSP) 1,648 (5.22%).

BANFF & BUCHAN

SNP hold

Electorate 56,324

Turnout 27,285 (48.44%)%Vote

Stevenson, S (SNP)16,03158.75

Burnett-Stuart, G (C)5,50120.16

Barnett, K (Lab)3,13611.49

McInnes, A (LD)2,6179.59

May 2003 Stevenson (SNP) 13,827 (52.88%); Whyte (C) 5,463 (20.89%); Brotchie
(Lab) 2,885 (11.03%); Storr (LD) 2,227 (8.52%); Buchan (SPA) 907 (3.47%); Rowan
(SSP) 840 (3.21%).

CAITHNESS, SUTHERLAND & EASTER ROSS

LD hold

Electorate 41,789

Turnout 22,334 (53.44%)%Vote

Stone, J (LD)8,98140.21

Gibson, R (SNP)6,65829.81

McKendrick, J (Lab)3,15214.11

MacDonald, D (C)2,58611.58

Campbell, G (Ind)9574.28

May 2003 Stone (LD) 7,742 (36.65%); Steven (Lab) 5,650 (26.74%); Gibson (SNP)
3,692 (17.48%); McLeod (C) 2,262 (10.71%); Campbell (Ind) 953 (4.51%); Ward
(SSP) 828 (3.92%).

CARRICK, CUMNOCK & DOON VALLEY

Lab hold

Electorate 65,166

Turnout 33,785 (51.84%)%Vote

Jamieson, C (Lab)14,35042.47

Ingram, A (SNP)10,36430.68

Lewis, T (C)6,72919.92

McGreal, P (LD)1,4094.17

Hill, H (Ind)8092.39

Barry, R (Parenting)1240.37

May 2003 Jamieson (Lab Co-op) 16,484 (47.97%); Gallie (C) 9,030 (26.28%); Ingram
(SNP) 5,822 (16.94%); Steele (SSP) 1,715 (4.99%); Howden (LD) 1,315 (3.83%).

CLYDEBANK & MILNGAVIE

Lab hold

Electorate 48,700

Turnout 26,765 (54.96%)%Vote

McNulty, D (Lab)11,61743.40

Paterson, G (SNP)8,43831.53

Roxburgh, M (C)3,54413.24

Ghai, A (LD)3,16611.83

May 2003 McNulty (Lab) 10,585 (39.92%); Yuill (SNP) 6,051 (22.82%); Ackland (LD)
3,224 (12.16%); Leishman (C) 2,885 (10.88%); Brennan (SSP) 1,902 (7.17%);
McCafferty (Ind) 1,867 (7.04%).

CLYDESDALE

Lab hold

Electorate 66,011

Turnout 33,332 (50.49%)%Vote

Gillon, K (Lab)13,83541.51

Campbell, A (SNP)10,94232.83

McGavigan, C (C)5,60416.81

Grieve, F (LD)2,9518.85

May 2003 Gillon (Lab) 14,800 (45.62%); Brady (SNP) 8,129 (25.06%); Campbell (C)
5,174 (15.95%); Grieve (LD) 2,338 (7.21%); Meharry (SSP) 1,422 (4.38%); Morrison
(SPA) 579 (1.78%).

COATBRIDGE & CHRYSTON

Lab hold

Electorate 54,423

Turnout 25,725 (47.27%)%Vote

Smith, E (Lab)11,86046.10

McGlinchey, F (SNP)7,35028.57

Thomson, R (C)2,3058.96

McAnulty, J (Ind)1,8437.16

Nisbet, D (LD)1,5195.90

McCann, G (Scot Voice)8483.30

May 2003 Smith (Lab) 13,422 (56.25%); Gribben (SNP) 4,851 (20.33%); Reece (C)
2,041 (8.55%); Martin (SSP) 1,911 (8.01%); Nisbet (LD) 1,637 (6.86%).

CUMBERNAULD & KILSYTH

Lab hold

Electorate 49,197

Turnout 26,382 (53.63%)%Vote

Craigie, C (Lab)12,67248.03

Hepburn, J (SNP)10,59340.15

O'Donnell, H (LD)1,6706.33

Harding, A (C)1,4475.48

May 2003 Craigie (Lab) 10,146 (41.58%); Wilson (SNP) 9,626 (39.44%); McEwan
(SSP) 1,823 (7.47%); O'Donnell (LD) 1,264 (5.18%); McCulloch (C) 978 (4.01%);
Donohue (Ind) 567 (2.32%).

CUNNINGHAME NORTH

SNP gain

Electorate 55,925

Turnout 30,241 (54.07%)%Vote

Gibson, K (SNP)9,29530.74

Wilson, A (Lab)9,24730.58

Lardner, P (C)5,46618.07

Martin, C (Ind)4,42314.63

Hutton, L (LD)1,8105.99

May 2003 Wilson (Lab) 11,142 (38.92%); Martin (SNP) 7,755 (27.09%); Ramsay (C)
5,542 (19.36%); Boyd (LD) 2,333 (8.15%); Scott (SSP) 1,859 (6.49%).

CUNNINGHAME SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 49,969

Turnout 23,422 (46.87%)%Vote

Oldfather, I (Lab)10,27043.85

Ross, D (SNP)8,10234.59

McPhee, P (C)3,07313.12

Dale, I (LD)1,9778.44

May 2003 Oldfather (Lab) 11,165 (49.03%); Russell (SNP) 5,089 (22.35%); Byrne
(SSP) 2,677 (11.76%); Brocklehurst (C) 2,336 (10.26%); Dale (LD) 1,505 (6.61%).

DUMBARTON

Lab hold

Electorate 54,023

Turnout 30,054 (55.63%)%Vote

Baillie, J (Lab)11,63538.71

McCormick, G (SNP)10,02433.35

Pope, B (C)4,70115.64

Mackie, A (LD)3,38511.26

Black, J (Jacobite)3091.03

May 2003 Baillie (Lab) 12,154 (42.17%); Docherty (SNP) 5,542 (19.23%); Thompson
(LD) 4,455 (15.46%); Tosh (C) 4,178 (14.50%); Robertson (SSP) 2,494 (8.65%).

DUMFRIES

Lab hold

Electorate 53,518

Turnout 33,419 (62.44%)%Vote

Murray, E (Lab)13,70741.02

Tosh, M (C)10,86832.52

Russell, M (SNP)6,30618.87

Hume, L (LD)2,5387.59

May 2003 Murray (Lab) 12,834 (39.97%); Mundell (C) 11,738 (36.56%); Wood (SNP)
3,931 (12.24%); Hamblen (LD) 2,394 (7.46%); Dennis (SSP) 1,213 (3.78%).

DUNDEE EAST

SNP hold

Electorate 53,804

Turnout 26,869 (49.94%)%Vote

Robison, S (SNP)13,31449.55

Luke, I (Lab)8,79032.71

Bustin, C (C)2,97611.08

Sneddon, C (LD)1,7896.66

May 2003 Robison (SNP) 10,428 (39.58%); McAllion (Lab) 10,338 (39.24%); Prince
(C) 3,133 (11.89%); Sneddon (LD) 1,584 (6.01%); Gourlay (Ind) 865 (3.28%).

DUNDEE WEST

SNP gain

Electorate 49,711

Turnout 24,268 (48.82%)%Vote

Fitzpatrick, J (SNP)10,95545.14

Shimi, J (Lab)9,00937.12

Charlton, M (LD)2,51710.37

Don, B (C)1,7877.36

May 2003 McLean (Lab) 8,234 (32.93%); McGugan (SNP) 7,168 (28.67%); Borthwick
(Ind) 4,715 (18.86%); Ferrier (LD) 1,878 (7.51%); McFarland (SSP) 1,501 (6.00%);
Roberts (C) 1,376 (5.50%); MacLachlan (SPA) 131 (0.52%).

DUNFERMLINE EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 51,115

Turnout 24,568 (48.06%)%Vote

Eadie, H (Lab)10,99544.75

Dow, E (SNP)7,00228.50

Brown, G (C)3,71815.13

Utting, K (LD)2,85311.61

May 2003 Eadie (Lab Co-op) 11,552 (49.89%); Law (SNP) 4,262 (18.41%); Randall
(C) 2,485 (10.73%); Stewart (Local Hospital) 1,890 (8.16%); Graham (SSP) 1,537
(6.64%); Spillane (LD) 1,428 (6.17%).

DUNFERMLINE WEST

LD gain

Electorate 56,953

Turnout 29,525 (51.84%)%Vote

Tolson, J (LD)9,95233.71

arrie, S (Lab)9,47632.09

Woods, L (SNP)7,29624.71

Lyburn, P (C)2,3638.00

Archibald, S (Scot Voice)4381.48

May 2003 Barrie (Lab) 8,664 (34.33%); Wishart (Local Hospital) 4,584 (18.16%);
Goodall (SNP) 4,392 (17.40%); Tolson (LD) 3,636 (14.41%); Mackie (C) 1,868
(7.40%); Jackson (SSP) 923 (3.66%); Harper (Ind) 714 (2.83%); Quigg (Ind Q) 459
(1.82%).

EAST KILBRIDE

Lab hold

Electorate 66,935

Turnout 35,902 (53.64%)%Vote

Kerr, A (Lab)15,33442.71

Fabiani, L (SNP)13,36237.22

Simpson, G (C)4,11411.46

Clark, D (LD)3,0928.61

May 2003 Kerr (Lab) 13,825 (40.56%); Fabiani (SNP) 8,544 (25.07%); Campbell (C)
3,785 (11.10%); Leckie (SSP) 2,736 (8.03%); McCartney (Ind) 2,597 (7.62%);
Mackie (LD) 2,181 (6.40%); Houston (Ind Houston) 419 (1.23%).

EAST LOTHIAN

Lab hold

Electorate 61,378

Turnout 34,471 (56.16%)%Vote

Gray, I (Lab)12,21935.45

Sharp, A (SNP)9,77128.35

Hayman, J (LD)6,24918.13

Stevenson, B (C)6,23218.08

May 2003 Home Robertson (Lab) 13,683 (43.85%); Hayman (LD) 5,508 (17.65%);
Thomson (C) 5,459 (17.49%); Roberts (SNP) 5,174 (16.58%); Kerr (SSP) 1,380
(4.42%).

EASTWOOD

Lab hold

Electorate 67,347

Turnout 42,187 (62.64%)%Vote

Macintosh, K (Lab)15,09935.79

Carlaw, J (C)14,18633.63

Maxwell, S (SNP)7,97218.90

MacDonald, G (LD)3,6038.54

McGhee, F (Ind)1,3273.15

May 2003 Macintosh (Lab) 13,946 (35.86%); Carlaw (C) 10,244 (26.34%); Steele
(LD) 5,056 (13.00%); Maxwell (SNP) 4,736 (12.18%); Hinds (Local Health) 3,163
(8.13%).

EDINBURGH CENTRAL

Lab hold

Electorate 55,953

Turnout 29,396 (52.54%)%Vote

Boyack, S (Lab)9,15531.14

Mathers, S (LD)7,96227.09

Somerville, S A (SNP)7,49625.50

Houston, F (C)4,78316.27

May 2003 Boyack (Lab) 9,066 (32.36%); Myles (LD) 6,400 (22.85%); Pringle (SNP)
4,965 (17.72%); Finnie (C) 4,802 (17.14%); Grant (SSP) 2,552 (9.11%).

EDINBURGH EAST & MUSSELBURGH

SNP gain

Electorate 56,578

Turnout 29,967 (52.97%)%Vote

MacAskill, K (SNP)11,20937.40

Murray, N (Lab)9,82732.79

Cole-Hamilton, G (LD)5,47318.26

Wright, C (C)3,45811.54

May 2003 Deacon (Lab) 12,655 (43.57%); MacAskill (SNP) 6,497 (22.37%); Smart (C)
3,863 (13.30%); Peacock (LD) 3,582 (12.33%); Durkin (SSP) 2,447 (8.43%).

EDINBURGH NORTH & LEITH

Lab hold

Electorate 60,340

Turnout 31,685 (52.51%)%Vote

Chisholm, M (Lab)11,02034.78

Crockart, M (LD)8,57627.07

Hutchison, D (SNP)8,04425.39

Whyte, I (C)4,04512.77

May 2003 Chisholm (Lab) 10,979 (38.21%); Dana (SNP) 5,565 (19.37%); Mowat (C)
4,821 (16.78%); Tombs (LD) 4,785 (16.65%); Scott (SSP) 2,584 (8.99%).

EDINBURGH PENTLANDS

C hold

Electorate 57,891

Turnout 34,377 (59.38%)%Vote

McLetchie, D (C)12,92737.60

Gilmore, S (Lab)8,40224.44

McKee, I (SNP)8,23423.95

Clark, S (LD)4,81414.00

May 2003 McLetchie (C) 12,420 (37.21%); Gray (Lab) 10,309 (30.88%); McKee (SNP)
5,620 (16.84%); Clark (LD) 3,943 (11.81%).

EDINBURGH SOUTH

LD hold

Electorate 57,621

Turnout 32,573 (56.53%)%Vote

+Pringle, M (LD)11,39834.99

Anderson, D (Lab)9,46929.07

Holland, R (SNP)6,11718.78

Brown, G (C)5,58917.16

May 2003 Pringle (LD) 10,005 (32.07%); Mackay (Lab) 9,847 (31.56%); Buchan (C)
5,180 (16.60%); Orr (SNP) 4,396 (14.09%); Gibb (SSP) 1,768 (5.67%).

EDINBURGH WEST

LD hold

Electorate 59,814

Turnout 34,752 (58.10%)%Vote

Smith, M (LD)13,67739.36

Cleland, S (SNP)7,79122.42

Lindhurst, G (C)7,36121.18

Meade, R (Lab)5,34315.37

Wilson, J (Ind Wilson)5801.67

May 2003 Smith (LD) 14,434 (43.34%); Douglas-Hamilton (C) 8,520 (25.58%); Fox
(Lab) 5,046 (15.15%); Smith (SNP) 4,133 (12.41%); Smith (SSP) 993 (2.98%);
Skivington (SPA) 175 (0.53%).

FALKIRK EAST

Lab hold

Electorate 57,663

Turnout 30,393 (52.71%)%Vote

Peattie, C (Lab)13,18443.38

Ewing, A (SNP)11,31237.22

Campbell, S (C)3,76112.37

Maver, N (LD)2,1367.03

May 2003 Peattie (Lab) 14,235 (51.65%); Brown (SNP) 7,576 (27.49%); Calvert (C)
2,720 (9.87%); Utting (LD) 1,651 (5.99%); McAlpine (SSP) 1,377 (5.00%).

FALKIRK WEST

SNP gain

Electorate 56,254

Turnout 18,685 (33.22%)%Vote

Matheson, M (SNP)12,06864.59

O'Rourke, S (C)2,88715.45

Chomczuk, C (LD)2,53813.58

Goldie, D (Lab)1,1926.38

May 2003 Canavan (Falkirk W) 14,703 (55.69%); Matheson (SNP) 4,703 (17.81%);
Whitehill (Lab) 4,589 (17.38%); Mitchell (C) 1,657 (6.28%); Kelly (LD) 748
(2.83%).

FIFE CENTRAL

SNP gain

Electorate 58,215

Turnout 26,965 (46.32%)%Vote

Marwick, T (SNP)11,92044.21

May, C (Lab)10,75439.88

Riches, E (LD)2,2888.49

Golden, M (C)2,0037.43

May 2003 May (Lab Co-op) 10,591 (41.38%); Marwick (SNP) 7,829 (30.59%); Rodger
(Ind) 2,258 (8.82%); North (C) 1,803 (7.04%); Riches (LD) 1,725 (6.74%); Balfour
(SSP) 1,391 (5.43%).

FIFE NORTH EAST

LD hold

Electorate 61,078

Turnout 31,552 (51.66%)%Vote

Smith, I (LD)13,30742.17

Brocklebank, T (C)8,29126.28

Campbell, R (SNP)6,73521.35

Young, K (Lab)2,5578.10

Campbell, T (Ind)6622.10

May 2003 Smith (LD) 13,479 (46.03%); Brocklebank (C) 8,424 (28.77%); Ross
Williams (SNP) 3,660 (12.50%); Poynton (Lab) 2,353 (8.04%); Morelli (SSP) 1,366
(4.66%).

GALLOWAY & UPPER NITHSDALE

C hold

Electorate 52,583

Turnout 30,318 (57.66%)%Vote

Fergusson, A (C)13,38744.16

Morgan, A (SNP)10,05433.16

Hodgson, S (Lab)4,93516.28

Cooper, A (LD)1,6315.38

Richardson, S (Ind)3111.03

May 2003 Fergusson (C) 11,332 (38.24%); Morgan (SNP) 11,233 (37.90%); Hart (Lab)
4,299 (14.51%); Wallace (LD) 1,847 (6.23%); Cherkaoui (SSP) 709 (2.39%);
Brockhouse (SPA) 215 (0.73%).

GLASGOW ANNIESLAND

Lab hold

Electorate 48,344

Turnout 22,139 (45.79%)%Vote

Butler, B (Lab)10,48347.35

Kidd, B (SNP)6,17727.90

Aitken, B (C)3,15414.25

Gilland, D (LD)2,32510.50

May 2003 Butler (Lab Co-op) 10,141 (45.75%); Kidd (SNP) 3,888 (17.54%); Aitken
(C) 3,186 (14.37%); McCarthy (SSP) 2,620 (11.82%); Brown (LD) 2,330 (10.51%).

GLASGOW BAILLIESTON

Lab hold

Electorate 44,367

Turnout 17,272 (38.93%)%Vote

Curran, M (Lab)9,14152.92

McNeill, L (SNP)5,20730.15

Sullivan, R (C)1,2767.39

Jackson, D (LD)1,0606.14

Hargreaves, G (SCP)5883.40

May 2003 Curran (Lab) 9,657 (52.86%); McNeill (SNP) 3,479 (19.04%); McVicar
(SSP) 2,461 (13.47%); McAlpine (C) 1,472 (8.06%); Jackson (LD) 1,201 (6.57%).

GLASGOW CATHCART

Lab hold

Electorate 47,822

Turnout 21,657 (45.29%)%Vote

Gordon, C (Lab)8,47639.14

Dornan, J (SNP)6,28729.03

Smith, D (Ind)2,91113.44

Rankin, D (C)2,32410.73

Mustapha, S (LD)1,6597.66

September 2005 Gordon (Lab) 5,811 (37.69%); Whitehead (SNP) 3,406 (22.09%); Cook
(C) 2,306 (14.96%); Sanderson (LD) 1,557 (10.10%); Lally (Ind) 856 (5.55%);
Stevenson (SSP) 819 (5.31%); Stewart (Green) 548 (3.55%); Creighton (Ind) 59
(0.38%).

GLASGOW GOVAN

SNP gain

Electorate 47,405

Turnout 21,521 (45.40%)%Vote

Sturgeon, N (SNP)9,01041.87

Jackson, G (Lab)8,26638.41

Young, C (LD)1,8918.79

McIntyre, M (C)1,6807.81

Nasir, A (Ind Nasir)4231.97

McKenzie, E (Comm Brit)2511.17

May 2003 Jackson (Lab) 7,834 (37.06%); Sturgeon (SNP) 6,599 (31.22%); Scott
(SSP) 2,369 (11.21%); Butt (C) 1,878 (8.89%); Graham (LD) 1,807 (8.55%); Dean
(Ind) 226 (1.07%); Foster (CPPDS) 215 (1.02%)..

GLASGOW KELVIN

Lab hold

Electorate 55,096

Turnout 23,500 (42.65%)%Vote

McNeill, P (Lab)7,87533.51

White, S (SNP)6,66828.37

Bartos, M (Green)2,97112.64

Gordon, K (LD)2,84312.10

Cooklin, B (C)1,9438.27

Walker, N (Ind)7443.17

Macleod, I (SCP)4561.94

May 2003 McNeill (Lab) 7,880 (35.69%); White (SNP) 4,591 (20.79%); Herbison (LD)
3,334 (15.10%); Harvey (SSP) 3,159 (14.31%); Towler (C) 1,816 (8.22%);
McConnachie (Ind Green) 1,300 (5.89%).

GLASGOW MARYHILL

Lab hold

Electorate 46,060

Turnout 16,564 (35.96%)%Vote

Ferguson, P (Lab)7,95548.03

Doris, B (SNP)5,64534.08

Elder, K (LD)1,93611.69

MacLeod, H (C)1,0286.21

May 2003 Ferguson (Lab) 8,997 (49.32%); Wilson (SNP) 3,629 (19.89%); Nicolson
(SSP) 2,945 (16.14%); Sanderson (LD) 1,785 (9.78%); Erskine (C) 887 (4.86%).

GLASGOW POLLOK

Lab hold

Electorate 47,189

Turnout 19,416 (41.15%)%Vote

Lamont, J (Lab)10,45653.85

Stephens, C (SNP)6,06331.23

Michaluk, G (C)1,4607.52

Gilmore, C (LD)1,4377.40

May 2003 Lamont (Lab Co-op) 9,357 (43.44%); Sheridan (SSP) 6,016 (27.93%);
Gibson (SNP) 4,118 (19.12%); Anjum (C) 1,012 (4.70%); Nelson (LD) 962 (4.47%)..

GLASGOW RUTHERGLEN

Lab hold

Electorate 50,005

Turnout 24,252 (48.50%)%Vote

Kelly, J (Lab)10,23742.21

Park, M (SNP)5,85724.15

Brown, R (LD)5,51622.74

Harcus, C (C)2,0948.63

Greig, T (SCP)5482.26

May 2003 Hughes (Lab) 10,794 (45.83%); Brown (LD) 4,491 (19.07%); McLaughlin
(SNP) 3,511 (14.91%); Brown (C) 2,499 (10.61%); Bonnar (SSP) 2,259 (9.59%).

GLASGOW SHETTLESTON

Lab hold

Electorate 44,278

Turnout 14,801 (33.43%)%Vote

McAveety, F (Lab)7,57451.17

McLaughlin, J (SNP)4,69331.71

Renton, R (LD)1,1827.99

MacNair, W (C)9466.39

Graham, B (SCP)4062.74

May 2003 McAveety (Lab Co-op) 9,365 (56.60%); Byrne (SNP) 3,018 (18.24%); Kane
(SSP) 2,403 (14.52%); Luckhurst (C) 982 (5.93%); Hutton (LD) 779 (4.71%).

GLASGOW SPRINGBURN

Lab hold

Electorate 47,021

Turnout 17,612 (37.46%)%Vote

Martin, P (Lab)10,02456.92

McLaughlin, A (SNP)4,92927.99

McCloskey, K (LD)1,1086.29

Wilson, G (C)1,0676.06

Johnston, D (SCP)4842.75

May 2003 Martin (Lab) 10,963 (59.03%); Rankin (SNP) 2,956 (15.92%); Bean (SSP)
2,653 (14.28%); Rodger (C) 1,233 (6.64%); Dundas (LD) 768 (4.14%).

GORDON

SNP gain

Electorate 65,431

Turnout 35,363 (54.05%)%Vote

Salmond, A (SNP)14,65041.43

Radcliffe, N (LD)12,58835.60

Milne, N (C)5,34815.12

Cardwell, N (Lab)2,2766.44

Marr, D (Ind)1990.56

Mathers, D (Ind)1850.52

Ingram, B (SEP)1170.33

May 2003 Radcliffe (LD) 10,963 (38.07%); Milne (C) 6,892 (23.93%); Allan (SNP)
6,501 (22.57%); Thorpe (Lab) 2,973 (10.32%).

GREENOCK & INVERCLYDE

Lab hold

Electorate 44,646

Turnout 23,105 (51.75%)%Vote

McNeil, D (Lab)10,03543.43

McMillan, S (SNP)7,01130.34

Finnie, R (LD)3,89316.85

Ferguson, C (C)2,1669.37

May 2003 McNeil (Lab) 9,674 (40.68%); Finnie (LD) 6,665 (28.03%); Chalmers (SNP)
3,532 (14.85%); McCafferty (SSP) 2,338 (9.83%); Dunlop (C) 1,572 (6.61%).

HAMILTON NORTH & BELLSHILL

Lab hold

Electorate 53,854

Turnout 25,366 (47.10%)%Vote

McMahon, M (Lab)12,33448.62

Neil, A (SNP)7,46929.44

Callander, J (C)2,83511.18

Herbison, D (LD)1,7266.80

Gorman, J (Scot Voice)5712.25

Weir, G (Ind)4311.70

May 2003 McMahon (Lab) 12,812 (52.95%); Neil (SNP) 4,907 (20.28%); Ferguson (C)
2,625 (10.85%); Blackhall (SSP) 1,932 (7.99%); Mathers (LD) 1,477 (6.10%).

HAMILTON SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 48,838

Turnout 23,211 (47.53%)%Vote

McCabe, T (Lab)10,28044.29

McKelvie, C (SNP)6,62828.56

Mitchell, M (C)2,92912.62

McGlynn, M (Ind)1,7647.60

Oswald, J (LD)1,6106.94

May 2003 McCabe (Lab) 9,546 (46.53%); Wilson (SNP) 4,722 (23.01%); Mitchell (C)
2,601 (12.68%); O'Neil (SSP) 1,893 (9.23%); Oswald (LD) 1,756 (8.56%).

INVERNESS EAST, NAIRN & LOCHABER

SNP hold

Electorate 71,609

Turnout 39,609 (55.31%)%Vote

Ewing, F (SNP)16,44341.51

Harrow, C (LD)10,97227.70

Stewart, L (Lab)7,55919.08

Halcro-Johnston, J (C)4,63511.70

May 2003 Ewing (SNP) 10,764 (30.94%); Grant (Lab) 9,718 (27.93%); Scanlon (C)
6,205 (17.83%); Kenton (LD) 5,622 (16.16%); Arnott (SSP) 1,661 (4.77%); Lamont
(Ind) 825 (2.37%).

KILMARNOCK & LOUDOUN

SNP gain

Electorate 60,753

Turnout 33,435 (55.03%)%Vote

Coffey, W (SNP)14,29742.76

Jamieson, M (Lab)12,95538.75

McAlpine, J (C)4,12712.34

Aitken, R (LD)2,0566.15

May 2003 Jamieson (Lab) 12,633 (40.08%); Coffey (SNP) 11,423 (36.24%); Traquair
(C) 3,295 (10.45%); Gibson (LD) 1,571 (4.98%); Rutherford (SSP) 1,421 (4.51%);
Anderson (Ind Anderson) 404 (1.28%); Donnelly (Ind) 402 (1.28%); McIntosh (SPA)
371 (1.18%).

KIRKCALDY

Lab hold

Electorate 50,761

Turnout 24,195 (47.66%)%Vote

Livingstone, M (Lab)10,62743.92

Harvie, C (SNP)8,00533.09

Soper, A (LD)3,36113.89

Potts, D (C)2,2029.10

May 2003 Livingstone (Lab Co-op) 10,235 (46.65%); Welsh (SNP) 5,411 (24.66%);
Cole-Hamilton (LD) 2,417 (11.02%); Scott-Hayward (C) 2,332 (10.63%); Vogels
(SSP) 1,544 (7.04%).

LINLITHGOW

Lab hold

Electorate 56,175

Turnout 29,637 (52.76%)%Vote

Mulligan, M (Lab)12,71542.90

Hyslop, F (SNP)11,56539.02

Cameron, D (C)3,12510.54

Oliver, M (LD)2,2327.53

May 2003 Mulligan (Lab) 11,548 (41.77%); Hyslop (SNP) 9,578 (34.65%); Lindhurst
(C) 3,059 (11.07%); Oliver (LD) 2,093 (7.57%); Nimmo (SSP) 1,367 (4.94%).

LIVINGSTON

SNP gain

Electorate 66,348

Turnout 33,224 (50.08%)%Vote

Constance, A (SNP)13,15939.61

Muldoon, B (Lab)12,28936.99

Walker, E (Hospital)2,8148.47

Brown, D (C)2,8048.44

Bell, E (LD)2,1586.50

May 2003 Muldoon (Lab) 13,327 (43.61%); Johnston (SNP) 9,657 (31.60%); Paterson
(C) 2,848 (9.32%); McGreal (LD) 2,714 (8.88%); Richard (SSP) 1,640 (5.37%);
Milburn (SPA) 371 (1.21%).

MIDLOTHIAN

Lab hold

Electorate 48,395

Turnout 25,111 (51.89%)%Vote

Brankin, R (Lab)10,67142.50

Beattie, C (SNP)8,96935.72

Laird, R (LD)2,70410.77

Lewis, P (C)2,2699.04

McCleery, G (Had Enough)4981.98

May 2003 Brankin (Lab Co-op) 11,139 (47.29%); Sutherland (SNP) 5,597 (23.76%);
Bell (LD) 2,700 (11.46%); MacArthur (C) 2,557 (10.85%); Goupillot (SSP) 1,563
(6.64%).

MORAY

SNP hold

Electorate 60,959

Turnout 30,274 (49.66%)%Vote

Lochhead, R (SNP)15,04549.70

Scanlon, M (C)7,12123.52

Butcher, L (Lab)4,58015.13

Rommel, D (LD)3,52811.65

April 2006 Lochhead (SNP) 12,653 (46.15%); Scanlon (C) 6,268 (22.86%); Gorn (LD)
5,310 (19.37%); Keith (Lab) 2,696 (9.83%); Brown (NHS First) 493 (1.80%).

MOTHERWELL & WISHAW

Lab hold

Electorate 53,875

Turnout 26,150 (48.54%)%Vote

McConnell, J (Lab)12,57448.08

Fellows, M (SNP)6,63625.38

Huddleston, D (C)1,9907.61

+Swinburne, J (SSCUP)1,7026.51

Douglas, S (LD)1,5706.00

Selfridge, T (SCP)1,4915.70

Leat, R (Anti-Trident)1870.72

May 2003 McConnell (Lab) 13,739 (54.12%); Quinan (SNP) 4,480 (17.65%); Nolan (C)
2,542 (10.01%); Milligan (SSP) 1,961 (7.72%); Swinburne (SSCUP) 1,597 (6.29%);
Legg (LD) 1,069 (4.21%).

OCHIL

SNP hold

Electorate 58,104

Turnout 31,553 (54.30%)%Vote

Brown, K (SNP)12,14738.50

Fearon, B (Lab)11,65736.94

Murray, G (C)4,28413.58

Caddell, L (LD)3,46510.98

May 2003 Reid (SNP) 11,659 (38.33%); Simpson (Lab) 11,363 (37.36%); Parkin (C)
2,946 (9.69%); Whittingham (LD) 2,536 (8.34%); Garvie (SSP) 1,102 (3.62%);
Gordon Approaching (Loony) 432 (1.42%); Whyte (ND) 378 (1.24%).

ORKNEY

LD hold

Electorate 16,195

Turnout 8,653 (53.43%)%Vote

McArthur, L (LD)4,11347.53

Mowat, J (SNP)1,63718.92

Gardiner, H (C)1,63218.86

MacDonald, I (Lab)1,13413.11

Johnson, B (Ind)1371.58

May 2003 Wallace (LD) 3,659 (45.71%); Zawadski (C) 1,904 (23.79%); Mowat (SNP)
1,056 (13.19%); Aberdein (SSP) 914 (11.42%); Meade (Lab) 471 (5.88%).

PAISLEY NORTH

Lab hold

Electorate 44,081

Turnout 23,206 (52.64%)%Vote

Alexander, W (Lab)12,11152.19

Doig, A (SNP)6,99830.16

MacAskill, M (C)1,7217.42

McGarrigle, A (LD)1,5706.77

Hogg, I (SSP)5252.26

Plott, J (Ind)2811.21

May 2003 Alexander (Lab) 10,631 (47.87%); Adam (SNP) 6,321 (28.47%); Cook (C)
1,871 (8.43%); O'Malley (LD) 1,705 (7.68%); Hurl (SSP) 1,678 (7.56%).

PAISLEY SOUTH

Lab hold

Electorate 49,175

Turnout 25,527 (51.91%)%Vote

Henry, H (Lab)12,12347.49

McLeod, F (SNP)7,89330.92

McCartin, E (LD)3,43413.45

Begg, T (C)2,0778.14

May 2003 Henry (Lab) 10,190 (40.79%); Martin (SNP) 7,737 (30.97%); McCartin (LD)
3,517 (14.08%); Jones (C) 1,775 (7.10%); Curran (SSP) 1,765 (7.06%).

PERTH

SNP hold

Electorate 62,220

Turnout 34,862 (56.03%)%Vote

+Cunningham, R (SNP)13,75139.44

Smith, L (C)11,25632.29

Barrett, P (LD)4,76713.67

Maughan, D (Lab)4,51312.95

Fairlie, J (Free Scotland)5751.65

May 2003 Cunningham (SNP) 10,717 (33.90%); Stewart (C) 9,990 (31.60%); Ball
(Lab) 5,629 (17.81%); Campbell (LD) 3,530 (11.17%); Stott (SSP) 982 (3.11%);
Burns (Ind) 509 (1.61%); Buchanan (SPA) 257 (0.81%).

RENFREWSHIRE WEST

Lab hold

Electorate 50,787

Turnout 29,129 (57.36%)%Vote

Godman, T (Lab)10,46735.93

Goldie, A (C)8,28928.46

Wilson, B (SNP)8,16728.04

Hutton, S (LD)2,2067.57

May 2003 Godman (Lab) 9,671 (34.17%); McFee (SNP) 7,179 (25.37%); Goldie (C)
6,867 (24.26%); King (LD) 2,902 (10.25%); MaCartney (SSP) 1,683 (5.95%).

ROSS, SKYE & INVERNESS WEST

LD hold

Electorate 59,237

Turnout 31,719 (53.55%)%Vote

Munro, J F (LD)13,50142.56

Thompson, D (SNP)10,01531.57

Macmillan, M (Lab)4,78915.10

Hodgson, J (C)3,1229.84

Brodie, I (SEP)2920.92

May 2003 Farquhar Munro (LD) 12,495 (43.13%); Thompson (SNP) 5,647 (19.49%);
MacMillan (Lab) 5,464 (18.86%); McGrigor (C) 3,772 (13.02%); McLeod (SSP) 1,593
(5.50%).

ROXBURGH & BERWICKSHIRE

C gain

Electorate 47,862

Turnout 25,680 (53.65%)%Vote

Lamont, J (C)10,55641.11

Robson, E (LD)8,57133.38

Orr, A (SNP)4,12716.07

Lockhart, M (Lab)2,1088.21

Rae, J (ND)3181.24

May 2003 Robson (LD) 9,280 (41.22%); Scott (C) 6,790 (30.16%); Campbell (SNP)
2,816 (12.51%); Held (Lab) 2,802 (12.45%); McIver (SSP) 823 (3.66%).

SHETLAND

LD hold

Electorate 17,108

Turnout 9,795 (57.25%)%Vote

Scott, T (LD)6,53166.68

Simpson, V (SNP)1,62216.56

Jones, M (C)9729.92

Burnett, S (Lab)6706.84

May 2003 Scott (LD) 3,989 (46.14%); Ross (SNP) 1,729 (20.00%); Firth (C) 1,281
(14.82%); Hamilton (Lab) 880 (10.18%); Andrews (SSP) 766 (8.86%).

STIRLING

SNP gain

Electorate 52,864

Turnout 32,625 (61.71%)%Vote

Crawford, B (SNP)10,44732.02

Jackson, S (Lab)9,82730.12

Dalrymple, B (C)8,08124.77

Cole-Hamilton, A (LD)3,69311.32

Law, L (Peace)5771.77

May 2003 Jackson (Lab) 10,661 (35.96%); Monteith (C) 7,781 (26.25%); Crawford
(SNP) 5,645 (19.04%); Wright (LD) 3,432 (11.58%); Stewart (SSP) 1,486 (5.01%).

STRATHKELVIN & BEARSDEN

Lab gain

Electorate 60,389

Turnout 36,595 (60.60%)%Vote

Whitton, D (Lab)11,39631.14

Easton, R (SNP)8,00821.88

Turner, J (Ind)6,74218.42

Fraser, S (C)5,17814.15

McInnes, C (LD)4,65812.73

Handyside, B (SCP)6131.68

May 2003 Turner (Ind) 10,988 (30.75%); Fitzpatrick (Lab) 10,950 (30.64%);
Swinson (LD) 4,950 (13.85%); McLeod (SNP) 4,846 (13.56%); O'Brien (C) 4,002
(11.20%).

TAYSIDE NORTH

SNP hold

Electorate 62,133

Turnout 35,396 (56.97%)%Vote

Swinney, J (SNP)18,28151.65

Fraser, M (C)10,69730.22

Marna, M (Lab)3,2439.16

Taylor, J (LD)3,1758.97

May 2003 Swinney (SNP) 14,969 (44.89%); Fraser (C) 10,466 (31.39%); MacRae (Lab)
3,527 (10.58%); Forrest (LD) 3,206 (9.62%); Adams (SSP) 941 (2.82%); Ashe (SPA)
234 (0.70%).

TWEEDDALE, ETTRICK & LAUDERDALE

LD hold

Electorate 53,588

Turnout 30,327 (56.59%)%Vote

Purvis, J (LD)10,65635.14

Grahame, C (SNP)10,05833.17

Brownlee, D (C)5,59418.45

Maxwell-Stuart, C (Lab)4,01913.25

May 2003 Purvis (LD) 7,197 (26.96%); Grahame (SNP) 6,659 (24.94%); Maxwell
Stuart (Lab) 5,757 (21.56%); Brownlee (C) 5,686 (21.30%); Lockhart (SSP) 1,055
(3.95%); Black (SPA) 346 (1.30%).

WESTERN ISLES

SNP gain

Electorate 22,051

Turnout 13,625 (61.79%)%Vote

Allan, A (SNP)6,35446.63

Morrison, A (Lab)5,66741.59

Ferguson, R (LD)8526.25

+Petrie, D (C)7525.52

May 2003 Morrison (Lab) 5,825 (47.03%); Nicholson (SNP) 5,105 (41.21%); Warren
(C) 612 (4.94%); Snowden (LD) 498 (4.02%); Telfer (SSP) 347 (2.80%).

GLASGOW

(Glasgow Anniesland; Glasgow Baillieston; Glasgow Cathcart; Glasgow Govan;
Glasgow Kelvin; Glasgow Maryhill; Glasgow Pollok; Glasgow Rutherglen; Glasgow
Shettleston; Glasgow Springburn)

Elected: *Bill Aitken (C); *Robert Brown (LD); Bashir Ahmad (SNP); Sandra White
(SNP); Bob Doris (SNP); Bill Kidd (SNP); *Patrick Harvie (Green)

Lab 78,838 (38.16%, +0.44%)

SNP 55,832 (27.02%, +9.94%)

LD 14,767 (7.15%, -0.12%)

C 13,781 (6.67%, -0.82%)

Green 10,759 (5.21%, -1.93%)

Solidarity 8,525 (4.13%)

BNP 3,865 (1.87%, +0.72%)

SSCUP 3,703 (1.79%, -0.53%)

SCP 2,991 (1.45%)

Soc Lab 2,680 (1.30%, -0.22%)

CPA 2,626 (1.27%)

SSP 2,579 (1.25%, -13.98%)

SUP 1,612 (0.78%, -0.37%)

Publican 952 (0.46%)

Ind Shoaib 582 (0.28%)

Ind Green 496 (0.24%)

UKIP 405 (0.20%, -0.07%)

Scot Voice 389 (0.19%)

Ind Nasir 317 (0.15%)

SACL 293 (0.14%)

Ind 286 (0.14%)

Comm Brit 260 (0.13%)

9% Growth 80 (0.04%)

Lab maj 23,006 (11.13)

4.75% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 477,587; Turnout 206,618 (43.26%, +1.82%)

2003 Lab maj 42,146 (20.63%); Turnout 204,278 (41.45%)

HIGHLANDS & ISLANDS

(Argyll & Bute; Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross; Inverness East, Nairn &
Lochaber; Moray; Orkney; Ross, Skye & Inverness West; Shetland; Western Isles)

Elected: Mary Scanlon (C); *Jamie McGrigor (C); *Peter Peacock (Lab); Rhoda
Grant (Lab); David Stewart (Lab); *Rob Gibson (SNP); Dave Thompson (SNP)

SNP 63,979 (34.44%, +11.01%)

LD 37,001 (19.92%, +1.14%)

Lab 32,952 (17.74%, -4.57%)

C 23,334 (12.56%, -3.45%)

Green 8,602 (4.63%, -3.63%)

SCP 6,332 (3.41%)

SSCUP 3,841 (2.07%)

BNP 2,152 (1.16%)

Solidarity 1,833 (0.99%)

UKIP 1,287 (0.69%, -0.46%)

Soc Lab 1,027 (0.55%, -0.41%)

SSP 973 (0.52%, -4.81%)

Publican 914 (0.49%)

CPA 885 (0.48%)

Scot Voice 450 (0.24%)

SEP 211 (0.11%)

SNP maj 26,978 (14.52)

4.94% swing SNP to LD

Electorate 337,794; Turnout 185,773 (55.00%, +2.78%)

2003 SNP maj 1,892 (1.12%); Turnout 168,596 (52.22%)

LOTHIANS

(Edinburgh Central; Edinburgh East & Musselburgh; Edinburgh North & Leith;
Edinburgh Pentlands; Edinburgh South; Edinburgh West; Linlithgow; Livingston;
Midlothian)

Elected: Gavin Brown (C); George Foulkes (Lab); *Fiona Hyslop (SNP); Dr Ian
McKee (SNP); Stefan Tymkewycz (SNP); *Robin Harper (Green); Margo MacDonald
(Ind)

SNP 76,019 (26.48%, +10.24%)

Lab 75,495 (26.30%, +1.80%)

C 37,548 (13.08%, -2.04%)

LD 36,571 (12.74%, +1.74%)

Green 20,147 (7.02%, -4.99%)

Ind 19,256 (6.71%)

SSCUP 4,176 (1.45%)

Solidarity 2,998 (1.04%)

BNP 2,637 (0.92%)

Soc Lab 2,190 (0.76%, -0.06%)

SCP 2,002 (0.70%)

SSP 1,994 (0.69%, -4.74%)

Publican 1,230 (0.43%)

Witchery 867 (0.30%, -0.06%)

CPA 848 (0.30%)

UKIP 834 (0.29%, -0.11%)

Had Enough 670 (0.23%)

Scot Voice 661 (0.23%)

SACL 322 (0.11%)

Ind Scott 189 (0.07%)

SEP 183 (0.06%)

Ind Wilson 129 (0.04%)

Ind Thorp 73 (0.03%)

SNP maj 524 (0.18)

4.22% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 519,115; Turnout 287,039 (55.29%, +4.78%)

2003 Lab maj 21,960 (8.27%); Turnout 265,670 (50.52%)

SCOTLAND CENTRAL

(Airdrie & Shotts; Coatbridge & Chryston; Cumbernauld & Kilsyth; East Kilbride;
Falkirk East; Falkirk West; Hamilton North & Bellshill; Hamilton South;
Kilmarnock & Loudoun; Motherwell & Wishaw)

Elected: *Margaret Mitchell (C); Hugh O'Donnell (LD); *Alex Neil (SNP); *Linda
Fabiani (SNP); Jamie Hepburn (SNP); Christina McKelvie (SNP); John Wilson (SNP)

Lab 112,596 (39.58%, -0.84%)

SNP 89,210 (31.36%, +8.83%)

C 24,253 (8.52%, -0.64%)

LD 14,648 (5.15%, -0.74%)

Green 7,204 (2.53%, -2.12%)

SSCUP 7,060 (2.48%, -4.04%)

SCP 5,575 (1.96%)

Solidarity 5,012 (1.76%)

CPA 4,617 (1.62%)

BNP 4,125 (1.45%)

Soc Lab 2,303 (0.81%, -0.66%)

SSP 2,188 (0.77%, -6.46%)

Scot Voice 1,955 (0.69%)

SUP 1,544 (0.54%, -0.27%)

Publican 1,500 (0.53%)

UKIP 722 (0.25%, -0.13%)

Lab maj 23,386 (8.22)

4.83% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 559,452; Turnout 284,512 (50.86%, +2.24%)

2003 Lab maj 47,044 (17.88%); Turnout 263,085 (48.61%)

SCOTLAND MID & FIFE

(Dunfermline East; Dunfermline West; Fife Central; Fife North East; Kirkcaldy;
Ochil; Perth; Stirling; Tayside North)

Elected: *Murdo Fraser (C); Liz Smith (C); *Ted Brocklebank (C); John Park
(Lab); Claire Baker (Lab); Richard Simpson (Lab); Prof Chris Harvie (SNP)

SNP 90,090 (32.99%, +9.95%)

Lab 71,922 (26.34%, +1.05%)

C 44,341 (16.24%, -1.33%)

LD 36,195 (13.25%, +1.21%)

Green 10,318 (3.78%, -3.08%)

SSCUP 5,523 (2.02%)

BNP 2,620 (0.96%)

Solidarity 2,468 (0.90%)

SCP 1,698 (0.62%)

UKIP 1,587 (0.58%, -0.36%)

Soc Lab 1,523 (0.56%, -0.35%)

Publican 1,309 (0.48%)

SSP 1,116 (0.41%, -4.15%)

Scot Voice 919 (0.34%)

CPA 790 (0.29%)

Free Scotland 664 (0.24%)

SNP maj 18,168 (6.65)

4.45% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 513,443; Turnout 273,083 (53.19%, +3.51%)

2003 Lab maj 5,608 (2.24%); Turnout 250,093 (49.68%)

SCOTLAND NORTH EAST

(Aberdeen Central; Aberdeen North; Aberdeen South; Aberdeenshire West &
Kincardine; Angus; Banff & Buchan; Dundee East; Dundee West; Gordon)

Elected: *Alex Johnstone (C); *Nanette Milne (C); *Richard Baker (Lab); *Marlyn
Glen (Lab); Alison McInnes (LD); *Maureen Watt (SNP); Nigel Don (SNP)

SNP 105,265 (41.07%, +13.80%)

Lab 52,125 (20.34%, +0.15%)

LD 40,934 (15.97%, -2.84%)

C 37,666 (14.70%, -2.67%)

Green 8,148 (3.18%, -2.04%)

BNP 2,764 (1.08%)

Solidarity 2,004 (0.78%)

SCP 1,895 (0.74%)

CPA 1,173 (0.46%)

SSP 1,051 (0.41%, -3.79%)

UKIP 1,045 (0.41%, -0.21%)

SSCUP 930 (0.36%)

Scot Voice 569 (0.22%)

Soc Lab 491 (0.19%, -0.81%)

SEP 222 (0.09%)

SNP maj 53,140 (20.73)

6.82% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 506,660; Turnout 256,282 (50.58%, +2.33%)

2003 SNP maj 17,274 (7.09%); Turnout 243,673 (48.25%)

SCOTLAND SOUTH

(Ayr; Carrick, Cumnock & Doon Valley; Clydesdale; Cunninghame South; Dumfries;
East Lothian; Galloway & Upper Nithsdale; Roxburgh & Berwickshire; Tweeddale,
Ettrick & Lauderdale)

Elected: *Derek Brownlee (C); Jim Hume (LD); *Christine Grahame (SNP); Michael
Russell (SNP); *Adam Ingram (SNP); *Alasdair Morgan (SNP); Aileen Campbell (SNP)

SNP 77,053 (51.52%, +33.15%)

C 15,619 (10.44%, -13.80%)

LD 14,020 (9.37%, -0.89%)

Lab 13,294 (8.89%, -21.10%)

Green 9,254 (6.19%, +0.47%)

SSCUP 5,335 (3.57%)

Solidarity 3,433 (2.30%)

BNP 3,212 (2.15%)

SCP 2,353 (1.57%)

Soc Lab 1,633 (1.09%, -0.07%)

UKIP 1,429 (0.96%, +0.24%)

SSP 1,114 (0.74%, -4.66%)

CPA 839 (0.56%)

Scot Voice 490 (0.33%)

Ind 488 (0.33%)

SNP maj 61,434 (41.07)

23.47% swing SNP to C

Electorate 514,105; Turnout 149,566 (29.09%, -23.24%)

2003 Lab maj 15,128 (5.75%); Turnout 263,285 (52.33%)

SCOTLAND WEST

(Clydebank & Milngavie; Cunninghame North; Dumbarton; Eastwood; Greenock &
Inverclyde; Paisley North; Paisley South; Renfrewshire West; Strathkelvin &
Bearsden)

Elected: *Annabel Goldie (C); Jackson Carlaw (C); *Ross Finnie (LD); Stewart
Maxwell (SNP); Gil Paterson (SNP); Bill Wilson (SNP); Stuart McMillan (SNP)

Lab 91,725 (34.20%, +5.96%)

SNP 75,953 (28.32%, +11.37%)

C 40,637 (15.15%, +1.61%)

LD 22,515 (8.40%, -15.69%)

Green 8,152 (3.04%, -1.85%)

SSCUP 5,231 (1.95%, -0.44%)

Solidarity 4,774 (1.78%)

SCP 3,729 (1.39%)

BNP 3,241 (1.21%)

CPA 3,027 (1.13%)

Save NHS 2,682 (1.00%)

SSP 1,716 (0.64%, -5.62%)

Soc Lab 1,557 (0.58%, -0.48%)

SUP 1,245 (0.46%, -0.08%)

UKIP 888 (0.33%, -0.23%)

Scot Voice 522 (0.19%)

Jacobite 446 (0.17%)

Soc Equality 139 (0.05%)

Lab maj 15,772 (5.88)

2.70% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 475,073; Turnout 268,179 (56.45%, -5.08%)

2003 Lab maj 12,351 (4.16%); Turnout 297,176 (61.53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2007, Saturday

Greens boosted by change of agenda

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 92 words


The Green Party won a record number of seats as environmental issues rose up the
political agenda.

The party pushed its total of 93 councillors up to 111, gaining seats in
Norwich, Kirklees, Waveney, Mid Suffolk and Herefordshire. In Brighton it
doubled its number of seats from six to 12.

The BNP failed to get a single seat in Thurrock, its target council. UKIP also
failed to make gains and the number of independent councillors fell.
Independents lost control in West Somerset, but three directly elected
independent mayors were returned for another term.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2007, Saturday

Results

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 83

LENGTH: 4826 words


Metropolitan districts

Barnsley Lab hold

Lab 12, C 2, Ind 7 Ind gain 2, Lab lose 2 New council LD 2, Ind 23, Lab 33, C 5

Birmingham NOC no change

Respect 1, LD 10, Lab 13, C 16 Lab lose 3, C gain 3 New council Ind 1, Respect
2,

LD 32, Lab 41, C 44

Bradford NOC no change

BNP 1, Green 1, C 10, Lab 13, LD 6 Ind lose 1, Green lose 1, LD gain 1, C lose
1,

Lab gain 2 New council LD 14, BNP 2, Green 3, C 32, Lab 39

Bolton NOC no change

Lab 10, LD 3, C 7 LD lose 3, C gain 1, Lab gain 2 New council LD 12, C 22, Lab
26

Bury NOC no change

LD 3, C 7, Lab 7 LD gain 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 1 New council Lab 20, C 23, LD 8

Calderdale NOC no change

Vacant 1, Lab 4, LD 5, C 7 BNP lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council BNP 1, Vacant 1,
Lab

11, LD 15, C 19, Ind 4

Coventry C hold

Lab 10, C 8 LD lose 1, Soc lose 1, C lose 2, Lab gain 4 New council LD 1, Soc 2,

Lab 23, C 28

Doncaster NOC no change

Lab 10, C 3, Ind 3, LD 5 Ind lose 1, LD gain 1 New council LD 12, Ind 13, Lab
29,

C 9

Dudley C hold

Lab 10, C 13, LD 2 UKIP lose 1, Lab gain 2, C lose 1 New council Lab 28, C 39,
LD

5

Gateshead Lab hold

Lab 15, LD 8 New council Lib 1, LD 23, Lab 42

Kirklees NOC no change

Green 2, C 6, Lab 7, LD 8 Green gain 1, C lose 1, Lab gain 2, LD lose 2 New

council LD 18, Ind 2, C 20, Lab 22, BNP 3, Green 4

Knowsley Lab hold

Lab 18, LD 5 LD gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council LD 13, Lab 50

Leeds NOC no change

Green 1, Lab 15, Ind 2, C 7, LD 8 C lose 2, LD lose 1, Lab gain 3 New council
BNP

1, C 22, LD 24, Green 3, Lab 43, Ind 6

Liverpool LD hold

Green 1, Lib 1, Lab 13, LD 15 Lab gain 4, LD lose 4 New council Green 1, Lib 3,

Lab 35, LD 51

Manchester Lab hold

LD 13, Lab 19 LD gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council Green 1, Vacant 1, LD 34, Lab 60

Newcastle-upon-Tyne LD hold

Lab 11, LD 17, Vacant 2 Lab gain 3, LD lose 3 New council Vacant 2, Lab 31, LD
45

North Tyneside NOC no change

C 10, LD 2, Lab 8 Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council Lab 23, C 28, LD 9

Oldham Lab lose to NOC

C 2, LD 9, Lab 9 C gain 2, LD lose 1, Lab lose 1 New council Ind 1, LD 26, C 3,

Lab 30

Rochdale LD gain from NOC

LD 10, C 2, Lab 8 C lose 2, LD gain 2 New council Lab 20, LD 32, C 8

Rotherham Lab hold

Ind 1, Lab 18, C 3 C gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council Ind 2, Lab 54, C 7

St Helens NOC no change

C 2, Lab 7, LD 8 New council Ind 1, LD 20, Lab 21, C 6

Salford Lab hold

Lab 12, LD 3, C 5 C gain 2, Lab lose 2 New council C 10, Lab 42, LD 8

Sandwell Lab hold

C 2, LD 2, Lab 20 C lose 2, LD gain 1, Lab gain 1 New council Vacant 1, C 10,
BNP

4, Lab 51, LD 6

Sefton NOC no change

C 6, Lab 7, LD 9 C lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council C 18, Lab 22, LD 26

Sheffield Lab lose to NOC

Green 1, Lab 12, LD 15 C lose 1, Lab lose 3, LD gain 4 New council C 1, Ind 1,

Green 2, LD 39, Lab 41

Solihull NOC no change

Lab 3, C 6, LD 8 C lose 2, LD gain 2 New council BNP 1, Vacant 1, LD 17, Ind 2,
C

23, Lab 7

South Tyneside Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Lab 12, Ind 4 LD lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council Ind 13, C 3, LD 3,
Lab

35

Stockport LD hold

Ind 1, LD 13, C 2, Lab 5 C lose 1, LD gain 1 New council Lab 15, Ind 3, LD 36, C
9

Sunderland Lab hold

Ind 1, Lab 17, C 7 C gain 3, Lab lose 3 New council LD 1, C 16, Ind 4, Lab 54

Tameside Lab hold

Ind 1, Lab 16, C 2 LD lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council LD 1, Ind 3, Lab 45, C 8

Trafford C hold

LD 1, C 13, Lab 8 New council Lab 20, C 39, LD 4

Wakefield Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 12, Ind 2, C 6 Ind lose 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 1 New council C 16, LD
3,

Ind 4, Lab 40

Walsall C hold

C 12, Ind 2, LD 2, Lab 4 Ind gain 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 1 New council Lab 18,
Ind

3, C 33, LD 6

Wigan Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 16, C 4, Ind 4 LD lose 2, C gain 1, Ind lose 2, Lab gain 3 New council
C

10, Ind 13, Lab 46, LD 6

Wirral NOC no change

C 7, LD 7, Lab 8 LD gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council LD 20, C 21, Lab 25

Wolverhampton Lab hold

Lab 10, LD 2, C 8 LD gain 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 4 New council Lib 1, C 18, Ind
2,

LD 3, Lab 36

Non-metropolitan districts

Allerdale NOC no change

LD gain 1, Ind gain 4, C gain 1, Lab lose 6 New council Ind 12, C 19, Lab 21, LD
4

Alnwick NOC no change

Ind lose 7, C gain 7 New council LD 11, Lab 2, Ind 8, C 9

Amber Valley C hold

C 13, Lab 2 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 17, C 28

Arun C hold

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 5, C gain 6 New council Ind 2, Lab 3, C 42, LD 9

Ashford C hold

Lab lose 2, Ind lose 4, LD gain 3, C gain 3 New council Lab 2, C 28, Ind 5, LD 8

Babergh NOC no change

Lab lose 6, LD lose 2, C gain 8 New council LD 16, C 19, Ind 8

Barrow-in-Furness NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 5, C 7 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council Lab 16, C 19, Ind 3

Basildon C hold

LD 1, Lab 5, C 8 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 11, C 28, LD 3

Basingstoke & Deane C hold

Ind 1, C 12, LD 3, Lab 4 New council Lab 11, LD 15, Ind 3, C 31

Bassetlaw C hold

Ind 2, Lab 6, C 8 LD lose 1, Ind gain 1, Lab gain 1, C lose 1 New council Lab
16,

C 27, Ind 5

Berwick-upon-Tweed NOC no change

Lab gain 1, Ind lose 6, C lose 1, LD gain 6 New council Lab 1, C 10, LD 13, Ind
5

Blaby C hold

LD lose 2, C gain 2 New council Ind 1, C 27, Lab 4, LD 7

Blyth Valley Lab hold

C lose 1, LD gain 3, Lab lose 2 New council LD 13, C 2, Ind 3, Lab 32

Bolsover Lab hold

Respect gain 1, Ind gain 3, Lab lose 4 New council Respect 1, R 2, Lab 27, Ind 7

Boston Ind gain from NOC

Lab lose 11, LD lose 4, C lose 7, Ind gain 22 New council Ind 27, C 5

Braintree C gain from NOC

Ind lose 6, LD lose 4, R gain 5, Lab lose 10, C gain 15 New council Ind 1, LD 1,

Green 2, C 42, R 5, Lab 9

Brentwood C hold

Lab 1, LD 3, C 8 LD lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 28, Lab 3, LD 6

Bridgnorth NOC no change

Lab lose 1, LD lose 5, C gain 3, Ind gain 3 New council Lab 1, C 13, Ind 17, LD
3

Broadland C hold

Ind lose 2, LD lose 2, C gain 4 New council Ind 3, C 35, LD 9

Bromsgrove C hold

Ind lose 2, C gain 2 New council LD 1, R 2, C 26, Ind 4, Lab 6

Broxbourne C hold

Lab 1, C 12 BNP lose 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 2, C 36

Burnley NOC no change

BNP 1, C 2, Lab 5, LD 7 BNP lose 3, C gain 1, Lab gain 1, LD gain 1 New council

Lab 17, LD 18, BNP 4, C 6

Cambridge LD hold

LD 10, Lab 5 New council Lab 13, LD 29

Cannock Chase NOC no change

Vacant 1, C 3, LD 5, Lab 6 LD lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council Vacant 1, C 10, LD

14, Lab 16

Canterbury C gain from NOC

Lab lose 5, LD gain 1, C gain 4 New council LD 19, Lab 2, C 29

Caradon LD gain from Ind

Lab lose 1, Meb Ker gain 1, C gain 6, Ind lose 13, LD gain 7 New council Meb Ker

1, LD 23, C 9, Ind 9

Carlisle NOC no change

LD 1, C 8, Lab 9 LD lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council Ind 1, C 19, Lab 25, LD 7

Carrick LD lose to NOC

UKIP gain 1, Lab gain 1, Ind lose 3, LD lose 9, C gain 10 New council Lab 1,
UKIP

1, LD 18, C 19, Ind 8

Castle Morpeth NOC no change

Ind down 5, Lab down 3, C up 2, LD up 6 New council Green 1, C 12, LD 12, Ind 2,

Lab 6

Castle Point C hold

C 10, Ind 5 Lab lose 1, Ind gain 4, C lose 3 New council Ind 15, C 26

Charnwood C gain from NOC

Respect lose 1, BNP gain 1, LD lose 2, Lab lose 7, C gain 9 New council BNP 1,
Ind

1, Lab 13, C 32, LD 5

Chelmsford C hold

Lab lose 2, LD gain 5, C lose 3 New council LD 24, C 33

Cherwell C hold

Lab 1, C 13, LD 2 Lab lose 3, C gain 3 New council LD 4, Lab 4, C 42

Chester C gain from NOC

C 12, LD 3, Lab 5 Ind lose 1, LD lose 5, Lab lose 1, C gain 7 New council Ind 1,

LD 13, Lab 13, C 33

Chester-le-Street Lab hold

LD gain 1, C gain 1, Ind gain 1, Lab lose 3 New council LD 1, C 2, Lab 26, Ind 5

Chichester C hold

LD lose 8, C gain 8 New council LD 11, Ind 3, C 34

Chiltern C hold

LD lose 3, C gain 3 New council Ind 1, C 30, LD 9

Chorley C hold

LD 1, C 10, Lab 4 LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1 New council Lab 15, C 25, LD
3,

Ind 4

Christchurch C hold

Ind gain 2, LD lose 4, C gain 2 New council C 17, Ind 3, LD 4

Colchester NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 3, LD 7, C 9 Ind gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council LD 21, Ind 3, C 30,
Lab

6

Congleton C hold

Ind 3, LD 6, C 8 Ind gain 1, C lose 1 New council LD 13, C 26, Ind 9

Copeland Lab hold

Ind lose 3, C gain 3 New council Ind 1, C 19, Lab 31

Corby Lab hold

LD gain 3, C lose 1, Lab lose 2 New council Lab 16, LD 5, C 8

Cotswold C hold

Ind lose 4, LD lose 4, C gain 8 New council Ind 2, C 38, LD 4

Craven NOC no change

LD 1, C 4, Ind 5 New council Ind 11, C 13, LD 6

Crawley C gain from NOC

LD 1, C 10, Lab 2 Lab lose 5, C gain 5 New council Lab 11, C 23, LD 3

Crewe & Nantwich NOC no change

C 10, Ind 2, LD 2, Lab 5 Ind lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3 New council Lab 17, C

28, Ind 5, LD 6

Dartford C gain from NOC

Ind lose 2, R gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 5 New council Lab 12, C 26, R 6

Daventry C hold

C 13 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 1, LD 2, C 35

Derwentside Lab hold

LD gain 1, Ind gain 10, Lab lose 11 New council LD 2, Ind 24, Lab 29

Dover C gain from NOC

Ind lose 3, LD lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 6 New council Lab 15, LD 2, C 28

Durham City LD hold

Ind lose 2, Lab gain 1, LD gain 1 New council Lab 17, Ind 3, LD 30

Easington Lab hold

Ind lose 2, Lab gain 2 New council Ind 2, LD 2, Lab 47

East Cambridgeshire C gain from NOC

Ind lose 4, LD lose 4, C gain 8 New council LD 13, Ind 2, C 24

Eastbourne LD gain from C

Ind lose 1, C lose 8, LD gain 9 New council LD 20, C 7

East Devon C hold

Ind lose 1, LD lose 7, C gain 8 New council LD 10, C 43, Ind 6

East Dorset C hold

Ind lose 1, C gain 1 New council LD 11, C 25

East Hertfordshire C hold

Ind lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 3 New council Ind 3, LD 4, C 43

Eastleigh LD hold

Lab 1, LD 13 C lose 2, Lab lose 1, LD gain 3 New council Ind 1, Lab 2, LD 36, C
5

East Northamptonshire

C hold

Lab down 3, Ind up 1, C up 6 New

council Ind 1, C 39

East Staffordshire C hold

LD gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 3 New

council Lab 12, LD 2, C 25

Eden Ind lose to NOC

C gain 4, Ind lose 4 New council C 14,

Ind 19, LD 5

Ellesmere Port & Neston Lab hold

C 8, Lab 9 C gain 3, Lab lose 3 New

council C 17, LD 2, Lab 24

Elmbridge NOC no change

C 10, LD 3, R 7 R lose 2, C gain 2 New

council R 23, C 29, LD 8

Epping Forest C hold

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 14, LD 2 Ind lose 1, LD

lose 1, C gain 2 New council Lab 1,

LD 11, Ind 3, C 32, R 5, BNP 6

Epsom & Ewell R hold

Lab lose 3, C gain 1, LD gain 4, R lose

2 New council LD 11, C 2, R 25

Erewash C gain from NOC

Ind lose 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 5 New

council Ind 1, Lab 18, LD 2, C 30

Exeter NOC no change

Lib 2, Lab 3, C 4, LD 4 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 10, LD 12, Lab 14,
Lib 4

Fenland C hold

Lab lose 3, C gain 3 New council Ind 1, C 39

Forest Heath C hold

LD gain 1, C lose 1 New council LD 2,

C 22, Ind 3

Forest of Dean C gain from

NOC

LD lose 2, Lab lose 7, Ind lose 4, C

gain 13 New council LD 2, C 30, Ind

8, Lab 8

Fylde C hold

R lose 4, Ind gain 3, C gain 1 New

council Ind 18, LD 2, C 27, R 4

Gedling C gain from NOC

Ind gain 3, Lab lose 11, LD gain 2, C

gain 6 New council C 28, Ind 4, LD 9,

Lab 9

Gloucester NOC no change

Lab 3, C 4, LD 4 Lab gain 1, C lose 1

New council LD 12, C 15, Lab 9

Gravesham C gain from Lab

Lab lose 7, C gain 7 New council Lab 16, Vacant 2, C 26

Great Yarmouth C hold

Lab 6, C 8 Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council Lab 17, C 22

Guildford C hold

Lab lose 2, Ind lose 1, LD gain 2, C

gain 1 New council LD 22, C 26

Hambleton C hold

Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New council LD 2, Ind 3, C 39

Harborough C gain from NOC

Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, LD lose 7, C gain 10 New council LD 11, C 26

Harlow NOC no change

LD 2, Lab 4, C 6 LD lose 2, Lab gain 1,

C gain 1 New council Ind 1, C 12, Lab

12, LD 8

Hart NOC no change

R 2, C 5, LD 5 R gain 1, C lose 1 New council LD 12, C 15, Ind 2, R 6

Havant C hold

LD 1, C 9 LD lose 1, C gain 1 New

council LD 3, C 31, Lab 4

Hertsmere C hold

C 10, Lab 2, LD 3 Lab lose 1, LD gain 1

New council C 28, Lab 4, LD 7

High Peak C gain from NOC

Ind lose 3, LD lose 2, Lab lose 9, C

gain 14 New council C 24, Ind 4, LD

6, Lab 9

Hinckley & Bosworth LD gain

from C

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, C lose 5, LD gain

10 New council C 13, LD 19, Lab 2

Horsham C hold

LD lose 8, C gain 8 New council LD

11, Ind 2, C 31

Huntingdonshire C hold

C 14, LD 5 LD gain 1, C lose 1 New

council LD 11, Ind 2, C 39

Hyndburn C hold

Ind 1, Lab 4, C 7 Ind gain 1, Lab lose 1

New council Lab 15, C 18, Ind 2

Ipswich NOC no change

LD 3, C 6, Lab 7 Ind lose 1, C gain 1

New council Ind 1, Lab 18, C 20, LD 9

Kennet C hold

Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, Ind lose 3, C

gain 5 New council LD 1, UKIP 1, C

34, Ind 7

Kerrier NOC no change

Lab lose 3, Meb Ker lose 1, C gain 1,

LD gain 2, Ind gain 1 New council Lib

1, LD 11, Lab 2, Ind 22, Meb Ker 3, C 5

KingÆs Lynn & West Norfolk C

hold

Ind lose 1, LD lose 3, Lab lose 10, C

gain 14 New council Ind 2, LD 4, Lab

4, C 52

Lancaster NOC no change

LD lose 3, Green gain 5, C gain 1, Lab

lose 6, Ind gain 3 New council C 12,

Green 12, Lab 14, Ind 17, LD 5

Lewes LD hold

Ind lose 2, C gain 6, LD lose 4 New

council Ind 1, C 17, LD 23

Lichfield C hold

Ind gain 1, LD lose 1, Lab lose 8, C

gain 8 New council Ind 1, LD 4, C 44,

Lab 7

Lincoln C gain from Lab

LD down 1, Lab down 5, C up 6 New

council LD 1, Lab 15, C 17

Macclesfield C hold

Ind 1, C 12, Lab 3, LD 4 R lose 1, LD

lose 1, C gain 2 New council LD 12,

Ind 2, R 2, C 38, Lab 6

Maidstone NOC no change

Ind 2, C 9, LD 9 C lose 1, LD gain 1

New council LD 21, C 26, Ind 4, Lab 4

Maldon C hold

Lab lose 2, Ind lose 3, C gain 5 New

council Vacant 2, C 25, Ind 4

Malvern Hills C gain from

NOC

Ind lose 1, LD lose 13, C gain 14 New

council Green 1, C 29, Ind 3, LD 5

Melton C hold

Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C

20, Lab 3, Ind 5

Mendip C hold

Ind down 4, LD up 8, C down 3 New

council LD 23, C 24

Mid Bedfordshire C hold

Green gain 1, Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C

gain 1 New council Green 1, LD 11,

Ind 3, C 38

Mid Devon NOC no change

Green lose 1, LD gain 2, Ind lose 4, C

gain 3 New council Vacant 1, LD 10,

Ind 14, C 17

Mid Suffolk C gain from NOC

Lab lose 2, Ind gain 1, LD lose 2, C

gain 3 New council LD 10, Green 2, C

22, Ind 6

Mid Sussex C gain from NOC

Ind lose 3, Lab lose 1, LD lose 2, C

gain 6 New council Lab 1, LD 22, C 31

Mole Valley C hold

LD 6, C 8 New council LD 16, C 22,

Ind 3

Newark & Sherwood C gain

from NOC

Lab down 6, Ind up 3, C up 3 New

council Ind 10, C 26, LD 4, Lab 6

Newcastle-under-Lyme NOC

no change

UKIP 2, Lab 4, LD 6, C 8 Ind lose 1,

UKIP gain 1, Lab lose 6, LD gain 3, C

gain 3 New council LD 17, UKIP 2, C

20, Lab 21

New Forest C hold

LD lose 12, C gain 12 New council Ind

1, Vacant 1, LD 14, C 44

North Cornwall NOC no

change

C gain 3, LD lose 1, Ind lose 2 New

council Meb Ker 1, LD 14, Ind 15, C 6

North Devon C gain from LD

Ind lose 7, LD lose 5, C gain 12 New

council LD 17, C 22, Ind 4

North Dorset C gain from

NOC

Ind lose 2, C gain 2 New council LD

13, C 17, Ind 3

North East Derbyshire Lab

hold

Ind gain 4, LD gain 1, C gain 2, Lab

lose 7 New council C 10, Lab 29, Ind

7, LD 7

North Hertfordshire C hold

LD up 2, Lab up 1, C down 3 New

council Lab 10, C 30, LD 9

North Kesteven C gain from

NOC

Lab down 1, LD down 1, C up 5 New

council Ind 14, C 25, LD 4

North Norfolk LD hold

Ind lose 3, C gain 3 New council C 16,

Ind 2, LD 30

North Shropshire C gain from

NOC

LD gain 1, Lab lose 2, Ind lose 7, C

gain 8 New council LD 1, Ind 11, Lab

2, C 26

North Warwickshire C gain

from NOC

LD lose 4, Lab lose 2, C gain 6 New

council Lab 14, C 21

North West Leicestershire C

gain from Lab

Ind lose 1, BNP gain 2, Lab lose 16, C

gain 15 New council Ind 1, BNP 2, C

27, LD 3, Lab 5

Norwich NOC no change

C 2, LD 2, Green 4, Lab 5 C gain 1, LD

lose 1, Green gain 1, Lab lose 1 New

council Green 10, LD 11, Lab 15, C 3

Oadby & Wigston LD hold

C lose 4, LD gain 4 New council LD

21, C 5

Oswestry C gain from NOC

Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New

council Vacant 1, C 16, LD 4, Ind 8

Pendle LD hold

Lab 1, C 7, LD 9 Ind lose 2, Lab gain 1,

C gain 1 New council BNP 1, Vacant

1, C 14, LD 27, Lab 6

Penwith NOC no change

Ind 1, LD 3, C 8 Ind lose 3, C gain 3

New council Lab 1, LD 12, C 17, Ind 5

Preston NOC no change

Ind 1, Respect 1, LD 2, Lab 7, C 8 Ind

lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New

council Ind 1, LD 10, Respect 2, C 20,

Lab 24

Purbeck C hold

Ind 1, C 3, LD 5 Ind gain 1, C lose 2, LD

gain 1 New council C 13, Ind 2, LD 9

Redditch NOC no change

LD 2, Lab 3, C 5 New council BNP 1,

C 11, Lab 14, LD 3

Reigate & Banstead C hold

LD 1, Lab 1, C 13, R 2 LD lose 2, Lab

lose 1, C gain 3 New council Lab 1,

LD 2, C 42, R 6

Restormel LD lose to NOC

Meb Ker gain 1, C gain 2, LD lose 3

New council C 10, Ind 13, Meb Ker 2,

LD 20

Ribble Valley C hold

Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, LD lose 5, C

gain 8 New council Ind 1, LD 10, C 29

Richmondshire Ind lose to

NOC

LD lose 2, C gain 6, Ind lose 4 New

council C 13, Ind 15, LD 6

Rochford C hold

Ind 1, LD 3, C 9 Ind gain 1, LD gain 1,

C lose 2 New council Ind 1, R 1, C 32,

LD 5

Rother C hold

Lab lose 1, Ind lose 3, LD gain 2, C

gain 2 New council Ind 2, C 28, LD 8

Rugby C gain from NOC

LD 3, Lab 4, C 8 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2,

C gain 3 New council LD 10, Lab 11,

C 27

Runnymede C hold

C 14, R 2 New council C 36, R 6

Rushcliffe C hold

Ind lose 1, Green gain 1, Lab lose 2, LD

gain 1, C gain 1 New council Ind 1,

LD 11, Green 2, Lab 2, C 34

Rushmoor C hold

C 10, LD 2, Lab 2 LD lose 2, C gain 2

New council Ind 1, C 28, Lab 5, LD 8

Ryedale NOC no change

R lose 1, Lib lose 1, Ind lose 1, LD gain

1, C gain 2 New council Lib 1, R 1,

Vacant 1, C 14, Ind 5, LD 8

St Albans LD lose to NOC

LD 10, Lab 3, C 8 C gain 2, LD lose 2

New council C 19, Ind 2, LD 29, Lab 8

St Edmundsbury C hold

Green lose 1, LD gain 1, Lab lose 6, Ind

lose 2, C gain 8 New council Ind 3,

LD 3, Lab 3, C 36

Salisbury C lose to NOC

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 10, C

lose 8 New council Lab 10, LD 19, C

22, Ind 4

Scarborough C lose to NOC

Green gain 1, Lab lose 3, LD gain 3,

Ind gain 3, C lose 4 New council Ind

15, Green 2, C 23, Lab 4, LD 6

Sedgefield Lab hold

LD lose 1, Ind gain 7, Lab lose 6 New

council C 1, Ind 15, Lab 28, LD 6

Sedgemoor C hold

LD gain 3, Lab lose 3 New council

Lab 11, C 35, LD 4

Selby C hold

LD lose 1, Ind gain 1, Lab lose 5, C

gain 5 New council C 29, Ind 3, Lab 9

Sevenoaks C hold

Ind lose 2, Lab lose 5, LD lose 1, C

gain 8 New council Ind 1, C 41, Lab 5,

LD 7

Shepway C gain from NOC

Green lose 1, Ind lose 13, LD lose 2, C

gain 16 New council LD 10, Ind 2, C

34

Shrewsbury & Atcham C hold

LD 1, Ind 2, Lab 3, C 7 LD lose 1, C

gain 1 New council Lab 10, C 22, Ind

3, LD 5

South Bedfordshire C hold

Lab 1, C 10, LD 5 New council Ind 1,

LD 11, C 34, Lab 4

South Bucks C hold

Ind lose 7, LD gain 2, R gain 2, C gain

3 New council LD 2, R 2, C 36

South Cambridgeshire C gain

from NOC

C 12, Ind 2, LD 5 Ind lose 2, LD lose 1,

C gain 3 New council Lab 1, Ind 10,

LD 17, C 29

South Derbyshire C gain from

Lab

Lab lose 6, C gain 6 New council Ind

1, Lab 15, C 20

South Holland C hold

BNP down 1 New council Ind 11, C 26

South Kesteven C hold

Lab lose 5, LD gain 1, Ind gain 3, C

gain 1 New council Ind 15, Lab 2, C

35, LD 6

South Lakeland LD hold

LD 11, C 6 C lose 3, LD gain 3 New

council Ind 1, C 15, Lab 2, LD 34

South Norfolk C gain from LD

LD lose 20, C gain 20 New council C

39, LD 7

South Northamptonshire C

hold

Lab down 3, Ind down 4, C up 7 New

council Lab 1, C 35, Ind 6

South Ribble C gain from

NOC

LD lose 14, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 9, C

gain 24 New council LD 1, Ind 2, C

44, Lab 8

South Shropshire C gain from

NOC

Ind lose 3, LD lose 3, C gain 6 New

council Green 1, LD 11, C 18, Ind 4

South Somerset LD hold

Ind lose 1, C gain 2, LD lose 1 New

council C 17, LD 38, Ind 5

South Staffordshire C hold

Lab lose 6, Ind lose 1, C gain 7 New

council LD 1, Lab 1, Vacant 2, Ind 3, C

42

Stafford C hold

Ind gain 2, LD lose 1, Lab lose 1 New

council Lab 13, Ind 2, LD 4, C 40

Staffordshire Moorlands C

gain from NOC

UKIP gain 1, BNP gain 1, R lose 10,

Lab lose 2, LD lose 5, Ind gain 7, C

gain 8 New council BNP 1, UKIP 1,

Ind 11, C 29, R 3, Lab 5, LD 6

Stevenage Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Lab 11 New council C 3,

Lab 32, LD 4

Stratford-on-Avon C hold

C 13, LD 5 Ind lose 1, LD lose 4, C gain

5 New council LD 14, Ind 2, C 37

Suffolk Coastal C hold

Lab lose 1, LD lose 2, C gain 3 New

council Lab 1, C 45, LD 9

Surrey Heath C hold

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 6, C

gain 8 New council Ind 1, Lab 2, C 30,

LD 7

Swale C hold

LD 1, Lab 3, Ind 5, C 6 LD lose 2, Ind

gain 4, C lose 2 New council Lab 10,

C 26, Ind 5, LD 6

Tamworth C hold

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 8 Lab lose 3, C gain 3

New council Ind 2, C 23, Lab 5

Tandridge C hold

Ind 1, LD 4, C 9 Lab lose 1, C gain 1

New council Ind 1, Lab 1, LD 10, C 30

Taunton Deane C lose to

NOC

Lab down 4, C down 5, LD up 11 New

council Lab 1, C 25, LD 26, Ind 4

Teesdale Ind hold

C gain 1, Lab lose 3, Ind gain 2 New

council Ind 22, C 4, Lab 6

Teignbridge NOC no change

Ind lose 7, C gain 3, LD gain 4 New

council C 19, LD 21, Ind 6

Tendring NOC no change

R lose 2, Lab lose 5, LD lose 7, Ind

gain 11, C gain 3 New council Ind 18,

R 2, C 28, LD 6, Lab 6

Test Valley C hold

Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New

council LD 15, C 33

Tewkesbury NOC no change

Lab lose 2, R lose 2, Ind lose 3, LD

gain 6, C gain 1 New council LD 17, C

19, Ind 2

Thanet C hold

LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, Lab lose 4, C gain

3 New council Lab 19, C 33, Ind 4

Three Rivers LD hold

LD 11, Lab 2, C 3 Lab lose 1, LD gain 1

New council C 11, LD 31, Lab 6

Tonbridge & Malling C hold

Lab lose 7, LD lose 5, C gain 12 New

council C 46, LD 7

Torridge Ind lose to NOC

Green gain 2, LD gain 1, Ind lose 10, C

gain 7 New council C 13, Ind 13,

Green 2, LD 8

Tunbridge Wells C hold

C 16 Lab lose 1, LD lose 3, C gain 4

New council C 42, LD 6

Tynedale C hold

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 1, C

gain 2 New council LD 11, Ind 3, C

30, Lab 8

Uttlesford C gain from LD

Ind lose 2, LD lose 12, C gain 14 New

council LD 15, C 26, Ind 3

Vale Royal NOC no change

Ind lose 2, LD gain 1, Lab lose 3, C

gain 4 New council LD 10, Lab 17, C

27, Vacant 3

Wansbeck Lab hold

Ind up 2, LD up 9, Lab down 11 New

council LD 16, Lab 26, Ind 3

Waveney C hold

Green 1, Ind 1, LD 1, Lab 5, C 9 Ind

lose 1, Green gain 1 New council

Green 1, Lab 12, Ind 2, LD 3, C 30

Waverley C gain from NOC

LD lose 24, Ind lose 1, C gain 25 New

council Ind 3, LD 3, C 51

Wealden C hold

Green gain 2, LD lose 2 New council

LD 12, Green 2, C 34, Ind 7

Wear Valley Lab lose to NOC

Ind gain 1, LD gain 5, Lab lose 6 New

council LD 16, Lab 18, Ind 6

Welwyn Hatfield C hold

C 13, Lab 3 Green lose 1, Lab lose 2, C

gain 3 New council Lab 10, LD 3, C 35

West Devon NOC no change

LD lose 1, Ind lose 1, C gain 2 New

council Ind 10, C 14, LD 7

West Dorset C hold

Ind lose 4, LD gain 4 New council LD

16, C 26, Ind 6

West Lancashire C o change

C 11, Lab 8 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New

council Lab 21, C 33

West Lindsey LD hold

Ind 1, LD 5, C 6 LD gain 1, C lose 1

New council Ind 1, C 16, LD 20

West Oxfordshire C hold

Ind 1, Lab 1, Vacant 1, C 10, LD 3 Ind

lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New

council Lab 1, Vacant 1, C 35, Ind 4,

LD 8

West Somerset Ind gain from

C

LD lose 1, Lab lose 1, C lose 4, Ind

gain 6 New council LD 1, Lab 1, C 13,

Ind 16

Weymouth & Portland NOC

no change

Ind 1, Lab 1, LD 3, C 7 Lab lose 1, LD

lose 1, C gain 2 New council LD 11, C

14, Ind 5, Lab 6

Winchester C hold

Ind 1, C 10, LD 8 Lab lose 2, LD gain 2

New council Lab 1, LD 23, C 29, Ind 4

Woking C gain from NOC

LD 3, C 9 Lab lose 3, LD lose 1, C gain

4 New council LD 17, C 19

Worcester C hold

LD 1, Lab 3, C 7 Ind lose 1, Lab gain 1

New council Lab 12, C 18, Ind 2, LD 3

Worthing C hold

LD 3, C 9 LD lose 1, C gain 1 New

council Ind 1, LD 12, C 24

Wychavon C hold

Lab lose 2, LD lose 2, C gain 4 New

council LD 10, C 35

Wycombe C hold

Ind gain 1, LD gain 2, Lab lose 4, C

gain 1 New council Ind 2, LD 4, C 49,

Lab 5

Wyre C hold

Lab lose 11, C gain 11 New council

LD 1, C 45, Lab 9

Wyre Forest NOC no change

LD 1, Lab 2, Lib 2, KHHC 4, C 5 Lab

lose 1, KHHC gain 1 New council

KHHC 10, C 18, Ind 2, LD 2, Lab 3, Lib 7

Unitaries

Bath & North East Somerset

NOC no change

Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 3, C

gain 5 New council LD 26, Ind 3, C

31, Lab 5

Blackburn with Darwen Lab

lose to NOC

Ind 2, LD 4, C 7, Lab 9 C gain 2, Lab

lose 2 New council LD 13, C 17, Ind

3, Lab 31

Blackpool C gain from Lab

LD lose 1, Lab lose 12, C gain 13 New

council Lab 13, C 26, LD 3

Bournemouth C gain from LD

LD lose 23, C gain 23 New council Ind

3, Lab 3, C 41, LD 7

Bracknell Forest C hold

LD lose 1, Ind lose 2, Lab lose 3, C

gain 6 New council Lab 3, C 39

Brighton & Hove NOC no

change

Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, Green gain 6, Lab

lose 10, C gain 6 New council Ind 1,

Green 12, Lab 13, LD 2, C 26

Bristol NOC no change

Lab 10, LD 12, C 3 Lab gain 2, LD lose

2 New council Green 1, C 13, Lab 25,

LD 31

Darlington Lab hold

Ind lose 3, LD gain 3, C gain 5, Lab

lose 5 New council C 18, Lab 29, LD 6

Derby NOC no change

LD 4, C 5, Lab 8 LD lose 1, C gain 1

New council C 12, LD 13, Ind 2, Lab

24

East Riding of Yorkshire C

gain from NOC

Lab lose 5, Ind lose 3, LD lose 10, C

gain 18 New council LD 12, Lab 3, C

47, Ind 5

Halton Lab hold

Lab 10, C 3, LD 6 LD gain 2, Lab lose 2

New council LD 15, Lab 33, C 8

Hartlepool Lab hold

C 1, LD 4, Ind 5, Lab 6 LD gain 1, Ind

gain 2, Lab lose 3 New council UKIP

1, Ind 11, Lab 24, C 4, LD 7

Herefordshire C gain from

NOC

Green gain 1, Lab lose 2, LD lose 7, Ind

lose 1, C gain 9 New council Green 1,

LD 10, Ind 14, Lab 2, C 31

Kingston-upon-Hull LD gain

from NOC

Ind 1, LD 13, Lab 5 Ind lose 1, Lab lose

5, LD gain 6 New council C 2, Lab 20,

LD 30, Ind 7

Luton Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 2, C gain 1, LD lose 4, Lab

gain 5 New council LD 17, Lab 26, C 5

Medway C hold

Ind lose 2, LD gain 2, Lab lose 3, C

gain 3 New council Ind 1, Lab 13, C

33, LD 8

Middlesbrough Lab hold

LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, Lab lose 1 New

council Ind 11, Lab 26, LD 5, C 6

Milton Keynes NOC no

change

Lab 3, C 6, LD 8 Lab lose 1, C gain 2,

LD lose 1 New council Ind 1, Lab 13,

C 15, LD 22

North East Lincolnshire NOC

no change

Ind 1, Lab 2, C 6, LD 6 Ind lose 2, LD

gain 2 New council C 15, LD 19, Ind

2, Lab 6

Nottingham Lab hold

Ind lose 2, LD lose 2, Lab gain 4 New

council Lab 42, LD 6, C 7

North Lincolnshire Lab hold

Ind gain 1, LD gain 1, C lose 3, Lab

gain 1 New council Ind 1, LD 1, C 16,

Lab 22, Vacant 3

North Somerset C gain from

NOC

Lab lose 6, LD lose 15, Ind gain 3, C

gain 18 New council Green 1, Lab 3,

Vacant 3, C 43, LD 5, Ind 6

Peterborough C hold

Lab 1, Lib 1, C 15, Ind 2 LD lose 1, Lab

lose 2, Ind lose 2, C gain 5 New

council Lab 2, Lib 3, LD 4, C 40, Ind 8

Plymouth C gain from Lab

C 11, Lab 8 LD lose 2, Lab lose 3, C

gain 5 New council Lab 26, C 31

Poole C hold

LD gain 1, C lose 1 New council LD

17, C 25

Portsmouth NOC no change

Lab 2, C 5, LD 7 Ind lose 1, C gain 1

New council Ind 1, C 17, LD 19, Lab 5

Reading Lab hold

LD 4, C 6, Lab 6 LD gain 2, Lab lose 7,

C gain 5 New council C 13, Lab 25,

LD 8

Redcar & Cleveland NOC no

change

Ind lose 1, C lose 2, LD lose 3, Lab

gain 6 New council C 11, LD 13, Lab

28, Ind 7

Rutland C hold

LD lose 2, Ind lose 3, C gain 5 New

council C 19, LD 2, Ind 5

Slough NOC no change

Ind 1, LD 1, Lib 1, R 1, C 3, Lab 7 LD

lose 1, Lab gain 1 New council UKIP

1, Lab 19, Ind 3, Lib 3, LD 4, R 4, C 7

South Gloucestershire NOC

no change

UKIP down 1, Lab down 7, LD down 4,

C up 12 New council Vacant 2, LD 25,

C 34, Lab 9

Southampton NOC no

change

LD 2, Lab 6, C 9 LD lose 4, Lab gain 2,

C gain 2 New council LD 12, C 18,

Lab 18

Southend-on-Sea C hold

Ind 2, Lab 2, LD 4, C 9 Lab lose 1, LD

gain 1 New council LD 10, C 30, Ind

4, Lab 7

Stockton-on-Tees NOC no

change

Ind gain 4, C gain 1, Lab lose 5 New

council C 13, Ind 13, Lab 22, LD 8

Stoke-on-Trent NOC no

change

LD 2, BNP 3, C 3, Ind 5, Lab 7 LD gain

1, BNP gain 2, Ind gain 1, Lab lose 4

New council Ind 18, Lab 24, LD 5, C

6, BNP 7

Swindon C hold

LD 1, C 15, Lab 5 Ind lose 2, Lab gain

1, C gain 1 New council Lab 13, LD 3,

C 43

Telford & Wrekin NOC no

change

LD lose 2, Ind lose 2, Lab lose 6, C

gain 10 New council Lab 19, C 25, LD

3, Ind 7

Thurrock C lose to NOC

Ind 1, C 7, Lab 8 C lose 2, Lab gain 2

New council Lab 22, C 24, Ind 3

Torbay C gain from LD

Ind lose 2, LD lose 14, C gain 16 New

council Ind 1, C 23, Vacant 3, LD 9

Warrington NOC no change

C 1, LD 10, Lab 8 C lose 1, LD gain 1

New council Ind 1, Lab 24, LD 27, C 5

West Berkshire C hold

Ind lose 1, LD lose 8, C gain 9 New

council LD 16, C 36

Windsor & Maidenhead Royal

C gain from LD

Ind lose 1, LD lose 18, C gain 19 New

council LD 16, R 2, Ind 3, C 36

Wokingham C hold

C 14, LD 4 LD lose 2, C gain 2 New

council LD 11, C 43

York LD lose to NOC

Ind lose 1, C gain 8, Lab gain 3, LD

lose 10 New council Lab 18, LD 19,

Green 2, C 8

Scottish councils

Aberdeen NOC

New council Ind 1, Lab 10, SNP 12,

LD 15, C 5

Aberdeenshire NOC

New council C 14, SNP 22, LD 24, Ind

8

Angus NOC

New council SNP 13, Lab 2, LD 3, C 5,

Ind 6

Argyll & Bute NOC

New council SNP 10, Ind 16, C 3, LD 7

Clackmannanshire NOC

New council C 1, Ind 1, LD 1, SNP 7,

Lab 8

Dumfries & Galloway NOC

New council SNP 10, Lab 14, C 18,

Ind 2, LD 3

Dundee NOC

New council Ind 1, Lab 10, SNP 13,

LD 2, C 3

East Ayrshire NOC

New council Ind 1, Lab 14, SNP 14, C 3

East Dunbartonshire NOC

New council Ind 2, LD 3, C 5, Lab 6,

SNP 8

East Lothian NOC

New council Ind 1, C 2, LD 6, Lab 7,

SNP 7

Falkirk NOC

New council SNP 13, Lab 14, C 2, Ind 3

Fife NOC

New council LD 21, SNP 23, Lab 24, C

5, Ind 5

Glasgow

New council C 1, Solidty 1, SNP 22,

Lab 45, Green 5, LD 5

Highland NOC

New council SNP 17, LD 21, Ind 35,

Lab 7

Inverclyde NOC

New council C 1, Ind 1, LD 4, SNP 5,

Lab 9

Midlothian NOC

New council LD 3, SNP 6, Lab 9

Moray NOC

New council Ind 12, Lab 2, C 3, SNP 9

Na h-Eileanan an Iar

New council Lab 2, Ind 25, SNP 4

North Ayrshire NOC

New council Lab 12, LD 2, C 3, Ind 5,

SNP 8

North Lanarkshire

New council C 1, LD 1, SNP 23, Lab

40, Ind 5

Orkney

New council Ind 21

Perth & Kinross NOC

New council C 12, SNP 18, Lab 3, LD 8

Renfrewshire NOC

New council Lab 17, SNP 17, C 2, LD 4

Scottish Borders NOC

New council LD 10, C 11, SNP 6, Ind 7

Shetland

New council Ind 22

South Ayrshire NOC

New council Ind 1, C 12, SNP 8, Lab 9

South Lanarkshire NOC

New council LD 2, SNP 24, Ind 3, Lab

30, C 8

Stirling NOC

New council LD 3, C 4, SNP 7, Lab 8

West Dunbartonshire NOC

New council SSP 1, Lab 10, Ind 2,

SNP 9

West Lothian NOC

New council C 1, SNP 13, Lab 14, Ind 4

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2007, Saturday

Election 2007 Scottish Parliament

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 3828 words


Constituency seats

Aberdeen Central Lab hold

Electorate 46,588

Turnout 21,120 (45.33%)% votes

*L Macdonald (Lab)7,23234.24

K Shirron (SNP)6,85032.43

J Stewart (LD)4,69322.22

A Jones (C)2,34511.10

May 2003 Macdonald (Lab) 6,835 (32.60%) Lochhead (SNP) 5,593 (26.68%)

Aberdeen North SNP hold

Electorate 51,507

Turnout 24,891 (48.33%)% votes

*B Adam (SNP)11,40645.82

E Thomson (Lab)7,65730.76

S Delaney (LD)3,83615.41

C Garvie (C)1,9928.00

May 2003 Adam (SNP) 8,381 (33.49%) Thomson (Lab) 7,924 (31.66%)

Aberdeen South LD hold

Electorate 56,700

Turnout 29,885 (52.71%)% votes

*N Stephen (LD)10,84336.28

+M Watt (SNP)8,11127.14

R Okasha (Lab)5,49918.40

+D Davidson (C)5,43218.18

May 2003 Stephen (LD) 13,821 (45.88%) Baker (Lab) 5,805 (19.27%)

Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine LD hold

Electorate 65,233

Turnout 34,823 (53.38%)% votes

*M Rumbles (LD)14,31441.11

D Robertson (SNP)9,14426.26

S Whyte (C)8,60424.71

J Noble (Lab)2,7617.93

May 2003 Rumbles (LD) 14,553 (46.00%) Davidson (C) 9,154 (28.94%)

Airdrie & Shotts Lab hold

Electorate 57,660

Turnout 27,160 (47.10%)% votes

*K Whitefield (Lab)11,90743.84

S Coyle (SNP)10,46138.52

I McGill (C)2,3708.73

R Gorrie (LD)1,4525.35

M Brown (Sco Voice)9703.57

May 2003 Whitefield (Lab) 14,209 (56.64%) Paterson (SNP) 5,232 (20.86%)

Angus SNP hold

Electorate 61,362

Turnout 31,960 (52.08%)% votes

*A Welsh (SNP)15,68649.08

+A Johnstone (C)7,44323.29

D Bradley (Lab)5,03215.74

S Rennie (LD)3,79911.89

May 2003 Welsh (SNP) 13,251 (44.48%) Johnstone (C) 6,564 (22.03%)

Argyll & Bute SNP win

Electorate 48,846

Turnout 28,792 (58.94%)% votes

+J Mather (SNP)9,94434.54

*G Lyon (LD)9,12931.71

+J McGrigor (C)5,57119.35

M Galbraith (Lab)4,14814.41

May 2003 Lyon (LD) 9,817 (35.13%) Petrie (C) 5,621 (20.11%)

Ayr C hold

Electorate 55,034

Turnout 23,946 (43.51%)% votes

*J Scott (C)12,61952.70

J Duncan (Lab)8,71336.39

S Ritchie (LD)1,7417.27

I White (SNP)8733.65

May 2003 Scott (C) 12,865 (40.72%) Miller (Lab) 10,975 (34.74%)

Banff & Buchan SNP hold

Electorate 56,324

Turnout 27,285 (48.44%)% votes

*S Stevenson (SNP)16,03158.75

G Burnett-Stuart (C)5,50120.16

K Barnett (Lab)3,13611.49

A McInnes (LD)2,6179.59

May 2003 Stevenson (SNP) 13,827 (52.88%) Whyte (C) 5,463 (20.89%)

Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross LD hold

Electorate 41,789

Turnout 22,334 (53.44%)% votes

*J Stone (LD)8,98140.21

+R Gibson (SNP)6,65829.81

J McKendrick (Lab)3,15214.11

D MacDonald (C)2,58611.58

G Campbell (Ind)9574.28

May 2003 Stone (LD) 7,742 (36.65%) Steven (Lab) 5,650 (26.74%)

Carrick, Cumnock & Doon Valley Lab hold

Electorate 65,166

Turnout 33,785 (51.84%)% votes

*C Jamieson (Lab)14,35042.47

+A Ingram (SNP)10,36430.68

T Lewis (C)6,72919.92

P McGreal (LD)1,4094.17

H Hill (Ind)8092.39

R Barry (Parenting)1240.37

May 2003 Jamieson (Lab Co-op) 16,484 (47.97%) Gallie (C) 9,030 (26.28%)

Clydebank & Milngavie

Lab hold

Electorate 48,700

Turnout 26,765 (54.96%)% votes

*D McNulty (Lab)11,61743.40

G Paterson (SNP)8,43831.53

M Roxburgh (C)3,54413.24

A Ghai (LD)3,16611.83

May 2003 McNulty (Lab) 10,585 (39.92%) Yuill (SNP) 6,051 (22.82%)

Clydesdale Lab hold

Electorate 66,011

Turnout 33,332 (50.49%)% votes

*K Gillon (Lab)13,83541.51

A Campbell (SNP)10,94232.83

C McGavigan (C)5,60416.81

F Grieve (LD)2,9518.85

May 2003 Gillon (Lab) 14,800 (45.62%) Brady (SNP) 8,129 (25.06%)

Coatbridge & Chryston

Lab hold

Electorate 54,423

Turnout 25,725 (47.27%)% votes

*E Smith (Lab)11,86046.10

F McGlinchey (SNP)7,35028.57

R Thomson (C)2,3058.96

J McAnulty (Ind)1,8437.16

D Nisbet (LD)1,5195.90

G McCann (Scot Voice)8483.30

May 2003 Smith (Lab) 13,422 (56.25%) Gribben (SNP) 4,851 (20.33%)

Cumbernauld & Kilsyth

Lab hold

Electorate 49,197

Turnout 26,382 (53.63%)% votes

*C Craigie (Lab)12,67248.03

J Hepburn (SNP)10,59340.15

H O'Donnell (LD)1,6706.33

A Harding (C)1,4475.48

May 2003 Craigie (Lab) 10,146 (41.58%) Wilson (SNP) 9,626 (39.44%)

Cunninghame North SNP win

Electorate 55,925

Turnout 30,241 (54.07%)% votes

K Gibson (SNP)9,29530.74

*A Wilson (Lab)9,24730.58

P Lardner (C)5,46618.07

+C Martin (Ind)4,42314.63

L Hutton (LD)1,8105.99

May 2003 Wilson (Lab) 11,142 (38.92%) Martin (SNP) 7,755 (27.09%)

Cunninghame South

Lab hold

Electorate 49,969

Turnout 23,422 (46.87%)% votes

*I Oldfather (Lab)10,27043.85

D Ross (SNP)8,10234.59

P McPhee (C)3,07313.12

I Dale (LD)1,9778.44

May 2003 Oldfather (Lab) 11,165 (49.03%) Russell (SNP) 5,089 (22.35%)

Dumbarton Lab hold

Electorate 54,023

Turnout 30,054 (55.63%)% votes

*J Baillie (Lab)11,63538.71

G McCormick (SNP)10,02433.35

B Pope (C)4,70115.64

A Mackie (LD)3,38511.26

J Black (Jacobite)3091.03

May 2003 Baillie (Lab) 12,154 (42.17%) Docherty (SNP) 5,542 (19.23%)

Dumfries Lab hold

Electorate 53,518

Turnout 33,419 (62.44%)% votes

*E Murray (Lab)13,70741.02

+M Tosh (C)10,86832.52

M Russell (SNP)6,30618.87

L Hume (LD)2,5387.59

May 2003 Murray (Lab) 12,834 (39.97%) Mundell (C) 11,738 (36.56%)

Dundee East SNP hold

Electorate 53,804

Turnout 26,869 (49.94%)% votes

*S Robison (SNP)13,31449.55

I Luke (Lab)8,79032.71

C Bustin (C)2,97611.08

C Sneddon (LD)1,7896.66

May 2003 Robison (SNP) 10,428 (39.58%) McAllion (Lab) 10,338 (39.24%)

Dundee West SNP win

Electorate 49,711

Turnout 24,268 (48.82%)% votes

J Fitzpatrick (SNP)10,95545.14

J Shimi (Lab)9,00937.12

M Charlton (LD)2,51710.37

B Don (C)1,7877.36

May 2003 McLean (Lab) 8,234 (32.93%) McGugan (SNP) 7,168 (28.67%)

Dunfermline East Lab hold

Electorate 51,115

Turnout 24,568 (48.06%)% votes

*H Eadie (Lab)10,99544.75

E Dow (SNP)7,00228.50

G Brown (C)3,71815.13

K Utting (LD)2,85311.61

May 2003 Eadie (Lab Co-op) 11,552 (49.89%) Law (SNP) 4,262 (18.41%)

Dunfermline West LD win

Electorate 56,953

Turnout 29,525 (51.84%)% votes

J Tolson (LD)9,95233.71

*S Barrie (Lab)9,47632.09

L Woods (SNP)7,29624.71

P Lyburn (C)2,3638.00

S Archibald (Scot Voice)4381.48

May 2003 Barrie (Lab) 8,664 (34.33%) Wishart (Local Hospital) 4,584 (18.16%)

East Kilbride Lab hold

Electorate 66,935

Turnout 35,902 (53.64%)% votes

*A Kerr (Lab)15,33442.71

+L Fabiani (SNP)13,36237.22

G Simpson (C)4,11411.46

D Clark (LD)3,0928.61

May 2003 Kerr (Lab) 13,825 (40.56%) Fabiani (SNP) 8,544 (25.07%)

East Lothian Lab hold

Electorate 61,378

Turnout 34,471 (56.16%)% votes

I Gray (Lab)12,21935.45

A Sharp (SNP)9,77128.35

J Hayman (LD)6,24918.13

B Stevenson (C)6,23218.08

May 2003 Home Robertson (Lab) 13,683 (43.85%) Hayman (LD) 5,508 (17.65%)

Eastwood Lab hold

Electorate 67,347

Turnout 42,187 (62.64%)% votes

*K Macintosh (Lab)15,09935.79

J Carlaw (C)14,18633.63

+S Maxwell (SNP)7,97218.90

G MacDonald (LD)3,6038.54

F McGhee (Ind)1,3273.15

May 2003 Macintosh (Lab) 13,946 (35.86%) Carlaw (C) 10,244 (26.34%)

Edinburgh Central

Lab hold

Electorate 55,953

Turnout 29,396 (52.54%)% votes

*S Boyack (Lab)9,15531.14

S Mathers (LD)7,96227.09

S Somerville (SNP)7,49625.50

F Houston (C)4,78316.27

May 2003 Boyack (Lab) 9,066 (32.36%) Myles (LD) 6,400 (22.85%)

Edinburgh East & Musselburgh SNP win

Electorate 56,578

Turnout 29,967 (52.97%)% votes

+K MacAskill (SNP)11,20937.40

N Murray (Lab)9,82732.79

G Cole-Hamilton (LD)5,47318.26

C Wright (C)3,45811.54

May 2003 Deacon (Lab) 12,655 (43.57%) MacAskill (SNP) 6,497 (22.37%)

Edinburgh North & Leith

Lab hold

Electorate 60,340

Turnout 31,685 (52.51%)% votes

*M Chisholm (Lab)11,02034.78

M Crockart (LD)8,57627.07

D Hutchison (SNP)8,04425.39

I Whyte (C)4,04512.77

May 2003 Chisholm (Lab) 10,979 (38.21%) Dana (SNP) 5,565 (19.37%)

Edinburgh Pentlands

C hold

Electorate 57,891

Turnout 34,377 (59.38%)% votes

*D McLetchie (C)12,92737.60

S Gilmore (Lab)8,40224.44

I McKee (SNP)8,23423.95

S Clark (LD)4,81414.00

May 2003 McLetchie (C) 12,420 (37.21%) Gray (Lab) 10,309 (30.88%)

Edinburgh South LD hold

Electorate 57,621

Turnout 32,573 (56.53%)% votes

*M Pringle (LD)11,39834.99

D Anderson (Lab)9,46929.07

R Holland (SNP)6,11718.78

G Brown (C)5,58917.16

May 2003 Pringle (LD) 10,005 (32.07%) Mackay (Lab) 9,847 (31.56%)

Edinburgh West LD hold

Electorate 59,814

Turnout 34,752 (58.10%)% votes

*M Smith (LD)13,67739.36

S Cleland (SNP)7,79122.42

G Lindhurst (C)7,36121.18

R Meade (Lab)5,34315.37

J Wilson (Ind Wilson)5801.67

May 2003 Smith (LD) 14,434 (43.34%) Douglas-Hamilton (C) 8,520 (25.58%)

Falkirk East Lab hold

Electorate 57,663

Turnout 30,333 (52.60%)% votes

*C Peattie (Lab)13,18443.46

A Ewing (SNP)11,31237.29

S Campbell (C)3,70112.20

N Maver (LD)2,1367.04

May 2003 Peattie (Lab) 14,235 (51.65%) Brown (SNP) 7,576 (27.49%)

Falkirk West SNP win

Electorate 56,254

Turnout 28,785 (51.17%)% votes

+M Matheson (SNP)

12,06841.92

D Goldie (Lab)11,29239.23

S O'Rourke (C)2,88710.03

C Chomczuk (LD)2,5388.82

May 2003 Canavan (Falkirk W) 14,703 (55.69%) Matheson (SNP) 4,703 (17.81%)

Fife Central SNP win

Electorate 58,215

Turnout 26,965 (46.32%)% votes

+T Marwick (SNP)11,92044.21

*C May (Lab)10,75439.88

E Riches (LD)2,2888.49

M Golden (C)2,0037.43

May 2003 May (Lab Co-op) 10,591 (41.38%) Marwick (SNP) 7,829 (30.59%)

Fife North East LD hold

Electorate 61,078

Turnout 31,552 (51.66%)% votes

*I Smith (LD)13,30742.17

+T Brocklebank (C)8,29126.28

R Campbell (SNP)6,73521.35

K Young (Lab)2,5578.10

T Campbell (Ind)6622.10

May 2003 Smith (LD) 13,479 (46.03%) Brocklebank (C) 8,424 (28.77%)

Galloway & Upper Nithsdale C hold

Electorate 52,583

Turnout 30,318 (57.66%)% votes

*A Fergusson (C)13,38744.16

+A Morgan (SNP)10,05433.16

S Hodgson (Lab)4,93516.28

A Cooper (LD)1,6315.38

S Richardson (Ind)3111.03

May 2003 Fergusson (C) 11,332 (38.24%) Morgan (SNP) 11,233 (37.90%)

Glasgow Anniesland

Lab hold

Electorate 48,344

Turnout 22,139 (45.79%)% votes

*B Butler (Lab)10,48347.35

B Kidd (SNP)6,17727.90

+B Aitken (C)3,15414.25

D Gilland (LD)2,32510.50

May 2003 Butler (Lab Co-op) 10,141 (45.75%) Kidd (SNP) 3,888 (17.54%)

Glasgow Baillieston

Lab hold

Electorate 44,367

Turnout 17,272 (38.93%)% votes

*M Curran (Lab)9,14152.92

L McNeill (SNP)5,20730.15

R Sullivan (C)1,2767.39

D Jackson (LD)1,0606.14

G Hargreaves (SCP)5883.40

May 2003 Curran (Lab) 9,657 (52.86%) McNeill (SNP) 3,479 (19.04%)

Glasgow Cathcart Lab hold

Electorate 47,822

Turnout 21,657 (45.29%)% votes

*C Gordon (Lab)8,47639.14

J Dornan (SNP)6,28729.03

D Smith (Ind)2,91113.44

D Rankin (C)2,32410.73

S Mustapha (LD)1,6597.66

September 2005 Gordon (Lab) 5,811 (37.69%) Whitehead (SNP) 3,406

(22.09%)

Glasgow Govan SNP win

Electorate 47,405

Turnout 21,521 (45.40%)% votes

+N Sturgeon (SNP)9,01041.87

*G Jackson (Lab)8,26638.41

C Young (LD)1,8918.79

M McIntyre (C)1,6807.81

A Nasir (Ind Nasir)4231.97

E McKenzie (Comm Brit)2511.17

May 2003 Jackson (Lab) 7,834 (37.06%) Sturgeon (SNP) 6,599 (31.22%)

Glasgow Kelvin Lab hold

Electorate 55,096

Turnout 23,500 (42.65%)% votes

*P McNeill (Lab)7,87533.51

+S White (SNP)6,66828.37

M Bartos (Green)2,97112.64

K Gordon (LD)2,84312.10

B Cooklin (C)1,9438.27

N Walker (Ind)7443.17

I Macleod (SCP)4561.94

May 2003 McNeill (Lab) 7,880 (35.69%) White (SNP) 4,591 (20.79%)

Glasgow Maryhill Lab hold

Electorate 46,060

Turnout 16,564 (35.96%)% votes

*P Ferguson (Lab)7,95548.03

B Doris (SNP)5,64534.08

K Elder (LD)1,93611.69

H MacLeod (C)1,0286.21

May 2003 Ferguson (Lab) 8,997 (49.32%) Wilson (SNP) 3,629 (19.89%)

Glasgow Pollok Lab hold

Electorate 47,189

Turnout 19,416 (41.15%)% votes

*J Lamont (Lab)10,45653.85

C Stephens (SNP)6,06331.23

G Michaluk (C)1,4607.52

C Gilmore (LD)1,4377.40

May 2003 Lamont (Lab Co-op) 9,357 (43.44%) Sheridan (SSP) 6,016 (27.93%)

Glasgow Rutherglen

Lab hold

Electorate 50,005

Turnout 24,252 (48.50%)% votes

J Kelly (Lab)10,23742.21

M Park (SNP)5,85724.15

+R Brown (LD)5,51622.74

C Harcus (C)2,0948.63

T Greig (SCP)5482.26

May 2003 Hughes (Lab) 10,794 (45.83%) Brown (LD) 4,491 (19.07%)

Glasgow Shettleston

Lab hold

Electorate 44,278

Turnout 14,801 (33.43%)% votes

*F McAveety (Lab)7,57451.17

J McLaughlin (SNP)4,69331.71

R Renton (LD)1,1827.99

W MacNair (C)9466.39

B Graham (SCP)4062.74

May 2003 McAveety (Lab Co-op) 9,365 (56.60%) Byrne (SNP) 3,018 (18.24%)

Glasgow Springburn

Lab hold

Electorate 47,021

Turnout 17,612 (37.46%)% votes

*P Martin (Lab)10,02456.92

A McLaughlin (SNP)4,92927.99

K McCloskey (LD)1,1086.29

G Wilson (C)1,0676.06

D Johnston (SCP)4842.75

May 2003 Martin (Lab) 10,963 (59.03%) Rankin (SNP) 2,956 (15.92%)

Gordon SNP win

Electorate 65,431

Turnout 35,363 (54.05%)% votes

A Salmond (SNP)14,65041.43

*N Radcliffe (LD)12,58835.60

+N Milne (C)5,34815.12

N Cardwell (Lab)2,2766.44

D Marr (Ind)1990.56

D Mathers (Ind)1850.52

B Ingram (SEP)1170.33

May 2003 Radcliffe (LD) 10,963 (38.07%) Milne (C) 6,892 (23.93%)

Greenock & Inverclyde

Lab hold

Electorate 44,646

Turnout 23,105 (51.75%)% votes

*D McNeil (Lab)10,03543.43

S McMillan (SNP)7,01130.34

+R Finnie (LD)3,89316.85

C Ferguson (C)2,1669.37

May 2003 McNeil (Lab) 9,674 (40.68%) Finnie (LD) 6,665 (28.03%)

Hamilton North & Bellshill Lab hold

Electorate 53,854

Turnout 25,366 (47.10%)% votes

*M McMahon (Lab)12,33448.62

+A Neil (SNP)7,46929.44

J Callander (C)2,83511.18

D Herbison (LD)1,7266.80

J Gorman (Scot Voice)5712.25

G Weir (Ind)4311.70

May 2003 McMahon (Lab) 12,812 (52.95%) Neil (SNP) 4,907 (20.28%)

Hamilton South Lab hold

Electorate 48,838

Turnout 23,211 (47.53%)% votes

*T McCabe (Lab)10,28044.29

C McKelvie (SNP)6,62828.56

+M Mitchell (C)2,92912.62

M McGlynn (Ind)1,7647.60

J Oswald (LD)1,6106.94

May 2003 McCabe (Lab) 9,546 (46.53%) Wilson (SNP) 4,722 (23.01%)

Inverness East, Nairn & Lochaber SNP hold

Electorate 71,609

Turnout 39,609 (55.31%)% votes

*F Ewing (SNP)16,44341.51

C Harrow (LD)10,97227.70

L Stewart (Lab)7,55919.08

J Halcro-Johnston (C)4,63511.70

May 2003 Ewing (SNP) 10,764 (30.94%) Grant (Lab) 9,718 (27.93%)

Kilmarnock & Loudoun

SNP win

Electorate 60,753

Turnout 33,435 (55.03%)% votes

W Coffey (SNP)14,29742.76

*M Jamieson (Lab)12,95538.75

J McAlpine (C)4,12712.34

R Aitken (LD)2,0566.15

May 2003 Jamieson (Lab) 12,633 (40.08%) Coffey (SNP) 11,423 (36.24%)

Kirkcaldy Lab hold

Electorate 50,761

Turnout 24,195 (47.66%)% votes

*M Livingstone (Lab)10,62743.92

C Harvie (SNP)8,00533.09

A Soper (LD)3,36113.89

D Potts (C)2,2029.10

May 2003 Livingstone (Lab Co-op) 10,235 (46.65%) Welsh (SNP) 5,411 (24.66%)

Linlithgow Lab hold

Electorate 56,175

Turnout 29,637 (52.76%)% votes

*M Mulligan (Lab)12,71542.90

+F Hyslop (SNP)11,56539.02

D Cameron (C)3,12510.54

M Oliver (LD)2,2327.53

May 2003 Mulligan (Lab) 11,548 (41.77%) Hyslop (SNP) 9,578 (34.65%)

Livingston SNP win

Electorate 66,348

Turnout 33,224 (50.08%)% votes

A Constance (SNP)13,15939.61

*B Muldoon (Lab)12,28936.99

E Walker (Hospital)2,8148.47

D Brown (C)2,8048.44

E Bell (LD)2,1586.50

May 2003 Muldoon (Lab) 13,327 (43.61%) Johnston (SNP) 9,657 (31.60%)

Midlothian Lab hold

Electorate 48,395

Turnout 25,111 (51.89%)% votes

*R Brankin (Lab)10,67142.50

C Beattie (SNP)8,96935.72

R Laird (LD)2,70410.77

P Lewis (C)2,2699.04

G McCleery (Had Enough)4981.98

May 2003 Brankin (Lab Co-op) 11,139 (47.29%) Sutherland (SNP) 5,597 (23.76%)

Moray SNP hold

Electorate 60,959

Turnout 30,274 (49.66%)% votes

*R Lochhead (SNP)15,04549.70

M Scanlon (C)7,12123.52

L Butcher (Lab)4,58015.13

D Rommel (LD)3,52811.65

April 2006 Lochhead (SNP) 12,653 (46.15%) Scanlon (C) 6,268 (22.86%)

Motherwell & Wishaw

Lab hold

Electorate 53,875

Turnout 26,150 (48.54%)% votes

*J McConnell (Lab)12,57448.08

M Fellows (SNP)6,63625.38

D Huddleston (C)1,9907.61

+J Swinburne (SSCUP)1,7026.51

S Douglas (LD)1,5706.00

T Selfridge (SCP)1,4915.70

R Leat (Anti-Trident)1870.72

May 2003 McConnell (Lab) 13,739 (54.12%) Quinan (SNP) 4,480 (17.65%)

Ochil SNP hold

Electorate 58,104

Turnout 31,553 (54.30%)% votes

K Brown (SNP)12,14738.50

B Fearon (Lab)11,65736.94

G Murray (C)4,28413.58

L Caddell (LD)3,46510.98

May 2003 Reid (SNP) 11,659 (38.33%) Simpson (Lab) 11,363 (37.36%)

Orkney LD hold

Electorate 16,195

Turnout 8,653 (53.43%)% votes

L McArthur (LD)4,11347.53

J Mowat (SNP)1,63718.92

H Gardiner (C)1,63218.86

I MacDonald (Lab)1,13413.11

B Johnson (Ind)1371.58

May 2003 Wallace (LD) 3,659 (45.71%) Zawadski (C) 1,904 (23.79%)

Paisley North Lab hold

Electorate 44,081

Turnout 23,206 (52.64%)% votes

*W Alexander (Lab)12,11152.19

A Doig (SNP)6,99830.16

M MacAskill (C)1,7217.42

A McGarrigle (LD)1,5706.77

I Hogg (SSP)5252.26

J Plott (Ind)2811.21

May 2003 Alexander (Lab) 10,631 (47.87%) Adam (SNP) 6,321 (28.47%)

Paisley South Lab hold

Electorate 49,175

Turnout 25,527 (51.91%)% votes

*H Henry (Lab)12,12347.49

F McLeod (SNP)7,89330.92

E McCartin (LD)3,43413.45

T Begg (C)2,0778.14

May 2003 Henry (Lab) 10,190 (40.79%) Martin (SNP) 7,737 (30.97%)

Perth SNP hold

Electorate 62,220

Turnout 34,862 (56.03%)% votes

*R Cunningham (SNP)13,75139.44

L Smith (C)11,25632.29

P Barrett (LD)4,76713.67

D Maughan (Lab)4,51312.95

J Fairlie (Free Scotland)

5751.65

May 2003 Cunningham (SNP) 10,717 (33.90%) Stewart (C) 9,990 (31.60%)

Renfrewshire West Lab hold

Electorate 50,787

Turnout 29,129 (57.36%)% votes

*T Godman (Lab)10,46735.93

+A Goldie (C)8,28928.46

B Wilson (SNP)8,16728.04

S Hutton (LD)2,2067.57

May 2003 Godman (Lab) 9,671 (34.17%) McFee (SNP) 7,179 (25.37%)

Ross, Skye & Inverness West LD hold

Electorate 59,237

Turnout 31,719 (53.55%)% votes

*J Munro (LD)13,50142.56

D Thompson (SNP)10,01531.57

M Macmillan (Lab)4,78915.10

J Hodgson (C)3,1229.84

I Brodie (SEP)2920.92

May 2003 Farquhar Munro (LD) 12,495 (43.13%) Thompson (SNP) 5,647 (19.49%)

Roxburgh & Berwickshire

C win

Electorate 47,862

Turnout 25,680 (53.65%)% votes

J Lamont (C)10,55641.11

*E Robson (LD)8,57133.38

A Orr (SNP)4,12716.07

M Lockhart (Lab)2,1088.21

J Rae (ND)3181.24

May 2003 Robson (LD) 9,280 (41.22%) Scott (C) 6,790 (30.16%)

Shetland LD hold

Electorate 17,108

Turnout 9,795 (57.25%)% votes

*T Scott (LD)6,53166.68

V Simpson (SNP)1,62216.56

M Jones (C)9729.92

S Burnett (Lab)6706.84

May 2003 Scott (LD) 3,989 (46.14%) Ross (SNP) 1,729 (20.00%)

Stirling SNP win

Electorate 52,864

Turnout 32,625 (61.71%)% votes

+B Crawford (SNP)10,44732.02

*S Jackson (Lab)9,82730.12

B Dalrymple (C)8,08124.77

A Cole-Hamilton (LD)3,69311.32

L Law (Peace)5771.77

May 2003 Jackson (Lab) 10,661 (35.96%) Monteith (C) 7,781 (26.25%)

Strathkelvin & Bearsden

Lab win

Electorate 60,389

Turnout 36,595 (60.60%)% votes

D Whitton (Lab)11,39631.14

R Easton (SNP)8,00821.88

*J Turner (Ind)6,74218.42

S Fraser (C)5,17814.15

C McInnes (LD)4,65812.73

B Handyside (SCP)6131.68

May 2003 Turner (Ind) 10,988 (30.75%) Fitzpatrick (Lab) 10,950 (30.64%)

Tayside North SNP hold

Electorate 62,133

Turnout 35,396 (56.97%)% votes

*J Swinney (SNP)18,28151.65

+M Fraser (C)10,69730.22

M Marna (Lab)3,2439.16

J Taylor (LD)3,1758.97

May 2003 Swinney (SNP) 14,969 (44.89%) Fraser (C) 10,466 (31.39%)

Tweeddale, Ettrick & Lauderdale LD hold

Electorate 53,588

Turnout 30,327 (56.59%)% votes

*J Purvis (LD)10,65635.14

+C Grahame (SNP)10,05833.17

D Brownlee (C)5,59418.45

C Maxwell-Stuart (Lab)4,01913.25

May 2003 Purvis (LD) 7,197 (26.96%) Grahame (SNP) 6,659 (24.94%)

Western Isles SNP win

Electorate 22,051

Turnout 13,625 (61.79%)% votes

A Allan (SNP)6,35446.63

*A Morrison (Lab)5,66741.59

R Ferguson (LD)8526.25

+D Petrie (C)7525.52

May 2003 Morrison (Lab) 5,825 (47.03%) Nicholson (SNP) 5,105 (41.21%)

Regional seats

Glasgow

Elected *Bill Aitken (C), *Robert Brown (LD), Bashir Ahmad (SNP), *Sandra White

(SNP), Bob Doris (SNP), Bill Kidd (SNP), *Patrick Harvie (Green)

votes%+/

Lab78,83838.16+0.44

SNP55,83227.02+9.94

LD14,7677.150.12

C13,7816.670.82

Green10,7595.211.93

Solidarity8,5254.13

BNP3,8651.87+0.72

SSCUP3,7031.790.53

SCP2,9911.45

Soc Lab2,6801.300.22

CPA2,6261.27

SSP2,5791.2513.98

SUP1,6120.780.37

Publican9520.46

Ind Shoaib5820.28

Ind Green4960.24

UKIP4050.200.07

Scot Voice3890.19

Ind Nasir3170.15

SACL2930.14

Ind2860.14

Com Brit2600.13

9% Growth800.04

4.75% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 477,587; Turnout 206,618 (43.26%, +1.82%)

Highlands & Islands

Elected Mary Scanlon (C), *Jamie McGrigor (C), *Peter Peacock (Lab), Rhoda Grant

(Lab), David Stewart (Lab), *Rob Gibson (SNP), Dave Thompson (SNP)

votes%+/

SNP63,97934.44+11.01

LD37,00119.92+1.14

Lab32,95217.744.57

C23,33412.563.45

Green8,6024.633.63

SCP6,3323.41

SSCUP3,8412.07

BNP2,1521.16

Solidarity1,8330.99

UKIP1,2870.690.46

Soc Lab1,0270.550.41

SSP9730.524.81

Publican9140.49

CPA8850.48

Scot Voice4500.24

SEP2110.11

4.94% swing SNP to LD

Electorate 337,794; Turnout 185,773 (55.00%, +2.78%)

Lothians

Elected Gavin Brown (C), George Foulkes (Lab), *Fiona Hyslop (SNP), Dr Ian McKee

(SNP), Stefan Tymkewycz (SNP), *Robin Harper (Green), Margo MacDonald (Ind)

votes%+/

SNP76,01926.48+10.24

Lab75,49526.30+1.80

C37,54813.082.04

LD36,57112.74+1.74

Green20,1477.024.99

Ind19,2566.71

SSCUP4,1761.45

Solidarity2,9981.04

BNP2,6370.92

Soc Lab2,1900.760.06

SCP2,0020.70

SSP1,9940.694.74

Publican1,2300.43

Witchery8670.300.06

CPA8480.30

UKIP8340.290.11

Had Enough6700.23

Scot Voice6610.23

SACL3220.11

Ind Scott1890.07

SEP1830.06

Ind Wilson1290.04

Ind Thorp730.03

4.22% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 519,115; Turnout 287,039 (55.29%, +4.78%)

Scotland Central

Elected *Margaret Mitchell (C), Hugh O'Donnell (LD), *Alex Neil (SNP), *Linda

Fabiani (SNP), Jamie Hepburn (SNP), Christina McKelvie (SNP), John Wilson (SNP)

votes%+/

Lab112,59639.580.84

SNP89,21031.36+8.83

C24,2538.520.64

LD14,6485.150.74

Green7,2042.532.12

SSCUP7,0602.484.04

SCP5,5751.96

Solidarity5,0121.76

CPA4,6171.62

BNP4,1251.45

Soc Lab2,3030.810.66

SSP2,1880.776.46

Scot Voice1,9550.69

SUP1,5440.540.27

Publican1,5000.53

UKIP7220.250.13

4.83% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 559,452; Turnout 284,512 (50.86%, +2.24%)

Scotland Mid & Fife

Elected *Murdo Fraser (C), Liz Smith (C), *Ted Brocklebank (C), John Park (Lab),

Claire Baker (Lab), Richard Simpson (Lab), Prof Chris Harvie (SNP)

votes%+/

SNP90,09032.99+9.95

Lab71,92226.34+1.05

C44,34116.241.33

LD36,19513.25+1.21

Green10,3183.783.08

SSCUP5,5232.02

BNP2,6200.96

Solidarity2,4680.90

SCP1,6980.62

UKIP1,5870.580.36

Soc Lab1,5230.560.35

Publican1,3090.48

SSP1,1160.414.15

Scot Voice9190.34

CPA7900.29

Free Scotlnd6640.24

4.45% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 513,443; Turnout 273,083 (53.19%, +3.51%)

Scotland North East

Elected *Alex Johnstone (C), *Nanette Milne (C), *Richard Baker (Lab), *Marlyn

Glen (Lab), Alison McInnes (LD), *Maureen Watt (SNP), Nigel Don (SNP)

votes%+/

SNP105,26541.07+13.80

Lab52,12520.34+0.15

LD40,93415.972.84

C37,66614.702.67

Green8,1483.182.04

BNP2,7641.08

Solidarity2,0040.78

SCP1,8950.74

CPA1,1730.46

SSP1,0510.413.79

UKIP1,0450.410.21

SSCUP9300.36

Scot Voice5690.22

Soc Lab4910.190.81

SEP2220.09

6.82% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 506,660; Turnout 256,282 (50.58%, +2.33%)

Scotland South

Elected *Derek Brownlee (C), Jim Hume (LD), *Christine Grahame (SNP), Michael

Russell (SNP), *Adam Ingram (SNP), *Alasdair Morgan (SNP), Aileen Campbell (SNP)

votes%+/

SNP77,05351.52+33.15

C15,61910.4413.80

LD14,0209.370.89

Lab13,2948.8921.10

Green9,2546.19+0.47

SSCUP5,3353.57

Solidarity3,4332.30

BNP3,2122.15

SCP2,3531.57

Soc Lab1,6331.090.07

UKIP1,4290.96+0.24

SSP1,1140.744.66

CPA8390.56

Scot Voice4900.33

Ind4880.33

23.47% swing SNP to C

Electorate 514,105; Turnout 149,566 (29.09%, 23.24%)

Scotland West

Elected *Annabel Goldie (C), Jackson Carlaw (C), *Ross Finnie (LD), *Stewart

Maxwell (SNP), Gil Paterson (SNP), Bill Wilson (SNP), Stuart McMillan (SNP)

votes%+/

Lab91,72534.20+5.96

SNP75,95328.32+11.37

C40,63715.15+1.61

LD22,5158.4015.69

Green8,1523.041.85

SSCUP5,2311.950.44

Solidarity4,7741.78

SCP3,7291.39

BNP3,2411.21

CPA3,0271.13

Save NHS2,6821.00

SSP1,7160.645.62

Soc Lab1,5570.580.48

SUP1,2450.460.08

UKIP8880.330.23

Scot Voice5220.19

Jacobite4460.17

Soc Equality1390.05

2.70% swing SNP to Lab

Electorate 475,073; Turnout 268,179 (56.45%, 5.08%)

C Conservative

Lab Labour

LD Liberal Democrat

SNP Scottish National Party

Green Green Party

BNP British National Party

Ind Independent and Others

KHHC Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern

Lib Liberal

Meb Ker Mebyon Kernow

R Ratepayers or Residents

Respect Respect -the Unity Coalition

Soc Socialist

Solidty Solidarity

SSP Scottish Socialist Party

UKIP United Kingdom Independence Party

Vac Vacant

* indicates a sitting member in the same seat

+ indicates a member who previously sat in a different constituency

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2007, Saturday

Election 2007

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 88

LENGTH: 1920 words


Aberavon Lab hold

Electorate 51,536

Turnout 20,528 (39.83%)% votes

*B Gibbons (Lab)10,12949.34

L Purcell (PC)3,55817.33

A Tutton (Ratepayers)2,56112.48

D Meyland-Smith (C)1,9909.69

C Waller (LD)1,4507.06

C Beany (Bean)8404.09

May 2003 Gibbons (Lab) 11,137 (59.38%) Owen (PC) 3,324 (17.72%)

Aberconwy PC hold

Electorate 44,143

Turnout 20,699 (46.89%)% votes

G Jones (PC)7,98338.57

D Jones-Evans (C)6,29030.39

+D Jones (Lab)4,50821.78

E Hughes (LD)1,9189.27

May 2003 (PC) 4,894 (29.68%) (Lab) 4,581 (27.78%)

Alyn & Deeside Lab hold

Electorate 59,355

Turnout 21,095 (35.54%)% votes

*C Sargeant (Lab)8,19638.85

W Gallagher (C)4,83422.92

D Hutchinson (Ind)3,24115.36

P Brighton (LD)2,0919.91

D Passe (PC)1,3986.63

W Crawford (UKIP)1,3356.33

May 2003 Sergeant (Lab) 7,036 (46.71%) Wright (C) 3,533 (23.45%)

Arfon PC hold

Electorate 39,891

Turnout 19,573 (49.07%)% votes

+A Jones (PC)10,26052.42

M Eaglestone (Lab)5,24226.78

G Frobisher (C)1,8589.49

M ab Owain (LD)1,4247.28

E Williams (UKIP)7894.03

May 2003 (PC) 9,557 (49.34%) (Lab) 5,922 (30.58%)

Blaenau Gwent Ind hold

Electorate 52,816

Turnout 23,518 (44.53%)% votes

*T Law (Ind)12,72254.09

K Bender (Lab)7,36531.32

G Lewis (LD)1,3515.74

N Asghar (PC)1,1294.80

B Hayward (C)9514.04

June 2006 Law (Ind Law) 13,785 (50.33%) Hopkins (Lab) 9,321 (34.03%)

Brecon & Radnorshire

LD hold

Electorate 55,428

Turnout 28,748 (51.87%)% votes

*K Williams (LD)15,00652.20

S Davies (C)9,65233.57

N Stone (Lab)2,5148.74

A Lloyd (PC)1,5765.48

May 2003 Williams (LD) 13,325 (49.64%) Bourne (C) 8,017 (29.87%)

Bridgend Lab hold

Electorate 59,550

Turnout 24,552 (41.23%)% votes

+C Jones (Lab)9,88940.28

E Greenow (C)7,33329.87

P Warren (LD)3,73015.19

N Thomas (PC)3,60014.66

May 2003 (Lab) 8,453 (42.57%) (C) 6,106 (30.75%)

Caerphilly Lab hold

Electorate 62,046

Turnout 26,922 (43.39%)% votes

+J Cuthbert (Lab)8,93733.20

L Whittle (PC)7,00026.00

R Davies (Ind)6,07122.55

R Foley (C)3,22711.99

H Price (LD)1,6876.27

May 2003 (Lab) 10,763 (45.35%) (PC) 6,649 (28.02%)

Cardiff Central LD hold

Electorate 62,202

Turnout 22,397 (36.01%)% votes

*J Randerson (LD)11,46251.18

S Lent (Lab)4,89721.86

A Murphy (C)3,13714.01

T Whitfield (PC)1,8558.28

F Hughes (UKIP)1,0464.67

May 2003 Randerson (LD) 11,256 (54.65%) Mungham (Lab) 4,100 (19.90%)

Cardiff North C win

Electorate 65,687

Turnout 33,702 (51.31%)% votes

+J Morgan (C)15,25345.26

S Howe (Lab)10,40930.89

E Bridges (LD)4,28712.72

W Jones (PC)2,4917.39

D Llewellyn (UKIP)1,2623.74

May 2003 Essex (Lab) 10,413 (37.55%) Morgan (C) 9,873 (35.60%)

Cardiff South & Penarth

Lab hold

Electorate 71,312

Turnout 26,728 (37.48%)% votes

+L Barrett (Lab)10,10637.81

K Robson (C)7,35227.51

D Hannigan (LD)5,44520.37

J Toby (PC)3,82514.31

May 2003 (Lab) 9,579 (44.41%) (C) 5,537 (25.67%)

Cardiff West Lab hold

Electorate 64,588

Turnout 26,889 (41.63%)% votes

+R Morgan (Lab)10,39038.64

C Williams (C)6,69224.89

N McEvoy (PC)5,71921.27

A Goldsworthy (LD)4,08815.20

May 2003 (Lab) 11,079 (49.05%) (C) 4,012 (17.76%)

Carmarthen East & Dinefwr

PC hold

Electorate 52,528

Turnout 29,269 (55.72%)% votes

+R Thomas (PC)15,65553.49

K Madge (Lab)7,18624.55

H Hensher (C)4,67615.98

I Walton (LD)1,7525.99

May 2003 (PC) 12,646 (48.45%) (Lab) 8,147 (31.21%)

Carmarthen West & Pembrokeshire South

C win

Electorate 57,477

Turnout 28,568 (49.70%)% votes

A Burns (C)8,59030.07

+C Gwyther (Lab)8,49229.73

J Dixon (PC)8,34029.19

J Gossage (LD)1,8066.32

M Calver (Ind)1,3404.69

May 2003 (Lab) 8,504 (34.86%) (PC) 8,109 (33.24%)

Ceredigion PC hold

Electorate 54,071

Turnout 30,108 (55.68%)% votes

+E Jones (PC)14,81849.22

J Davies (LD)10,86336.08

T Jones (C)2,3697.87

L Grace (Lab)1,5305.08

E Morgan (Ind)5281.75

May 2003 (PC) 11,806 (45.14%) (LD) 7,218 (27.60%)

Clwyd South Lab hold

Electorate 51,865

Turnout 19,498 (37.59%)% votes

+K Sinclair (Lab)6,83835.07

J Bell (C)5,71929.33

N Davies (PC)3,89419.97

F Biggs (LD)1,8389.43

D Rowlands (UKIP)1,2096.20

May 2003 (Lab) 6,521 (36.47%) (PC) 3,729 (20.85%)

Clwyd West C win

Electorate 57,312

Turnout 26,205 (45.72%)% votes

D Millar (C)8,90533.98

+A Pugh (Lab)7,30927.89

P Edwards (PC)7,16227.33

S Croft (LD)1,7056.51

W Nicholson (UKIP)1,1244.29

May 2003 (Lab) 7,768 (34.83%) (C) 7,283 (32.65%)

Cynon Valley

Lab hold

Electorate 50,846

Turnout 19,517 (38.38%)% votes

+C Chapman (Lab)11,05856.66

L Walters (PC)5,43527.85

N John (C)2,02410.37

M Phelps (LD)1,0005.12

May 2003 (Lab) 11,573 (64.46%) (PC) 3,830 (21.33%)

Delyn Lab hold

Electorate 52,733

Turnout 21,668 (41.09%)% votes

*S Mewies (Lab)7,50634.64

A Sandbach (C)6,99632.29

M Ellis (PC)3,17914.67

I Matthews (LD)2,66912.32

D Bigg (UKIP)1,3186.08

May 2003 Mewies (Lab) 6,520 (38.62%) Isherwood (C) 4,896 (29.00%)

Dwyfor Meirionnydd PC hold

Electorate 46,718

Turnout 22,122 (47.35%)% votes

+D Elis-Thomas (PC)

13,20159.67

M Wood (C)4,33319.59

D Phillips (Lab)2,74912.43

S Churchman (LD)1,8398.31

May 2003 (PC) 12,335 (57.36%) (Lab) 4,625 (21.51%)

Gower Lab hold

Electorate 61,520

Turnout 27,545 (44.77%)% votes

+E Hart (Lab)9,40634.15

B Davis (C)8,21429.82

D Price (PC)5,10618.54

N Tregoning (LD)2,92410.62

A Lewis (UKIP)1,8956.88

May 2003 (Lab) 10,334 (43.60%) (C) 4,646 (19.60%)

Islwyn Lab hold

Electorate 54,795

Turnout 23,564 (43.00%)% votes

+I James (Lab)8,88337.70

K Etheridge (Ind)6,66528.28

A Pritchard (PC)5,08421.58

P Williams (C)1,7977.63

M Maguire (LD)1,1354.82

May 2003 (Lab) 12,376 (55.89%) (PC) 4,196 (18.95%)

Llanelli PC win

Electorate 56,154

Turnout 27,602 (49.15%)% votes

+H Jones (PC)13,83950.14

*C Thomas (Lab)9,95536.07

A Morgan (C)2,7579.99

J Townsend (LD)1,0513.81

May 2003 Bailey Thomas (Lab) 9,916 (42.80%) Jones (PC) 9,895 (42.71%)

Merthyr Tydfil & Rhymney Lab hold

Electorate 54,025

Turnout 21,028 (38.92%)% votes

*H Lewis (Lab)7,77636.98

A Kitcher (LD)3,19515.19

C Tovey (Ind Tovey)2,62212.47

G Jones (PC)2,51911.98

J Edwards (Ind Edwards)

1,9509.27

G Howard (C)1,1515.47

J Greer (Ind Greer)8444.01

V Hadley (Ind Hadley)

8093.85

R Williams (Ind)1620.77

May 2003 Lewis (Lab Co-op) 11,148 (60.51%) Cox (PC) 2,988 (16.22%)

Monmouth C hold

Electorate 63,000

Turnout 29,565 (46.93%)% votes

N Ramsay (C)15,38952.05

R Clark (Lab)6,92023.41

J Sullivan (LD)4,35914.74

J Clark (PC)2,0937.08

E Abrams (Eng Dem)8042.72

May 2003 Davies (C) 15,989 (57.52%) James (Lab) 7,479 (26.91%)

Montgomeryshire LD hold

Electorate 48,377

Turnout 22,300 (46.10%)% votes

+M Bates (LD)8,70439.03

D Munford (C)6,72530.16

D Thomas (PC)3,07613.79

C Lawson (UKIP)2,25110.09

R Maycock (Lab)1,5446.92

May 2003 (LD) 7,911 (39.77%) (C) 5,678 (28.54%)

Neath Lab hold

Electorate 57,952

Turnout 25,200 (43.48%)% votes

+G Thomas (Lab)10,93443.39

A Llewelyn (PC)8,99035.67

A Sivertsen (C)2,95611.73

S Waye (LD)2,3209.21

May 2003 (Lab) 11,332 (51.07%) (PC) 6,386 (28.78%)

Newport East Lab hold

Electorate 53,060

Turnout 19,906 (37.52%)% votes

*J Griffiths (Lab)6,39532.13

E Townsend (LD)5,52027.73

P Fox (C)4,51222.67

T Puw (PC)1,6968.52

J Harris (Ind)1,3546.80

M Blundell (Eng Dem)4292.16

May 2003 Griffiths (Lab Co-op) 7,621 (44.60%) Evans (C) 4,157 (24.33%)

Newport West Lab hold

Electorate 58,981

Turnout 23,659 (40.11%)% votes

*R Butler (Lab)9,58240.50

M Evans (C)8,18134.58

N Flanagan (LD)2,81311.89

B Hancock (PC)2,44910.35

A Constantine (Eng Dem)

6342.68

May 2003 Butler (Lab) 10,053 (46.92%) Graham (C) 6,301 (29.41%)

Ogmore Lab hold

Electorate 56,973

Turnout 22,766 (39.96%)% votes

+J Gregory (Lab)11,76151.66

S Caiach (PC)3,86116.96

N Lloyd-Nesling (C)2,66311.70

S Smith (Ind)2,33710.27

M Plant (LD)2,1449.42

May 2003 (Lab) 10,595 (59.45%) (PC) 3,466 (19.45%)

Pontypridd Lab hold

Electorate 57,512

Turnout 23,501 (40.86%)% votes

+J Davidson (Lab)9,83641.85

M Powell (LD)6,44927.44

R Grigg (PC)4,18117.79

J Charles (C)3,03512.91

May 2003 (Lab) 10,815 (50.93%) (PC) 4,539 (21.37%)

Preseli Pembrokeshire C win

Electorate 56,435

Turnout 28,720 (50.89%)% votes

P Davies (C)11,08638.60

+T Dunwoody (Lab)7,88127.44

J Osmond (PC)7,10124.72

H Davies (LD)2,6529.23

May 2003 (Lab) 8,177 (35.18%) (C) 6,812 (29.31%)

Rhondda Lab hold

Electorate 52,478

Turnout 22,107 (42.13%)% votes

*L Andrews (Lab)12,87558.24

J Evans (PC)6,66030.13

K Roberts (LD)1,4416.52

H Parsons (C)1,1315.12

May 2003 Andrews (Lab) 14,170 (61.60%) Davies (PC) 6,216 (27.02%)

Swansea East Lab hold

Electorate 59,186

Turnout 20,717 (35.00%)% votes

*V Lloyd (Lab)8,59041.46

H Clarke (LD)3,62917.52

D Bowles (PC)3,21815.53

B Dowdle (C)2,0259.77

D Robinson (Ind)1,6187.81

R Welsby (Ind Welsby)1,1775.68

G Evans (Ind Evans)4602.22

May 2003 Lloyd (Lab) 8,221 (47.22%) Black (LD) 4,224 (24.26%)

Swansea West Lab hold

Electorate 61,469

Turnout 22,879 (37.22%)% votes

*A Davies (Lab)7,39332.31

P May (LD)5,88225.71

H Davies (C)4,37919.14

I Titherington (PC)3,58315.66

R Lewis (UKIP)1,6427.18

May 2003 Davies (Lab) 7,023 (36.18%) Lloyd (PC) 4,461 (22.98%)

Torfaen Lab hold

Electorate 62,592

Turnout 23,215 (37.09%)% votes

*L Neagle (Lab)9,92142.74

G Smith (C)4,52519.49

I Williams (Ind)3,34814.42

R ab Elis (PC)2,76211.90

P Legge (LD)2,65911.45

May 2003 Neagle (Lab) 10,152 (51.92%) Ramsay (C) 3,188 (16.30%)

Vale Of Clwyd Lab hold

Electorate 55,234

Turnout 22,275 (40.33%)% votes

+A Jones (Lab)8,10436.38

M Wright (C)8,01235.97

M Jones (PC)3,88417.44

M Young (LD)2,27510.21

May 2003 (Lab) 8,317 (45.99%) (C) 5,567 (30.78%)

Vale Of Glamorgan Lab hold

Electorate 68,856

Turnout 33,686 (48.92%)% votes

+J Hutt (Lab)11,51534.18

G Kemp (C)11,43233.94

B Shaw (PC)4,67113.87

M Hooper (LD)3,75811.16

K Mahoney (UKIP)2,3106.86

May 2003 (Lab) 11,979 (43.37%) (C) 9,691 (35.08%)

Wrexham Lab win

Electorate 50,759

Turnout 19,567 (38.55%)% votes

L Griffiths (Lab)5,63328.79

*J Marek (Ind)4,38322.40

F Elphick (C)3,37217.23

B Roberts (LD)3,26816.70

S Owen (PC)1,8789.60

P Lewis (UKIP)1,0335.28

May 2003 Marek (Marek) 6,539 (37.66%) Griffiths (Lab) 5,566 (32.06%)

Ynys Mon PC hold

Electorate 51,814

Turnout 26,820 (51.76%)% votes

*I Wyn Jones (PC)10,65339.72

P Rogers (Ind)6,26123.34

J Austin (Lab)4,68117.45

J Roach (C)3,48012.98

M Abrahams (LD)9123.40

F Wykes (UKIP)8333.11

May 2003 Wyn Jones (PC) 9,452 (37.44%) Rogers (C) 7,197 (28.51%)

Regional seats

South Wales Central

Elected *David Melding (C), Andrew Davies (C), *Leanne Wood (PC), Chris Franks

(PC)

votes%+/

C11,15033.11+14.66

Lab9,37827.8513.23

PC4,94114.670.77

LD3,0769.144.63

UKIP1,9385.76+1.93

BNP1,2953.85

Green1,1083.290.05

Soc Lab2040.611.17

WCP2000.59

Respect1180.35

Soc Alt920.27

Com Brit810.24

CPA620.18

Soc Equality

280.08

13.94% swing C to Lab

Electorate 493,481; Turnout 33,671 (6.82%, 30.89%)

South Wales East

Elected *William Graham (C), *Michael German (LD), *Jocelyn Davies (PC),
Mohammed

Asghar (PC)

votes%+/

Lab67,99835.879.22

C37,93520.010.16

PC25,91513.67+1.07

LD20,94711.05+0.64

BNP8,9404.72+2.82

UKIP8,7254.60+1.10

Green5,4142.860.26

Ind4,8762.57

Soc Lab3,6931.950.23

WCP2,4981.32

Eng Dem

1,6550.87

Com Brit9790.52

4.53% swing C to Lab

Electorate 461,315; Turnout 189,575 (41.09%, +4.95%)

South Wales West

Elected *Alun Cairns (C), *Peter Black (LD), Bethan Jenkins (PC), Dai Lloyd (PC)

votes%+/

Lab58,34735.775.84

PC28,81917.670.10

C26,19916.06+1.03

LD20,22612.400.32

BNP8,9935.51

Green6,1303.761.04

UKIP5,9143.630.76

Soc Lab2,3671.451.02

WCP1,6851.03

Ind James

1,1860.73

Soc Alt1,0270.63

Respect7130.44

Ind5820.36

Com Brit5460.33

CPA3930.24

2.87% swing PC to Lab

Electorate 408,186; Turnout 163,127 (39.96%, +4.69%)

Wales Mid & West

Elected +Nick Bourne (C), Alun Davies (Lab), Joyce Watson (Lab), Nerys Evans
(PC)

votes%+/

PC67,25831.00

C49,60622.86

Lab39,97918.43

LD28,79013.27

Green8,7684.04

UKIP8,1913.78

BNP6,3892.94

Soc Lab2,1961.01

Ind1,5980.74

WCP1,4930.69

Ind Evans

1,1080.51

Com Brit6660.31

Veritas5020.23

CPA4130.19

1.16% swing C to PC

Electorate 427,188; Turnout 216,957 (50.79%, %)

Wales North

Elected +Brynle Williams (C), +Mark Isherwood (C), +Eleanor Burnham (LD), +Janet

Ryder (PC)

votes%+/

Lab51,83126.38

PC50,55825.74

C50,26625.59

LD15,2757.78

BNP9,9865.08

UKIP8,0154.08

Green5,6602.88

Soc Lab2,2091.12

WCP1,3000.66

Com Brit7000.36

CPA6420.33

4.72% swing PC to Lab

Electorate 463,106; Turnout 196,442 (42.42%, %)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                               May 4, 2007 Friday

UKIP chief's racist attack with pasty

BYLINE: Mike Sullivan, Crime Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 209  words


He goes nuts at station

A UK Independence Party chief hurled racist insults at railway staff, threatened
them with an umbrella before throwing a Cornish pasty in an early-hours drunken
frenzy.

Head of Communications Adrian Lithgow lashed out while waiting for a train at
London's Victoria station at 3am.

The Eurosceptic, 50, launched a vicious tirade at a Yugoslavian rail worker -
branding him "a piece of s***".

He told the man: "You are a f*****g immigrant" and added: "Have you got a work
permit?"

A duty manager was called to the row outside a pasty stand and barred Lithgow
from travelling.

The UKIP man then hurled his hot pie at staff, tried to poke them with a brolly
and grabbed the manager by the throat.

Drinking

Transport Police arrested the political adviser and locked him in a cell.

Lithgow, said to have been drinking heavily before he let rip, pleaded guilty in
court last month to racially aggravated harassment and threatening behaviour.

He was fined £ 60 and ordered to pay £ 400 compensation plus £ 60 costs.

Lithgow, of East Grinstead, West Sussex, has stepped down as Head of
Communications but still edits the party newsletter.

He ditched plans to stand in the local elections. Party leaders will decide on
his future.

m.sullivan@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 4, 2007 Friday 10:45 AM GMT

Elections 2007: Live

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 2161 words


Alright, here are my early impressions, after a Voortrek that has taken me
through eight councils in Buckinghamshire, Berkshire and Surrey starting at dawn
and finishing at close of poll.

The votes are in and the counting has begun

Labour, as I have been saying throughout the campaign, is collapsing in southern
England. OK, OK, there needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave, to tell us
this. But everything else that is going on - the high abstention rate, the rise
of the BNP and the other minority parties, the straight switches - is a
consequence of that degringolade.

We'll have to wait to see what happens in Scotland, Wales and the North but,
from what I've seen, the Tories are doing comfortably in southern England.
Perhaps surprisingly, the Conservatives, rather than the Lib-Dems, are
benefitting from Labour's evacuation of the Home Counties.

Something else that has struck me is the rise of an anti-politics and
anti-politician vote. The BNP, I'm being told, has surged in a number of genteel
southern seats. I met several people in Englefield this afternoon who were
planning to vote UKIP, not just because they were anti-Brussels (although they
were), but because they were fed up with all the main parties. One polite old
lady told me that she was a lifelong Tory, but that "you need a bit of a kick in
the backside". In vain did I remonstrate that her Conservative candidate, Dan
Hamilton, was as patriotic as anyone in the country, and that he, too, was
against EU membership.

"Oh,I don't doubt you, Mr Hannan," she said brightly. "I take the Telegraph, and
I share all your views. But your party needs to sit up and listen".

Another facet of the phenomenon is what one might call freelance localism. Where
non-party candidates once stood as Ratepayers, Residents or Independents, they
are now likelier to run as, say "The Slough Party". I even came across a group
of candidates demanding independence for the Isle of Sheppey.

This phenomenon reflects an understandable sense that local communities have
been disempowered by a remote central government. This sense ought, of course,
to work to the Tories' advantage. In other countries, the Right-of-Centre party
is the natural champion of local particularisms and traditions against the
bureuacracy of the central state.

The early results suggest that we'll have a similar localist, anti-politician
vote tonight. I'll keep you posted...

00.53 am: I've just heard the results from Swale (a classic swing area in North
Kent). A straightforward swing to "Others". This kind of thing is slow to show
up on the national predictions but I expect that, by this time tomorrow, it'll
be quite a phenomenon.

01.12 am: Congratulations to the Dan Hamilton (see above) who has won his seat:
492 (Con) 324 (LD) 93 (UKIP). You get my point about the "None of the Above"
parties? There is some speculation that UKIP might win a seat in the Welsh
Assembly.

01.18 am: It's important to remember the base from which we're counting. I'm
getting texts from a number of Conservative councillors and others - thank you
to Stephen Gorys, Stephen West, Olga Denyer - and they tell a similar story.
There is a slight decline in the Labour vote and a slight rise in the Tory one.
But think about where we were starting! In Basingstoke and Deane, for example -
a classic Labour/Tory two way marginal - there seems to be little overall shift
in the balance of seats, but, I'm told (thank you, Therese Coffey) that almost
all Tory candidates have seen their share of the vote rise a bit.

01.32 am: A vote of confidence in David Cameron. Barry Norton, the excellent
leader of West Oxon, texts me with results from the Tory leader's home
constituency. The Tories have increased their majority from 19 to 22. The
council now stands as follows: 35 Conservatives, 1 Labour, 8 Lib Dems and 4
Independents, rather neatly illustrating my previous point about how hard it is
to rise significantly from a high base.

01.50 am: Congratulations to the Tories in Waverley (a beautiful, largely rural,
part of Surrey), who have so far taken 9 seats from the Lib Dems.

02.02 am: I've just spoken to Tim Montgomerie, the planet-brained editor of
ConservativeHome (www.conservativehome.blogs.com), who is predicting a net Tory
gain of 600 seats. This is very substantially more than the BBC is forecasting.
My money is on Montgomerie! His information, which is being posted in real time,
also seems rather speedier than the Beeb's - a neat proof of how dispersed
private enterprise is more efficient than any nationalised monopoly.

02.14 am: The BBC is saying, more or less, that my whole thesis is piffle. Their
figures, based on a sample of the results so far received, is that the minority
parties have suffered. The Greens, UKIP and BNP have all, apparently seen their
share of the vote decline substantially. I must say, this isn't what I found on
the campaign trail, and it isn't what I'm hearing now. Tim Hall, the
inspirational leader of the Mole Valley Conservatives, has just phoned in the
results from that prosperous stretch of Surrey. UKIP have apparently overtaken
Labour in several wards. In neighbouring Epsom and Ewell, the big beneficiaries
are the Independents. The trouble with "None of the Above" is that, by
definition, its vote is hard to aggregate. With many of the councils not
beginning their counts until tomorrow, it's very hard to get an overall picture.
But I'm sticking to my hunch. If I'm right, "anti-politics" would put the SNP
advance into a rather different light.

02.25 am: More brilliant results from Kent. Having completely eliminated the
Labour presence in Tunbridge Wells, the Conservatives have just won seven seats
in Gravesham, after a brave and impressive campaign. There are glitches, of
course - such as Labour's capture of two seats in by-elections in Hastings - but
the overall picture is now becoming clear. Labour is doing badly from a low
base, the Lib-Dems are winning against Labour, but not the Conservatives, and
the Tories are sweeping the south. When the Tories did this badly in Scotland,
commentators elbowed each other aside to claim that they had no mandate there,
for all that they might have a technical majority at Westminster. So does the
same apply to Labour and the Home Counties? If not, why not?

02.35 am: I underestimated the Tory surge in Waverley: they've taken 16 seats.
Many congratulations to the superb team there, which included several new
candidates, and to the hugely able local MP, Jeremy Hunt. And I've just heard
that the Conservatives have taken Woking. I blogged here a week ago about the
North-South divide: this looks like being one of the only elections that I've
ever called correctly.

02.45 am: Yesterday, I blogged on this site about the failure of Labour's
attempts to boost turnout by making voting easier. All sorts of wheezes have
been tried: postal voting, telephone voting, electorinic voting, supermarket
voting. I've just heard from South Bucks, where I spent part of this morning,
and which was a pilot council for e-voting, that their entire count has now been
deferred because of computer failure. When will Labour get the message? You
don't boost turnout by making the act of voting easier. You boost turnout by
making elections matter again - by taking power back from Brussels to
Westminster and from Whitehall to town halls.

03.08 am: We now have official share-of-vote turnout forecast. Extrapolating
from ballots so far counted, the Conservatives are set to get 41 per cent (up
one), Labour 27 per cent (up one), Lib Dems 26 per cent (down one). This
surprises me. I'd have thought Labour would be doing worse, and that the Others
would be doing better. I've just spoken, for example, to Paul Watkins, the
energetic leader of Dover's Tories. The Conservatives have just stormed to their
best result there since 1983, winning the council with a majority of 11 and
taking the Labour leader's seat. Perhaps more typical, but still impressive, is
the Conservative result in Havant where, as in much of England, the Tories
stretched an already substantial lead, winning 9 out of the 10 seats being
contested (holding 8 and winning the ninth from the LibDems). Congratulations to
Mike Fairhurst; and special mention to Ian Young, chairman of the new Meon
Valley Association, who has been appearing in every corner of Hampshire during
the campaign. It's not impossible that the Beeb will have to revise its
predictions before tomorrow night.

03.24 am: Did Alec Salmond's speech strike anyone as a trifle - well, a trifle
parochial? He didn't mention independence, and seemed mainly concerned with the
irregularities of the postal vote system (he's got that right, at any rate).

03.36 am: The definition of success in politics has shifted in the multi-media
age. "Winning" now means exceeding expectations rather that actually, you know,
winning. Even if the BBC figures are correct, these are disastrous results for
Labour. Yet, because the markets had already discounted a Labour drubbing,
Blair's defeat has lost its dramatic impact. A thought: given that this is what
usually now happens in politics, why do party leaders invariably feel obliged to
predict victory in advance?

03.40 am: It must be something in the Wey water. Latest results from Waverley:
49 Conservative, 3 Lib Dem, 3 Independent, two seats being recounted (Tories
ahead).

4.10 am: Easily the best TV performance of the night has come from Sian Berry, a
Green Patry spokesman. She was likeable, convincing and slightly coquettish. I
hope her party doesn't turn on her, as it did on the equally glamorous Sara
Parkin. They can be a chippy bunch, Greens.

4.42 am: That's all folks. OK, here are my closing thoughts. This has been, as
predicted, an anti-Labour election. People have snatched at whatever club was
handiest to belabour the governing party. In most of England, that club was the
Conservative Party. In the handful of Northern cities where there is no Tory
presence, it was the Lib Dems. Most spectacularly, in Scotland, it was the SNP.
Fraser Nelson, the Spectator's astute political columnist, is calling the
Scottish poll "a tartan intifada". It's an apt phrase. Nothing that any SNP
spokesman has said tonight suggests that this vote was about independence. The
Scots and the English have more in common than is sometimes acknowledged, and
one of the things presently uniting them is a contempt for New Labour.

South of the border, the Lib-Dem vote seems - with some striking exceptions,
such as Eastbourne- to have migrated slightly northward. In other words, the Lib
Dems are being squeezed by the Tories in Southern England, but are benefiting
from anti-Labour sentiment in the Tory-free zones.

All in all, this is a calamitous night for Labour, a disappointing night for the
Lib Dems, a good night for the Tories and a stunning night for the SNP. It is
worth repeating that these things do not become any less true for having been
flagged up in advance. Commentators often like to say something different, or to
explain how the new consensus differs from the previous one. But the verdict of
the urns themselves should not be discounted. When Hazel Blears, the Labour
Chairman, says (as she is saying on television now) that the results have
"confounded the pundits", she is accurate but irrelevant.

Equally irrelevant is the objection that people are voting against Labour rather
than for the Tories or the SNP. Oppositions don't win elections, governments
lose them: the fact that it's a truism doesn't make it any less true. In 2001
and in 2005, the pendulum that had operated since 1945 appeared to have snapped:
discontent with the governing party no longer bolstered the opposition. Now,
though, something approaching political normality has been restored.

Of course I'd like every Conservative vote to be an enthusiastic endorsement of
my party rather than a rejection of Labour. But I've sat through several counts
in my time and, when they're all piled up together, the negative votes look just
the same as the positive ones; and when you count them, they're all worth the
same.

If I were David Cameron, I'd be sleeping soundly tonight. If I were Ming
Campbell, I'd be tossing and turning anxiously. If I were Alec Salmond, I'd be
keeping wassail and reeling the swagg'ring upspring while the kettledrum and
trumpet bray out the triumph of my pledge. Tony Blair? Who cares anymore.

Talking of sleeping, I've been up for the better part of 24 hour. Apologies for
any consequent typological errors, and good night. The rest is silence.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday

Politics: How the parties might fare: A psephologist's guide

BYLINE: Lewis Baston

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 642 words


Labour

If they have a good night

Labour holds on as the largest party in the Scottish parliament, while in Wales
it falls only two or three seats short of a majority. In England, the party
regains Luton and Leicester from no overall control, and suffers modest net
losses (200 seats or so) to the Conservatives. In the Scottish local elections
Labour holds South Lanarkshire and emerges as largest single party in Edinburgh.

. . . and if they don't

Humiliated as SNP takes lead in Scottish parliament and forms coalition with Lib
Dems, while in Wales it has fewer than 25 seats and looks like being ejected
from office by Plaid Cymru-led coalition. Loses Nottingham and Barnsley, and
ends up 600 seats down in English council elections and in third place in share
of national vote.

Conservative

If they have a good night

Gain several constituencies in Scotland including Stirling and Eastwood and pick
up secondary target seats such as Vale of Clwyd and Delyn in Wales. They become
the third party in Scotland and the second in Wales. In England the
Conservatives make considerable net gains (650 or more), winning control of
Blackpool and Bury. Their national share of the vote is estimated at 43% or
more.

. . . and if they don't

Fail to make any net gains in Wales and slip back a seat or two in the Scottish
parliament, and make little progress against Labour since last year in the
northern metropolitan areas. They lose their majority in Solihull and Thurrock
and end up fewer than 200 seats up on the night in England. National share of
the vote is estimated at under 40%.

Liberal Democrat

If they have a good night

End up gaining two or three seats in Scottish parliament and maintain their
strength in Wales. In England, they repel Tory assault on southern district
councils, even making occasional gain in places like Chelmsford, while putting
pressure on Labour in north. Their share of the national vote is 27% or higher
and they make net gain of seats.

. . . and if they don't

Slip back badly in the constituency section of the Scottish parliament election.
In Wales, Montgomeryshire and Brecon & Radnor are cheeky gains for the Tories at
their expense. Voters return to Cameron's Conservatives with the loss of
councils such as Lewes and South Norfolk. Lib Dems end up more than 200 seats
down on the night.

Nationalist parties

If they have a good night

SNP takes a clear lead in seats in the Scottish parliament and they, but not
Labour, have enough seats for a majority coalition with the Lib Dems. In the
council elections they win control of West Lothian and Perth and Kinross. Plaid
Cymru gains Llanelli and Aberconwy and achieves a clear second place in the
assembly elections.

. . . and if they don't

The SNP falls short of Labour in Scottish parliament seats. In the council
elections the party does not advance more than 115 seats (gains attributable to
the change in electoral system) and fails to pick up Clackmannanshire and
Renfrewshire. Plaid Cymru falls behind the Tories and faces the choice between
opposition or junior partnership in a coalition with Labour.

Other parties

If they have a good night

Greens maintain existing Scottish parliament seats and enter a governing
coalition, pick up a seat on the Welsh assembly and become second largest party
in Brighton & Hove and Norwich councils. BNP becomes second largest party in
Sandwell and leads in votes in at least one parliamentary constituency. Ukip
returns a group of more than three councillors to any authority.

. . . and if they don't

Greens see Scottish parliament representation cut back to one or two seats, lose
seats in Brighton & Hove and Norwich, and fail to gain representation on
Edinburgh city council. The BNP vote falls in areas where they have previously
polled well. No SSP or Solidarity MSPs are elected.

Lewis Baston is author of Politico's Guide to the General Election

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday

Feature - Heading for coalition;
Wales Diary Dyddiadur Cymru. Roy Jones sets the scene for the Welsh Assembly
elections

BYLINE: Roy Jones

LENGTH: 960 words


Unfortunately, voting in the Welsh Assembly elections today takes place after
the deadline for this column. But three weeks is a long time to wait in
politics, so, at the risk of peddling conjecture dressed up as informed comment,
here goes.

In Ireland, elections are "contested" with fly posting so that everybody knows
what is going on.

It's banned in England and also in Wales, where folorn election posters ador the
odd house or a tree in a Tory farmer's field.

The fight for the hearts and minds of Wales voters has rested on the Herculean
efforts of the BBC, whose correspondents have left their comfy studios in droves
and taken off to the far corners of our land - from Llangefni to Machynlleth,
from Aberdare to Newport - to encourage debate and accost innocent citizens
going about their daily business of trying to ignore democracy.

I got on the radio myself in Colwyn Bay to damn the erection of giant wind
turbines on land of oustanding beauty and to promote clean coal. I tried to
convince the Stoke-on-Trent man whom I had been pitted against that properly
cleansed coal, not windmills, was a better way to tackle global warming. I trust
that I didn't set the cause back.

Newspapers have been a different kettle of fish altogether, with the daily
national newspapers - 83 per cent of which are published in England - ignoring
their Welsh readers, preferring to focus on their parish pump or the French
elections.

The Welsh press did better within the confines of their owners' lack of
ambition, with local papers enlightening their readers with pictures and
comment, while pursuing the "What did the Romans ever do for us?" whinge.

The two major Welsh papers stuck to their own patches. Readers of the Daily Post
in the north got a poor overview of the situation, while the southern Western
Mail's chief objective seemed to be to strike fear into the hearts of Rhodri
Morgan (right) and the Labour Party in Wales, predicting a massacre without any
evidence.

I don't know which party will win power after today's vote, but the probable
outcome is a coalition.

There is still likely to be a Labour administration, with help from other
parties, but it's hard to say what the exact make-up will be. This will be
important, but not crucial. The labour and trade union movement in Wales still
wields influence in political circles and has a chance of putting its stamp on
policies.

To do this, though, the movement has to be pushier than it has been to date -
particularly in the area of public services and jobs. The Wales TUC on May 23
would be a good place to start.

It is important that the movement puts positive policies forward, because
opportunities will be greater, with increased powers for the assembly, including
the power to bring in primary legislation, and less reliance on Westminster.

The Welsh Assembly's form of proportional representation, with lists of four in
five regional constituencies, has handed opportunities for the smaller parties.
They have no great chance of electoral success, but have been given publicity
via free mail shots and a television and radio broadcast, which may well help
their future development.

Unfortunately, this has applied to the British National Party, whose overt
racism surfaces despite the BBC Wales banning some of its worst intended
broadcast material. It can only be dealt with by being banned from having any
platform at all.

Among the other smaller parties were the Greens, who were green, and the UK
Independence Party, whose motto of "Neither Brussels or Cardiff but rule from
London" seems perverse.

A Socialist Labour Party radio broadcast featuring John Cox was a treat. While
his contribution was hampered by his failure to bring a copy of his party's
manifesto - or to have read it - that didn't stop him spelling out the role of
the ruling class and its exploitation of the working class, enlightening both
interviewer and the audience.

The Communist Party's broadcasts were effective and well done. They were much
better than its last effort in 1970, when general secretary Johnny Gollan was
filmed in what appeared to be a blackened bunker to relay in sombre terms the
communists' plans. It wasn't poor John's fault, but it must have set us back as
much as the fall of the Berlin Wall.

Thankfully, this time, current general secretary Rob Griffiths's appearance was
filmed professionally, alongside colourful imagery and smart messages.

The Communist Party in Wales website was also a job well done and a credit to
the editors, who created a modern face for age-old socialist values without
having to be "new." All of this, says Griffiths, has led to the party being
inundated with membership applications.

One consistent media obsession has been to use the prospect of coalition rule as
a stick to beat Labour with.

Labour's success in holding on to power for most of the eight years of the
assembly's existence is pretty remarkable and a clue to the Welsh electorate's
steadfastness.

But the proportional representation element of the election process was bound to
throw up a coalition at some stage.

Given old and bitter enmities between Labour and Plaid, the most likely outcome
of today's election is an alliance between Labour and the Lib Dems.

While Plaid's latest tip toe into the world of realpolitik was to rescue
Labour's assembly budget when the other two parties were trying to bring down
the assembly government may herald rapprochement, it's more likely later rather
than sooner.

My guess is that Labour will be the biggest party when the elections are
completed on Friday. I predict that Labour will gain at least 25 members, Plaid
will win 14, the Conservatives 13, the Lib Dems will be on seven and there will
be just one other, with ex-Labour independent John Marek losing in Wrexham.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday

Disfranchised by postal votes arriving late

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 102 words


SIR - Canvassing for the forthcoming local elections as an independent
candidate, I have noticed two factors.

First, there are very few political posters on display this time round. Second,
everyone seems to be using white paper for their election literature.

Flyers up until now have been coloured: red for Labour, green for Greens, blue
for the Tories, yellow for the dear old Liberals, black, I suppose, for the BNP
and goodness knows what for Ukip. But white has always been for the true
Independent candidate.

Come on, nail your colours to the mast and let's have a fair fight.

Peter Burgess

Horsham, West Sussex

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 2, 2007 Wednesday

Christian parties go to war in dirty tricks row;
At last, our panel reveals which parties will be getting their votes tomorrow

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 697 words


THE two Christian parties contesting the Holyrood election are embroiled in an
unholy wrangle over claims of dirty tricks to win votes.

The Scottish Christian Party (SCP) sent a letter to more than a million voters
in the Glasgow area suggesting it is the only ' Bible- based' party standing.

But the claim has infuriated the Christian People's Alliance (CPA), which
yesterday complained to police that electoral law has been broken.

The letter was sent last week by SCP leader Rev George Hargreaves, who wrote the
1980s disco classic 'So Macho' for singer Sinitta.

CPA leader Teresa Smith said the party had been bombarded with calls from people
falsely given the impression it had withdrawn from the contest.

She said: 'We don't want to be seen to be attacking another Christian party, but
it's infuriating. He is saying his is the only Christian party.' Mr Hargreaves,
a former member of the CPA, said in his letter he was 'pleased to announce the
Christian Democrat Party has decided not to fight the election, clearing the way
for the Scottish Christian Party Scotland's only Christian Bible-based party to
offer you a single Christian option'.

The CPA's election literature also describes itself as 'a Christian Democrat
Party'.

Mr Hargreaves denied any wrongdoing, saying the Christian Democrat Party, based
in England, had agreed to support the SCP instead of standing.

He added: 'I think it's misleading for the CPA to use the word "Christian" when
they are running a Muslim candidate at the top of their Glasgow list.'

DAVID MALCOLM, 69, is a retired sales manager from Kirriemuir, Angus, and
traditionally votes Tory.

'Labour have ruined the country and I can't vote SNP as I don't agree with
independence. The Tory candidates are abysmal, but it's hard to argue with their
manifesto.' First vote Tory Second vote UKIP Council vote Tory

SINEADIN RAMAGE, 28, a delicatessen manager, lives in Glasgow with her husband
and daughter.

'I have voted LibDem before and it looks like I will be doing so again. I
appreciate their focus on education. Things like that are a lot more important
to me since I had a wee baby.' First vote LibDem Second vote Undecided Council
vote Undecided

RORY COWAN, 34, a lawyer, lives in Clackmannanshire with his wife and
traditionally votes Tory.

'It goes against the grain, but I am going to vote Labour. It is not an
endorsement of what they have been doing, it is purely a tactical anti-SNP
vote.' First vote Labour Second vote Labour Council vote Tory

TASNIM HUSSAIN, 49, a married teacher from Newton Mearns, East Renfrewshire,
voted SNP last time though she is traditionally Labour.

'I am still undecided. The one thing I am sure of is I don't want independence,
so I won't be voting SNP. I will most likely vote for the LibDems.' First vote
Undecided Second vote Undecided Council vote Tory

KORNELIA SZYMLA, 25, lives in Inverness and is a first-time voter after arriving
from Poland.

'I am not voting to keep anyone else out. I am voting honestly. I will vote for
the LibDems. I feel their policies are realistic and will benefit me, my
neighbours and my friends.' First vote LibDem Second vote LibDem Council vote
LibDem

VIKKI ROBSON, 22, a logistics coordinator, is a first-time voter who lives in
Aberdeen with her fiance and baby daughter.

'I'll vote for the SNP. I feel they are going to be able to offer us the best
future. I like their policies on taxation and believe they will benefit the
people of Scotland.' First vote SNP Second vote SNP Council vote Undecided

COLIN DAVIDSON, 42, is a taxi driver who lives in Edinburgh with his wife and
two children.

'I have always been a LibDem voter and I'm sticking with them. They are offering
what I want.

Their policies on transport and plan to introduce a local income tax appeal to
me.' First vote LibDem Second vote Undecided Council vote Tory

STEPHEN SINNETT, 75, a retired butcher, lives in Coatbridge, Lanarkshire.

'People are saying they are not voting Labour because of Tony Blair and the war.
I don't think that's right. I get free travel on the buses, I get my winter fuel
allowance, I get pretty well looked after. I'm sticking with Labour.' First vote
Labour Second vote Labour Council vote Labour END

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 46 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              May 1, 2007 Tuesday

Bail extended for PWS four as probe continues

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 103 words


FOUR past and present employees of Lloyds of London reinsurance broker PWS have
had their bail extended to early July as City of London police and the Serious
Fraud Office continue to investigate claims against them.

The four men, aged 46, 39, 60, and 45, are under suspicion of operating an
Pounds 800,000 slush fund to pay backhanders to employees of the Costa Rican
insurance monopoly, National Insurance Institute. It is thought the fund was
created as far back as 1997.

PWS is chaired and was founded by former Tory peer Lord Malcolm Pearson of
Rannoch, who is now one of the leading lights in the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
