
                               1 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                 First Edition

'It would be a comical farce if it were not so serious';
HAVE YOUR SAY on the question of who is to blame for the illegal donations
scandal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 371 words


Laundering donations by Labour would be a comical Whitehall farce if it weren't
so serious, but hearing the many lame excuses coming from ministers reminds me
of a kindergarten class if the cookie jar went missing but no one knows
anything. Only Hilary Benn looks honest having refused proxy donations but for
other senior figures to duck and dive saying they thought no offences had been
made, that doesn't cut it. Even without clear rules, kids at kindergarten know
full well when they are doing something wrong.

Mike

It's rather like watching some large edifice collapsing in slow-motion.
Initially, everyone claimed to have never heard of David Abrahams. This position
is becoming more untenable by the hour. I watched Jack Straw deny ever having
heard of the man and promptly followed up by calling him "Dave". One also notes
that Abrahams had a front-row seat at Blair's Sedgefield leaving bash. It's
going to get much worse before it gets better.

Mishari Al-Adwani

Since: 1 - Peter Watt has entered a plea of Not Guilty because he was incapable
of understanding clear guidance from the Electoral Commission; and 2 - Jon
Mendelsohn has entered a plea of Not Guilty because a) Peter Watt told him it
was all right, and b) he was going to do something about it soon; they are
evidently expecting a prosecution. Do they and the Labour leadership expect to
get off with a slapped wrist? With the most damaging evidence of the
cash-for-honours scandal still undisclosed? An honest party - a question which
does not seem to arise here - or a competent one would have seen that their only
hope was to come clean in full immediately.

Diversity

I am not in the least surprised by all this. The other parties shouldn't crow
too soon, who's to say they are whiter than white? I don't expect anyone in
power, whether they be Conservative, Lib Dem, Ukip or BNP, will ever be able to
put their hands on their hearts and say they wouldn't have done the same.

Ann Beirne

I think Cameron was right to call into question Brown's integrity. As leader, as
soon as he found out that the law had been broken, he should have informed the
police. He can now be accused of playing for time to allow a cover up. Labour
will not recover from this.

Johnny

Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 30, 2007, Friday

Brown faces full police inquiry after admitting links to donor

BYLINE: Philip Webster and Francis Elliott

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 941 words


* Election team had told Harman about proxy

* Abrahams 'buttered up' at fundraising dinner

Gordon Brown was facing a full police investigation last night into Labour's
donations scandal as his campaign team admitted links with David Abrahams.

The Prime Minister was dragged more deeply into the affair after it emerged that
his election staff had told Harriet Harman about a proxy for Mr Abrahams who
might be willing to offer her cash help.

It was revealed that Mr Abrahams himself contacted Mr Brown's team giving them
the name of Janet Kidd who, it has since emerged, was acting on his behalf, as a
potential donor to his campaign to be Labour leader.

Mr Brown, who appears likely to be the second Prime Minister after Tony Blair to
be questioned by the police, was said to be ready to co-operate fully.

Although the Brown campaign eventually tore up Mrs Kidd's cheque for £ 5,000
because she was not known to them, they suggested her name to Ms Harman when she
was looking for help to pay off her campaign debts after being elected as deputy
leader.

She was given £ 5,000 by Mrs Kidd, a secretary for Mr Abrahams, but has
repeatedly insisted that she did not know that the money was really from Mr
Abrahams. Ms Harman's team said last night that they had no reason to believe
that the money came from anyone other than Mrs Kidd.

The latest extraordinary twist emerged after Chris Leslie, the former minister
who directed Mr Brown's campaign, went through his notes in preparation for the
Labour internal inquiry being conducted by Lord Whitty, the former general
secretary.

He found a reference to a telephone call from Mr Abrahams in which he had said
that Mrs Kidd wanted to donate, but had not said that she was acting on his
behalf. Mr Leslie said: "In late May I received a phone call from a man calling
himself David Abrahams referring to a woman named Janet Kidd who said she wanted
to be a donor to the campaign. I did not know who Mr Abrahams or Mrs Kidd were."

The latest revelations are another huge embarrassment to the Prime Minister.
They are bound to provoke surprise that Mr Abrahams did not mention that he was
the real donor when he talked to Mr Leslie.

He said: "At no point either then or afterwards was I aware that Mr Abrahams was
a donor to the Labour Party or that he was using Mrs Kidd or others as proxies
to make donations to the party." Mr Leslie added: "Subsequently, when the
leadership election was over, I was approached by members of Harriet Harman's
campaign team asking if I knew of any individuals who might donate to her deputy
leadership campaign. I passed them the details of Mrs Kidd as someone whose
offer of a donation we had not taken up.

"The Prime Minister and Jack Straw (Mr Brown's campaign manager) were at no
stage involved in, or aware of, the contact from Mr Abrahams or the offered
donation from Mrs Kidd, as it was not my practice to discuss with them offers of
donations which we did not intend to take up." Baroness Gale of Blaenrhondda,
treasurer of Ms Harman's campaign, said: "As part of our fundraising effort, the
campaign team approached Chris Leslie at the end of June and asked if he could
put us in contact with anyone who might be approached to donate to our campaign.

"Contact was made with Janet Kidd, a donor to the Labour Party of long standing,
who then sent us a donation for £ 5,000. We had no reason to believe that this
donation was coming from anyone other than Janet Kidd.

"Harriet Harman first heard about this on Friday and the campaign has arranged
to return the donation to Janet Kidd." The Times also learnt that Mr Brown was
the guest of honour at a dinner at which Mr Abrahams alleges he was "buttered
up" by Jon Mendelsohn, his fundraiser.

Mr Brown, then Chancellor, spoke at the annual dinner of the Board of Deputies
of British Jews held in April this year. Also at the event were Mr Abrahams and
Mr Mendelsohn, who has admitted that he knew that the controversial property
developer was using proxies to donate significant sums to Labour.

In his statement explaining why he did not speak out on learning of the
arrangement, Mr Mendelsohn has said that he had a "history of past
disagreements" with Mr Abrahams and was determined to end his secret funding.
However, the two men sat side-by-side at the fundraising dinner in the Portland
Hotel, London, this spring. A BBC journalist claims that the businessman has
said that Mr Mendelsohn, then a lobbyist, "tried to butter me up to give money
for the party".

A Labour spokesman said that Mr Mendelsohn recalled sitting next to Mr Abrahams
at the event but categorically denied that he had solicited cash.

A senior figure at the Board of Deputies of British Jews said that Mr Abrahams
had been invited because he was a well-known supporter of charitable causes and
that it was a "bizarre coincidence" that the two men had been seated next to one
another.

The Times has also learnt that officials from the Electoral Commission have
privately raised doubts about Mr Brown's decision to return Mr Abrahams's £
600,000 in unlawful donations. Commission staff were examining whether it was
appropriate for an unlawful gift to be returned to the donor, who could give it
back to Labour in his own name.

The regulator has powers to apply to a court for an illegal donation to be
surrendered to the Consolidated Fund. It tried to do so earlier this year over
donations to the UK Independence Party totalling £ 367,697 from a supporter,
Alan Bown, who was not on the electoral register at the time. The move led to
embarrassment when a judge reduced the amount forfeited to just £ 14,500 on
appeal.

Helen Rumbelow, page 21

Letters, page 22

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday

Frosty reception for Mote;
LETTERS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 175 words


I SHARE the outrage of those annoyed that convicted benefit fraudster Ashley
Mote, elected as a UKIP member of the European Parliament three years ago, gets
to keep his seat in the Parliament along with his full salary and allowances
(Letters). But it's a mistake to blame the European Parliament, which is
powerless to intervene.

The shameful responsibility for this absurd situation rests squarely with the
British government and the Westminster Parliament. The question of whether he
remains an MEP is a matter of UK law alone.

British law provides that an MP or MEP is automatically disqualified only if
they are sent to prison for more than a year and Mote got nine months.

MEPs are deeply unhappy at our inability to chuck out Mr Mote, both because his
continued enjoyment of the privilege of office is a disgrace and because we get
the flak, despite our inability to act. I can assure you that if and when Mr
Mote turns up in Brussels, he can expect a very frosty reception.

SARAH LUDFORD, Liberal Democrat MEP for London, London N1.

Naturally maternal

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 27, 2007, Tuesday

Lib Dem critic of 'chameleon' Cameron switches his colours

BYLINE: David Charter and David Byers

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 653 words


* Immigration said to be catalyst for defection

* Muslim MEP accused of trying to save his seat

A Liberal Democrat MEP who attacked David Cameron only weeks ago for behaving
like a chameleon announced yesterday that he had defected to join the
Conservatives.

Sajjad Karim, 37, said that he had decided to change his own political colours
because of the Conservative leader's "incredibly impressive" views on
immigration in a recent speech.

His former colleagues, however, suspected that it had more to do with finishing
in second place last week on the Lib Dem list for the next European elections,
which would have made it a struggle to hold on to his seat.

Mr Karim, a lawyer, became Britain's first Muslim MEP when he was elected to
represent North West England in 2004. But under changes brought about by EU
enlargement, the area will lose an MEP in 2009 and the second Lib Dem seat was
perceived as vulnerable.

Mr Karim was photographed being welcomed by Mr Cameron yesterday but his gushing
praise for his new party leader came in stark contrast to views expressed on his
blog.

In the angriest of his postings on alleged Tory homophobia on June 9, Mr Karim
wrote: "With their failure to support a resolution condemning discriminatory
remarks by political and religious leaders targeting homosexuals, the Tories
have shown their true colours. Tory apathy in the face of rising homophobia
should come as no surprise as, today, the Conservative camp is rife with
contradiction.

"Whilst Cameron attempts to paint a glossy image of a gay-friendly party in the
UK, he is also desperately trying to get into bed, at European level, with
Poland's openly homophobic 'Law and Justice' party. I just hope the British
public see Chameleon Cameron for who he really is!!!"

In October last year Mr Karim wrote on environmental issues: "As David Cameron
will soon learn to his detriment -substance matters more than appearance!"

A further blog attacked the Conservatives for unequal representation of women.

In a piece to mark International Women's Day on March 8, Mr Karim claimed that:
"The likes of UKIP (UK Independence Party) and the Tories" were "dragging the
British record down" on female representation in Brussels, compared with the Lib
Dems.

The Conservatives have only one female MEP out of 27 and Mr Karim's defection is
likely to make it harder for an experienced former Tory MEP, Jackie Foster, to
get back into the European Parliament.

Mr Karim's move came a fortnight before a deadline to be selected for the next
elections as a priority incumbent, meaning that he will probably leap ahead of
Ms Foster in the North West ranking and she may therefore miss out on a seat.

Mr Karim did not return calls from The Times yesterday. However, a spokeswoman
claimed that some postings had been placed on his blog by an employee without Mr
Karim's knowledge, and that the employee had subsequently been disciplined.

"This is something that an employee has put up without his knowledge, and was
actually disciplined for it," she said, although she was unable to explain why
the postings were still in place almost six months later.

Mr Karim's row with the Lib Dems deepened yesterday, with the party claiming
that he had quit only because he had missed out on the top party nomination for
the North West. If he had reached the top spot, it would have virtually
guaranteed his seat. "We are sorry that his disappointment in the result has led
him to switch parties," a spokesman said.

As the falling out with his old party intensified, Mr Karim attacked his former
party, describing the Liberal Democrats as directionless.

In an interview with BBC Radio 4, he said: "I have served within loyally for
some 18 years, and now I am at a stage where clearly I feel that they have lost
their way. They just do not seem to be serious about their politics."

Mr Karim's switch has increased Conservative ranks to 28 MEPs and reduced the
Lib Dems to 11.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 26, 2007 Monday
                                 First Edition

Cameron must do more to get his message across, even as the Government flounders

BYLINE: bruce anderson

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1145 words


Gordon Brown would be foolish to believe that he is over the worst. On both the
tax discs and Northern Rock, there are more embarrassments to come and no hope
of closure this side of Christmas. The discs may now be in the hands of Eastern
European mafiosi, who are skilled in identity theft. So those who have not yet
changed their bank details ought to hurry.

As for Northern Rock, the Government is desperate to find a quick solution, and
one which enables Alistair Darling to claim that the Treasury's ?24bn - and
rising - is safe. In that rush to escape further humiliation, Mr Darling seems
to have lost interest in the fate of the shareholders. But this lot of
shareholders will not go as quietly as the Railtrack ones did.

They have formidable advocates. One organisation is headed by Lord Stevens of
Kirkwhelpington, who used to be Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police in the
days when that job was held by a proper policeman, not a third-rate politician.
John Stevens is reinforced by Jon Wood and RAB Capital, both major shareholders.
Mr Wood, one of the most interesting City figures of recent years, is said to
take elocution lessons so that he continues to sound as if he were selling
apples and pears in Hoxton market. Over the years, he has made a lot of money
and a number of enemies. But no-one would dispute that he knows the difference
between a bag of rotten fruit and a going concern. In his view, Northern Rock
could still be a going concern, which would earn enough money to serve its debt
and offer shareholders the hope of a gradual recovery.

The Government seems to prefer the counsel of John "Studs'' Studzinski of
Blackstone, another formidable figure. No one doubts his ability. But there is a
fear that if the solution is left to merchant bankers with no stake in the Rock,
the outcome could be a fee frenzywhile the assets are sold at distressed prices,
the shareholders are left with wallpaper - and the Government with an enormous
loss. Even if Alistair Darling were not in a panic, would anyone trust him to
find the right answer?

As well as competence, the Government has run out of luck. Ministers blunder
about as if they were playing blind-man's-bluff in a garden full of rakes. There
is a continuous succession of yelps as yet another one stands on the prongs and
the handle biffs him on the nose.

All this leads to an obvious question. Why are the Tories not doing better?
Their lead is widening and their ratings are creeping into the 40s, but the lead
ought to be soaring: the ratings bounding. This is not happening, for one simple
reason. Gordon Brown had identified a source of Tory vulnerability.

Although it seems laughable now, Mr Brown set out to portray himself as
competent and experienced. He also projected himself as a strong man in a
dangerous world. The electorate were invited to contrast all that with David
Cameron's Etonian callowness. That is not the contrast which they see every
Wednesday at PM's Questions, but even if Mr Brown now spends his time tripping
over his own feet when he is not stamping on his ministers' toes, Mr Cameron has
a problem.

He is good in the Commons and at making the news with individual initiatives.
Yet there is still a hole in the centre. The voters do not know enough about his
beliefs and his philosophy of government. It will not be enough for Mr Cameron
to assert that his administration will be much more competent than Gordon
Brown's. Unless he gives disillusioned voters grounds to believe in him, they
might just wish a plague on both your parties.

It should not be hard for David Cameron to deal with this, for he has answers.
Whereas Gordon Brown has given control-freakery a bad name, David Cameron
believes that government must do less and do it better. He wants to hand power
back to parents and teachers, patients and doctors: to local authorities and
local police forces. In Mr Cameron's view, there is a clear lesson from the
experience of the past 10 years. If the Government tries to do everything, it
succeeds in nothing.

This all needs to be expounded, with an acknowledgement that it will not be as
easy as it sounds. Mr Cameron is advocating a cultural change in the governing
of Britain. Up to now, and even before Labour carried the process to an absurd
excess, the Civil Service always insisted that the expenditure of public money
requires regulation and control. The Civil Service has also believed in
uniformity of provision. From Hadrian's Wall to the Helford Estuary, everyone
should enjoy the same entitlements.

Under Mr Cameron's plans, that could not continue. Localisation must mean
diversity. It must also involve the possibility of failure. Localisation cannot
work unless those who are given responsibility are entitled to try new
approaches and take risks. Not all those risks will come off. It ought to be
easy for the Tories to argue that the occasional failure at local level is
vastly preferable to the huge and systemic waste and failure which occurs
throughout central government. But that case has to be made.

Two years ago, the Tories' intellectual boldness was inhibited by the fear that
whenever they proposed reforms, they would be accused of planning cuts.
"Eliminate waste'', Labour spokesmen would declaim scornfully: "To the Tories,
all the public services that the people rely on are just so much waste.'' Thanks
to David Cameron, that electoral liability has been largely eliminated. As he
would be telling the truth, he should have no difficulty in persuading voters of
his commitment to high-quality public services. This should encourage them to
trust his proposals for change.

Early on in Mr Cameron's leadership, he had a meeting with M. Sarkozy, in which
the future French President told him how much he admired the British economic
reforms of the 1980s. In response, David Cameron expressed his ambition. He
hoped that in the 2030s, a European leader would come to London to tell a Tory
leader how much he admired the public service reforms of the 2010s.

The Tories have time to develop their argument and they should not be afraid of
serious debate. There is a widespread belief that, in recent years, politics has
been dumbed down. At the moment, David Cameron's speeches command attention. He
should also be prepared to make his audiences do some thinking.

Since the war, every government that lost an election had already lost power
while it was still in office. Its defeat at the ballot box merely ratified what
had already occurred. It now looks as if the same could be happening to Gordon
Brown, who faces another threat. Politicians can survive hatred. They cannot
survive contempt. Once voters have stopped listening and started laughing, a
Government is dead. Last week, the Brown government began to die. But there are
Liberals, Ukip, abstentions. David Cameron cannot rely on a moribund opponent to
bring him to power.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 25, 2007

Review: COVER STORY: Talking in circles: So how much do you really know about
the European Union? Where does it sit? Can you name a single British MEP?
Thought not. Well, next month the revised constitution of Europe (the Lisbon
Treaty) will be ratified. But nearly 35 years after Britain joined the EU, many
of us know virtually nothing about Europe's parliament. Our intrepid reporter
went in search of some answers (like, how many member states are there?)

BYLINE: TIM ADAMS

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 4153 words


Twenty minutes into my first morning in Strasbourg I realised I'd made a
horrible mistake. I had come on a mission; I had a notion that by observing the
European parliament in action, I might have a clearer idea of how 'Europe'
worked. And, perhaps fancifully, that I might even discover, in the absence of
Gordon Brown's promised referendum, whether I should give a hoot about the
Lisbon Treaty - which everyone but the British government sees as Europe's new
constitution - that is to be signed in our names in a month's time.

Prior to this visit, my knowledge of the workings of the European Union was
precisely comparable to that of the overwhelming majority of its 495 million
electorate: I knew just about nothing (not even, if I'm honest, that MEPs met in
full session not in Brussels but in Strasbourg, for three days a month). My
mission was to sit through one of these three-day sessions; what could be
easier?

Reality dawned slowly. The circular Louise Weiss building, faced entirely in
glass, was modelled on the Colosseum, but the first morning's debate did not
promise too much in the way of life-and-death drama. It took as its theme
'Putting the Citizen First - Europe as a World Partner'. I arrived early to
avoid disappointment. My misgivings began when I discovered that I was, in fact,
the only journalist in the capacious curving press gallery. I had two ushers to
myself. I fiddled keenly with my headphones to find the English translator's
channel.

One of the problems with the European parliament is that it is not quite a
parliament at all. Its members have no powers to introduce legislation; that is
the function of the European Commission - the executive of 27 unelected
grandees, one nominated by each European government (ours, a nice parting gift
from Blair to Brown, is Peter Mandelson). MEPs only have limited powers to amend
or block legislation in consultation with the Council of Ministers, drawn from
the national governments of each member state. Beyond controlling budgets the
the parliament - the only directly elected European body - concerns itself
largely with talking and hoping that the commissioners, and their 16,000 civil
servants, are listening.

There are, it quickly becomes clear, in my lonely press box, several structural
reasons why the latter is problematic. MEPs' speeches are rationed according to
the relative size of each of the parliament's 10 party groupings. Speakers are
generally granted a precise minute, or a minute and a half to hold the floor.
This timing is projected, in Countdown -conundrum fashion, on a pair of big
screens at the front of the chamber, and policed by a chairperson with an
absence of humour and a gavel. There are various strategies for expanding your
minute: some MEPs try to talk very fast and cram all their thoughts in one deep
Slovakian breath; others, rebels, ignore the clock and talk for a maverick 67
seconds. Most, though - unloved politicians who have scraped through national
ballots with 20 per cent turnouts - carefully fill the time with platitudes in
the understanding that no one is paying attention (except, on this occasion,
unfortunately, me). Their role is to be mock politicians in a mock debate,
providing the European executive with a semblance of direct representation. The
result, through headphones, is a repetitive, intangible stream of
euro-consciousness; it is only when a speaker addresses the chamber in English,
20 minutes in, that I understand nothing is being lost in translation, and my
heart properly sinks.

The debate is concerned with the consequences of globalisation, which, delegate
after delegate agrees, is a big issue to which Europe must face up. Many
believed that this facing up was urgent. Some thought it was vital. Others
argued it was critical. At one point Annemie Neyts-Uyttebroeck ventured the
opinion that Europe perhaps needed to 'help Africa develop economically',
(polite applause), but regrettably did not have time to venture how this might
be done; Ryszard Czarnecki similarly wondered if peace could not be promoted in
South East Asia, (much nodding), while Sophie In 't Veld called for 'better
legislation for women' (who could argue?). The big screens displayed a rolling
list of the next three speakers, like a book of the dead, and in this way
perhaps the longest two hours and 20 minutes of my life passed in measured
increments. There were several rhetorical devices that the format mitigated
against: personal anecdotes, specific examples, jokes, argument, passion, anger,
thought. In their absence I couldn't help feeling the debate lacked a spark.
Eventually, the relevant commissioner, Margot Wallstrom, rose to release those
present from their shared torment. 'We have this morning created a clear focus
for the Lisbon Agenda,' she suggested. No one laughed.

As Wallstrom talked, the majority of MEPs were coming into the chamber for
compulsory voting and their tide of chat inundated her summing up. Wallstrom was
caught between the rock of having to shout (very un-European) and the hard place
of having nothing at all to say. When she finally sat down the speaker thanked
her for her 'courage' in the face of overwhelming indifference. Thus ended the
morning's meditation on Europe's place in the world.

The morning's debate raised several questions. Not least of them was the
insistent one: is it worth it? Europe's 785 MEPs, along with 4,000 staff, travel
down here from Brussels every month to join such debates because of a historical
compromise: when the European Community was established, France wanted a share
of the massive investment in bureaucracy that the project would entail.
Strasbourg, with its history of French and German occupation, was presented as a
site symbolic of the new co-operation. The symbolism has not come cheaply. Each
time the parliament decamps, every month, it transports nearly 4,000 trunks
filled with paperwork, in 15 lorries. Each Strasbourg parliament is estimated to
cost the taxpayer euros 12 million. The Greens have estimated the building's
carbon footprint at 20,000 tonnes a year (excluding hot air).

At first glance it is hard to see the benefits of this travelling circus, but
some would suggest I was not looking hard enough. During the globalisation
debate I had been flipping through a couple of recent books by dedicated
'Europtimists'. The first, Mark Leonard's Why Europe Will Run the 21st Century
is something of a bible for New Labour's Europhiles; the other, Jeremy Rifkin's
European Dream , had, in the context of the morning's debate, an hallucinogenic
quality; it saw Brussels (and Strasbourg) as the 'third stage of human
consciousness. . . Europeans have laid out a visionary road map to a new
promised land, one dedicated to reaffirming the life instinct and Earth's
indivisibility.' Up in the gallery, I couldn't help feeling I was missing
something. Both books, by think-tank commanders, seemed to be besotted with
Europe because it resembled a think tank. Mark Leonard wrote admiringly of Jean
Monnet, who had set the European project in motion - and created the original
trunks of paperwork - suggesting he 'would produce 30 drafts of any memo,
speech, or proposal. The purpose of this constant iteration [was] identical with
the purpose of the EU's never-ending process of policy formation, negotiation
and review: to remove any and all conflicts or obstacles around an issue.' (The
ongoing principle: this treaty has failed; expect the next almost identical one
to arrive at any moment).

The mistake the British have always made about Europe, Leonard suggests, is to
expect it to display oppositional politics. It is, he argues, less a
representative government than 'a decentralised network that is owned by member
states'. It is like Visa, the credit card company, everywhere and nowhere. In
this argument, Europe's famously opaque constitution, its behind-closed-doors
diplomacy, 'continuous reform', the neutered parliament in front of me, were
indecipherable for a purpose; their unintelligibility was the means by which
Europe ratcheted the continent and its neighbours toward stated goals: free
markets, free movement of peoples, democracy. Europe worked so well because it
got on with its legislative business without much interest from its people.

It was hard to see where democracy fitted into this, so I went in search of
someone who had made the pursuit of democracy his life. Bronislaw Geremek was
lately voted European of the Year. A distinguished historian of the continent's
past, he created a good deal of its present by helping to establish the
Solidarity movement in Poland that eventually triggered the 1989 revolutions.
That process culminated for Geremek in Poland's acceptance into the EU in 2004,
and in his election as an MEP. I was interested to know how he felt, having
devoted his life to the cause of popular representation, to be in a political
institution that seemed so systematically elusive to its citizens. First I had
to find him. The Louise Weiss building - named for a French feminist - is full
of symbolism; wandering its floors you begin to see it as a microcosm of the
project it contains. It is apparently transparent but almost impossible to
navigate; there are bridges between different levels, but you cannot quite work
out where they lead; it is complicated to gain entry and, once inside, almost
impossible to leave. Starting to despair, I eventually located Geremek's office
in the tortuously linked Winston Churchill building, across a river.Geremek is
75 but has lost none of his enthusiasm for the possibilities of freedom. He
thinks of Europe in terms of a personal journey. 'What we have learnt,' he says,
'in Poland and in Europe is that it is not so hard to move to a free market
economy, but to create a true democratic feeling in the soul of people is very
much harder.'

For ordinary Poles, as to some degree for all member states, Europe first meant
a set of standards to aspire to - the 90,000 pages of European law offered a
defence against domestic corruption - and after that it represented the
possibility of economic growth. Some of this growth has come from subsidy -
Poland is in receipt of euros 6 billion a year - and some from the free movement
of labour. Geremek suggests that perhaps euros 5bn is now sent home by the
'million Poles who have gone to the UK'. Despite these tangible gains, though,
the turnout in Poland's European elections, and the general ignorance of
European institutions, is as low as in the more established nations.
'Ironically, one of the first freedoms that people from my county wanted to
exercise was the freedom not to vote, which under communism had been mandatory,'
Geremek suggests.

He believes the future of the 'EU depends on people realising that there is a
European interest as well as a national interest'. He proposes that such a sense
might be achieved by multiple referenda on simple, understandable issues: the
question of whether Europe should seek to harmonise taxation, say, or create a
standing army. But that sounds, I say, rather like the model of democracy
enjoyed by the Swiss, ironically the most significant European country to have
resisted the Union. Is that what people want? Geremek smiles thinly. 'After the
Lisbon Treaty is ratified we should direct everything toward creating this sense
of a public space for Europe, of legitimacy,' he says, before excusing himself
to go to chair a sub-committee on the state of Russian democracy, a prospect he
rather relishes.

In the Strasbourg building's cafe, where avid interns hang on MEPs' every word
and everyone (apart from me) is effortlessly multilingual, you would not guess
that Europe had for two years been suffering its worst ever crisis of
confidence. The crisis began in 2005 when the Union sought to explain itself to
its citizens and all of its worst fears were confirmed. No one expected the
French to reject a new constitution. For a start it had been written, all 500
pages of it, by a Frenchman, Valery Giscard d'Estaing; further, its terms, which
created a new framework for the 27-nation EU, gave the French (and other major
western European nations) enhanced power over new member states; not a single
French national newspaper or TV station opposed the constitution, neither did
the major political parties, and yet the French people gave it a determined '
non '. Many reasons have subsequently been put forward for this rejection, a
shock to its system that Brussels still apparently struggles to comprehend. The
most persuasive came from d'Estaing himself, who reportedly suggested that the
great mistake of the Chirac government had been to send a copy of his
constitution to every French household.

Like all European documents, the constitution was a kind of anti-document; with
446 articles, it was not designed to be read, as such. Still, presented by post
with what appeared to be the unintelligible manifesto of an unelected elite, who
seemed to be attempting to create Europe as a super-state complete with
president, and to enforce by law a 'highly competitive market, free of
distortions' on the protective French, the public response was predictable to
everyone except the constitution's authors.

For some of these reasons the presence in Strasbourg of President Sarkozy of
France, fresh from his oleaginous visit to George Bush, is the cause of palpable
excitement throughout the parliament building. Having charmed America, Sarkozy
is intent on fixing his smile on the EU. This afternoon is the occasion of the
president's first speech to MEPs since his election in May when, during his
victory celebration, he yelled: 'France is in Europe once more.' Precisely what
this meant seemed anyone's guess but his arrival has certainly changed the
atmosphere of the chamber from the morning session. It's full for a start, even
the press seats. When faced with a real politician, a man with a huge popular
mandate, the collected MEPs have suddenly come alive, as if wishing to steal his
secret. They seem dazzled by the prospect of a man to whom, when he speaks,
everyone listens, and Sarkozy clearly likes to dazzle.

Sarkozy is also the man who wants to solve Europe's crisis of confidence, a
quality of which he has plenty to spare. One of his first acts as president was
to initiate a slimming down of d'Estaing's failed European constitution in order
to allow it to be ratified as a 'reform treaty' without a referendum (the fudge
that Gordon Brown also hopes will allow him to renege on Labour's election
promise to take the constitution to the people). Through Sarkozy's efforts
French misgivings about unfettered ('British') ambitions for free markets that
would challenge the French social model were quietly given less emphasis. In an
attempt to regain the European initiative, Sarkozy had also proposed a 'council
of the wise' that would look at where the EU should be in 2030; through this he
hoped to urge caution on further enlargement, particularly the moves to include
Turkey in the Union, which the French oppose.

Sarkozy - who could be forgiven for having other things on his mind: France is
grinding to a halt with transport strikes - expands elegantly on these themes,
and there are murmurs of approval as he delivers his most spectacular sleight of
hand. The French ' non ' to the constitution, he suggests, was not really a '
non ' to more Europe, it was a ' non ' to less Europe. What the French people
actually wanted was a more visible Europe, a more effective executive; this
reading might have come as news to most of the ' non '-voting electorate, but it
was certainly what this audience wanted to hear, and Sarkozy eas ily beguiled
himself a standing ovation.

Watching him applauded from all sides looked to me like a neat little
demonstration of the anomaly of European government. There was no doubt, in
here, where the power lay: Europe's parliament was in thrall to the leader of
one of its key nation-states, and subject to Sarkozy's vision for it. Beyond
this show of strength, however, the balance of power was somewhat different.
Sixty per cent of domestic policy in European countries, it is estimated, is
determined by the EU. One of the imperatives for Sarkozy's confrontation with
France's transport unions derived from the need to bring the French economy
closer to the European model; successive French governments had tried and
failed, but the pressure from Brussels for a more competitive, less protected
French economy was quietly relentless; Sarkozy was not in a position to argue.

Still, when he swept out of the parliament, into these more tangible battles, he
took most of the energy of the building with him. I spent the afternoon
observing a long debate about border controls. 'Question Time' - half a dozen
MEPs going through the motions with weary commissioners - came and went without
incident and, not quite having the heart to sit through the evening's enquiry
into the regional impact of earthquakes moved by the Committee for Development,
I decided to devote myself to the task of finding the way out.

Walking to the parliament building next morning it strikes me that it is not
surprising that Europe is so little understood, since it is hard to see where in
fact it resides. Is it in national governments or Brussels bureaucracies? And no
wonder myths about European legislation persist - a whole po-faced department
has been established to counter them 'No: bananas do not have to be straight'
'No: British builders do not have to wear shirts' 'No; pigs are not required to
have toys' - since the places where legislation gets made are so invisible.
Certainly, it is now clear to me, you would not come to Strasbourg to see them.

Europe, its supporters suggest, has always depended on the 'bicycle theory':
move forward, or you fall over; the destination of this ride, however, has never
been established. While Sarkozy had been suggesting in Strasbourg that, at 27
nations, the Union was at its limit of unwieldiness, David Miliband was
preparing to outline, in a speech in Bruges, a Europe that could include not
only Turkey and the Ukraine but also Israel and Morocco, providing they met the
democratic and economic criteria. Miliband's vision served a dual purpose: it
would not only spread democracy and the free trade area, it would also mean that
the British idea of Europe as a looser association of nations with shared
interests would necessarily hold sway. Another paradox: the larger the EU
becomes, the weaker become the arguments for any kind of federalism. But was
anyone ever going to ask us if we wanted any of this?

On the morning after Sarkozy's speech, alone again in the press gallery,
half-observing three more hours on 'The European Interest: Succeeding in the Age
of Globalisation', the papers I have spread out include stories about the
possible break-up of Belgium into two smaller states, and Alex Salmond's ever
more confident arguments for Scottish independence. You could argue it is the
European framework that makes such localism feasible; or you could suggest that,
given the choice, people prefer to be governed in units they understand.

Daniel Hannan is the most eloquent of the diehard group of British MEPs who
would like nothing better than to argue themselves out of a job. Hannan
represents the South East for the Conservatives, writes a lively blog for the
Telegraph about the idiocies of life in Brussels, and leads the calls for a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. I arrange to meet him at the close of voting on
one of the bridges outside the chamber. 'I'll be the one in the three-piece
pinstripe and pink shirt,' he says.

Heading for the canteen, he talks me through the highlights of his three years
here. There have, he suggests, prob ably been three occasions when it has been
genuinely interesting: 'one was the debate about whether we should propose
sanctions on Austria after the election of Jorg Haider; one was if Poles
[including Bronislaw Geremek, who refused] should be obliged to declare any
communist past; and the third proposed that former kings of Italy and Hungary
should be allowed back to their countries.' In these three debates, he says,
MEPs dispensed with their ritual politeness, and engaged with genuine tribal
fervour; that apart, life had been somewhat dull.

Hannan made himself unpopular with MEPs when he published a list of their more
extreme expenses claims: 'In this place some crimes are unforgivable,' he says,
'and there are still those who will turn their backs on me in the lift.'

I catch a flavour of this as we sit among the interns and researchers with their
fashionable eyewear, and Hannan develops his argument that Europe has become a
self-fulfilling prophecy. 'There is an enormous class of people now whose
livelihoods depend on the EU. That isn't just bureaucrats, it is NGOs'
lobbyists, lawyers, landowners, professors; those people are not going to give
up on the argument while it is paying their wages.' Hannan's vision for Europe
would retain the Council of Ministers, negotiating on trade and mutual interest,
but dispense with much of the rest. 'You need to have a relationship between a
government and its people,' he suggests. 'Multinational states have rarely
worked as democracies. In small states you generally don't have this huge
disparity of conditions to contend with.'

Given that belief, it must seem an odd fate for him to find himself employed in
this Eurobubble. 'I can't really say I enjoy it,' he concedes, a little glumly,
'though it is a curious thing about MEPs that they generally have more in common
with each other than they do with their electorates. But I am always going to be
on the wrong side of the argument here; outside of here I am not so sure.'
Eventually, Hannan believes, a European question of some sort will have to be
put to the test in Britain as it has elsewhere. 'Of 646 British MPs, 638 were
elected on the basis that there would be a referendum on this constitution. I
don't see how we can just carry on for ever without consulting public opinion.'

But that, you can't help feeling, is just what Europe as an entity intends to
do. Back in the debating chamber that afternoon, endless hours are devoted to
European Neighbourhood Policy, which in European terms means relations with
adjacent states - the Ukraine, Turkey. A man named Gerard Batten stands up to
express the view that his constituents, in London, did not much care for the
idea of such co-operation; they had already had their fill of 'criminals, sex
slaves, people traffickers and drug dealers' from existing member states of the
Union. Mr Batten, a former secretary of Ukip, with briskly parted hair, then sat
down again behind the little Union Jack sandcastle flag he had planted on the
desk in front of him.

After this outburst a couple of members seem to be adjusting their headphones to
make sure they have heard correctly. But normal service is quickly resumed. A
speaker from Belgium suggests that 'Contrary to what Mr Batten says, we know the
British are an outward-looking people, with an open attitude to the movement of
people to their country. . .' From my seat in the gods I stifle the urge to yell
in pantomime fashion, 'Oh no they are not!'

In all of my time in Strasbourg it is the moment that seems most instructive
about how Europe works: Batten's little Englandism strikes a shrill, even
shaming note in an otherwise meticulously liberal debate, but Batten is also
right: given the choice, Londoners might well, I imagine, not vote for free
immigration from the Ukraine. The disregard for this position from the
parliament's consensus is almost tangible. It reveals the project at its best
and worst: Europe may be set up to direct its citizens toward its liberal
'promised land', as Jeffrey Rifkin puts it; but at some point, those citizens
will have to be asked if that is where they wish to go.

The Italian foreign minister, Count Sforza, once tried to explain to his British
counterpart that 'it was the music and not the words that counted' in European
debate. With Sforza's phrase in mind as the afternoon grinds on, I pass the time
by jotting down the recurrent phrases I hear, the muzak of parliament: 'leading
by example' (has five mentions); 'we must concentrate on implementation' (four);
'we should send a message' (four); the winner in this euro parlour game,
cropping up six times, is 'the time for talking has ended'. Unfortunately, it
has not.

The next morning, still groggy with cliche, I scan the programme of the day's
events, while wondering if I should cut my fact-finding mission short in order
to queue for a train to Paris in Sarkozy's now gridlocked republic. It's
snowing. The agenda, I see, includes questions on the recovery plan for bluefin
tuna in the Mediterranean and cross-border copyright management. It's a tough
call, but one thing is certain: Europe will carry on without me. I run for the
train.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Our minnow fish quota

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 34

LENGTH: 171  words


OUR fishermen get just seven per cent of the cod quota in the English Channel.

France is given 79 per cent and even Ireland receives a better deal under
allocation policy devised by Brussels, statistics from the Government's Marine
and Fisheries Agency show.

The tiny quota forces boats to throw back tons of cod each week - a scandal EU
bureaucrats admitted this week was "immoral".

The revelations prompted calls last night for a renegotiation of the fishing
deal at talks next month.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said the figures made a
mockery of claims fisheries policy is good for Britain.

He said: "French ships are in the English Channel, happily catching over 10
times the British allowance. We're talking about British territorial waters
where our own fishermen are forbidden from catching cod."

Sources at the marine agency said the deal dated from 1973 when British
fishermen focused on the North Sea and North Atlantic.

They added that EU limits for the Channel area includes much of the Bay of
Biscay.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Our minnow fish quota

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 34

LENGTH: 171  words


OUR fishermen get just seven per cent of the cod quota in the English Channel.

France is given 79 per cent and even Ireland receives a better deal under
allocation policy devised by Brussels, statistics from the Government's Marine
and Fisheries Agency show.

The tiny quota forces boats to throw back tons of cod each week - a scandal EU
bureaucrats admitted this week was "immoral".

The revelations prompted calls last night for a renegotiation of the fishing
deal at talks next month.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said the figures made a
mockery of claims fisheries policy is good for Britain.

He said: "French ships are in the English Channel, happily catching over 10
times the British allowance. We're talking about British territorial waters
where our own fishermen are forbidden from catching cod."

Sources at the marine agency said the deal dated from 1973 when British
fishermen focused on the North Sea and North Atlantic.

They added that EU limits for the Channel area includes much of the Bay of
Biscay.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 23, 2007 Friday

Fight for our fishermen

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 99 words


SIR - Currently, the quotas for the Channel allow France almost 79 per cent of
the cod catch and Britain only seven per cent, an example of why the number of
fishermen has declined by 25 per cent in the past 10 years (Letters, November
22).

We are already in a pathetically weak position, so how is Jonathan Shaw, the
fisheries minister, going to renegotiate a better position for our fishermen
when he has both hands tied behind his back? The only way for us to revive our
fishing industry and restore fish stocks is for Britain to reclaim its waters
from the EU.

Nigel Farage MEP (UKIP)

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 23, 2007 Friday

Tories should pledge a vote on being in the EU

BYLINE: IAIN DALE

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 722 words


Stealing other parties' policies is almost de rigueur for politicians nowadays.
Gordon Brown is the busiest magpie of all: none the less I suggest that David
Cameron looks to the Lib Dems to steal a policy that might mean the difference
between being the largest party in a hung parliament and being prime minister of
a government with a Conservative majority.

For a decade, the Tories have struggled to develop a strategy to minimise the
threat from the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP). In both 2001 and 2005,
UKIP's presence in marginals is estimated to have cost the Conservatives between
20 and 30 seats. If that were to happen in 2009 or 2010, it might mean the
difference between a hung parliament and an overall majority, or even the
difference between a hung parliament and a Labour majority.

One thing the Conservatives have learnt is that you can never appease UKIP. No
matter how Euro-sceptic you appear, it wants only one thing - withdrawal from
the EU. Nothing else matters. You can argue with it until you are blue in the
face that, if it puts up candidates in Labour marginals, it will only achieve
the increased likelihood of a Europhile government. But it can't see beyond its
short-term blinkers.

UKIP's leader, Nigel Farage, has said he will not put up candidates against MPs
and candidates from other parties who sign up to the Better Off Out campaign,
but even then he adds that UKIP will stand down only if it judges the candidate
to be genuine. How nice of it.

Since David Cameron became leader, he has tried to avoid the European issue
dominating political debate. It is only the European constitution that has
encouraged him to speak. He - alone among the three party leaders - has
re-committed his party to holding a referendum on the European reform treaty.

But he has been outgunned by the Lib Dems, who have refused to offer a
referendum on the treaty and instead have said there should be a referendum on
EU membership itself, to settle the issue once and for all.

Most commentators reckon it's a little odd for a Europhile party to come up with
such a policy, but by proposing a referendum on "In or Out'', the Lib Dems have
made it mainstream and acceptable. Some Labour MPs also think it is a good idea.
If the Conservatives had proposed it when Michael Howard was leader, it would
have been written up as yet another sign of a move to the Right. Now that the
Lib Dems back it, such a tag would be more difficult to make stick.

So what would happen if Cameron borrowed this Lib Dem policy? Well, in one fell
swoop he could kill UKIP and negate its reason for existing. No one seriously
believes UKIP can ever wield power. It can never achieve its ultimate aim. Its
supporters are by no means all former Tories, but they all have one thing in
common: they vote on a single issue. But wouldn't it create yet another split on
Europe within the Conservatives, and make it appear divided? Well, not if the
leadership repeated the stance of 1975 and allowed its MPs and candidates to
campaign according to their consciences. Face it, there are Euro-sceptics in all
political parties, not just the Conservatives.

At the last election, UKIP gained more than 600,000 votes. It is entirely
conceivable that this number could halve anyway, even without any Conservative
commitment to an "In or Out'' referendum. The party has failed to make any
headway recently. Already, some of its leading lights are speculating that it
won't be able to field more than a couple of hundred candidates at the next
election. Its desire to expand its policy platform beyond its unique selling
point of EU withdrawal means that its efforts are diluted.

So it may be argued that the Conservatives need do nothing, and just watch UKIP
wither on the vine. This would be a mistake. Ignoring parties such as UKIP is
invariably something the major parties live to regret. Their arguments need to
be taken on and countered. If Labour had taken on the BNP in Burnley and other
towns in the North, the BNP might have been strangled at birth.

There may well be other ways of countering the UKIP threat, apart from following
the Lib Dems down the road of an "In or Out'' referendum. But the Conservative
Party needs to work out what they are, and implement them quickly. It cannot
afford to write off half a million votes, and 20 or 30 seats.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday

Brussels wants to ban labels saying Made in Britain

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan, Duncan Robertson

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 464 words


MINISTERS were last night under pressure to reject an attempt by Brussels to
scrap Made in Britain food labels.

Proposals to switch to a Europe-wide Made in the EU labelling system will be
discussed by the European Commission next month.

The scheme provoked outrage at Westminster, with the Tories pledging to save the
traditional British labels on foods ranging from Stilton to Marmite.

If implemented it would leave British consumers unable to tell where the
contents of their shopping basking come from in the EU.

The rule would apply even if the final product is based on imported foodstuffs.

Only meat would be exempt, so that goods such as Danish bacon and Parma ham
could be identified by their origin.

Westminster sources indicated that Gordon Brown, who has made no secret of his
dislike of Brussels bureaucracy, is likely to veto the idea.

Europe Minister Jim Murphy told MPs Britain would fight the proposal, which was
put forward by Cypriot health commissioner Markos Kyprianou.

The Tories were outraged by the plan. Europe spokesman Mark Francois said:
British farmers are under enough pressure as it is without the EU obscuring what
food comes from Britain and what doesnt.

If British consumers want to support British farmers, they have a right to know
the food was produced here.

The leader of UKIP, Nigel Farage, said: Its time to become like the French and
ignore this stupid EU law.

The idea of an EU-wide labelling scheme was first put forward three years ago.

But it was ditched after an outcry from politicians and business leaders across
the EU, who warned it would deal a hammer blow to traditional food manufacture.

Dutch Labour MEP Dorette Corbey warned the EU labels could also prevent
consumers from establishing how far their food has travelled from producer to
shop.

The trend is to look at where a product originates from, she said. Transport
over long distances is bad for the environment.

The plan, which is due to be published in December, was leaked yesterday to
Dutch media. Politicians there also criticised the proposal, calling it too
general and bad for the environment.

A similar plan in 2004 was quashed by Britain, Germany and the Netherlands, on
the grounds it was unnecessary and too costly.

The Made in the EU plan is part of a package of proposals on labelling designed
to give consumers more information on food content such as the levels of salt
and fat.

Brussels gave up the fight in September to make Britain drop pints, pounds and
miles in favour of the metric system.

But Britains growing wine industry is now also under threat. Just as the
popularity of English wine is soaring, the European Commission wants to limit
the planting of new vineyards for the next six years.

The rules would punish countries whose wine industry is expanding, such as
Britain.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Quality mark: But food labels like this could be outlawed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday

A criminal shame;
LETTERS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 229 words


HOW can the Member of the European Parliament for South-East England, Ashley
Mote, remain in his job after being convicted of benefit fraud totalling more
than £65,000? Has the man no shame? Has the European Parliament no principles?
Mote was elected an MEP in 2004. Last September, he was found guilty of 21
counts of fraud. Because his sentence was less than a year, he was allowed to
continue drawing his full pay of £60,675, plus the EU's very generous
allowances.

He was released from Ford Prison near Arundel last week under the home curfew
detention scheme after serving only ten weeks of his nine-month sentence. He's
not allowed out at night and must wear a tag.

How can he remain as an MEP if he can't even travel to Brussels or Strasbourg
for meetings? Mote was expelled from the UK Independence Party after it found
out he was being investigated. UKIP Leader Nigel Farage is reported as saying:
'If he had a shred of decency he would resign.' Mote insists he will not stand
down.

'If I thought I had done anything wrong, it would be different. I am continuing
to serve my constituents.' I am one of his constituents who reads local
newspapers and watches regional TV news, but have never seen hide nor hair of
him. No wonder: it seems he was too busy fiddling his 'benefits'.

What on earth can the people who voted for him do to throw him out of office?

ROB ALP, Arundel.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

HAVE EU HAD A LOT OF LOVE?

BYLINE: BY RICHARD SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 139 words


A CENSUS demanding details about women's sexual partners is being voted on by
MEPs today.

The Euro survey will go to every household if it gets the go-ahead.

But opponents say women should protest by claiming to have had 1,000 lovers or
be virgins.

The controversial question asks: "Date(s) of the beginning of the consensual
union(s) of women having ever been in consensual union."

UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clark said: "The EU claims it needs to know all
sorts of things about us to set policy.

"They want to know your income, what consumer goods you possess, allotments,
gardens.

"But how can it possibly need to know how many sexual partners a woman has had
and when?

"They must be utterly divorced from reality if they think people will tell the
truth on this.

"At the last UK census Jedi Knight became the fourth largest religion."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VOTE NO: Clark

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2007 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday

EU ban on 'Made in Britain tags'

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

LENGTH: 262  words


Brussels wants one food label for all countries

A FIGHT to save Made in Britain food labels was under way last night as
eurocrats plotted a ban.

A secret Brussels diktat is considering a new Made in the EU tag for ALL food
made by member states.

UK shoppers would NOT be able to tell if their groceries were made here. Only
meat would be exempt -allowing Welsh lamb and Danish bacon to keep their
traditional identities.

A leak yesterday revealed the plans -weeks before their official launch by
health commissioner Markos Kyprianou.

But last night the move ran into a wall of opposition in Britain. Europe
Minister Jim Murphy told the Commons the Government will fight the proposals.

The Tories also tore into the idea. Shadow Europe Minister Mark Francois said:
"British farmers are under enough pressure as it is without the EU obscuring
what food comes from Britain and what doesn't.

"If British consumers want to support British farmers, they have a right to know
the food was produced here."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "It's time to become like the
French and ignore this stupid EU law."

Brussels revived plans for an EU-wide label just three years after ditching its
last attempt over protests from businessmen and politicians across Europe.

They warned it would spell the end of traditional origin marks.

Last night Dutch Labour MEP Dorett Corbey also said the labels could hide food
transport details.

Mr Corbey said: "The trend is to look at where a product originates from.
Transport over long distances is bad for the environment."

d.wooding@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 20, 2007 Tuesday

EU open-borders deal threatens a 'wave of migration and crime'

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words


A WAVE of crime and illegal immigration will sweep across Europe when nine more
EU states scrap their border controls next month, it was claimed yesterday.

The creation of a free travel zone means an individual could journey from as far
east as the Russian border to Britain's doorstep at Calais without having to
show a passport.

The controls are being scrapped under the Schengen agreement, which was signed
by all but a handful of EU nations.

Although Britain opted out, critics of Schengen say this country remains a
favoured destination for both criminals and economic refugees and faces a new
wave of clandestine entry.

In the Ukraine, officials say the country is already struggling to cope with a
buildup of migrants gathering at its EU border in the hope of reaching western
Europe.

Germany, which is at the heart of the free-travel zone, has been a strong
supporter of the extension of Schengen. But the country's police take a
different view to its politicians. The union representing Germany's 40,000
frontier officers has called for a massive protest on Thursday in a town on
Germany's border with Poland.

It is urging Germany to stop what it calls 'the insanity of Schengen' and
demanding increased, not relaxed, vigilance on the country's borders.

The Schengen zone was named after the Dutch town where the original deal for a
free-travel region was signed by five EU countries in 1985. It currently
includes 13 EU member countries, but not Britain, Ireland, Romania, Bulgaria and
Cyprus.

From next month, most of the countries which joined the EU three years ago -
Slovakia, Slovenia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech
Republic and Malta - will join the club.

Many of them form the vast eastern EU border with Russia, Belarus and Ukraine..

German police union spokesman Michael Peckmann said that, while his union was
representing the interests of border officers whose jobs were threatened, it was
also concerned about the likelihood of an increase in criminals and illegal
migrants entering the bloc.

'The insanity must have an end,' he said.

'This is about more than jobs, it is about public security.' The march is due to
take place in the city of Frankfurt-an-der-Oder. Joerg Schoenbohm, interior
minister of one of the German border states - Brandenburg - accused border
police of being alarmist.

In Britain, critics believe the extension of Schengen will make it far easier
for illegal immigrants trying to enter the UK.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis has warned of potential dangers ahead.

He said the Government had to work closely with EU partners to prevent any surge
in illegal immigration.

UKIP leader and MEP Nigel Farrage said: 'This agreement will only lead to more
and more illegal immigration.'

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 19, 2007 Monday

Brown on the euro

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 105 words


SIR - The draft EU treaty contains a commitment by all signatories to the
currency of the EU being the euro.

But when I asked Gordon Brown whether Britain would thus be given a referendum,
the PM denied that this goal would apply to the UK, although I cited the
relevant articles in the treaty.

What does the Prime Minister know that the rest of us don't?

With qualified majority voting becoming the mechanism for decision-making, and
the European Court of Justice defending the "ever closer union'' objective, what
chance would the pound have when "colleagues'' decide that we must join the
euro?

Graham Booth MEP (Ukip)

Paignton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 19, 2007 Monday

Special report: Alisher Usmanov: The colourful life of football's latest
oligarch: The Uzbek billionaire stalking Arsenal has long been a controversial
figure

BYLINE: Ian Cobain

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2445 words


With a fortune estimated at around £2.7bn, somewhat more than the annual GDP of
Nicaragua or Haiti, Alisher Usmanov is one of the world's wealthiest men. He
sits on the board of trustees of the Bolshoi Theatre, is president of the
European Fencing Federation and is a founder of an arts and sporting charity.

One of his homes is an exquisite Tudor manor house set in 300 acres of Surrey
countryside, while his offices at the Moscow headquarters of Metalloinvest, his
mining and steel company, have all the trappings one might expect of one of the
city's most successful entrepreneurs: elaborate security, tapestries and gold
leaf trimmings, enormous screens flickering with the latest stock prices and a
desk that seems to stretch forever.

Last August, the Uzbek-born businessman declared himself a fan of English
football, and of Arsenal in particular. He bought 14.58% of the club's shares,
and the following month increased that stake to 23%, worth £120m, making him the
club's second-largest shareholder. Few in football, or the City, doubt that he
would dearly love to take complete control.

It being an immutable rule of the modern game that a vast sum of cash is the
first requirement of success, perhaps Usmanov expected Arsenal fans to be
singing songs in celebration of his arrival. It has not quite happened that way.
Instead, there have been banners at the Emirates Stadium proclaiming "Love
Arsenal - Hate Usmanov" and "Sod Off Jabba", his new nickname in north London.

He has been forced to fend off accusations that he is a gangster and a
racketeer. Far, far worse allegations have been swirling around the blogosphere.
And the club's board has engineered a so-called lock-down of shares, to prevent
any more falling into his hands for the next five years.

"He's certainly not an open book," said the club's chairman, Peter Hill-Wood.
"Business is murky in Uzbekistan, and that in itself is an argument against him
being involved in Arsenal. I wouldn't want him to be the owner of the club."

Who then is this man who has emerged as if from nowhere to capture a sizeable
stake in one of the great clubs of England? Why did he spend six years in jail
in the 1980s? What are his links with President Vladimir Putin? How did he make
his billions? And why is he buying into the Premier League?

The first time many journalists heard Usmanov's name was when Schillings, a firm
of libel law specialists which prides itself on a reputation for ruthlessness,
fired off a letter to every major media organisation in Britain, announcing that
their client had purchased his first tranche of Arsenal shares and warning
against any "defamatory statements or invasions of his privacy".

Schillings were concerned about what they described as "a matter of historical
record". Their client had been "imprisoned for various offences under the old
Soviet regime", they wrote. "Our client did not commit any of the offences of
which he was charged. Our client was fully pardoned after President Mikhail
Gorbachev took office. All references to these matters have now been expunged
from police records."

To ensure the picture was quite clear, a member of staff at a public relations
firm also hired by Usmanov was quoted in one national newspaper as saying: "As a
young man he was outspoken about the old Soviet regime - he was sent to jail as
a political prisoner."

The Guardian has uncovered evidence that may support Usmanov's complaint that he
was framed when he was jailed in 1980. But Schillings' statement that their
client was pardoned "after Mikhail Gorbachev took office" is misleading.

The Guardian made inquiries in Russia, Uzbekistan, the UK and the United States
to find out more, and also found itself engaged in an email exchange with the
businessman himself, in which he denied reports in the Moscow press that he had
once been convicted of rape, dismissed a Euro MP's insinuation that he was
involved in the death of a journalist in Moscow earlier this year, and wrote
candidly about his relationship with an alleged drug trafficker and his close
contacts with former members of the KGB.

Alisher Burkhanovich Usmanov was born in September 1953 in a small spa town in
what was then the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic. His father was a state
prosecutor in the capital, Tashkent, enjoying a privileged position among the
social and political elite of the region.

As a young man, Usmanov was an accomplished sabre fencer, competing with the
Uzbek republic team, and met his future wife, Irina Viner, now an Olympic
gymnastics coach, at a gym in Tashkent. "Alisher was a modest young man and was
too timid to approach me at first," she said recently. "Now he is a completely
changed man: he is very resolute."

He studied at the Moscow State Institute for International Relations, a
university renowned in Soviet days for churning out diplomats and spooks and the
odd foreign correspondent. It was here that he forged many of the alliances that
would assist his extraordinarily successful post-Soviet business career,
friendships with people like Sergey Yastrzhembsky, former press attache for
Boris Yeltsin and aide to Putin.

On graduating he returned to Tashkent, where he was appointed director of the
Foreign Economic Association of the Soviet Peace Committee. This is an
intriguing detail of his CV, as it is now widely suspected that the Peace
Committee was a front for the KGB.

There have been several other occasions when Usmanov can be seen to have enjoyed
close connections with members of Russia's intelligence community. His friends
include Yevgeny Primakov, who was the director of Russia's foreign intelligence
service, the SVR, before being appointed prime minister. For a couple of years
he was first deputy chairman of a financial institution called the MAPO bank,
once described as "the spies' bank" because of its links with Russian
intelligence agencies.

In his email, Usmanov described questions about the Soviet Peace Committee as
being "based on misinformation", and added that he has never served in the KGB,
or any other Russian or Uzbek intelligence agency.

Asked about his close associations with former KGB officers, he said: "You are
trying to turn the acquaintance of any Russian with members of the KGB into a
crime. This is simply not appropriate."

Then, in August 1980, came the prosecution that prompted Schillings' warnings.
Usmanov and a co-defendant, Bakhodir Nasimov, the son of the deputy head of the
Uzbek KGB, were brought before a military tribunal in Uzbekistan, accused of
fraud and embezzlement.

Usmanov has said recently that he was the victim of a power-struggle within the
local KGB, and that he was tricked into accepting a bribe. "Nasimov was sent on
a covert operation," he said. "His bosses told him he was to accept a bribe from
a guy involved in contraband so as to catch him red-handed. The point was to
prosecute him for bribery. Nasimov told me that since the guy knew we were
friends he might try to pass me the money. 'If he does - take it,' he told me,
'and bring it to me'."

Usmanov was jailed for eight years, and released two years early in March 1986
after expressing his "sincere repentance". This, he says, was "common judicial
practice in the USSR".

According to several Russian news reports, Usmanov was convicted not only of
financial crimes, but also of rape. Lawyers representing him in Moscow
threatened libel proceedings against at least one news website which published
this allegation, and in September Schillings took action to remove a similar
allegation from the website of Craig Murray, the former British ambassador to
Uzbekistan.

Murray's internet service provider deactivated the site, an act which
inadvertently shut down several other blogs. One of the victims was Boris
Johnson, the Tory MP, who complained loudly: "This is London, not Uzbekistan."

Schillings' efforts backfired: bloggers across the globe expressed outrage, and
spawned a debate about freedom of speech in which the rape allegation was
repeated ad nauseam. Today it is impossible to Google Usmanov's name without the
allegation leaping out.

Asked about this by the Guardian, he replied: "All the charges in my case were
fabricated. I will give you a copy of the verdict if you need to know what were
the crimes I was charged with and you'll see that rape is not one of them. This
is a mean lie spread by small-minded people who were naive to think that I was
their competitor."

The Guardian has seen no credible evidence that supports this claim against
Usmanov. Far from objecting if we reported on the allegation, however, Usmanov
insisted that we publish his response.

His convictions were eventually overturned by the supreme court in Tashkent in
July 2000. Gorbachev had left office almost nine years earlier, so the pardon
clearly had nothing to do with him.

Usmanov's return to court may, however, have had everything to do with a report
in the Observer 18 months earlier. The newspaper disclosed that he had broken
the rules of the London Stock Exchange by failing to declare his conviction on
appointment to the board of Dominion Energy, an oil company, in April 1997.

Lord Owen, the former foreign secretary who chaired a company which controlled
Dominion at the time of Usmanov's appointment, told the newspaper that Usmanov
had informed him that the charges would be annulled by the president of
Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov.

Usmanov's PR people deny any connection between the Observer article and the
steps that he took to secure his pardon.

Usmanov's release coincided with the first days of perestroika, and soon he was
back in Moscow, setting up a plastic bags business, with a KGB officer as his
partner and Olga, the first wife of Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich, as an
employee. In a land where advertising barely existed, consumers pounced on any
bags printed with the logos of western brands, and Usmanov was on his way to his
first fortune.

He also developed a number of banking interests before tapping into the real
source of wealth in Russia - its natural resources - acquiring steel, timber and
mining concerns. Today he is the 142nd richest man in the world, according to
Forbes magazine.

As well as heading Metalloinvest, he is general director of
Gazprominvestholding, an investment subsidiary of Russia's gas monopoly,
Gazprom, and also owns Kommersant, a business newspaper. In 2003 he began
investing in Corus, the Anglo-Dutch steelmaker, eventually acquiring 13.5%
before selling his stock.

Over the years, Usmanov has been dogged by allegations that he is a
less-than-legitimate businessman, and that he has connections with Russian and
Uzbek criminals. In particular, questions have been asked about Gafur Rakhimov,
a man who has repeatedly been named as an Uzbek mafia boss and who was once
banned from entering Australia because of his alleged connections to organised
crime.

Last September, Tom Wise, an MEP with the UK Independence party, took advantage
of the protection that parliamentary debates enjoy from libel actions to attack
Usmanov during a debate in the European parliament. "Allegedly a gangster and
racketeer, he served a six-year jail sentence in the Soviet Union in the 1980s,
his eventual pardon coming at the behest of Uzbek mafia chief and heroin
overlord Gafur Rakhimov, described as Usmanov's mentor," Wise said.

In the past, Usmanov has admitted to having known Rakhimov for 20 years, and
says he has twice asked him about the allegations that he is a heroin
trafficker, but says the claims are untrue. In his email to the Guardian he
added: "I only knew him since he was a neighbour of my parents. I have never
had, nor do I have business dealings with him."

He also addressed another allegation levelled by Wise, that he was in some way
connected with the death of Ivan Safronov, a defence correspondent for
Kommersant, who plunged to his death from the fifth floor of his Moscow
apartment building in March.

Wise admits he has no evidence to support this claim, and Usmanov says: "The
Safronov allegation is a startling and unbelievable insinuation with no basis in
truth. I consider any insinuation on this as an untruth of a highly provocative
nature."

In recent weeks, Usmanov has sought to distance himself from Uzbekistan, the
country of his birth, which is widely regarded as having one of the world's
worst human rights records. In his email to the Guardian, Usmanov was adamant
that he did no business in Uzbekistan, and had no relationship whatsoever with
Karimov. "I have no business in Uzbekistan, and I have never had any," he said.
"The decision on my complete discharge was taken by the supreme court, not by
the president. I have no relationship with President Karimov."

Given Usmanov's background, some in football have puzzled over his reasons for
such a high-profile investment in Arsenal. He says he has been a fan for many
years, but few at the club's Emirates Stadium will be impressed by his claim
that he "fell in love with the game in 1966 when the British (sic) team won
against the Germans", or by his admission that he considered buying into north
London rivals Spurs.

In Moscow, many assume his decision is in some way connected with his
relationship with the Kremlin. Usmanov is said to be close to Putin and he
appears, in recent months, to have gone to extravagant lengths to remain so.
Last month he paid around £35m for the art collection of the late cellist
Mstislav Rostropovich before it was due to go under the hammer at Sotheby's in
London. He then donated the entire collection to the Russian Presidential
Administration. He also paid a reported £2.5m for the rights to classic
Soviet-era cartoons. They were handed over to a children's television channel,
one that had just been set up by Putin.

Perhaps such largesse is rooted in the insecurity that must be the lot of many
Russian business leaders since Putin rounded against the oligarchy early in his
presidency. Perhaps Usmanov believes that were he to take control of Arsenal,
any attempt by the Kremlin to move against him would bring protests in London.
Perhaps the club presents Usmanov with an opportunity to hedge his bets against
any sudden decline in his fortunes in the volatile world of Russian public life.

He would not be alone, if such vicissitudes have played upon his mind. Down the
road at Chelsea FC, Abramovich was asked a few months ago whether he felt scared
on hearing of the arrest of the oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky, once one of the
richest men on the planet.

"There's a Russian saying," Abramovich said, after thinking for a while.
"'You're never safe from prison and poverty.'"

The full text of the Usmanov email exchange with the Guardian can be seen at
guardian.co.uk/russia>=

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fraud MEP out of jail after 10weeks

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 249  words


A BRITISH MEP jailed for benefit fraud has been released after serving only 10
weeks of his nine-month sentence writes Jason Groves.

Ashley Mote, 71, was jailed in September after being found guilty of 21 counts
of fraud totalling more than GBP 65,000.

This week he was quietly released under the Government's tagging scheme. A
loophole in the law means Mote can keep his seat in the European Parliament
despite being unable to attend.

Because he was sentenced to less than a year in jail, he can continue to draw
his MEP's salary of GBP 60,675.

He will also qualify for at least half of the GBP 34,000-a-year general
expenditure allowance and all of the GBP 136,000 for secretarial assistance,
although this is paid directly to staff.

Mote, who is appealing against his conviction, insisted last night he would not
stand down. He added: "If I thought I had done anything wrong it would be a
different matter.

I am continuing to serve my constituents." Mote was elected as an MEP for
south-east England in 2004. He was expelled from the UK Independence Party after
it emerged he was being investigated for fraudulent benefit claims going back
several years. He was released last week under the Government's Home Curfew
Detention Scheme. He is not allowed out at night and has to wear an electronic
tag.

Mote served most of his sentence in Ford open prison, West Sussex, where he says
the regime was lax.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said last night: "If he had the slightest shred of
decency he would resign."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

MEP fraud crook still being paid

SECTION: NEWS; 33

LENGTH: 141  words


AN MEP jailed for benefit fraud has been released after just 10 weeks of a
nine-month sentence.

Ashley Mote, 71, was found guilty of 21 offences totalling more than GBP 65,000.
He was quietly released under the tagging scheme.

A loophole in the law means Mote is able to keep his seat in the European
Parliament despite being unable to attend any sessions.

Because he was sentenced to less than a year, he still draws his MEP's salary of
GBP 60,675. He will also qualify for at least half of the GBP 34,000 in
allowances and all of the GBP 136,000 for secretarial assistance, although this
is paid to staff. Mote, who is appealing, said last night: "If I thought I had
done anything wrong it would be a different matter. I am continuing to serve my
constituents." Mote is MEP for the South East of England.

He was expelled from the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fraud MEP out of jail after 10weeks

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 249  words


A BRITISH MEP jailed for benefit fraud has been released after serving only 10
weeks of his nine-month sentence writes Jason Groves.

Ashley Mote, 71, was jailed in September after being found guilty of 21 counts
of fraud totalling more than GBP 65,000.

This week he was quietly released under the Government's tagging scheme. A
loophole in the law means Mote can keep his seat in the European Parliament
despite being unable to attend.

Because he was sentenced to less than a year in jail, he can continue to draw
his MEP's salary of GBP 60,675.

He will also qualify for at least half of the GBP 34,000-a-year general
expenditure allowance and all of the GBP 136,000 for secretarial assistance,
although this is paid directly to staff.

Mote, who is appealing against his conviction, insisted last night he would not
stand down. He added: "If I thought I had done anything wrong it would be a
different matter.

I am continuing to serve my constituents." Mote was elected as an MEP for
south-east England in 2004. He was expelled from the UK Independence Party after
it emerged he was being investigated for fraudulent benefit claims going back
several years. He was released last week under the Government's Home Curfew
Detention Scheme. He is not allowed out at night and has to wear an electronic
tag.

Mote served most of his sentence in Ford open prison, West Sussex, where he says
the regime was lax.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said last night: "If he had the slightest shred of
decency he would resign."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

MEP fraud crook still being paid

SECTION: NEWS; 33

LENGTH: 141  words


AN MEP jailed for benefit fraud has been released after just 10 weeks of a
nine-month sentence.

Ashley Mote, 71, was found guilty of 21 offences totalling more than GBP 65,000.
He was quietly released under the tagging scheme.

A loophole in the law means Mote is able to keep his seat in the European
Parliament despite being unable to attend any sessions.

Because he was sentenced to less than a year, he still draws his MEP's salary of
GBP 60,675. He will also qualify for at least half of the GBP 34,000 in
allowances and all of the GBP 136,000 for secretarial assistance, although this
is paid to staff. Mote, who is appealing, said last night: "If I thought I had
done anything wrong it would be a different matter. I am continuing to serve my
constituents." Mote is MEP for the South East of England.

He was expelled from the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Will anyone bring EU fraudsters to account?

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS; 31

LENGTH: 665  words


FOR THE 13th successive year, the EU's Court of Auditors has refused to sign off
the EU's accounts, complaining that "fraud, neglect and irregularities" are
endemic in Brussels' GBP 75billion annual spending.

Spanish and Greek farmers claim subsidies for olive trees which don't exist.
Hooray for global warming! Our own farmers will soon be invited to that party,
too. Other wizard schemes have seen agricultural handouts going to railway
companies, country clubs and golf courses. You have to admire the sheer
creativity of some of these scams.

It was obvious Eurocrats never intended to root out this criminal waste when
they appointed the Tommy Cooper of the European Commission, Neil Kinnock, to
"mastermind" reform.

What was his response when Commission chief accounting officer Marta Andreasen
blew the whistle on these colossal frauds?

Shoot the messenger! He fired Andreasen and kept the fraudsters in their jobs.

Kinnock now gets a GBP 70,000-a-year EU pension for eight years' uselessness in
Brussel and his family travel the EU gravy train too: wife Glenys as an MEP and
son Stephen as a commission employee.

Andreasen knows EU reform is moonshine.

That's why she, a Spaniard, was elected last week as treasurer of the UK
Independence Party.

AS WATERLOO is no longer the London terminus for trains to and from France, we
should rename St Pancras tout-de-suite. To promote the "entente cordiale", I
suggest a French name. Agincourt Station sounds just right, n'est-ce pas?

Alternatively, there is Crecy or Poitiers (other great military triumphs of the
Hundred Years War). If, like me, you are keen to emphasise our wider
Europeanism, we could look beyond France, there being no shortage of places
where we have given the Frogs a bloody nose. We could try Blenheim, Ramillies,
Oudenarde, Malplaquet (Marlborough's victories over Louis XIV) or Badajoz,
Burgos, Busaco, Ciudad Rodrigo, Salamanca, San Sebastian, Talavera or Vimeiro
(just a few of Wellington's victories over Napoleon).

This could be academic. If French strikes intensify, there won't be trains
anyway.

.CHARLES QUANT, who died in June, used to be on Prince Charles's Christmas card
list as a founder member of the Prince of Wales's committee to improve Wales's
natural environment. His family now wants to sell the 24 cards, personally
signed by HRH, to raise GBP 20,000 for the Alzheimer's Society.

Incredibly, the stuffed shirts at Clarence House have vetoed the idea. Clearly,
they are not at risk from Alzheimer's.

Being so insensitive, they must be braindead already.

WHAT could have caused the 50 ft flames which engulfed a warehouse on the East
London Olympic park site? Rumours are that an arsonist is at work. A woman
identified as Tessa Jowell has been seen in the area, regularly making huge
bonfires of taxpayers' money.

Ten days ago she announced the Olympic stadium would cost GBP 500million, not
GBP 280million as first estimated.

With Jowell overseeing value for money in this project, you ain't seen nothin'
yet.

You can judge her financial acumen by her understanding of her own finances.
When her fat-cat lawyer husband David Mills was being investigated in Italy for
money laundering and tax fraud, it emerged Tessa had co-signed a mortgage on
their London home. Italian prosecutors allege Mills later repaid the loan with
illicit cash from Italian scams.

Asked to explain her role, Tessa played the naïve "wee wifey". As a mere
Blairite Cabinet Minister, she knew it was better not to ask questions. No, she
had no idea why she had signed half her house away, nor how Mills had spent the
money, nor how he would repay it, nor that he had repaid the loan, nor where he
got the money to do that!

Tessa is now in charge of spending more than GBP 10billion of our money on the
Olympics.

Reassuring isn't it?

APPARENTLY, MPs are thinking of improving their "carbon footprint" by building a
115 ft windmill on the roof of the Palace of Westminster . Presumably , it will
be driven by hot air from the House of Commons chamber

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MONEY TO BURN: Smoke from the fire at the Olympic site, where Jowell is
in charge of spending

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Will anyone bring EU fraudsters to account?

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS; 31

LENGTH: 665  words


FOR THE 13th successive year, the EU's Court of Auditors has refused to sign off
the EU's accounts, complaining that "fraud, neglect and irregularities" are
endemic in Brussels' GBP 75billion annual spending.

Spanish and Greek farmers claim subsidies for olive trees which don't exist.
Hooray for global warming! Our own farmers will soon be invited to that party,
too. Other wizard schemes have seen agricultural handouts going to railway
companies, country clubs and golf courses. You have to admire the sheer
creativity of some of these scams.

It was obvious Eurocrats never intended to root out this criminal waste when
they appointed the Tommy Cooper of the European Commission, Neil Kinnock, to
"mastermind" reform.

What was his response when Commission chief accounting officer Marta Andreasen
blew the whistle on these colossal frauds?

Shoot the messenger! He fired Andreasen and kept the fraudsters in their jobs.

Kinnock now gets a GBP 70,000-a-year EU pension for eight years' uselessness in
Brussel and his family travel the EU gravy train too: wife Glenys as an MEP and
son Stephen as a commission employee.

Andreasen knows EU reform is moonshine.

That's why she, a Spaniard, was elected last week as treasurer of the UK
Independence Party.

AS WATERLOO is no longer the London terminus for trains to and from France, we
should rename St Pancras tout-de-suite. To promote the "entente cordiale", I
suggest a French name. Agincourt Station sounds just right, n'est-ce pas?

Alternatively, there is Crecy or Poitiers (other great military triumphs of the
Hundred Years War). If, like me, you are keen to emphasise our wider
Europeanism, we could look beyond France, there being no shortage of places
where we have given the Frogs a bloody nose. We could try Blenheim, Ramillies,
Oudenarde, Malplaquet (Marlborough's victories over Louis XIV) or Badajoz,
Burgos, Busaco, Ciudad Rodrigo, Salamanca, San Sebastian, Talavera or Vimeiro
(just a few of Wellington's victories over Napoleon).

This could be academic. If French strikes intensify, there won't be trains
anyway.

.CHARLES QUANT, who died in June, used to be on Prince Charles's Christmas card
list as a founder member of the Prince of Wales's committee to improve Wales's
natural environment. His family now wants to sell the 24 cards, personally
signed by HRH, to raise GBP 20,000 for the Alzheimer's Society.

Incredibly, the stuffed shirts at Clarence House have vetoed the idea. Clearly,
they are not at risk from Alzheimer's.

Being so insensitive, they must be braindead already.

WHAT could have caused the 50 ft flames which engulfed a warehouse on the East
London Olympic park site? Rumours are that an arsonist is at work. A woman
identified as Tessa Jowell has been seen in the area, regularly making huge
bonfires of taxpayers' money.

Ten days ago she announced the Olympic stadium would cost GBP 500million, not
GBP 280million as first estimated.

With Jowell overseeing value for money in this project, you ain't seen nothin'
yet.

You can judge her financial acumen by her understanding of her own finances.
When her fat-cat lawyer husband David Mills was being investigated in Italy for
money laundering and tax fraud, it emerged Tessa had co-signed a mortgage on
their London home. Italian prosecutors allege Mills later repaid the loan with
illicit cash from Italian scams.

Asked to explain her role, Tessa played the naïve "wee wifey". As a mere
Blairite Cabinet Minister, she knew it was better not to ask questions. No, she
had no idea why she had signed half her house away, nor how Mills had spent the
money, nor how he would repay it, nor that he had repaid the loan, nor where he
got the money to do that!

Tessa is now in charge of spending more than GBP 10billion of our money on the
Olympics.

Reassuring isn't it?

APPARENTLY, MPs are thinking of improving their "carbon footprint" by building a
115 ft windmill on the roof of the Palace of Westminster . Presumably , it will
be driven by hot air from the House of Commons chamber

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MONEY TO BURN: Smoke from the fire at the Olympic site, where Jowell is
in charge of spending

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday

COUNTRY DIARY

BYLINE: Robin Page

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words


I have just had an amazing evening in Shap, Cumbria. The company was good, the
canapés were wonderful and pounds 4,800 was raised for red squirrel
conservation. "Be careful,'' said my host, David Grayling, "the food may contain
nuts.'' But I found the grey squirrel pâté delicious.

Grayling is typical of those assembled: a local man living and working in the
Lakes and desperately worried about the future of the red squirrel. Incomers
arrive and leave, Defra and the National Park Authority appear to do nothing and
so one of the symbols of the Lake District becomes ever more endangered as the
grey invasion sweeps in.

It is a mystery why so many crucial issues have to be tackled by amateurs and
not by the professional conservationists. This Government seems happy to kill
livestock as part of its medieval method of controlling foot-and-mouth, but it
is reluctant to kill a pretty wild animal, the grey squirrel, for fear of
upsetting bunny (or squirrel) huggers.

In addition to their red squirrels disappearing, the locals are fed up with
seeing Lake District property sold to second-homers for astronomical prices and
hill farmers going broke. The absurd rules restricting the sale of lambs off the
hills, because of foot-and-mouth in Surrey and blue-tongue-carrying midges in
East Anglia, has seen lamb prices plummet. It can't be long before Defra orders
all farmers to ear-tag midges.

Farmers can move sheep and cattle, but they must first spray or dip them

with Defra's recommended insecticide - an organophosphate spray

that has already been recognised as extremely dangerous to shepherds

and cattlemen.

Because of my concern for Lakeland people, I recently applied to become a member
of the Lake District National Park Authority. But despite being founder of the
Countryside Restoration Trust and a member of the Council of the National Trust
(which owns 25 per cent of the Lake District) and having years of local
authority planning experience, I was not even called for an interview.

I suppose I should have known better. When the need for new members was
announced by Defra, it stated: "Applications are particularly encouraged from
members of ethnic minorities, young people and disabled people.'' Well,
traditional country folk are now in such small numbers that we must surely be
classified as an ethnic minority. I am also young at heart (at least, Lulu tells
me, I am childish). Apparently this was not good enough.

Admittedly I did refuse

to fill in some of the forms, such as a "Diversity Monitoring Questionnaire''.
Why should I, interested in the welfare of the Lake District, have to say
whether I am "white'', "black'', "Black Caribbean'' or "Asian Bangladeshi''?
Defra says it welcomes applications irrespective

of age, race, gender and disability, so why does it then ask about colour

and state that it wants "young people''? Defra's application form seems to me to
be ageist, racist and healthist.

Oh dear, there is more:

a "Political Activity Questionnaire'' wanting to know my political activity over
the past five years. Excuse me, but what has this got to do with Defra? And what
has my anti-EU Ukip membership got to do with saving the red squirrel and
wanting to get a better deal for the hill farmers of the Lakes?

To order a copy of Carry On Regardless (Bird's Farm Books) by Robin Page for
pounds 10.50 (rrp pounds 12.50) plus pounds 1.25 p&p, call Telegraph Books on
0870 155 7222.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 16, 2007

Brought to a warhead

LENGTH: 2268 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the Wrap.


IRAN HITS NUCLEAR 'RED LINE'

Iran has received a "mixed review" of its atomic plans from the UN, reports the
International Herald Tribune. The report from the UN watchdog, the International
Atomic Energy Agency, said that while Tehran has made important strides towards
transparency about its nuclear activities, key questions remain unanswered and
it has significantly increased uranium enrichment.

The Guardian picks up on the latter point and reports that Iran has installed
3,000 centrifuges for enriching uranium, enough to begin industrial-scale
production of nuclear fuel and build a warhead within a year. The paper says it
marks the "red line" drawn by the US across which Washington had said it would
not let Iran pass. The news that Iran has reached the benchmark "brings closer a
moment of truth for the Bush administration, when it will have to choose between
taking military action or abandoning its red line, and accepting Iran's
technical mastery of uranium enrichment", says the Guardian.

The UN security council will meet later this month to discuss the report, with
the group's chief negotiator holding last ditch talks with Iranian officials in
the meantime.

* Decision time for US over Iran threat * IHT: Iran gets a mixed review on atom
plans

BROWN SHORTENS MILIBAND'S EU LEASH

Were the Guardian and the Independent listening to the same speech when the
foreign secretary, David Miliband, presented his vision of Europe in Bruges last
night?

It was a "meaty speech", approves the Guardian, underpinned "by an ease about
being European, not an insistence on being different or better". At its core was
a plea for an outward-looking EU and we need much more of this, says the paper.

No, it was a "very odd speech", disagrees the Independent. The foreign secretary
had a "strangely belligerent vision" of Europe's role in the world, it was
"depressing" how much was designed to appeal to a Eurosceptic British press and
he demonstrated a lack ambition for the future of the EU.

Perhaps the Times has the answer. Miliband was "humiliated" by the prime
minister, says the paper, when he was forced to remove pro-European passages
from his speech and drop his policy initiative on European defence just hours
before he was due to speak

According to the Times, Gordon Brown ordered Miliband to drop explicit
references to an "EU military capabilities charter", which would have identified
targets for investment, research and training. Brown also insisted that Miliband
drop a passage mentioning Europe's "ability to set standards for the rest of the
world", and a passage saying that Europe could become a "model power" was
changed to "model regional power".

Still, the paper's Bronwen Maddox liked the speech. She calls it "resonant and
moving" - although "if a minister is going to plant key quotations in the media
precisely to get his speech more attention, then it is daft to excise the most
ringing phrases in the final text, and it is comedy to produce two versions of a
20-year vision within 24 hours".

The paper's leader column, meanwhile, says that while at the heart of Miliband's
speech was the need for Europe to exploit both "soft" and "hard" power to
advance democracy, questions remain at home about whether he has hard, soft or
minimal power over the direction of foreign policy. He should shape policy on
Afghanistan and Iraq, take on the Department for International Development and
assume more of a lead on Pakistan and Iran. It is not enough to be "nice and
bright and cheery", concludes the paper.

* Britain scorns France's plans for EU defence * Leader: Best of both worlds *
Independent: Such narrow horizons * Times: Another Bruges speech stirs up
controversy * Times: Resonant address

COME BACK WHERE YOU CAME FROM

The Independent and the Telegraph follow the same lead this morning, but the
Indy has the better headline. "Migration Watch: astounding new figures show
record numbers of migrants are crossing the world in search of better
lifestyles. Should they be welcomed? Are they parasites? Or should they all go
back to where they come from?*" the paper splashes over a union flag. Below, the
asterix reveals: "*That's Britain, by the way".

Last year 207,000 UK nationals left the country in search of a better quality of
life - equivalent to 567 every day. The figures, from the Office for National
Statistics, are the highest ever. Australia, Spain and France were the most
popular destinations, with the US and New Zealand also proving popular. Just
over 100,000 were taking up a new job, with another 82,000 emigrating to find
work. The rest were retiring, moving to be with relatives abroad or studying.

The Telegraph says that despite the exodus, Britain's population is still
growing rapidly because of the "record number of foreigners who settled here" -
510,000. Only 14% of these were Britons coming home, with the biggest influx
from the new Commonwealth - India, Pakistan, Bagladesh and Sri Lanka. In its
leader on the subject, the paper says that when the two trends are set against
each other, we see "profound implications". Most of all, the paper worries about
why so many Britons want to leave the country. It thinks it knows the answer. As
well as the obvious "pull" factors of lower living costs and more sunshine, it
identifies "push" factors that make life in this country unsatisfactory: "High
taxes, intrusive government, unsafe streets, dirty hospitals, a coarseness of
society that is squeezing out the old-fashioned virtues of courtesy and
consideration - expats everywhere cite these aspects of life in modern Britain
to justify their escape." We need a grown-up debate on the "big issues" of
population management, decides the paper.

* Independent: Record numbers seek new lives abroad * Telegraph: Immigration
outpaces British exodus * Telegraph, leader: Immigration's flip side

BA DEAL OPENS WAY FOR STRIKE COMPENSATION

British Airways is facing compensation claims from passengers left stranded by
the airline in February because of an industrial dispute, reports the Times. BA
had rejected claims relating to the dispute and argued that a clause in the
European Union regulation on passenger rights meant it did not have to pay
compensation. However, the airline has agreed to pay two passengers GBP430 each
after they were stuck in Cape Town on February 2. The airline tried to keep the
deal secret but the handling company refused, opening the way for thousands of
other passengers to make claims. It could lead to a multi-million pound
compensation bill for BA, says the Times.

* Times: BA offers GBP430 to strike-hit passengers

SURVEY REVEALS ADOLESCENT ANGST

A new Ofsted survey of more than 110,000 children gives an insight into the
hopes, fears, health and diet of adolescents in the 21st century. The paper's
reporting of the results is very much a case of glass half-empty or half-full.
"The revealing portrait of 10- to 15-year-olds suggests a generation of
conscientious students who are deeply concerned about their own education and
skilled critics of their classes and teachers. Many do voluntary work and sports
- 40% exercise more than six times a week," says the Guardian encouragingly.

However, a significant minority regularly take drugs, drink and smoke, and it is
this minority that the Times focuses on. The survey provides a "disturbing
picture" of growing up in Britain, worries the paper. A quarter of those aged 14
and 15 regularly got drunk while others had taken Class A drugs such as heroin
and cocaine (3%). However, the paper acknowledges, while worries about bullying
and exams featured highly, "many of the children's fears - such as getting into
trouble and how to deal with members of the opposite sex - had changed little
since the days when their parents were young".

* Bullying, exams and drugs - pupils reveal hopes and fears * Times: Worries
about money and exam stresses

MCCANNS FACE PRIVATE PROSECUTION THREAT

The tabloids go on a crime spree this morning, each picking up and splashing
with a different killing case. The Sun goes for a crime and celebrity cocktail
with the news that a close childhood friend of the X Factor chart-topper Leona
Lewis was shot dead by hoodies. Etem Celebi, 17, "was blasted yards from his
North London home and died in his screaming parents arms", reports the red-top.
The Mirror continues its coverage of a potential serial killer case, while the
Mail leads with the Labour MP's niece who is behind bars in France after
allegedly killing her lover in a "violent and drunken [word omitted] game at her
upmarket Paris flat".

After a couple of days off, the Express returns the McCann story to its front
page. It says a retired solicitor (and former prospective parliamentary
candidate for the UK Independence party) has threatened the parents of the
missing child Madeleine with a private prosecution for alleged child neglect for
leaving her unattended. The paper also finds room on its front page for a
picture of Jill Dando and the news that a retrial has been ordered into her
murder after the conviction against Barry George, found guilty six years ago of
killing the TV presenter, was quashed in the court of appeal.

* Sun: Leona pal: shot in the back * Mail: MP's niece 'who slit lover's throat
during sex' was 'inspired' by Meredith case * Express: McCanns to face neglect
charges

THE PRINCE WHO WOULD BE BLING

An uncharacteristically ostentatious display of boys' toys features on the front
of the Guardian- guns, cigars, a Chevy 4x4, a gem-encrusted gold watch ... it's
enough to send a chill through the soul of the average sandal-wearer. The man
behind this blingtastic array is the Saudi prince and ambassador to Britain,
Mohammed bin Nawwaf bin Abdul Aziz, a nephew of King Abdullah. It has landed him
in court after he ignored a judgment last month to pay GBP3m to his family's
former private secretary Walid El Hage, who claims he spent the money on their
behalf. The Guardian delights in the details of the case and lays bare the
extravagant life of a Saudi prince with a page of reproduced documents from the
court case listing the items bought for him. In addition to the guns, cars and
karaoke kits, there is a takeaway meal costing USD800 (GBP391) and USD2,500 on a
trip to a hotel in Casablanca, itemised as "Girls: party night 5".

* Hey big spender

NORTHERN ROCK BIDS IN

Today is the deadline for bids to buy the stricken bank Northern Rock, and the
FT reports that between six and eight proposals are expected - most priced
aggressively low. Some bidders are thought to have lodged very low offers in the
expectation that the government would provide some form of support after any
takeover. Three private equity groups are among those expected to put in a bid
to buy the whole bank and, suggests the FT, a private equity sale could be
"politically awkward", particularly if it is underwritten by taxpayer-backed
loans and then subsequently sold at a big profit. But, says the paper, the
chancellor, Alistair Darling, will next week make it clear he has no prejudice
against a buy-out firm winning Northern Rock.

* FT: Up to 8 expected to bid low for Rock

A DEADHEAD UNDER THE BED

Intriguing background on the new chief of intelligence, Alex Allan, is provided
by the Times. It appears that Allan, the permanent secretary at the Ministry of
Justice and soon to become the government's top intelligence adviser, is a
Deadhead.

The paper describes the Grateful Dead as a "leading American 'underground' band
during the hippy era" and says that Allan explains on his website that "I first
saw the Dead in the mud at Bickershawe in 1972 and was so knocked out ... I have
been a Deadhead ever since".

The paper adds that Allan, 56, is one of Whitehall's "more colourful characters.
During a 1980s train strike he went to work on a windsurfer up the Thames,
complete with pinstripe suit, bowler hat, briefcase and brolly. He came a
cropper, ending up in the river."

The Indy provides some further background information on the Deads: "Their
dedicated fans, known as Deadheads, followed them from gig to gig, like one big
extended family. They were so well behaved that one California police chief said
he would rather be on duty at nine Grateful Dead concerts than one American
football game. Their placid conduct could, of course, be largely attributed to
the soporific effects of marijuana."

Allan's new job is a fulltime post that requires him to read all the most secret
intelligence and to assess its value before providing a weekly summary for the
prime minister and other appropriate cabinet ministers in the so-called Red
Book.

The Telegraph is not amused at all. It says it uncovered the "security breach"
posed by Allan's website, which shows the civil servant "posing in a skin-tight
cycling outfit" and includes his home address, landline and mobile numbers. It
all "raises questions over the vetting of senior Whitehall intelligence
officials", sniffs the paper.

* Times: Establishment meets counter-culture * Independent: New spy chief is the
ultimate Deadhead

BREAKING NEWS

A cyclone that hit the coast of Bangladesh has killed at least 242 people and
left thousands homeless, government officials said today

COMING UP ON GUARDIAN UNLIMITED TODAY

The Pakistani president, Pervez Musharraf, swears in a caretaker government
despite the threat of an opposition boycott

The UN's human rights committee votes in favour of a resolution calling for a
moratorium on the death penalty

Live minute-by-minute coverage of the England v Austria football match

FREE DVD PLAYER!

Get a free portable DVD player by joining Sofa Cinema - the Guardian's DVD
rental club. Read more about it here

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2007  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               26 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 16, 2007, Friday

Another Bruges speech stirs up controversy as Brown weighs in

BYLINE: Sam Coates, Chief Political Correspondent, David Charter, Bruges

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 700 words


* Miliband forced into last-minute changes

* Revised text shows more cautious approach

David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, was humiliated by the Prime Minister
yesterday when he was forced to remove pro-European passages from a speech and
drop his policy initiative on European defence.

Gordon Brown's intervention, hours before Mr Miliband was due to speak in
Bruges, again demonstrated the willingness of the Prime Minister to overrule his
ministers at short notice, as well as having a more cautious attitude towards
Europe.

Mr Brown ordered Mr Miliband to drop explicit references to an "EU military
capabilities charter", which would have identified targets for investment,
research and training.

The idea would have aligned Britain with plans from President Sarkozy of France
to beef up Europe's shared defence forces and set out a plan for the future
deployment and equipping of troops from the 27 member states working together.

However, in questions after the speech, Mr Miliband moved even more decisively
away from the position of Mr Sarkozy, who wants a common EU defence.

Mr Miliband said: "Let's not have impetus to duplicate the work that is done
either by Nato or nation states in a new European institution. Let's get on with
using the institutions we have got to make progress."

The Prime Minister also insisted that Mr Miliband drop a passage mentioning
Europe's "ability to set standards for the rest of the world", and a passage
saying that Europe could become a "model power" was changed to "model regional
power".

At one point the briefing suggested that he would talk about enlarging the
single market to Africa. In the final speech, he refers to a free-trade zone for
"the countries of the Maghreb".

The differences came to light after Mr Miliband's special adviser e-mailed
journalists a two-page briefing the night before, containing advance passages of
the speech. The final text, which was delivered yesterday, varied sharply from
the first version.

Downing Street confirmed yesterday that the Prime Minister had seen the speech
and discussed its contents with the Foreign Secretary, but a source close to Mr
Miliband denied that he had been overruled at the last minute over its language
and content.

The source said the substance of the speech did not change andthe military
capability review had been long mooted in other Whitehall departments.

Many of the changes suggest Mr Brown is more sceptical about Europe's chances of
achieving change than Mr Miliband. In the original version, sent out on
Wednesday night, Mr Miliband was due to say: "Europe must step into this void.
There is a clear fork in the road...Face losing our hard power by not being
prepared to intervene. Face losing our soft power by closing off further
enlargement and a bolder near neighbourhood policy."

But in the version he delivered, he said: "Europe has the chance to help fill
this void. There is a clear choice ... Fail to combine hard and soft power, the
disciplines and benefits of membership with the ability to make a difference
beyond our border."

Mr Miliband's aim had been to slay the "demons" of Euroscepticism that he said
haunted Margaret Thatcher's speech in Bruges 19 years ago. Ironically, chief
among the five key principles of Britain's role in Europe set out by Mrs
Thatcher was building up the capacity of Nato to co-ordinate Europe's defence
-the same message eventually given by Mr Miliband.

Miliband's world

Leading article, page 20

* WAR OF WORDS

* When Margaret Thatcher was invited to speak in Bruges on the subject of
Britain and Europe in 1988, she said it was like "inviting Genghis Khan to speak
on the virtues of peaceful co-existence"

* She challenged the vision for an ever-closer union saying: "We have not rolled
back the frontiers of the state in Britain, only to see them re-imposed at a
European level."

* Her words acted as a catalyst for British Eurosceptics and the founding of the
anti-EC Bruges Group. The group was not officially linked to the Conservative
party, but some MPs aligned themselves with it

* The group has now splintered, with former members switching to the Referendum
and UK Independence parties

* Source: College of Europe, Times archives, Bruges Group

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday

The Union's future

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 111 words


SIR - The Union should not be ended (Simon Heffer, Comment, November 14). New
Labour's devolution on national lines was a stupid political mistake.

Consideration ought to be given to Ukip's policy on this. Abolish the Scottish
Parliament and Welsh Assembly and use their underemployed buildings for the MPs
of the two countries for one week a month to debate their local affairs while
the English MPs do the same in Westminster.

The answer to the West Lothian Question also lies in MEP Daniel Hannan's ideas
for major devolution of power - including revenue raising - over policing,
education and health to local councils throughout Britain.

Sir George Earle

Crediton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday

International: Xenophobia destroys EU's ultra-rightwing MEP group

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 330 words


Europe's first international grouping of neo-fascists, extreme nationalists and
ultra-rightwingers collapsed in disarray yesterday, with its members incapable
of overcoming the nationalist hostilities pitting them against one another.

The Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty grouping of MEPs from Italy, France,
Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Britain in the European parliament fell apart in
acrimony because of the disputes between Italy and Romania over immigration and
crime.

This week Alessandra Mussolini, the Italian neo-fascist, MEP and granddaughter
of the Italian dictator, declared that all Romanians were criminals, triggering
outrage among MEPs from Romania's extreme Greater Romania party. Five quit the
ITS caucus in protest, meaning that the transnational club failed to muster the
20 MEPs needed to qualify as a caucus in the European parliament and to benefit
from funding and perks.

Romania and Bulgaria joined the EU in January, with their batch of far-right
MEPs making it possible to form the caucus.

Parliament burst into applause on the implosion of the extremist grouping, which
was formed just 10 months ago.

"Members of this rightwing group have been fighting among themselves like
ferrets in a sack. They can't even agree on the day of the week," said Gary
Titley, a Labour MEP.

Ashley Mote, previously of the UK Independence party and currently serving a
prison sentence for benefit fraud, was the sole British member of the caucus.

The caucus linked France's National Front with Italy's neo-fascists, a former
disciple of Jorg Haider, the Austrian nationalist, and xenophobes from Romania
and Bulgaria. But the grouping struggled to hold together, not least because of
mutually antagonistic nationalisms.

Martin Schulz, the German leader of the socialists in the parliament, said: "The
good news is that the 'international' of the ultra-nationalists no longer exists
and cannot use the money of the European taxpayer to support its xenophobia and
neo-fascism."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

A serious debate that could have been wild, funny and dangerous;
First Night;
statement of regret Cottesloe Theatre London

BYLINE: Paul Taylor

SECTION: ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words


This latest work by the award-winning playwright Kwame Kwei-Armah has a wilder,
funnier, more dangerous and ultimately more tragic piece struggling to get out -
but it's caught by the ankle in the trap of a 1970s debate-style drama.

The scenario that would benefit by being treated with a free-wheeling ferocity
focuses on the co-founder of a Black Policy think-tank and shows how - under
multiple pressures deriving from guilt over a recently deceased West Indian
father and conflicted emotions over his two sons (one legitimate, one not) - he
succumbs to the bottle and to mental crack-up. He turns into an outrageous loose
cannon, spouting to the media his view that money should be paid in reparation
for slavery only to blacks of West Indian descent. So anti-African does he
become that the BNP and UKIP farcically start to woo him. Like Hamlet crossed
with Lear, he listens to the promptings of a revenant father and winds up an
old, lonely mess of madness-cum-sanity.

What this material needs is the reckless, searching, no-holds-barred talents of
a Patrick Marber in his Howard Katz and Don Juan in Soho mode. Instead, for the
most part, Kwei-Armah deploys the spell-it-all-out, tidy-minded methods of a
David Edgar.

Premiered in a production of woefully stiff staginess by Jeremy Herrin,
Statement of Regret is located throughout in the offices of the think-tank
where, after a break, Don Warrington's Kwaku Mackenzie returns to find that
there has been an ideological shift among his staff. The think-tank may have
been instrumental in the creation of a new Ministry of Race but now "the
[smart]money is in self-criticism" - research, say, into varying educational
achievement levels within the black community rather than the struggle for
reparation.

The play raises important issues. The think-tank is a classic case of an
institution striving to preserve itself at the expense of reneging on its
original principles. The hostility between the two sons encapsulates a larger
conflict arguably played out as part of a white-dictated game. Does the buck
never stop?

The trouble, though, is the presentation. There's a leaden, creaky explicitness
to the writing and the production. Nothing is oblique, or free enough to take
itself by surprise.

You know that this will be the case from the moment that the new intern (not yet
disclosed as the illegitimate son) enters and begins volubly contradicting his
bosses and brandishing his credentials as a First-Class Oxbridge graduate and a
PhD expert on "post-traumatic slave syndrome". It's the kind of production where
characters are mechanically dragged to centre stage when they are delivering a
"big point".

The office has an in-house eccentric, a kind of Wise Fool figure who is
significantly given an insufficient airing. Struck by Kwaku for making a humane
intervention, he cries: "I can't take it ... I can't take it." He's not the only
one.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

Referendums on EU treaty would be lost, says Sarkozy

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 417 words


REFERENDUMS on the new European Union Treaty were "dangerous'' and would be lost
in France, Britain and other countries, Nicolas Sarkozy admitted yesterday.

The French president's confession that governments could not win popular votes
on a "simplified treaty'' - drawn up to replace the EU constitution rejected by
his countrymen two years ago - was made in a closed meeting of senior Euro-MPs.

"France was just ahead of all the other countries in voting no. It would happen
in all member states if they have a referendum. There is a cleavage between
people and governments,'' he said.

"A referendum now would bring Europe into danger. There will be no Treaty if we
had a referendum in France, which would again be followed by a referendum in the
UK.''

The comments confirm suspicions that the real reason why Britain, and all other
EU countries, apart from Ireland, were refusing to hold popular votes was
because governments were afraid they would lose them.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, accused Mr Sarkozy and
Gordon Brown of following "an utterly cynical political plan''. "Not only does
he stop his own people from having a say but he is trying to block Britain from
having the referendum which our government promised,'' he said.

Mark Francois, the Conservative Europe spokesman, said: "President Sarkozy is
right to say that there's a cleavage between people and governments in the EU.
In Britain that will only get worse if Gordon Brown persists in breaking his
solemn manifesto promise on a referendum. That is why the British people should
have their say.'' Speaking earlier in front of the European Parliament, in
Strasbourg, Mr Sarkozy made public comments that would further alarm Downing
Street. Mr Brown, when signing the new EU Treaty last month, promised that he
would oppose any further European integration for at least a decade.

But the French president told MEPs: "It would be a mistake to think that with
the simplified treaty we have sorted everything, we can sleep easy and that no
other issues are pending.''

He is planning to use his turn at the EU's rotating presidency, in the second
half of next year, to call for new European powers in highly sensitive areas
such as defence, which will dismay Mr Brown. The president said: "Now we have
got to resolve the political issues and to broach them without fear. We have got
to debate them without taboos. Budgetary policy, trade policy, monetary policy,
industrial policy, taxation, all policies, any policies.''

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

Letters - An 'EU referendum' in Cornwall

LENGTH: 203 words


I write in support of James Benton's letter (M Star November 5) concerning the
need for a referendum on the new EU constitution.

Commenting on this, I can inform your readership that, in the parish of Illogan
in Cornwall, we held a parish poll last Friday and 390 voters called for a
national referendum, with just 16 voting no.

Ninety-six per cent were in favour of a referendum.

This parish poll was held despite the fact that the local district council's
returning officer refused to hold it, as required in law, thus forcing the local
parishioners and a joint campaign with UKIP and the Liberal Party - not the Lib
Dems - to run and fund the costs of the poll privately, without cost to the
parish council taxpayer.

The EU has wrecked the Cornish fishing industry and dairy and animal farming in
Cornwall. So, it is obvious that feelings run high in Cornwall on this matter.

It is interesting to note that the Liberal Democrats chose to boycott the poll
and not campaign for a No vote.

I would urge your readers in rural areas to use the powers vested in the 1972
Parish Act to convene parish meetings calling for a national referendum on the
new EU constitution, just as Illogan parish has done.

Cllr PAUL HOLMES, Illogan.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday

EU's pact over poll exposed

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 135  words


FRENCH President Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday revealed a secret pact to avoid a
referendum on the EU Treaty.

Mr Sarkozy said there would be "no referendum in France as that would mean
having one in Britain and that would be a danger to Europe".

It was an admission that UK voters would reject the Treaty -which hands swathes
of powers to Brussels.

PM Gordon Brown has refused to honour Labour's manifesto pledge to hold a
referendum -despite demands from 125,000 Sun readers.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Mr Sarkozy was "guilty of an utterly cynical
political plan". He added: "Not only does he stop his own people having a say,
he is blocking Britain from having the referendum this government promised."

AUDITORS slammed the EU's accounts for a 13th year running for spending
"irregularities".

The Sun Says -Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 13, 2007 Tuesday

National: Political briefing: Rape conviction rates offer no easy answers

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 463 words


Comparing Europe's conviction rates for rape, as David Cameron did yesterday, is
difficult. On the face of it, the strikingly low rate of conviction in England
and Wales - 796, or 5.6%, of reported rapes in 2006-07, three rapes in four
still unreported - compared with Italy's 48.8% rate is unlikely to be the whole
story.

Can things be so much better there, barely a decade after rape was upgraded from
a "moral offence" to a criminal felony and the "jeans alibi" - that an Italian
woman wearing demins must have helped to remove them - briefly flourished.

There can be no denying that as the police and Crown Prosecution Service have
come to treat rape as seriously as it deserves, the faster have conviction rates
plummeted. Britain is not alone in this experience.

With Labour quick to remind voters of its repeated efforts to make the law more
effective since 1997 and to deride his party's record, the Tory leader yesterday
made three proposals: to improve conviction rates and increase sentences; to
expand the number of rape crisis centres; and to change cultural attitudes, by
which Cameron means that "No means no", even in a permissive, binge boozing and
overly-sexualised society like ours.

Fair enough, though getting the cautious CPS even to prosecute deserving cases
is more of a problem than he seems to realise. As for tougher sentences, the
more serious a conviction may prove to a young man, the less a jury may want to
convict on what is often disputed evidence between two witnesses who know each
other very well. The same reluctance was evident when murder was still a hanging
offence before 1965.

Ministers like Vera Baird QC, the no-nonsense solicitor general, were ready to
further tweak the law to allow expert witnesses to explain the behaviour of rape
victims to lay juries. They recoiled this autumn, for fear that defence lawyers
might do the same, to better effect.

The paradox is striking. More people than ever deplore violence against women.
Yet the problem seems to get worse .

Cameron did not actually intend to attract such headlines for his speech
yesterday to the Conservative Women's Organisation. But he does both want and
need to persuade the wider female electorate that the Tories have changed more
than their candidates list suggests.

That list is mostly hardline Eurosceptic, foreigner-bashing (Scots included) and
blokeish, a survey on the ConservativeHome website enthusiastically reported
yesterday.

No wonder Labour increased its poll share among AB women in 2005. Even Ukip
chipped in to deplore rape yesterday, along with what it seems to think are
Labour conviction "targets".

But serious Labour feminists know there is a deeper problem here. "Everything
politicians have tried to do in recent years has failed," one MP admitted last
night.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 12, 2007, Monday

The return of disgraced former minister

BYLINE: Greg Hurst Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 453 words


* Jonathan Aitken to chair social justice group

* Appointment seen as shift to right for party

Jonathan Aitken, the disgraced former Cabinet minister who served a prison term
for perjury, will return to frontline politics today to head a policy review for
a conservative think-tank.

He is to chair a review of prison policy for the Centre for Social Justice,
which was set up by Iain Duncan Smith, the former Conservative leader, to
develop ideas to tackle poverty.

For Mr Aitken it marks a rehabilitation in Tory politics after spending seven
months in jail following a libel case in which he asked his teenage daughter to
lie for him. While in prison he says that he became a committed Christian and
since his release has written about the case for prison reform.

One idea his review will consider is the recruitment of volunteers to help
prisoners on their release by acting as mentors, or with practical assistance
such as literacy training. Mr Aitken told Sky News yesterday: "My prison
sentence was certainly a painful experience, but it was also a positive
experience because I learnt a tremendous amount.

"Having had a worm's eye view in my life of prison and also having had something
of a bird's eye view of government, I think that maybe I will bring some things
to this group of experts -which is a team of which I am only one member."

Less than three years ago Michael Howard, then the party leader and a friend,
intervened to block an attempt by Mr Aitken to return to the House of Commons by
seeking to be the candidate for his former marginal seat of Thanet South.
However, allies have long believed that a role should be found for him within
the Tory party even though Mr Aitken, a Eurosceptic, later flirted with the UK
Independence Party, saying that he had voted UKIP in the European elections in
2004. He was sentenced to 18 months in prison in 1999 after failing in a libel
case against The Guardian, which reported that the then Defence Minister had
stayed at a Paris hotel as a guest of a Saudi business contact.

Although the Centre for Social Justice is independent of the Conservative Party,
it has achieved growing influence in Tory circles. Mr Duncan Smith was asked by
David Cameron to chair one of his key policy commissions on social justice. Mr
Aitken's role will be announced today as Mr Duncan Smith reveals a programme
that includes policy reviews on the criminal justice system, welfare dependency,
treatment of asylum seekers, family law, addiction and provision for children
under 3.

The influence of Mr Duncan Smith's think-tank will be seen by some as a sign of
the growing strength of the party's Right, which wants a referendum on the EU
Reform Treaty even if it is ratified by Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               November 11, 2007

He won't give up the fight

BYLINE: Gillian Harris

SECTION: FEATURES; Ecosse with News Review; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1608 words


The Scots publican Hamish Howitt may not smoke, but he is determined to 'defy
the nanny state' over the smoking ban, writes Gillian Harris

The narrow entrance to Hamish Howitt's pub is partially obscured by campaign
posters that make his premises look more like the headquarters of a political
party than a spit-and-sawdust bar off Blackpool's Promenade.

Old signs advertising drink promotions, a pool table and big-screen television
are overshadowed by a colourful display in support of smokers' rights and a
playful warning that alcohol will be next on the government's hit list. "Jogging
to be made compulsory," it reads. "You can't have gin and tonic -it's now gym
and tonic."

Howitt acknowledges that the Happy Scots Bar, an old-fashioned local pub, has
been transformed since the smoking ban came into effect in England on July 1.
"It has become a political battlefield," he says. "At the moment I'm fighting a
lone battle, but more people are signing up every day. This is a fight I won't
give up."

Last week Howitt, from Glasgow, became the first pub landlord to appear in court
in England charged with flouting the smoking ban. He was served with 12
summonses for persistently allowing customers to light up and could have been
fined £ 2,500 for each infringement.

Instead, Peter Ward, the district judge at Blackpool magistrates' court, told
Howitt, who pleaded guilty, that he refused to make a martyr of him and fined
him £ 500 with £ 2,000 prosecution costs. The judge described his campaign as
"silly, misguided and pointless" and urged him to comply with the law in future.
Within hours, an unrepentant Howitt was back in his pub, with about 50
supporters, all puffing away at the bar.

"I've no intention of complying with the ban," he says. "I'd be happy to go to
prison over this. I'd welcome it if it draws attention to this legislation,
which, in my view, is a hate crime against people who pay their taxes and are
not doing anything illegal by smoking.

"I think the judge was pretty lenient in terms of the sentence, but I don't
believe what I'm doing is silly or pointless. That was very condescending. I see
the impact of the ban on my customers. I see them having to stand outside,
shamed and humiliated, in all weathers, with people mocking them. This ban has
kicked people who are already down. The reason I will not comply is that nobody
else is making a stand. If I don't do it, who is going to stop that government
juggernaut riding over every aspect of our lives?"

Howitt relishes his role as spokesman for an embryonic political movement. He
has formed his own political party, Fags (Fight Against Government Suppression),
although he has gone off the name and is casting around for alternatives. "I was
thinking of Class -Curfew Lawful Apathy Suppressed Smokescreen," he says.

What does that mean, exactly?

"It's all about standing up for the working class and the smoking ban is a
smokescreen. The name might change, but I'm all about politics with a passion
for defending the rights of the underdog, and the working class is the most
vulnerable group in our society right now," he replies.

Howitt sees himself as a visionary with no interest in party politics. He tore
up his Labour party membership card the day the smoking ban came into effect.
When he began his campaign, he says he was approached by UKIP to join that
party, but he declined because "I don't agree with anything they stand for". He
spoke at a fringe meeting at the Conservative party conference in Blackpool,
sponsored by Forest, the pro-smoking lobby group, but is not a Tory or closely
aligned with Forest. "They think my approach is too radical."

When Howitt talks about political role models, he doesn't name prime ministers,
but iconic figures who led revolutionary movements -Martin Luther King, for
example, and Emmeline Pankhurst. He is also a big fan of Peter Tatchell,
co-founder of the gay rights group OutRage!

"What he has done for gay rights is fantastic. You cannot discriminate against
gays in our society -which is right and I totally agree with -and it's down to
people like Tatchell. Now smokers are being put in the closet. They are the
persecuted minority."

Does he see himself as the Tatchell or King of the smokers' rights lobby? "I
love all that 'I have a dream' speech, but to fund that sort of movement costs a
lot and right now I don't have the funds. They are the sort of people I look up
to, though."

In the run-up to his court case, Howitt received a trickle of donations from
supporters. Last week an 83-year-old widower gave him £ 100, taking his total to
about £ 1,500. So far, he has spent £ 40,000 on his defence. His website has
received more than 16,000 hits and he has about 150 letters from supporters
telling him to keep up the good work.

"Unfortunately, most of the letters include a line about not being able to
donate to my campaign, but some stick in a fiver," he says. He claims profits
from his bar are expected to fall from almost £ 1m before the ban to about £
350,000 next year. Lack of money is his biggest obstacle. He remains defiant
about breaking the law but an avalanche of fines could lead to the collapse of
his business.

But Howitt is an optimist and right now he's not allowing the threat of looming
bankruptcy to dampen his mood. "I believe in the entrepreneurial spirit," he
says.

"That will get me through this battle against government interference without
compensation."

He remains, however, gravely disappointed by his fellow Scots, who he feels
should have led the way on opposing the ban when it came into effect north of
the border in March 2006. "I couldn't believe the apathy in Scotland. I would
have expected much more defiance and a real backlash against the government.
People just caved in. All I saw was a defeated people and that made me sad."

Since the ban was implemented in Scotland, the only person to be prosecuted is
John Wraith, 67, who was charged after allegedly refusing to put out his
cigarette at the Burnett Arms Hotel in Kemnay, Aberdeenshire. He denied the
charge at Aberdeen sheriff court and awaits trial.

What irritates Howitt is that working-class Scots are among the biggest groups
affected by the ban. "The people I used to know wouldn't have stood for this,"
he says.

Growing up in Royston, one of 14 children, 11 of whom lived together in a
single-end flat, Howitt says he was always aware of deprivation and the effect
it had on families.

Although he was offered a partial bursary to Hutchesons' Grammar School in the
city, his parents could not afford the rest of the fees. "There were too many of
us and not enough money," he says.

"My mum and dad weren't going to pay for me to go to a good school when I had a
brother or sister who needed new clothes."

Howitt wound up leaving school at 16 without any qualifications. "I ended up in
a bit of trouble," he admits. "I got into gangs. It wasn't a great time."

Afterwards, he went travelling for 20 years, stopping off in New York, then San
Francisco, to run bars. On his return to Britain, he stayed in the pub business,
winding up in Blackpool 11 years ago at the Happy Scots Bar, which he runs with
his wife, Joanne, and son, Hugh.

Before July, most of the pub's 5,000 customers a week were regulars who wandered
in for a pint, a chat and smoke. Howitt estimates that up to 80% of his
customers are smokers. Once the ban came into effect, even with Howitt's policy
of allowing smokers to light up in the upstairs part of his split-level pub,
numbers fell to about 1,500 a week.

"It's changed the atmosphere," he says. "People don't want trading standards
officers coming in, slapping them with a fine. But they also don't want to spend
half their evening outside in the cold." In the past few months, seven of
Howitt's customers have been fined for smoking -Howitt paid the first three
fines and the others paid up themselves.

As vehemently pro-choice as Howitt is, he doesn't smoke himself. His wife does
and he wants her to give up. "I wish everyone would stop smoking," he says. "My
children don't and that's because I taught them that it was disgusting and
wrong.

But it's an addiction and I know why some people do smoke. It's the only
pleasure they have in life."

But with Department of Health and Scottish government figures showing that more
than 170,000 deaths a year throughout the UK are smoking- related, isn't the ban
helping to save lives? "Well, maybe. I know smoking is bad for you and I don't
make any of my bar staff work in the smoking area if they're afraid of passive
smoking. My argument isn't about smoking per se -it's the fact that the
government is taking away people's freedoms. And it is the working class that is
being hit the hardest."

It's an argument Simon Clark, director of Forest, agrees with. But he has
reservations about backing Howitt in his one-man campaign of defiance. "We are
very sympathetic to Hamish and we agree with the point he is trying to get
across," says Clark. "But we are reluctant to encourage him to continue to break
the law. It would be irresponsible when he could end up losing a family business
that he has worked for many years to build."

Howitt, meanwhile, is already fighting the next round. Four nights ago he was
visited by enforcement officers who found customers smoking. In a statement, Ian
Fowler, deputy leader of Blackpool council, said another prosecution was under
way.

But the self-styled defender of freedoms is worried, he isn't letting on. "If I
give in, where does it stop?" he says. "This is about fighting back against the
nanny state. Smokers are being treated like drug dealers and I have become their
standard bearer. I won't let them down."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why we now echo Enoch

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS; 31

LENGTH: 757  words


HALESOWEN Tories should revolt at the sacking of their candidate, Nigel
Hastilow, for saying, "Enoch was right". He was. And nearly everybody thinks so,
especially in places most affected by immigration such as the West Midlands.
None of the main parties w ill tell the truth. No wonder the BNP is picking up
votes.

The spineless response of the Tory leadership proves their recent conversion
from windmillloving and hoodie-hugging is only skin-deep.

They are still miles away from connecting with ordinary people, whose cities
have been overwhelmed by immigrants who will neither integrate nor accept our
culture. Margaret Thatcher harvested many of her votes because she articulated
the fear of being "swamped" by alien cultures. Who speaks for England now?

Enoch Powell was my friend for 30 years. He w as no racist. He entered politics
in devotion to the Indian Empire and was so saturated in its culture, he
qualified as an interpreter in Urdu.

He rebelled against the Macmillan Government over atrocities against African
detainees at Hola Camp in Kenya in 1959.

But Powell saw mass immigration would create problems. In "That Speech" in 1968,
he said, "As I look ahead I am filled w ith foreboding. Like the Roman, I seem
to see the river Tiber foaming with much blood." The Roman was Virgil, whom
Powell (a former Classics professor) quoted in the original Latin: "Et Thybrim
multo spumantem sanguine cerno." Powell feared a backlash from the scale and
speed of immigrant settlement in concentrated areas.

Immigration is out of control and millions of indigenous Britons feel like
foreigners in their own country. Even Gordon Broon recognises this. A few weeks
ago, posing as leader of the Brownish National Party, he promised "British j obs
for British workers." All spin and lies, of course. EU law, which Broon wants to
extend without a referendum, stops us deciding who we want to let into this
country.

Two weeks ago, Cabinet Minister Peter Hain (himself an undesirable immigrant)
came clean, admitting 1.1 million foreign nationals have taken jobs here since
1997, not 300,000 as previously claimed. The Office for National Statistics says
it is 1.5 million. Governments have routinely deceived the British people about
mass immigration. Those, like Enoch, who campaigned to close the door, were
abused as fantasists and racists. Yet, if we had had a referendum 40 years ago,
how many of us would have voted to transform our great cities into colonies of
foreign cultures?

In the Sixties and Seventies politicians lied about "New Commonwealth"
immigration. Now, it is Europe. Tony B Liar said only 13,000 Eastern Europeans
would come here when their countries joined the EU in 2004. At least 700,000
have arrived already! Rampant illegal immigration and over-staying means the
Government has no idea of the true figure.

Make an investment following grotesquely inaccurate claims and you get your
money back.

Sadly, we can't get our country back so easily.

In a blinding revelation that the best way to win Tory votes is to sound like a
Tory, not a Liberal, "Dave" Cameron temporarily jumped on the bandwagon,
promising immigration must "come down substantially". Believe it when you see
it. A short time ago, his acolytes dubbed the Tories the "Nasty Party" because
Michael Howard campaigned hard on immigration in the 2005 General Election. The
Hastilow case has revealed Cameron's true colours again.

BRITAIN (actually, England) is overcrowded. Gerard Batten, UKIP's excellent MEP
for London, reveals England is the most densely populated of the world's top 10
economies. It has 999 people per square mile - compared with 878 in Japan, 809
in India and only 355 in China. Germany has 600, France 284 and the USA a mere
81.

Official estimates predict our population will rise from 61million today to
71million in 2031. We can't blame migrants for wanting to come here.

Poles, Czechs and other Eastern Europeans are hard-working and culturally
assimilable. I studied Russian at school and university. I have Polish relatives
and Christine has a Polish god-daughter.

But immigration is principally a question of numbers. Our major cities have
become a kaleidoscope of ghettos, co-existing but not coalescing. Manchester
University demographers forecast that, by 2011 Leicester will be the first
British city where Brits are a minority.

Birmingham will follow by 2027. On current trends, ethnic Britons will cease to
be the majority group in Britain sometime in the next century.

Would you vote for that? Don't worry, the politicians won't ask you to.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CROWD CONTROL: These immigrants at Calais are part of a seemingly
unstoppable wave

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why we now echo Enoch

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS; 31

LENGTH: 757  words


HALESOWEN Tories should revolt at the sacking of their candidate, Nigel
Hastilow, for saying, "Enoch was right". He was. And nearly everybody thinks so,
especially in places most affected by immigration such as the West Midlands.
None of the main parties w ill tell the truth. No wonder the BNP is picking up
votes.

The spineless response of the Tory leadership proves their recent conversion
from windmillloving and hoodie-hugging is only skin-deep.

They are still miles away from connecting with ordinary people, whose cities
have been overwhelmed by immigrants who will neither integrate nor accept our
culture. Margaret Thatcher harvested many of her votes because she articulated
the fear of being "swamped" by alien cultures. Who speaks for England now?

Enoch Powell was my friend for 30 years. He w as no racist. He entered politics
in devotion to the Indian Empire and was so saturated in its culture, he
qualified as an interpreter in Urdu.

He rebelled against the Macmillan Government over atrocities against African
detainees at Hola Camp in Kenya in 1959.

But Powell saw mass immigration would create problems. In "That Speech" in 1968,
he said, "As I look ahead I am filled w ith foreboding. Like the Roman, I seem
to see the river Tiber foaming with much blood." The Roman was Virgil, whom
Powell (a former Classics professor) quoted in the original Latin: "Et Thybrim
multo spumantem sanguine cerno." Powell feared a backlash from the scale and
speed of immigrant settlement in concentrated areas.

Immigration is out of control and millions of indigenous Britons feel like
foreigners in their own country. Even Gordon Broon recognises this. A few weeks
ago, posing as leader of the Brownish National Party, he promised "British j obs
for British workers." All spin and lies, of course. EU law, which Broon wants to
extend without a referendum, stops us deciding who we want to let into this
country.

Two weeks ago, Cabinet Minister Peter Hain (himself an undesirable immigrant)
came clean, admitting 1.1 million foreign nationals have taken jobs here since
1997, not 300,000 as previously claimed. The Office for National Statistics says
it is 1.5 million. Governments have routinely deceived the British people about
mass immigration. Those, like Enoch, who campaigned to close the door, were
abused as fantasists and racists. Yet, if we had had a referendum 40 years ago,
how many of us would have voted to transform our great cities into colonies of
foreign cultures?

In the Sixties and Seventies politicians lied about "New Commonwealth"
immigration. Now, it is Europe. Tony B Liar said only 13,000 Eastern Europeans
would come here when their countries joined the EU in 2004. At least 700,000
have arrived already! Rampant illegal immigration and over-staying means the
Government has no idea of the true figure.

Make an investment following grotesquely inaccurate claims and you get your
money back.

Sadly, we can't get our country back so easily.

In a blinding revelation that the best way to win Tory votes is to sound like a
Tory, not a Liberal, "Dave" Cameron temporarily jumped on the bandwagon,
promising immigration must "come down substantially". Believe it when you see
it. A short time ago, his acolytes dubbed the Tories the "Nasty Party" because
Michael Howard campaigned hard on immigration in the 2005 General Election. The
Hastilow case has revealed Cameron's true colours again.

BRITAIN (actually, England) is overcrowded. Gerard Batten, UKIP's excellent MEP
for London, reveals England is the most densely populated of the world's top 10
economies. It has 999 people per square mile - compared with 878 in Japan, 809
in India and only 355 in China. Germany has 600, France 284 and the USA a mere
81.

Official estimates predict our population will rise from 61million today to
71million in 2031. We can't blame migrants for wanting to come here.

Poles, Czechs and other Eastern Europeans are hard-working and culturally
assimilable. I studied Russian at school and university. I have Polish relatives
and Christine has a Polish god-daughter.

But immigration is principally a question of numbers. Our major cities have
become a kaleidoscope of ghettos, co-existing but not coalescing. Manchester
University demographers forecast that, by 2011 Leicester will be the first
British city where Brits are a minority.

Birmingham will follow by 2027. On current trends, ethnic Britons will cease to
be the majority group in Britain sometime in the next century.

Would you vote for that? Don't worry, the politicians won't ask you to.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CROWD CONTROL: These immigrants at Calais are part of a seemingly
unstoppable wave

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

No10 flooded by crisis meetings;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 325  words


STRANGE goings-on at the Cabinet Office's Briefing Room A - the Whitehall bunker
where the Government's top level emergency meetings take place.

Meetings of the so-called Cobra committee used to be a rare event - Tony Blair
did not hold his first until the Kosovo crisis in 1999 and averaged only one
every six months after that. Gordon Brown, by contrast, has called the
headline-grabbing meetings for four different crises in his first four months.

Fair enough for a terrorist alert but did we really need three separate meetings
this week for the East Anglian floods that never were (the last of them after
the waters had started to recede)?

Some say they can detect the sound of a Scots voice crying wolf in Downing
Street.

.MILLIONAIRE Defence Procurement Minister Lord Drayson raised eyebrows at
Westminster when he quit to spend more time with his racing cars.

Drayson, who dreams of driving at Le Mans, might also now find time to drop in
at Nether Lypiatt, the Gloucestershire mansion he bought from Prince and
Princess Michael of Kent for GBP 5.45million last year. Locals say builders and
gardeners renovating the place spent the summer virtually unsupervised.

"It's amazing, " said one. "Who spends GBP 5million on a house and then never
visits?"

THE UK Independence Party takes a jaundiced view of the Labour-Tory row over who
first thought of scrapping inheritance tax - it floated the idea in October last
year.

One activist says: "Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery but it's
undignified to squabble over who stole it first."

CLAIMS that Tony Blair is about to convert to Catholicism have received further
fuel from fashion king Karl Lagerfeld. He relates that a cosy recent dinner with
the Blairs in St Tropez was dominated by talk of religion. "Tony Blair is funny
and she [Cherie] is the serious one, no?" he says. "He was very light, cheerful,
fun. They are into religion now, no?

I cannot say more. I will otherwise not be invited."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 11, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

No10 flooded by crisis meetings;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: COLUMNS; 27

LENGTH: 325  words


STRANGE goings-on at the Cabinet Office's Briefing Room A - the Whitehall bunker
where the Government's top level emergency meetings take place.

Meetings of the so-called Cobra committee used to be a rare event - Tony Blair
did not hold his first until the Kosovo crisis in 1999 and averaged only one
every six months after that. Gordon Brown, by contrast, has called the
headline-grabbing meetings for four different crises in his first four months.

Fair enough for a terrorist alert but did we really need three separate meetings
this week for the East Anglian floods that never were (the last of them after
the waters had started to recede)?

Some say they can detect the sound of a Scots voice crying wolf in Downing
Street.

.MILLIONAIRE Defence Procurement Minister Lord Drayson raised eyebrows at
Westminster when he quit to spend more time with his racing cars.

Drayson, who dreams of driving at Le Mans, might also now find time to drop in
at Nether Lypiatt, the Gloucestershire mansion he bought from Prince and
Princess Michael of Kent for GBP 5.45million last year. Locals say builders and
gardeners renovating the place spent the summer virtually unsupervised.

"It's amazing, " said one. "Who spends GBP 5million on a house and then never
visits?"

THE UK Independence Party takes a jaundiced view of the Labour-Tory row over who
first thought of scrapping inheritance tax - it floated the idea in October last
year.

One activist says: "Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery but it's
undignified to squabble over who stole it first."

CLAIMS that Tony Blair is about to convert to Catholicism have received further
fuel from fashion king Karl Lagerfeld. He relates that a cosy recent dinner with
the Blairs in St Tropez was dominated by talk of religion. "Tony Blair is funny
and she [Cherie] is the serious one, no?" he says. "He was very light, cheerful,
fun. They are into religion now, no?

I cannot say more. I will otherwise not be invited."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday

Saturday: Reply Letters and emails: Bigging up Mr Piccolo

BYLINE: Pete Dorey

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 73 words


* If the EU told British companies they had to support sanctions against another
country, or face damaging economic consequences, the Conservatives, Ukip and the
anti-European press would be screaming about this "foreign superstate"
threatening our sovereignty and obstructing free trade. I wonder if they will
now complain about America making such threats (Washington tells EU firms: quit
Iran now, November 9)?

Pete Dorey

Cardiff University

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 9, 2007 Friday

EU whistleblower loses claim for unfair dismissal

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 488 words


A BRUSSELS whistleblower sacked for alleging that EU book-keeping was riddled
with "slush funds and fraud'' vowed to fight on yesterday after she lost her
battle against wrongful dismissal.

Marta Andreasen, the European Commission's former chief accountant, has sought
for two and half years to clear her name of accusations of misconduct and
disloyalty.

But the EU's civil service tribunal yesterday rejected Mrs Andreasen's bid to
have her dismissal annulled and upheld, in a 55-page judgment, every single
complaint made against her by the commission.

"I have received the news about this judgment with great disappointment. But I
still have the will to continue the fight and I will appeal,'' she told The
Daily Telegraph. "I am being treated worse than criminals.''

Mrs Andreasen was fired in 2005 by her then boss Neil Kinnock for going public
three years earlier with revelations of a pounds 130 million discrepancy between
two sets of EU accounts. The Spanish accountant, who has been backed by many
MEPs, believes that the courts have moved against her to silence other
whistleblowers.

Yesterday's ruling came just days before the European Court of Auditors is
expected to refuse to sign the EU's accounts for the 13th year running.

"It is pretty clear that people will know that if they open their mouth and make
any criticism, even strictly professional as I did, they will pay a high price.
They will have to prepare to be dismissed and to have no defence,'' she said.

"It is unbelievable for me that the judges would find it admissible that the
chief accountant of the commission can be sacked merely for stating clearly what
the Court of Auditors has done every year for more than a decade.''

Mrs Andreasen, who was born in Argentina and is now the Treasurer of the UK
Independence Party, faces huge legal bills.

She accused the EU judges of "partiality''. She said: "One would have thought
they would have looked at case law and analysed the situation more.

"I feel they have only listened to the commission. I think pressure has been
brought to bear.''

Commission officials have welcomed the judgment against Mrs Andreasen. "The
court has now rejected Mrs Andreasen's claims and upheld our decision to dismiss
her for misconduct. The commission is entitled to respect, trust and loyalty
from its officials,'' said a spokesman.

The commission claims that Mrs Andreasen broke internal rules of "hierarchy'' by
going to the press and MEPs with her concerns over standards of EU accounting.

"Her allegations were not new and were rather general. And to be a whistleblower
you have to respect certain channels,'' one official said.

Mrs Andreasen insists that she first raised problems over EU accountancy methods
at a senior level by writing to the commission's president.

"I followed the procedures. It was the commission that decided that it did not
like what I was saying internally and suspended me before I went public,'' she
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 43 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Pandora;
'Rivers of blood' candidate to get Ukip defection offer

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 761 words


Listening to the crunch of bone and slurp of marrow as scavengers pick apart an
ex-antelope is a shivering experience.

It was only on Sunday that Nigel "rivers of blood" Hastilow's career in the
Conservative Party flew off the rails when he applauded Enoch Powell. Yet the
ever-peckish UK Independence Party has wasted little time in swooping to pick at
the political bones.

Hastilow, a former editor of the Birmingham Post who resigned as a Tory
parliamentary candidate in the West Midlands after being ostracised by David
Cameron, will be formally approached by Ukip about joining them. They want him
to stand for the party in the same area at the next general election. The Ukip
leader Nigel Farage comments cryptically: "I have been a very busy boy," adding:
"This is something we're going to be talking about in the next week." Hastilow
spent yesterday avoiding calls from the media while he considered his future.

Ukip came out in support of Hastilow on its website, declaring that he was
persecuted only because he "spoke the truth" by supporting Powell's apocalyptic
vision that immigration would lead Britain to "heap up its own funeral pyre".

Some might say that extra pairs of hands would be useful on strenuous Ukip
nights out, to help collect everyone and make sure they are tucked up in bed and
dreaming sweetly at the end of the evening.

Who could resist such a tantalising offer?

Eva having a 'mare on Tuscan photo shoot

Riding through the Mediterranean sun on your snowy white steed, with a chiseled
young Brazilian chap as your guide. The stuff that dreams - and luxury calendars
- are made of.

For the Hollywood actress Eva Mendes, this scene was not anywhere near as serene
as it will appear in Campari's 2008 calendar, left.

On location in the small Italian town of Rosignano, 15 miles from Livorno,
Mendes conspired to fall off her horse mid-shoot.

"I didn't get hurt, fortunately," she tells Pandora in Rome, "as I've been
bucked by a horse several times before so I've got quite good at it. I think
it's an energy I give off. They don't seem to like me."

Mendes recently finished remaking the 1939 Hollywood oestrogen fest The Women
with Meg Ryan and Jada Pinkett Smith. And Jada didn't mind her husband, Will
Smith, snogging Eva in Hitch? "No. She's lovely," says Eva, adding: "What's
snogging?"

Crowning glory

Now that the perpetrators of BBC1's "Queengate" scandal have been rounded up and
taken to the Tower chopping block - RIP Peter Fincham - we can move happily on
as if nothing happened. The renamed television series will air before Christmas.
Which means the ghastly wait is over for writer Robert Hardman, whose
accompanying glossy book, Monarchy: The Royal Family at Work, will at last be
published.

"Is it? I didn't know!" he says on the phone. "Thank you for calling.
Everything's suddenly moving rather swiftly."

Hardman, a pal of David Cameron, finished his behind-the-scenes tome before the
bunfight between Buckingham Palace and the Beeb, but had to sit tight. While
profits from the series will go to charity, that's not the case with the book.
Compensation for the drag.

Just business

Sincere apologies to the jockey Frankie Dettori, who I fear I startled to within
an inch of his life during our recent unplanned encounter near London's Holborn
station.

Running, not for the first time, somewhat late for a nearby engagement, I was at
full pelt by the time I realised the amiable Italian stood a couple of feet
ahead, in my path.

Alerted by the pounding footsteps, cumbersome breathing and fast approaching
figure clad in black, he spun and stared into my eyes - the look a rabbit gives
you before it meets your fender. The sort of startled impression one might
reserve for being bumped off in a Mafia-style hit.

Sorry Frankie! I shall put something nice in the post for you. (Not a horse's
head.)

Miller's animal attraction

As CVs go, Sir Jonathan Miller's takes some beating. Seemingly not content,
though, with a career which pans being a neurologist, a television presenter, a
director of film, theatre and opera, and a sculptor - to name a few - I hear
that the old boy intends to "retrain".

Miller, 73, who made his name in the Sixties satire Beyond The Fringe, plans to
enter the traditionally lucrative world of animation.

"Jonathan is keen to do voiceovers in cartoons," explains his agent. "He has
lots of funny voices he wants to get out. Animals would be ideal. He would make
a great lion, or, say, a clever elephant or zebra." She adds: "Alongside all the
intellectual stuff, he wants to have fun again."

Just don't call him a polymath.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 43 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 664 words


Stand back. Take cover. Lord Hutton is angry. You won't like him angry. In the
firing line is Lord Patten, the former Conservative party chairman, who had the
temerity in his book Not Quite the Diplomat: Home Truths About World Affairs -
published in 1995 - to be rude about Lord Hutton's Iraq dossier inquiry. In the
2007 Balliol College Annual Record, a bristling Hutton (Balliol 1950) accuses
Lord Patten (Balliol 1962) of an "unwarranted" public attack because he
dismissed the report as "absurd" and "naive". He is, the judge says, guilty of a
"serious misunderstanding" of the nature and scope of the inquiry. The findings
- largely trashed as whitewash - were, he says, "soundly based on the evidence".
Since the inquiry, Blair has gone, the BBC has changed and "nation building" is
now a stated aim, but Lord Hutton still has the capacity to attack in less than
45 minutes. At least that's what it says here.

So there we were thinking that President Musharraf, having introduced martial
law, rounded up the judges and placed all his enemies under house arrest, was a
tyrant desperately clinging on to power. But then we learned from the good
president himself that prior to plunging his country into a state of emergency,
he consulted all of the "stakeholders", and this of course changed everything.
It all seemed a bit reckless at first, but if the whole thing was scoped and
evaluated, with an emphasis on outcomes and sound project management, then
perhaps it will be OK.

Such sadness surrounding the withdrawal of Nigel Hastilow as the Tories'
prospective parliamentary candidate for Halesowen and Rowley Regis following his
ill-advised walk down memory lane with Enoch's "rivers of blood" speech. He
could never have seen it coming. Who would have thought that Enoch's doomsday
speech would prove controversial. Luckily, people are rallying to his support.
Ukip was one of the first to offer an encouraging shoulder, and, on his blog,
the BNP's regional organiser was also quick to get in touch. Such sorry times.
But all the friends a man might need.

Fear of foreigners is also troubling the US, where presidential hopeful Dennis
Kucinich, having been asked if he believed in UFOs, yesterday imagined a meeting
with extraterrestrials. "An alien said to me, 'Take me to your leader, '" he
informed reporters. "And I told him, 'Well, I don't think our leader is going to
want to meet with an illegal alien.'" But what if the alien was an IT expert?
Now you're talking.

Just why do you think this newspaper been investigating the activities of BAE
Systems? Is it because BAE was the subject of a bribery investigation that was
only dropped when Tony Blair said it would harm the UK's interests? Is it
because BAE is also being investigated by the Serious Fraud Office over
contested corruption allegations in Tanzania, the Czech Republic, South Africa
and Romania? Is it because of the US investigation into claims that BAE paid
sweeteners? Or is it, as the Aldershot MP Gerald Howarth claimed to his local
newspaper, because "the Guardian is a communist newspaper which has it in for
BAE". It's a tough one. Take your time.

No one knows where the chips will fall at the downsized BBC. All must think of
the future. Everyone is jittery. Yesterday, when Jonathan Evans, the director
general of MI5, materialised at the Society of Editors' conference in
Manchester, BBC Online led the way with a story hastily scrambled together by
the corporation's controller of English regions, Andy Griffee. Others watched
him scribbling notes and then filing to HQ with all the enthusiasm of a trainee.
Everything is up for grabs in the brave new world. And the powers that be: they
notice these things.

Finally, a cup of hot sweet tea for Dave Abrams of Manchester, who was warned by
Powergen that he risked a visit from the bailiff and a day in court because he
owed them "£0.00" for his gas and electricity. Could have been worse. Imagine if
he had owed them something.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
