
                               1 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               December 30, 2007

Pendennis: Quiz of the year: POLITICS

BYLINE: OLIVER MARRE

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 394 words


1 Who was not affected by the child benefit data loss because he and his wife
have never claimed?

A David Cameron

B George Osborne

C Gordon Brown

D Alistair Darling

2 Which minister had his or her private office telephone line published as the
departmental press office number?

A Harriet Harman

B Yvette Cooper

C Douglas Alexander

D Hilary Benn

3 Which MP starred in an advertisement?

A Vince Cable

B Ann Widdecombe

C Mark Oaten

D Nicholas Soames

4 Which cabinet minister enthusiastically gushed to a Chinese journalist about
how much he loved and admired Japan?

A Ed Miliband

B David Miliband

C Gordon Brown

D Jack Straw

5 Who told Pendennis to 'fuck off' when called about his tax bill?

A David Cameron

B Ming Campbell

C John Prescott

D Boris Johnson

6 A member of which party was revealed to be behind a complaint to the
broadcasting regulator on behalf of SS officer and convicted war criminal Bruno
Beger?

A The Conservatives

B Labour

C The BNP

D Ukip

7 Which millionaire peer claimed £ 43,060 in expenses last year, having spoken
once in the Lords?

A Lord (Digby) Jones

B Lord (John) Birt

C Lord (John) Astor

D Lord (Mark) Malloch-Brown

8 Which diversity-happy politician is non-executive director of the advertising
agency employed by Playboy

A Harriet Harman

B Francis Maude

C Peter Mandelson

D Ann Widdecombe

9 Who was overheard saying: 'I spend all week working with horrible adults; I
don't want to spend the weekend with horrible children'?

A Tony Blair

B Gordon Brown

C George Osborne

D Theresa May

10 Which two politicians were revealed by Pendennis to have split from their
long-term partners?

A Greg Barker

B Peter Mandelson

C Ann Widdecombe

D Nadine Dorries

11 Who included at least two positions in the Register of Lords' Interests which
they didn't in fact hold?

A Lord (Michael) Levy

B Lord (Digby) Jones

C Baroness (Margaret) Thatcher

D The Archbishop of Canterbury

12 And who hasn't registered any of the required interests at all?

A Lord (Michael) Levy

B Lord (Digby) Jones

C Baroness (Margaret) Thatcher

D The Archbishop of Canterbury

13 Which government body distributed jam to guests at its summer party?

A The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs

B The Home Office

C The Ministry of Defence

D MI5

14 Who took up his peerage and ministerial post some six months after it was
predicted in Pendennis?

A Lord (Mark) Malloch-Brown

B Lord (Digby) Jones

C Lord (Neil) Kinnock

D Lord (Paddy) Ashdown


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

News Quiz 2007 It was a year in which a new Prime Minister entered Number 10, an
Italian was appointed England football manager and a teddy bear in Sudan made
headlines. But how much of the past 12 months do you remember? Test your powers
of recollection with these 100 questions, compiled by Christopher Winn

BYLINE: Christopher Winn

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2768 words


1 Which two countries joined the EU on January 1 this year?

A Bulgaria and Romania

B Poland and Lithuania

C Turkey and Cyprus

2 Which pop star played host to the Blair family at New Year?

A Sir Cliff Richard

B Ozzy Osbourne

C Robin Gibb of the Bee Gees

3 Which new government department was split off from the Home Office, in an
uncomfortable echo of 1984?

A Ministry of Truth

B Ministry of Justice

C Ministry of Certain Things

4 Where could you go in January for free BMW motorbike spares?

A Peckham

B Branscombe Beach in Devon

C eBay

5 Which Big Brother winner ruined Gordon Brown's trip to India and got a
handshake from Tony Blair?

A Nasty Nick

B Chantelle

C Shilpa Shetty

6 In February, 18 million people signed a petition on the Downing Street
website. What were they protesting against?

A Patricia Hewitt

B Road pricing

C ID cards

7 Actor Ian Richardson, who died in February, is fondly remembered

for his role as Machiavellian politician Francis Urquhart in the BBC's House of
Cards trilogy. What was Urquhart's catchphrase?

A "I'm a pretty straight kind of guy''

B "There is nothing you could say to me now that I could ever believe''

C "You might well say that, but I couldn't possibly comment''

8 Who predicted on Question Time in February that people would soon be saying
"Wouldn't it be great to have that Blair back, because we can't stand that
Gordon Brown''?

A Tony Blair

B David Miliband

C George W Bush

9 Who won the Oscar for Best Actress?

A Tessa Jowell

B The Queen

C Helen Mirren

10 Whose Nashville home was found to be using 20 times as much electricity as
the average American's?

A Al Gore's

B Donald Trump's

C Dolly Parton's

11 Which son of Kirkcaldy has replaced Sir Edward Elgar on the pounds 20 note?

A Robert Adam

B Adam Smith

C Sir David Steel

12 By what sleight of hand did Gordon Brown finance the reduction in the basic
rate of income tax

in his final budget as Chancellor?

A Abolishing the 10p starter rate of income tax

B Cutting MPs' expenses

C Taxing non-domiciles

13 Which council became the first to decide schools admissions by lottery?

A Manchester

B Grimsby

C Brighton

14 Faye Turney found fame as the only woman among which group of people?

A The presenters of Top Gear

B The Conservative Party

C The British sailors captured by the Iranians

15 What did Sir Michael Lyons say at a press conference to announce his
appointment as chairman of the BBC Trust?

A "Who is Jonathan Ross?''

B "I don't watch much TV''

C "Let's have more of Alastair Campbell's diaries on the BBC''

16 How much did you have to earn in a year before a member of staff at HSBC's
Canford Cliffs branch would talk to you?

A At least pounds 35,000

B At least pounds 55,000

C At least pounds 75,000

17 Who won a Pride of Lithuania (Personality of the Year) award in 2007?

A Monica Lewinsky, of Lithuanian extraction

B Manchester Utd owner Malcolm Glazer, son of a Lithuanian

C PC Pettengell of Great Yarmouth, who learnt to speak Lithuanian to help local
immigrants

18 Who resigned as president of the World Bank in June, after just two years?

A Paul Wolfowitz

B Adam Applegarth

C Alan Greenspan

19 Who did David Cameron ask to stand against Ken Livingstone as a joint
Tory-Lib Dem candidate for London Mayor?

A Sir Ian Blair

B Greg Dyke

C Jeffrey Archer

20 Who, in April this year, became the first Russian leader in history to die
quietly in retirement?

A Mikhail Gorbachev

B Alexander Litvinenko

C Boris Yeltsin

21 Which blue-chip FTSE 100 company became the first to be taken over by a
private equity firm?

A Alliance Boots

B J Sainsbury's

C Bernard Matthews

22 Which is the only EU country planning to hold

a referendum on the new EU treaty?

A Afghanistan

B UK

C Ireland

23 Of whom was an Iraqi militia leader speaking when he said, "We will return
him to his grandmother - but without ears''?

A Defence Secretary Des Browne

B Prince Harry

C BBC reporter Alan Johnston

24 Who was beaten by Nicolas Sarkozy in the final run-off to become President of
France in May?

A Jean-Marie Le Pen

B Ségolène Royal

C Thierry Henry

25 Who finally won their battle against Brussels this year, in memory of Steve
Thoburn?

A UKIP

B Britain's fishermen

C The metric martyrs

26 Who was forced to resign after revelations that he had met his lover not
while jogging in the park but on a website called "Suited and Booted''?

A Lord Browne of BP

B Lord Malloch-Brown

C Peter Mandelson

27 The introduction of an unpopular measure had to be delayed for two months
because the government hadn't trained enough of which kind of snooper?

A Recycling inspectors

B HIP assessors

C Council tax inspectors

28 Where does Robert Murat live with his mother?

A Portugal

B Morocco

C Market Rasen

29 Three hundred years after the Act of Union, which is now the largest party in
the Scottish assembly?

A Scottish Labour Party

B Royal Stuart Society

C Scottish Nationalist Party

30 Which country entered the Eurovision Song Contest for the first time this
year - and won?

A Romania

B Turkey

C Serbia

31 Who wants to bring

Law and Order to the White House?

A Actor Fred Thompson

B Oprah Winfrey

C William Hague

32 Who asked us to believe that "hand on heart, I did what I thought was
right''?

A Quentin Davies

B Tony Blair

C Donald Rumsfeld

33 Who was arrested and cautioned for helping Gullit, the Yorkshire terrier,
escape the clutches of the police?

A Jose Mourinho

B Jemima Khan

C David Blunkett

34 Who does David Maclean MP want exempted from the Freedom of Information Act?

A David Maclean

B MI6

C MPs

35 Which national treasure went up in flames in May this year?

A Clare Short

B Cutty Sark

C Windsor Castle

36 Who caused Panorama's John Sweeney to lose it?

A The woman in the injurylawyers4u commercial

B Ed Miliband

C A Scientologist

37 Who stood against Gordon Brown in the Labour leadership contest?

A Charles Clarke

B David Miliband

C Nobody

38 What, according to David "Two Brains'' Willetts, no longer promotes social
mobility?

A Binge drinking

B Grammar schools

C The Bullingdon Club

39 Whose drunken escapade on a pedalo caused England to flunk in the Cricket
World Cup, according to the team captain?

A Freddie Flintoff's

B Ryan Sidebottom's

C Sir Trevor McDonald's

40 According to the chairman of SVG Capital, whom do private equity chiefs pay
less tax than?

A Their cleaning ladies

B Their spouses

C Their chauffeurs

41 An animated version of which logo caused 22 people to have epileptic fits?

A Google

B The 2012 Olympics

C McDonalds

42 Where were the 2007 "Bollywood Oscars'' held?

A Mumbai

B Bournemouth

C Sheffield

43 Who said, "Once a year, everyone should sit down and think how lucky they are
to be British''?

A Roman Abramovich

B Gerry Adams

C Immigration minister Liam Byrne

44 Whose knighthood was considered "an orchestrated act of aggression directed
against Islamic societies''?

A Sir James Dyson

B Sir Salman Rushdie

C Sir Terry Wogan

45 Who did Tony Blair accuse of "acting like a feral beast''?

A Gordon Brown

B The media

C Dennis Skinner

46 What was banned in public places on July 1?

A Fox-hunting

B Smoking

C Marriage

47 Whose end was applauded in the House of Commons, while Margaret Beckett wept
openly?

A Tony Blair's

B John Prescott's

C Parliamentary democracy's

48 Who was caught smoking out of a train window on the way from London to
Plymouth?

A Sir Menzies Campbell

B Baroness Jay

C Charles Kennedy

49 In which part of Britain is life expectancy lower than in the Gaza Strip?

A Any NHS hospital

B Glasgow

C Cheltenham

50 Who pleaded, "I've only been in the job for five days...''?

A Gordon Brown

B The Duchess of Cornwall

C Steve McClaren

51 Who was beaten by Roger Federer in the men's singles final at Wimbledon?

A Andy Murray

B David Nalbandian

C Rafael Nadal

52 Gordon Brown stopped a supercasino being built where?

A Blackpool

B Horse Guards Parade

C Manchester

53 Who was shown supposedly walking out in a huff?

A Cherie Blair

B The Queen

C Jeremy Paxman

54 Where do one in five British companies go to vet potential employees?

A Their doctor

B Facebook

C Police records

55 Which football club does David Beckham now play for?

A Chelsea

B Real Madrid

C LA Galaxy

56 What beautiful Norman building was marooned on an island during the floods in
July?

A Tewkesbury Abbey

B Durham Cathedral

C Rochester Castle

57 What drug-plagued event started in London for the very first time?

A A Pete Doherty concert

B The Tour de France

C The Tutankhamun exhibition

58 What leaked out of Pirbright in Surrey?

A Bluetongue

B Peter Hain's suntan lotion

C Foot and mouth

59 In addition to a fine, what would the police now like to take from you for
dropping litter?

A Your DNA

B Your waist measurement

C Your passport

60 Where was the 2007 Open Golf Championship played?

A St Andrew's

B Turnberry

C Carnoustie

61 A statue of which world leader was unveiled in Parliament Square at the end
of August?

A Margaret Thatcher

B Nelson Mandela

C Hugo Chávez

62 Who celebrated their centenary on Brownsea Island in Poole Harbour?

A The Mothers' Union

B The Boy Scouts

C The Spice Girls

63 Where did Russia plant its flag?

A Beneath the North Pole

B Aberystwyth

C The Falklands

64 Which Bill, who died in August, was the inspiration for Denis Thatcher's
correspondent in the

"Dear Bill'' letters in

Private Eye?

A Bill Clinton

B Bill Oddie

C Bill Deedes

65 What did we learn about Professor Dumbledore in September?

A He listens to rap music

B He votes Lib Dem

C He is probably gay

66 Savings in which dodgy enterprise have been accorded a limitless guarantee
from the taxpayer?

A Farepak

B Northern Rock

C Private pensions

67 Where have David Davidson, 79, and his wife Jean, 70, been living for the
past 20 years?

A Stockport

B The Ritz

C A Travelodge

68 Who was invited back to Number 10 and caused a storm in a teacup?

A John Major

B Margaret Thatcher

C Carole Caplin

69 Which motorsport champion died in a helicopter crash near his home in
Scotland in September?

A Colin McRae

B Graham Hill

C Barry Sheene

70 Which location occupies the Mayfair spot on the new UK Monopoly board?

A St Albans

B Canford Cliffs

C Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerych

wyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch

71 Why, according to Greater Manchester Police, did two police community support
officers stand by as a 10-year-old boy drowned in Wigan?

A Because the water was cold

B Because they "weren't trained to deal with water rescue''

C Because there were other people around to do it

72 Which BBC TV programme got embroiled in a row over Socks?

A Trinny and Susannah Undress the Nation

B Newsnight

C Blue Peter

73 What nationality was the photographer shot dead at point-blank range by a
Burmese soldier during the demonstrations against the military by monks?

A Japanese

B Thai

C French

74 Who claimed to have been a "have-a-go hero'' not once, but four times?

A Amy Winehouse

B Minister of Justice Jack Straw

C Evel Knievel

75 Who did Hazel Blears, Secretary of State

for Communities and Local Government, call a

"fogeyish, bigoted and upper-class twit''?

A Speaker of the House Michael Martin

B Hilary Benn

C Boris Johnson

76 What proposal is credited with starting the Tory rise in the polls that
caused Gordon Brown to "bottle'' the election?

A Taxing supermarket car parks

B Raising the inheritance tax threshold

C Independence for Scotland

77 Who, having lectured broadcasters on

the evils of manipulating

TV footage, was artificially inserted into the results of a photo opportunity at
his local hospital that he had been

late for?

A Griff Rhys Jones

B Culture Secretary James Purnell

C Piers Morgan

78 How many public bodies may now access a log of every phone call or text you
make?

A 10

B 104

C 652

79 According to Trevor Phillips, who was really responsible for the defeat of
the Spanish Armada?

A The Muslim Turks

B The French

C The Citizens Advice Bureau

80 Which world leader was photographed with a Chippendale-style bare torso while
on a fishing trip?

A Tony Blair

B Angela Merkel

C Vladimir Putin

81 Who or what does

Public Health minister Dawn Primarolo accuse of causing "serious and

dramatic harm''?

A "Middle-class, middle-aged drinkers, drinking at home''

B Speeding motorists

C Pear trees in Islington

82 In what event did Mark Cueto put his foot in it and cost England dear?

A The European Football Championships

B The World Worm Charming Championships

C The Rugby World Cup

83 Who beat Lewis Hamilton to the title by one point in Brazil?

A Fernando Alonso

B Jenson Button

C Kimi Raikkonen

84 What went from 800,000 to 1.1 million to 1.5 million in less than a week?

A Lord Falconer's pension

B The number of migrants who have come to work in Britain since 1997

C The number of quangos

85 Which member of the Royal Family became the first senior royal to receive

an MBE?

A Christopher Biggins

B Zara Phillips

C The Countess of Wessex

86 Where can you find the world's longest champagne bar?

A The terrace of the Houses of Parliament

B Claridge's

C St Pancras station

87 Samina Malik became the first woman in the UK to be convicted under the
Terrorism Act for doing what?

A Writing poetry

B Heckling Jacqui Smith

C Attempting to use the NHS while obese

88 In what sport is Joe Calzaghe a champion?

A Water polo

B Boxing

C Darts

89 What was the name of the ship that hit an iceberg and sank in the Antarctic
in November?

A Napoli

B Britannia

C Explorer

90 What did Kate Moss mistake David Cameron for?

A A waiter

B A plumber

C Jude Law

91 Who, it turns out, has been guarding Gordon Brown's car?

A The SAS

B The Blues and Royals

C Illegal immigrants

92 What did Chad Varah, who died in November aged 95, found in 1953?

A The Samaritans

B The Salvation Army

C Tesco

93 Paul Gray resigned as "a matter of honour'' after a junior official in his
organisation lost what?

A pounds 25 billion of taxpayers money

B His lottery ticket

C Details of 25 million people on the Child Benefit Register

94 Who is just a "simple sailor''?

A The Archbishop of Canterbury

B Security minister Lord West

C Lord Birt

95 Where did BNP leader Nick Griffin and Holocaust-denying historian David
Irving both get to talk?

A The Oxford Union

B The Take That reunion

C Norwich Union

96 Who hid behind Janet Kidd?

A David Abrahams

B Peter Watt

C Kylie Minogue

97 Who were Gordon Brown and Iranian hostage operator mechanic

Arthur Batchelor both

said to resemble?

A Stalin

B Mr Bean

C James Bond

98 What should you not call a teddy bear in Sudan?

A Rupert

B Pooh

C Mohammed

99 What, according to David Cameron, does

Gordon Brown

have in common with canoeist

John Darwin?

A He wants to retire to Panama

B He enjoys

water sports

C He wants us to think

he hasn't been around for

the past five years

100 Who spent 10 years frightened of being thought a "nutter''?

A Michael Parkinson

B Richard Branson

C Tony Blair

Answers

1) A Bulgaria and Romania

2) C Robin Gibb of the Bee Gees

3) B Ministry of Justice

4) B Branscombe beach in Devon

5) C Shilpa Shetty

6) B Road pricing

7) C "You might well say that, but I couldn't possibly comment''

8) B David Miliband

9) C Helen Mirren

10) A Al Gore's

11) B Adam Smith

12) A Abolishing the starter rate of income tax

13) C Brighton

14) C The British sailors captured by the Iranians

15) B "I don't watch much TV''

16) C At least pounds 75,000

17) C PC Pettengell of Great Yarmouth

18) A Paul Wolfowitz

19) B Greg Dyke

20) C Boris Yeltsin

21) A Alliance Boots

22) C Ireland

23) B Prince Harry

24) B Ségolène Royal

25) C The metric martyrs

26) A Lord Browne of BP

27) B Hips assessors

28) A Portugal

29) C Scottish Nationalist Party

30) C Serbia

31) A Actor Fred Thompson

32) B Tony Blair

33) A Jose Mourinho

34) C MPs

35) B Cutty Sark

36) C A scientologist

37) C Nobody

38) B Grammar schools

39) A Freddie Flintoff's

40) A Their cleaning ladies

41) B The 2012 Olympics

42) C Sheffield

43) C Immigration minister Liam Byrne

44) B Sir Salman Rushdie

45) B The media

46) B Smoking

47) A Tony Blair's

48) C Charles Kennedy

49) B Glasgow

50) A Gordon Brown

51) C Rafael Nadal

52) C Manchester

53) B The Queen

54) B Facebook

55) C LA Galaxy

56) A Tewkesbury Abbey

57) B The Tour de France

58) C Foot and mouth

59) A Your DNA

60) C Carnoustie

61) B Nelson Mandela

62) B The Boy Scouts

63) A Beneath the north pole

64) C Bill Deedes

65) C He is probably gay

66) B Northern Rock

67) C A Travelodge

68) B Margaret Thatcher

69) A Colin McRae

70) A St Albans

71) B Because they "weren't trained to deal with water rescue''

72) C Blue Peter

73) A Japanese

74) B Minister of Justice Jack Straw

75) C Boris Johnson

76) B Raising the inheritance tax threshold

77) B Culture secretary James Purnell

78) C 652

79) A The Muslim Turks

80) C Vladimir Putin

81) A "Middle-class, middle-aged drinkers, drinking at home''

82) C The Rugby World Cup

83) C Kimi Raikkonen

84) B The number of migrants who have come to work in Britain since 1997

85) B Zara Phillips

86) C St Pancras station

87) A Writing poetry

88) B Boxing

89) C Explorer

90) B A plumber

91) C Illegal immigrants

92) A The Samaritans

93) C Details of 25 million people on the child benefit register

94) B Security minister Lord West

95) A The Oxford Union

96) A David Abrahams

97) B Mr Bean

98) C Mohammed

99) C He wants us to think that he hasn't

been around for five years

100) C Tony Blair

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday

Foreign criminals are given £2m in 'bribes' to go home

BYLINE: James Slack

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 555 words


FOREIGN criminals have been paid more than £2million in 'bribes' to persuade
them to go home, it emerged last night The payments helped the Home Office to
meet the Prime Minister's pledge to repatriate 4,000 prisoners by the end of the
year.

But 850 of the criminals went home only after they were offered a 'resettlement'
deal worth up to £2,500 each.

The handout - a package of healthcare and financial support - is paid only when
a criminal agrees to go home without fuss and makes no appeal against their
removal.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: 'It is disgraceful but not surprising
that, given their utter inability to remove offenders who have no right to be
here, the Government has had to resort to bribing them to leave.

'The Government should not crow about meeting this artificially-set target. Over
500 foreign prisoners have been released early by this Government and our
prisons are still at bursting point with record levels of foreign prisoners in
them.

'Gordon Brown's claim that "If you commit a crime you will be deported from our
country" remains a piece of cynical spin.' The Prime Minister promised in July,
days after taking office, to remove 4,000 immigrant prisoners by the end of the
year.

But officials have struggled to achieve the goal and confirmation that the
target had been met came only yesterday.

In the frantic final push, increased numbers of prisoners - around 300 in the
past two months - were given the 'bribes'. The payments are on offer to convicts
from £15m annual cost of running the two foreigners-only jails in Britain non-EU
countries. But take-up was initially slow because inmates preferred to take
their chances with the appeal system.

Hundreds of foreign prisoners are allowed to stay each year by claiming that
deportation would breach their right to a family life.

Similar bribes of £4,000 have been paid to failed asylum seekers who agree to go
home.

Officials are supposed to deport more failed refugees than there are new claims
each month.

But the target, introduced by Tony Blair, is certain to be missed in 2007 after
removals slumped to their lowest level in five years.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'We should be deporting all foreign national
prisoners, not just the few who tick the boxes.

'Unfortunately, we are hamstrung by EU law and the Human Rights Act, which seems
to put the rights of these people above those of lawabiding Brits.

'To put it into perspective, in 2006-07, only about ten per cent of prisoners
deported were from European Economic Area countries, despite them being a much
larger percentage of the foreign prisoner population. Let's have a real look at
the state of our prison systems, and a real debate on the issues rather than
letting the Government pat themselves on the back for another bodged job.'
Officials said the 4,000 figure for removals was 50 per cent up on 2006. Home
Secretary Jacqui Smith said those deported included more than 20 killers, at
least 200 sex offenders and more than 1,100 drug offenders.

She added: 'Foreign law-breakers should be first in line for the first plane out
of Britain.

'We promised to remove 4,000 foreign national prisoners this year and we meant
it.

'People in Britain want to see changes to our immigration system and in 2008
we'll see them. It's the biggest shake-up for 40 years.' j.slack@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

'This is a bunch of lies! Sneaky! Underhand!'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1437 words


NATURAL JUSTICE

"I was overwhelmed by a sudden excess of lava-like agony. The combined effect
was like being tortured for information that you do not possess, with intervals
for a very costly sandpaper hand-job."

In his bid for personal transformation, Christopher Hitchens visits the J
Sisters salon in New York for a "back, sack and crack" wax

"When your wife makes $100m during your marriage, it's quite a shocker. I felt
like my masculinity had been stripped from me. I feel like my bollocks are in a
jar, like a Damien Hirst artwork on the mantelpiece."

Dumbo Texan oil and banking "billionheir"

Matthew Mellon struggled with the success of his ex-wife, the Jimmy Choo shoe
magnate

Tamara Mellon

"He got about as far as the second row before being swallowed up. He didn't go
down alone. He took a few with him."

Johnny Vegas's attempt at a crowd surf during a show ends with 18-stone of flesh
hitting the deck

WORLD AFFAIRS

"We cower as you point your fingers telling us to support our troops. You and
the smarmy pundits in your pocket - those who bathe in the moisture of your
soiled and blood-soaked underwear - can take that noise and shove it."

Sean Penn disagrees with George Bush's Iraq venture

"I sat on the sink and Ralph started giving me oral sex. He bent me over and had
sex with me. I was shocked that he didn't wear a condom."

Sweet romance! Australian air stewardess Lisa Robertson makes friends with the
actor and safe sex ambassador for Unicef, Ralph Fiennes, in the business class
lavatory of flight QF123

"I've seen everything, so this is dull. If you want a real stripper, you get a
hooker. The girls in South America are the best, they do anything."

The now-teetotal Guns N' Roses guitarist Slash quickly gets bored in strip clubs

A STARTER MADAME?

"It was stiff, lying there on the floor with its feet in the air. An attendant
picked it up in a dustpan and took it away into the kitchen. We will carefully
inspect the contents of tomorrow's stew."

Hacks gag after a dead "furry friend" is discovered in the press gallery's
canteen at the Houses of Parliament.

"I'd be pleased if he's interested. On cycling trips you normally find one or
two pheasants and the same number of squirrels. The strange thing with squirrels
is that they are rarely completely squashed by cars. You just chop it up and put
it in the ravioli with everything else."

The Roadkill Chef, Fergus Drennan, invites the Foreign Secretary, David
Miliband, over for some carrion cuisine

SISTER SISTER

"I think she's carried the WeightWatchers look a bit too far.

The average person that goes to WeightWatchers is allowed 22 diet points a day.
I think Angelina must be on about four."

Carol Hatton, the market trading mother of boxer Ricky, pulls no punches about
Angelina Joliefollowing their meetingin Las Vegas. As for Jolie's husband Brad
Pitt, Mrs Hatton "wouldn't ask 'im out of bed"

"Everyone thinks all these girls have great bodies but are stupid. That's not
true. There are 50 - and two are really smart; they knew their names. The rest,
well... I shouted 'Hey tramp!' and they turned around and said, 'Yes?' My advice
to these girls? Marry rich immediately so everything is in place. If you meet
someone tonight, leave the contest in the centre of it you dumb bitch."

Joan Rivers comperes Miss Great Britain

"I was helping myself to a bowl of haddock soup when the Minister for Employment
and Welfare Reform, Caroline Flint, descended upon me and squealed, in the 'hand
on hip just look at how important I am' way she has: 'Are you going to
apologise, well, are you?' Her fishwife behaviour was very undignified."

Tory MP Nadine Dorries on her Dynasty-esque bust-up with Labour's Caroline Flint
in the House of Commons tea room

SOMETHING I SAID?

"I've just had a magical weekend and I'm sitting with Kenneth Branagh in the
garden drinking tea and I don't need to do this. You're as thick as pig shit."

Brian Blessed, friend of the Dalai Lama, seems to be searching for his inner
peace during a telephone interview with one of Pandora's colleagues

"Perhaps you don't realise the full force. I will allocate a six-figure sum to
my solicitors if this story goes out. I'm in litigation with the Telegraph, I'm
in litigation with someone over a video on YouTube. This is a bunch of lies!
Sneaky! Underhand!"

Dragon's Den judge Duncan Bannatyne gets his knickers in a twist when Pandora
calls to ask him about the show's future

"They weren't MY fucking questions! I just read out what was on the cards. I
asked two questions of my own, one about Burma and one about Darfur. I've
lovedGordon Brown for 10 years."

The usually demure Mariella Frostrup has flashy eyes when challenged over her
kissy-kissy "interview" of the Prime Minister at Labour's conference, admitting
Labour staff planted the questions

ARTS AND CULTURE

"Daniel has such balls, he really does. In every way. Good on him, I can't think
of something to make one more vulnerable than being 17, a male, having to strip
off and to do such a hard piece. Psychologically."

Helena Bonham Carter admires Daniel Radcliffe's nude stage performance in the
revival of Peter Shaffer's Equus

"The story of Wayne Rooney is about Britain's demented cult of celebrity, his
love for sweetheart Coleen, excruciatingly embarrassing sex with a PVC-clad
grandmother known to her admirers as 'the Auld Slapper', and The Curse of the
Black Thong... John Sweeney shines a light on the shadowy characters surrounding
the England and Manchester United star."

Or not. Sweeney's publisher, Century, lost control of its bowel movements and
dropped Roo Unzipped when Rooney's lawyers got in touch

"Over my dead body! The City Beach is so noisy and disruptive that residents are
forced to endure excessive and intrusive volumes of noise late into the night.
The sheer numbers of people coming to the area leave vast amounts of rubbish all
over the streets, including half eaten food, beer cans and condoms, not to
mention the urination and faeces due to the lack of toilets."

A tin-hatted Tracey Emin objects to plans for a "City Beach" near her Brick Lane
home

"Buttocks, dear. Male buttocks. In Becoming Jane there's lots of them. In very
tight britches."

Julie Walters explains how the presence of co-stars James McAvoy and Laurence
Fox helped her pen to scurry a little quicker across the bottom of the contract
for the Jane Austen biopic

"He is a cheeky boy. He came over one night and I didn't recognise him, so I
made him bend a spoon to prove who he was. He bent it and wrote his name on it.
I've been stirring my coffee with it and the name has disappeared, otherwise I'd
sell it on eBay."

Parliament Square protester Brian Haw rebuffs the advances of Uri Geller, who
wanted to buy his Banksy placard

POLITICAL

ANIMALS

"She remembers what Boris looked like naked when he was six months old: fat and
pink. Polly will always have this over him. She was probably the first female
journalist to see him in the nude - but certainly not the last."

In 1965, when she was 18, political commentator

Polly Toynbee dated Boris Johnson's uncle

"I gave becoming mayor serious thought, but I'm reluctant to change what I'm
doing. I'm in love and business is fine. But I wouldn't rule it out for the
future."

Tory supporter Peter Stringfellow valiantly pulls out of the race to be the
Conservatives' candidate for London mayor

"He was in a state when he got there and kept nodding off. The last time I saw
him he was being dragged down the road by two of his staff."

The UK Independence Party's "tired and emotional" leader, Nigel Farage, is
spotted in Strasbourg's Irish-themed pub. He admits being "dead meat by that
stage"

"I was the bottom double. There's a sex scene between John and Tracey in his
office. She's on the desk. I had to drop my trousers and do the deed. While I'm
going at it, she's writing in the diary. I had a sockover my willy and a
flesh-coloured jockstrap."

Behold the Deputy Posterior! Actor Michael Knott played the part of John
Prescott's buttocks in the telly adaptation of his affair with Tracey Temple

"I enjoyed it then, but I obviously can't condone it now. I was caught on "Match
of the Day" wearing a dodgy Kappa jumper with blue and white stripes. I had long
hair at the back and short on top, like Damon Grant off Brookside - a mullet."

Treasury minister Andy Burnham admits to invading the pitch during a football
match when he was 14

"You're my press person! I don't think you should be telling them [Pandora]this!
Don't talk. Just say everything's going to be disclosed in the Register of
Members' Interests."

Harriet Harman seemed very twitchy when Pandora overheard her conversation with
an aide about political donations

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               December 23, 2007
                                 First Edition

The IoS diary

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 728 words


Festive cheer from Mohamed al-Fayed. He may be a rascal and a scoundrel, but he
does have his supporters. The children of journalists. That's right, every year
the old boy puts on a private audience with Father Christmas for the offspring
of Fleet Street's finest at his Harrods emporium. Very agreeable it is, too. A
champagne breakfast, presents for the kiddies, clowns, elves and a visit to
Santa's grotto, all before the store opens for business. A rare treat and one
surely to warm the heart of every cold-blooded hack.

This year's jamboree took place last Sunday, when two of the more famous guests
were Kimberly Quinn and a shy and retiring Mr Geordie Greig, below, the editor
of 'Tatler' magazine and a stalwart royalist. Quinn's husband, Stephen, is a
director of Conde Nast, the company that publishes 'Tatler'. Fayed once locked
horns with Conde Nast in a libel action that resulted in a humiliating climbdown
by the store owner, but that is not to detract from his undoubted generosity to
the members of the fourth estate. Forgive and forget, we say. But why were
Geordie and Kimberly so bashful about their attendance?

?????????

Plop. On to the doormat drops a members' rule book from something called the
Boisdale Jazz & Cigar Club, an application form to join the London establishment
and a request for the not inconsiderable sum of £250 a year, payable by cheque
or standing order. But come on, it's great value. Among many of the essentials
the club offers is the loan of a cashmere shawl to wear on its smoking balcony.
As well as the rules of the club, the book contains the names of members, and an
impressive lot they are too. The Rt Hon Sir Malcolm Rifkind, David Cameron's
brother Alex Cameron, QC, and Ukip leader Nigel Farage are just a few of the
luminaries who appear in the list. Yet strangely, all three omit to mention
their membership of the Boisdale Jazz & Cigar Club in the most recent edition of
'Who's Who'.

How come? Here may be the answer. In among the names are three known to this
page (I shall spare their blushes by not identifying them), and so I ring them.
"I'm a sort of honorary member," says one. "I vaguely recall being told that I
had been given a membership, but frankly I don't know what it is." And another:
"I certainly don't pay them £250 a year but, then again, they do send me an
awful lot of stuff as though I were a member. Maybe they made me a member and
I've forgotten about it. But please don't mention my name in the paper." And yet
another: "I have complimentary membership but, between us, I've never used it."

The Boisdale Jazz & Cigar Club may well be a fine institution but do not join if
you anticipate sharing a dram with Sir Malcolm Rifkind or a cigar with Alex
Cameron, QC. For all we know, they may well pay the £250 annual subscription but
it seems rather unlikely. Perish the thought that the Boisdale Jazz & Cigar club
just keeps the names of famous people in the members' rule book in order to
attract new members who perhaps don't know the terms that others have joined on.

?????????

One of the unexpected success stories of the Catholic magazine 'The Tablet' is
its relatively recent inclusion of a racing column. Called Hallowed Turf, it
appears every month or so and has been a hit with readers; the managing director
of one of the most pukka merchant banks recently told the editor it was his
favourite item. The column discusses the turf in general, with a particular bent
towards gambling priests and nuns, and it is an informative read.

Sister Rita Dawson, who runs a hospice in Glasgow, has proved to be an adept
tipster for the magazine. As festive racing approaches, we asked her for a tip -
here it is. "Back Leading Man in the Welsh Grand National on 27 December," says
Sister Rita. The proviso is that if her selection comes in (and they have an
uncanny knack of doing so), lucky punters will send her a proportion of the
winnings, to go towards an appeal to raise £1.4m for improvements to her
hospice. Although Sister Rita receives some central funding, such a large
operation, employing more than 120 people, is constantly in need of money. The
hospice has to find £1.5m a year for running costs alone, and the Scottish
Executive is trying to close it down. You can donate by sending a cheque to: St
Margaret of Scotland Hospice, East Barn Street, Clydebank G81 1EG (0141-952
1141).

'Sindy'

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bloom's appeal wilts;
LEADER - CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: LEADER TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 25

LENGTH: 62  words


GODFREY BLOOM, spokesman on women's issues for the UK Independence Party, makes
a pitch for the female vote with his contribution to Harriet Harman's call for
an end to prostitution.

Yorkshire MEP Bloom says: "Ms Harman said she wants to look at ways of ending
the 'exploitation' of women but, outside of sex trafficking, it seems to me that
it's the women exploiting the men!"

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bloom's appeal wilts;
LEADER - CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: LEADER TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 25

LENGTH: 62  words


GODFREY BLOOM, spokesman on women's issues for the UK Independence Party, makes
a pitch for the female vote with his contribution to Harriet Harman's call for
an end to prostitution.

Yorkshire MEP Bloom says: "Ms Harman said she wants to look at ways of ending
the 'exploitation' of women but, outside of sex trafficking, it seems to me that
it's the women exploiting the men!"

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

60,000 ,000 SNEAK IN BACK DOOR;
Now Macedonians head our way

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 207 words


BRITAIN is facing a new invasion of East European immigrants, this time from
impoverished Macedonia.

Residents in the Balkan state are using a passport loophole to help them sneak
into the UK by the back door.

European Union officials yesterday admitted as many as 60,000 Macedonians could
be heading our way.

But campaigners fighting to protect UK borders fear the true number is far
higher. Their ticket to a new life in Britain is being granted by neighbouring
Bulgaria, an EU member.

New rules allow Bulgarianspeaking Macedonians to apply for Bulgarian
citizenship.

That means they bag a new passport and can move here.

Only two million people live in Macedonia, which is rocked by corruption,
poverty and crime gangs.

There is now a backlog of 60,000 applications for Bulgaian citizenship - a
tenfold rise since the rule change. Nick Farage, leader of the UK Independence
Party, said: "People can now use other countries as a waiting room to spill onto
our doorstep.

We've lost control." Tory leader David Cameron said a Conservative government
would stop the flood.

Sir Andrew Green, of campaign group Migrationwatch UK, said: "The borders of the
EU are leaky enough.

"But now the passport departments in some countries are also springing a leak."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEDGE: David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

60,000 ,000 SNEAK IN BACK DOOR;
Now Macedonians head our way

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 207 words


BRITAIN is facing a new invasion of East European immigrants, this time from
impoverished Macedonia.

Residents in the Balkan state are using a passport loophole to help them sneak
into the UK by the back door.

European Union officials yesterday admitted as many as 60,000 Macedonians could
be heading our way.

But campaigners fighting to protect UK borders fear the true number is far
higher. Their ticket to a new life in Britain is being granted by neighbouring
Bulgaria, an EU member.

New rules allow Bulgarianspeaking Macedonians to apply for Bulgarian
citizenship.

That means they bag a new passport and can move here.

Only two million people live in Macedonia, which is rocked by corruption,
poverty and crime gangs.

There is now a backlog of 60,000 applications for Bulgaian citizenship - a
tenfold rise since the rule change. Nick Farage, leader of the UK Independence
Party, said: "People can now use other countries as a waiting room to spill onto
our doorstep.

We've lost control." Tory leader David Cameron said a Conservative government
would stop the flood.

Sir Andrew Green, of campaign group Migrationwatch UK, said: "The borders of the
EU are leaky enough.

"But now the passport departments in some countries are also springing a leak."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEDGE: David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday

Will the new EU treaty really affect us?;
DEBATE

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 339 words


EUROPE Minister Jim Murphy says EU symbols such as the flag and anthem will have
no official status under the new reform treaty (Letters). This is great news.

I, therefore, anticipate the removal of the EU flag from the numberplates of new
cars and from projects to which the EU has donated a small fraction of the cost.

Who does Jim Murphy think he is fooling? The European symbols are already here,
and have been for a long time. However, they are really just a distraction when
you consider the true powers that the EU has and will be given by the new
treaty.

TOM HUGHES, Cheadle Hulme, Cheshire.

SIGNING the Lisbon Treaty didn't mean 'control of our borders passing to
Brussels through a common immigration and asylum policy' (Mail). The UK will
retain control of its borders and will be able to choose whether or not to
participate in EU action on immigration and asylum. We will also maintain
control over key policy areas like social security, tax and foreign policy.

The idea that the Reform Treaty gives up Britain's veto in more than 60 areas
and gives the EU the trappings of statehood is mistaken. There are 50 extensions
of majority voting in the treaty. Of these, 16 don't apply in the UK unless we
agree to them, 14 are procedural to improve EU efficiency and the other 20 are
manifestly in the UK's national interest.

One clear purpose of the treaty is to increase the powers of national
parliaments. They will have for the first time a direct role in deciding whether
EU legislation is necessary.

Europe Minister JIM MURPHY, Foreign Office, London SW1.

I WAS part of the UKIP team that participated in the protest in the European
parliament over the signing of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Our protest
dominated the parliament, yet the Europhile Press have played this down.

Just a few rows from Hans Pottering, who was pontificating about democracy, were
about 100 people asking for a democratic voice. It is ironic that they did not
want to listen to anyone opposing their own views.

MICHAEL McMANUS, UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday

Idle Britons;
LETTERS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 283 words


Idle Britons I'M SORRY to have to say it, but the reason why four out of five
new jobs in Britain are taken by foreigners is that too many bone idle Britons
simply won't work. I know: I'm related to a few, and every idler walking past me
in the street is British too. Foreigners come to work and shouldn't be used as a
scapegoat for idle Britons.

Name and address supplied.

IT'S NOT the fact that Poles are arriving and taking the jobs that British
people don't want that's the problem (Letters). It's the Poles, and others, who
arrive and take the NHS beds and school places that the British people need,
that causes concern.

Schools and hospitals were paid for by generations of workers who laboured so
their own children could enjoy the fruits of their work labour and investment.

I have many friends and colleagues who are Polish and they are all hardworking
and well-educated people.

The fact that I like them doesn't mean I can afford to transfer my investments
to them.

TOM WISE, UKIP MEP, Eastern Region.

THE FACT that four out of five new jobs created in Britain go to migrant workers
has less to do with any work ethos and more to do with cost. Most migrants are
working for less than their British counterparts.

In some cases, they are able to do this because their income is being
underwritten by Family Credit and other benefits while their children live back
at home in a society with much cheaper per capita costs. This puts British
workers at a financial disadvantage in the job market. It's time Gordon Brown
stopped the anomalies in earnings and balanced payments pro-rata to migrant
workers so that British workers could afford to do British jobs.

S. T. VAUGHAN, Yardley Wood, Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Inspectors 'turn blind eye to EU safety laws'

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 260  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are producing so many pointless health and safety laws that
British inspectors are having to turn a blind eye to offences, MPs have been
warned.

In a surprise admission, the Government's health and safety tsar Geoffrey Podger
said inspectors were effectively ignoring laws imposed by Brussels which "may
not have been well-framed". Mr Podger, chief executive of the Health and Safety
Executive, said most safety laws were "now of EU origin".

He urged ministers to take a "strong line" in Brussels to slow the tide of new
laws. He added: "In terms of our own enforcement activity we have to be guided
by our own view as to the priority of a particular measure.

"Therefore it is not, frankly, my purpose in life . . . and I must be careful
what I say . . . that our inspectors should spend their time trying to enforce
every jot and tittle of a piece of legislation which, in our view, may not have
been well-framed." Mr Podger singled out a new EU directive on electromagnetic
fields which could severely restrict the use of MRI scanners by health workers.

The HSE also criticised employers who produce a "60-page risk assessment" to
cover every eventuality for fear of being sued. But HSE chairman Judith Hackett
admitted the executive had to do a "much better job" of informing employers
about what level of risk was acceptable.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, last night welcomed Mr
Podger's comments. He said: "It is a nice thought that perhaps we will become
like the rest of the EU and only apply these laws selectively."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Inspectors 'turn blind eye to EU safety laws'

BYLINE: By Jason Groves POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 260  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are producing so many pointless health and safety laws that
British inspectors are having to turn a blind eye to offences, MPs have been
warned.

In a surprise admission, the Government's health and safety tsar Geoffrey Podger
said inspectors were effectively ignoring laws imposed by Brussels which "may
not have been well-framed". Mr Podger, chief executive of the Health and Safety
Executive, said most safety laws were "now of EU origin".

He urged ministers to take a "strong line" in Brussels to slow the tide of new
laws. He added: "In terms of our own enforcement activity we have to be guided
by our own view as to the priority of a particular measure.

"Therefore it is not, frankly, my purpose in life . . . and I must be careful
what I say . . . that our inspectors should spend their time trying to enforce
every jot and tittle of a piece of legislation which, in our view, may not have
been well-framed." Mr Podger singled out a new EU directive on electromagnetic
fields which could severely restrict the use of MRI scanners by health workers.

The HSE also criticised employers who produce a "60-page risk assessment" to
cover every eventuality for fear of being sued. But HSE chairman Judith Hackett
admitted the executive had to do a "much better job" of informing employers
about what level of risk was acceptable.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, last night welcomed Mr
Podger's comments. He said: "It is a nice thought that perhaps we will become
like the rest of the EU and only apply these laws selectively."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Brown clashes with Sarkozy over 'new dream'

BYLINE: Andrew Grice in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 392 words


Gordon Brown clashed with Nicolas Sarkozy, the French President, over the remit
of a new group of senior figures who will look at the long-term future of the
European Union.

The Prime Minister claimed victory after a summit of EU leaders ruled out
further changes to their institutions "for the foreseeable future". He insisted
there was no appetite for another treaty after a six-year wrangle to secure the
Treaty of Lisbon signed on Thursday.

But Mr Brown stopped short of ruling out any further EU integration and M.
Sarkozy provided ammunition for British Eurosceptics by suggesting the new group
- described as "wise men" - would consider such moves. He said the group,
proposed by France, would discuss "a politically integrated Europe" and "what
will be the new [European] dream".

The French President also differed with Mr Brown by saying that the "wise men"
could consider whether the EU could continue to expand "indefinitely". That
revived fears that France might try to use it to block Turkey joining the EU
club, even though EU enlargement is outside the group's formal remit.

Britain claimed it had watered down a French proposal to include support for
protectionist measures in a summit statement on the global economy which broadly
endorsed Mr Brown's free trade vision.

Another row between the two nations is looming over closer EU co-operation on
defence, which M. Sarkozy will push when France takes over the EU's rotating
presidency in July.

The "wise men" group will be chaired by Felipe Gonzalez, the former Spanish
prime minister. Mr Brown is lobbying to secure a place on it for Richard
Lambert, the CBI director general.

He brushed off criticism by Peter Mandelson, Brit-ain's European Commissioner,
who told the BBC he should make Europe a higher priority. Mr Brown replied:
"Europe is a very big priority."

Opposition parties attacked Mr Brown for allowing the wise men to be appointed
so soon after the treaty was signed. Mark Francois, the Tories' spokesman on
Europe, said: "He has opened a Pandora's Box by agreeing to a reflection group
with no clear remit, chaired by an old Spanish Socialist."

John Whittaker, chairman of Ukip, said: "Give-Away Gordon is already planning to
hand over more powers to Brussels before the ink is dry on the Treaty of
Lisbon."

tensions rise as EU agrees Kosovo mission, page 30

From the archive, page 42

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday

Now Gord signs up to EU 'dream'

BYLINE: Graeme Wilson Deputy Political Editor, in Brussels

LENGTH: 357  words


PM's power giveaway day after Treaty

GORDON Brown yesterday signed up to yet ANOTHER plan to hand vast powers to
Brussels.

With ink barely dry on the hated Treaty of Lisbon, he rubber-stamped a dastardly
new French power-grab.

Touted as a "European dream", it could force Britain to surrender power on
issues like migration, security, counter-terrorism, the economy and even climate
change.

The Prime Minister was among Euro leaders who agreed to appoint a clique of
Brussels grandees -incredibly dubbed the "group of the wise" -to spend two years
drawing up a new vision for Europe.

They will be headed by Spain's ex socialist PM Felipe Gonzalez, an architect of
the single currency and old-style EU federalist.

The idea is the brainchild of French president Nicolas Sarkozy, who declared
yesterday that the group would "define the new European dream". He said: "I want
a politically integrated Europe." The comments wrecked Mr Brown's bid to play
down the group by insisting there would be no more big reforms for the
"foreseeable future".

Yesterday's plans were passed at a summit in Brussels, 24 hours after the
signing of the revamped European constitution. But as EU bureaucrats celebrated,
the Conservatives warned Mr Brown faces a bruising battle and Commons vote on a
referendum to get the Treaty through Parliament.

But Mr Brown still insisted yesterday: "There is no need for a referendum."

Number 10 shrugged off criticism at Mr Brown's signing of the Lisbon Treaty
three hours later than other leaders.

The PM's bitter enemy and European trade commissioner Peter Mandelson said: "In
politics you don't win an argument by putting yourself on the back foot. If you
have a case, you make it confidently."

But the PM's official spokesman said: "Mr Brown's view is that this is a
complete fuss about nothing."

Tories accused the PM of failing Britain. Shadow Europe Minister Mark Francois
said: "He's opened a Pandora's box by agreeing to a reflection group with no
clear remit, chaired by an old socialist."

UK Independence Party chief John Whittaker added: "Give-away Gordon's handing
over more powers."g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says -Page Six

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

A united Europe Brown ... all except one;
Brown turns up late then agrees a treaty handing power to Brussels

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 870 words


GORDON Brown was left isolated in Europe and under fire in Britain last night
after he turned up late for a solo signing of a treaty hailed hours earlier by
all his EU colleagues as a 'vision of the future'.

Sitting alone in a deserted hall, he put his name to a document that gives up
Britain's veto in more than 60 areas and gives the EU the trappings of
statehood.

His signature was the last to be added because all 26 other leaders and their
foreign ministers had signed up in a lavish midday ceremony at which Foreign
Secretary David Miliband flew the flag for Britain.

The Prime Minister took the shine off an occasion Brussels had planned as a
showcase for a united Europe.

In Britain, his absence was seen as an attempt to cover his embarrassment at his
A united failure to hold a referendum on the treaty, which is widely viewed as
almost identical to the European Constitution on which the Government had
pledged to hold a vote.

And in Brussels, his decision to skip the main event provoked a torrent of
criticism, with diplomats warning he had left Britain looking petty and
marginalised.

In what critics said was a diplomatic snub to other EU leaders, Mr Brown missed
the formal group photograph of the 26 heads of government who gathered to adopt
what will in future be known as the Treaty of Lisbon.

Downing Street blamed it on an unavoidable diary mix-up which meant Mr Brown was
still in London giving evidence to MPs while his counterparts took part in a
glitzy musical

Two hours later, and with cameras spectacular at the Jeronimos monastery outside
Lisbon, Portugal.

By the time he arrived, Mr Brown had missed the signing, the speeches, the photo
and most of the lunch, and some leaders including German chancellor Angela
Merkel and Italian prime minister Romano Prodi, were heading back to their
respective capitals.

It was left to Mr Miliband to represent Britain at the ceremony. With 26 prime
ministers and presidents taking precedence, he was called last to the podium.

And as he posed for the cameras, Portuguese premier Jose Socrates asked him:
'Where is Mr Brown?', forcing the Foreign Secretary to look at his watch and
assure him: 'He's on his way.' Several EU leaders appeared peeved that Mr Brown
had chosen not to attend on the grounds he had other business. French president
Nicolas Sarkozy summed up the mood by declaring: 'We have all got our problems,
but ...'

Voice of the people Two hours later, and with cameras recording what critics
said was Britain's moment of splendid isolation, Mr Brown was ushered into the
hall where the ceremonies had taken place to add his signature to the treaty.

Despite the Prime Minister's assurances that the constitution is a minor
development, EU leaders were in no doubt that a historic point had been reached.

Portugal's Mr Socrates said: 'This was the European project that many
generations dreamt of and others before us championed, with a vision of the
future.' Mr Brown now faces a Parliamentary battle in the New Year when MPs and
peers will be asked to ratify the document drafted to replace the failed
European constitution.

He tried to draw attention away from his diplomatic difficulties by calling on
the rest of the EU to 'stop looking inwards, stop looking at constitutions or
semi-constitutions or institutions for a long time ahead, and for the
foreseeable future conpean got our problems, but ...' 82% of Britons want a
referendum on the treaty, a Daily Mail poll found centrate on the big issues
ahead of us'.

The Treaty of Lisbon is designed to streamline the EU's workings following its
enlargement to 27 members.

It creates a permanent EU President and a High Representative for foreign
affairs, as well as a legal personality for the EU, allowing it to sign
international treaties.

Mr Brown claims the treaty bears no resemblance to the constitution, which was
dropped after voters in France and Holland rejected it in 2005.

But the Tories - and most EU leaders - say it is almost identical and implements
nearly all the sweeping changes envisaged by the constitution.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: 'Gordon Brown has left Britain with
the worst of all worlds today.

'With a stroke of a pen he has signed away a swathe of powers to the EU, but his
sulky rudeness to our Europartners means that he has actually managed to lose
influence in Brussels.

'This latest blunder is another sign that Gordon Brown is struggling to cope as
Prime Minister.' Liberal Democrat leadership contender Chris Huhne - a former
MEP - said: 'Anti-Europeans will note the Treaty was still signed, while pro-
Europeans will note the extraordinary bad grace with which the Prime Minister
specifically organised a parliamentary meeting to clash with a ceremony that 26
of our partners' heads of state and government thought it worthwhile to attend.

'This is inept and peevish behaviour that leaves Gordon Brown's reputation for
honest dealing with our EU partners hanging by a thread.' UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage was scathing about Mr Brown's failure to attend the signing
ceremony: 'Whether you are pro or anti-European, the British performance in
there was cringe-makingly awful.'

Comment - Page 14 Quentin Letts - Page 24 b.brogan@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE PHOTOCALL THAT NEVER WAS .. . What if he had turned up on time? The
Mail has used computer technology to insert Mr Brown into the official photo of
the 26 other EU leaders and their foreign ministers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Voice of the people must be heard, say the Tories

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 169 words


THE Prime Minister has ruled out a referendum on the treaty, even though the
Tories say he is breaking Labour's 2005 manifesto pledge to put the constitution
to a public vote.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: 'The question he will now face day
in, day out is what democratic right he has to agree to the renamed EU
Constitution without letting the British people have their say.

'Labour's election manifesto said there would be a referendum on the
Constitution.

'It didn't say that if other countries be heard, say threw it out first, the
treaty would be given a few tweaks and a new name and rammed through.

'But that is exactly what Gordon Brown is trying to do.

'He bottled an election but at least he should have the courage to honour his
promises and let the British people decide.' UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage said he spoke to Foreign Secretary David Miliband in Lisbon moments
before he signed the treaty and repeated his demand for a referendum, but
received only 'a hollow laugh' in reply.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 686 words


The terror threat isn't going away. The chatter is endless. The perils are
obvious. Thank God for vigilant airline staff. Especially those at US Airways at
Gatwick, who spotted Julia King en route to New York to take part in a lecture
at Yale University.

Ms King, a graduate of the Architectural Association, was born in the US but
holds joint British-Venezuelan citizenship. Her mother, a former diplomat, is
Venezuelan. Her father is British. You can't fly, a security official told her.
You are a British national, but because you were born in the US, you should be a
US national. Not so, said Ms King. Under the 14th amendment, under international
law, diplomats' children born in the US don't automatically acquire citizenship.
And she had flown nine times to the US, at least once with US Airways. Maybe you
were lucky, the official said. And so the airline contacted the US embassy, but
it had lost the blue list, which would have confirmed the status of Ms King's
mother. Instead, one official had a eureka moment. Why don't you clarify things
by applying for US citizenship, she asked - then your application can be
rejected. As it was Ms King was left on the ground, but at least she had her
friend Rebecca Smith for company, as she chose not to fly - even though she had
fared much better with airport staff. "I am just English, as were my parents and
grandparents; born in Stoke-on-Trent," Ms Smith told officials. "Yes!" one
replied. "Stoke-on-Trent, we like that . . ."

To Bali now, where Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, is breakfasting and
proving that backscratching will save the planet. "There's no mention of John
Kerry in here, can we put one in?" he says, looking down his speech. "I promised
him we would. He mentioned us yesterday."

15,000 To Attend Ikea Opening screamed the Belfast Telegraph, as the DIY giant
unveiled its first store in Ireland. How will they cope, asked the Today
programme? Well, Ian Paisley and Martin McGuinness were there to greet the
initial surge of just 50 - and to mark another milestone. It was always said
that flatpacks, meatballs and chairs called Ektorp would come in times of peace.
A day for all those who believed.

He seeks them here, he seeks them there. David Irving seeks people to sue
everywhere. Last week there were new threats to Deborah Lipstadt, the academic
who bested him in 2000 when he sued her for libel. Prior to that he rattled his
sabre at the Jewish Chronicle, which implored him to go ahead. Now the former
Foreign Office minister Denis MacShane is in his sights. "If you should again
publicise any statement carrying the defamatory and now demonstrably untrue
meaning, whether implicit or explicit, that I am an 'active Holocaust denier' .
. . I shall without further notice issue a claim in defamation," he tells the
MP. It was Mr Justice Gray who famously called Irving "an active Holocaust
denier", but don't imagine he'll get away with that just because he's a judge
and has judicial privilege. All in good time, my friends, all in good time.

As Europhobe operations go, it was a good one. Disruptive British MEPs in
Brussels wore T-shirts and chanted "referendum". Reports named Tory MEP Daniel
Hannan as ringleader, but this piqued Ukip's Gerald Batten. "It had no leader,"
he complained in an email. The participants were "cross party MEPs". And
yesterday things got worse for them as Gordon signed the Euro treaty. Cross? Bet
they were livid.

We did well this year, misspelling Moira Stuart's name and making Ehud Olmert
president of Israel. But our bid for Media Error of the Year came to nought;
www.regrettheerror.com preferred the classic Independent apology: "Ms Blair has
never shared a shower with Ms Caplin, was not introduced to spirit guides or
primal wrestling by Ms Caplin (or anyone else), and did not have her diary
masterminded by Ms Caplin." It also preferred Ontario's Woodstock
Sentinel-Review, which corrected a "misperception": "Kevin DeClark is going to
Afghanistan to gain life experience to become a police officer," it said. "Not
to shoot guns and blow things up." Ah well, next year.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                                 First Edition

Brown derided for late arrival at EU treaty signing

BYLINE: Andrew Grice in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 655 words


Gordon Brown shrugged off criticism that he had left Britain isolated in Europe
as he finally signed the new EU treaty yesterday, three hours after his fellow
leaders put pen to paper.

The Prime Minister upset pro-Europeans and Eurosceptics alike by missing the
official signing ceremony in Lisbon yesterday lunchtime on the grounds that he
had to answer questions from senior MPs in Parliament. Critics claimed he was
too "gutless" to appear at the event and accused him of distancing himself from
the EU's blueprint to pander to Britain's Eurosceptic newspapers.

His absence from the ceremony and the official "family photograph" of EU leaders
at the 500-year-old Jeronimos Monastery raised eyebrows. "It sends a terrible
signal to the rest of Europe that Britain doesn't really want to be part of the
club," said one EU diplomat.

Nicolas Sarkozy, the French President, suggested that Mr Brown's absence was
evidence of a lukewarm attitude to the EU. "We've all got problems to deal with.
I personally think that we need Britain in Europe," he told reporters after the
signing. "We need Gordon," he added in English.

Hugo Brady, of the Centre for European Reform think-tank, said: "There is no
better manifestation of his lack of interest in Europe than his thinking that
missing the signature would not be a big deal."

Mr Brown was the only one of the 27 EU leaders to miss the ceremony. In his
absence, David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, took part. But he cut a rather
lonely figure because the treaty was signed by both the leader and foreign
minister of the other 26 member states.

Jose Socrates, the Portuguese Prime Minister, asked Mr Miliband where Mr Brown
was. "On his way," the Foreign Secretary replied, tapping his watch. Even Nigel
Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, which wants to pull Britain out
of the EU, attended the event.

The Prime Minister arrived at the close of a working lunch of other EU leaders
at a nearby coach museum. British officials said they were still "on the coffee"
but some observers said half of the 26 had already left by the time Mr Brown put
his name to the treaty. Looking rather uncomfortable, he had to be persuaded to
look up for the TV cameras. He left after 15 minutes, going on to meetings with
Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission President, and Mr Socrates, whose
country holds the EU's rotating presidency.

Earlier, Mr Brown laughed off the criticism when he arrived to take questions
from MPs. "I think you can see the priority I attach to attending this
committee," he said.

Brown allies dismissed the controversy as a storm whipped up by the media and
denied it would harm relations with Britain's EU partners. But political
opponents sought to exploit the fiasco. William Hague, the shadow Foreign
Secretary, said: "Gordon Brown has left Britain with the worst of all worlds
today. With a stroke of a pen he has signed away a swathe of powers to the EU,
but his sulky rudeness to our European partners means that he has actually
managed to lose influence in Brussels. This latest blunder is another sign that
Gordon Brown is struggling to cope as Prime Minister."

Kenneth Clarke, the prominent pro-European Tory and former chancellor, said Mr
Brown's "stunt" proved he was "not very good at international diplomacy" and was
more concerned with newspaper headlines. "He's behaving rather childishly," he
said.

Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat leadership contender and former MEP, said the
Prime Minister was treating Britain's EU partners like mud. "Gordon Brown's
no-show in Lisbon will please no one at home while raising serious questions
about his good faith among our partners," he said.

The Prime Minister might have stayed away from Lisbon altogether but was
persuaded to turn up late after criticism by the Foreign Office, other European
leaders and the European Commission.

LETTERS, page 48

Read Andrew Grice online at www.independent.co.uk/todayinpolitics

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday

National: British MEPs in treaty uproar at Strasbourg: Brown under fire for
ducking out of signing: Parliament protesters 'acted like football louts'

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 449 words


Gordon Brown travels to Lisbon today to enjoy unique arrangements for the
signing of Europe's new treaty, separately from the other 26 heads of EU
governments and symbolising Britain's semi-detachment from the rest of the EU.

With the prime minister saying that prior parliamentary duties keep him from
taking part in the EU ceremony at a castle in Portugal, Britain's reputation as
the EU's biggest troublemaker was reinforced yesterday when dozens of MEPs, many
of them from the Conservative party and the UK Independence party, disrupted
business in the European parliament in Strasbourg, heckling and protesting at EU
leaders who signed the new EU charter of fundamental rights.

As the president of the European commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, the president
of the European parliament, Hans-Gert Poettering, and the Portuguese prime
minister, Jose Socrates, signed the charter - which Britain says will not apply
in the UK - the British-led band of Europhobe MEPs unveiled banners and T-shirts
demanding a referendum on the treaty.

The protesters were accused of bringing the loutish behaviour of the football
terraces to the chamber in Strasbourg, and Brown was charged with gutlessness
for sidestepping the main event in Portugal today.

"Gordon Brown has managed to turn something as simple as signing the EU treaty
into a national embarrassment," said William Hague, the shadow foreign
secretary. "What will other EU leaders think of a prime minister who dithers for
a week about whether he dares be photographed putting pen to paper . . . Gordon
Brown's signature on the renamed EU constitution tomorrow will not have the
British people's democratic support."

"Seven prime ministers, including Gordon Brown, promised that their voters would
have the final say in a referendum," said Daniel Hannan, the Conservative MEP
and protest leader, of the treaty that replaces Europe's defunct constitution.

Most of the protesting MEPs were British, with others from Poland, Italy and
France. "No matter how loud you heckle and yell, today is a day of fundamental
importance for Europe," said Socrates, currently chairing the EU. "Referendum,
we want a referendum," said Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader in the parliament.

Graham Watson, the Liberal Democrat leader in the parliament, said: "British
Ukip, Eurosceptic Conservatives and Polish far-right MEPs today brought the
hooligan behaviour of the football stadium into the European parliament."

While the scenes were viewed by EU officials as political pantomime, Brown's
decision to forgo the company of EU leaders at today's signing ceremony was seen
as more serious, and symptomatic of the prime minister's aloofness from Europe.

Leader comment, page 34

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 12, 2007 Wednesday 8:24 PM GMT

Protesting at the heart of EU power

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 531 words


The mood in the European Parliament is turning sour. Over the eight years that
I've been here, the Euro-sceptic minority has generally behaved impeccably,
eschewing procedural tricks to frustrate the business of the House, and
comporting itself with dignity in the chamber. Not any more.

Eurosceptic MEPs put their message across

The ramming through of the European Constitution without the promised
referendums has changed everything. Earlier today, in a special ceremony,
Euro-dignitaries signed the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Now the
Charter would have been given legal force by the Constitution. But the
Constitution was rejected by 55 per cent of French voters and 62 per cent of
Dutch voters in 2005. Whatever the arguments for and against the Charter (and I
think there are overwhelming arguments against contracting out the defence of
civil liberties to Euro-judges), it was rejected by the voters.

Accordingly, around 50 of us went into the hemicycle wearing tee-shirts with the
single word "REFERENDUM!" and carrying placards with the same. Fifty, I'm
afraid, represents about the limit of Euro-scepticism in the 785-member chamber,
which tells you something about how representative the European Parliament is.
Anyway, the sight of the word "referendum" seemed to enrage the authorities. You
can see why, I suppose. People are normally angriest when they secretly blame
themselves for something. Most Euro-federalists had initially supported
plebiscites, but switched when the voters declined to give them the result they
wanted. No wonder they don't like to be reminded of what they had promised.

So the poor ushers , who couldn't have been politer or more apologetic , were
sent to snatch away our banners. This, unfortunately, enraged some of my more
excitable French and Polish colleagues, as well as some UKIP MEPs, who started
chanting and barracking. The session ended in ugly scenes.

Afterwards, the various party leaders rose to make pompous and hectoring
speeches about the "football hooligan" behaviour they had just witnessed. And
it's true that some of the yelling was excessive. It was particularly
unfortunate that, because of the timing of the ushers' actions, the man who got
the brunt of the heckling was the Portuguese Prime Minister who , although he,
too, is reneging on his referendum promise , is, after all, the elected leader
of a friendly country.

But the outrage here, surely, is not the "contempt for the dignity of the
European Parliament" (as one of the party leaders put it) but the contempt for
Europe's citizens. If they want their Charter so badly, let the integrationists
take their arguments to the voters. Until they do, the Euro-sceptic opposition
within the House has every right to seek to frustrate business.

I hope we won't hear any more shouting. But a spot of Parnell-style
obstructionism, slowing the activity of the chamber within the letter of the
rules, is surely in order. If the federalists hold their referendum and win it,
I promise to accept the result with good grace. But if they won't give people
the vote they promised, their democracy is a sham.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2007 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday

Germans try to tamper with EU treaty by raising the flag

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: 2ND; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 278 words


GORDON Brown's European troubles intensified last night after Germany tried to
slip references to the EU flag and anthem into the reform treaty.

A last-minute declaration on the importance of the union's symbols was due to be
signed by 16 countries on Thursday as part of the ceremonies to mark the
treaty's approval.

Federalist campaigners led by former French president Valerie Giscard d'Estaing
boasted that it would be 'annexed' to the treaty.

The declaration, championed by Germany, says the EU flag, anthem and motto, as
well as the euro and Europe Day on May 9, 'will continue to be symbols of common
membership of citizens to the European Union'.

Britain and France, along with Ireland and seven other countries, have refused
to sign, fearing it is a back-door way of reopening the debate on the
constitution, which collapsed after being rejected by voters in 2005.

The attempt to tamper with the treaty makes a mockery of Mr Brown's claim that
it has been stripped of all its constitutional trappings. Furious British
diplomats said the declaration had no legal value but experts insisted it would
be attached to the treaty as part of EU procedure.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'It means that what was 96 per cent of the old
constitution is now 100 per cent. Let there be no doubt that this is a massive
betrayal of the British people.' Mr Brown already faces embarrassment because an
unplanned diary clash means he may be the only leader to miss the signing
ceremony.

Foreign Secretary David Miliband, who will formally sign the treaty on behalf of
the UK, will have to represent Mr Brown, who may become the first British
premier to miss a European treaty signing.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2007 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           December 8, 2007, Saturday

Labour got a &pound

BYLINE: Greg Hurst Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words


* Money came from the Electoral Commission

* General secretary had jobs in legal compliance

Labour was paid £ 180,000 from public funds to help party officials to
understand new funding rules shortly before it began accepting secret donations
from a property developer, The Times can reveal.

The party applied for and received a "start-up grant" from the Electoral
Commission to meet the costs of abiding by the law on declaring donations that
Labour had itself enacted. It was for training staff in the duties imposed by
the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and was specifically
for the party to prepare for its requirements on submitting accounts and
declaring donations above £ 5,000.

The grant could also be used to hire consultants to give advice on the Act, for
guidance for party officials and volunteers, and to adapt computerised
accounting systems.

All parties, from the largest to residents' groups registered with the
commission, were eligible to seek grants after the Act provided for £ 700,000 in
public funds to help them to meet its requirements. Labour received £ 183,052,
the same sum as the Conservatives, under a formula based on votes cast in the
1997 general election and the 1999 European elections. The Liberal Democrats
were given £ 136,840, and minority parties represented at Westminster up to £
21,000 each. Small parties, including the Communist Party of Britain, received
grants of £ 500.

The bulk of Labour's grant was paid in April 2001, the remainder being paid in
2002. In January 2003 Labour registered the first donation of £ 25,000 from
Janet Dunn, wife of a business associate of David Abrahams.

This was the first of 19 disguised gifts made in the names of four
intermediaries including his solicitor, John McCarthy, over a four-year period
that totalled more than £ 600,000.

There have been claims that Labour officials helped to set up the arrangement
that included the use of legal covenants for Mr Abrahams to gift the donations
through intermediaries.

That Labour received substantial public funds to train staff in the new law
makes all the more puzzling the insistence by the party's now-departed general
secretary that he thought such an arrangement was legal.

The anti-sleaze campaigner and former Independent MP Martin Bell told The Times:
"The more we know, the worse it gets. It makes you wonder what this money was
spent on."

Peter Watt said when he quit as Labour general secretary last week after
admitting he knew of the proxy donations: "I believed at the time my reporting
obligations had been appropriately complied with. As a result of press
coverage...I sought legal advice on behalf of the Labour Party. I was advised
that, unbeknown to me, there were additional reporting requirements." Mr Watt
worked for the party when the Act was introduced and was its taskforce leader
for financial and legal compliance from 2003 and director of finance and
compliance in 2005 until he became general secretary last year.

Section 54 of the Act states that if an "agent" is used to give money to a
political party the original donor's identity must be supplied to the party too.

Mr Watt was said yesterday to be ready to fight to clear his name rather than
accept the role of fall guy, friends saying he inherited the arrangement when he
took over running the party.

Matthew Taylor, who was an adviser to Tony Blair, has accused Gordon Brown of
"inept" handling of the row.

Alan Johnson, the Health Secretary, told GMTV: "It's not a good time for the
party ... particularly as we were the party that set out to regulate this."

Matthew Parris, page 19

Who's who in the scandal timesonline.co.uk/politics

WHAT EACH PARTY GOT

Labour Party £ 183,052

Conservatives £ 183,052

Liberal Democrats £ 136,840

SNP £ 21,991

UKIP £ 17,579

Greens £ 16,821

Ulster Unionists £ 11,062

Plaid Cymru £ 10,968

SDLP £ 10,439

Democratic Unionists £ 8,578

Sinn Fein £ 7,087

Alliance Party (NI) £ 3,255

Scottish Socialists £ 2,992

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday

Accepting election defeat

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 56 words


SIR - The would-be dictator Hugo Chávez has pledged to accept his defeat in the
Venezuelan referendum, despite losing by only 51 per cent to 49 per cent.

Does this make him more democratic than the EU, which is ignoring a 63 per cent
defeat in the Netherlands and a 55 per cent defeat in France?

Godfrey Bloom MEP (UKIP)

Selby, North Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday

Donorgate scandal

BYLINE: Chris Buckland

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 123  words


IN the wake of the Donorgate scandal rocking Gordon Brown, political parties
have to be extra careful about whom they approach for loot. Tory leader David
Cameron is clearly not checking enough, because he has just sent a begging
letter to...a cat. Black moggy Todd received a circular from Dave inviting him
to dig into his kitty and join the Front Bench Club for £ 5,000. Sadly, Todd was
expelled from the party last year after they discovered he was the pet of
Annabelle Fuller, a glam official of the UK Independence Party. The 25-year-old
beauty signed up her cat as a £ 3 member of the Tory youth wing -but puss was
given the boot after a tip-off. His mistress won't be parting with any money.
"It's an awful lot of Kitekat" she purred.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday

Eurocrat's team costs pounds 2.5m a year

BYLINE: Martin Banks in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 313 words


THE president of the European Parliament was under pressure last night to
justify his 46-strong entourage.

The office of Hans-Gert Poettering includes three drivers, 13 advisers and seven
press officers.

A conservative estimate of the total annual running costs of the German MEP's
cabinet alone has been put at euro3.5 million ( pounds 2.5 million). This
includes about pounds 1.6 million on staff salaries, plus travel expenses and
publicity costs. Klaus Welle, his German chief of staff, is the top earner but
six department heads directly below him are also believed to receive six-figure
salaries.

The number of people in the centre-Right MEP's team has come under increased
scrutiny by parliamentary colleagues because it is thought to be significantly
bigger than any of his predecessors.

The department is financed by the parliament's pounds 1 billion annual budget
and its size dwarfs that of Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European
Commission, who has 29 full-time staff in his office.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has now written to Mr
Poettering demanding a full breakdown of the costs involved in running his
office.

Under the parliament's rotating presidency, Mr Poettering's two-and-a-half year
term ends after the 2009 European elections.

The president, traditionally the "face'' of the parliament, represents the
assembly in its international relations and chairs key meetings. His spokesman,
Katrin Ruhrmann, said: "The role of president is crucial and it is important to
point out that the size of his cabinet is only slightly bigger than that of his
immediate predecessor.

"You also have to bear in mind that, as the parliament has grown in size and
competences in recent years, so has the role of its president.

"He has to attend many meetings and undertake lots of overseas trips where he
has to be briefed by his team of advisers.''

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 3, 2007 Monday
                                 First Edition

Pandora;
Harman can't even organise a party in a nightclub

BYLINE: HENRY DEEDES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 714 words


For all the questions being raised over dodgy donations, the party is not quite
over yet for Harriet Harman. The same, however, cannot be said of the
beleaguered deputy Labour leader's forthcoming Christmas shindig.

On Wednesday evening, around 200 guests were invited to attend an evening hosted
by Harman promising champagne, canapes and comedy at Sound nightclub, an edgy
venue in London's Leicester Square.

The bash, for which guests were charged £30 a ticket, was being billed as the
last chance to raise funds towards the cost of Harman's successful campaign to
become Labour's deputy leader.

But in light of the current controversy surrounding the £5,000 contribution to
the campaign from David Abrahams, which was listed in the name of his secretary
Janet Kidd, the evening has now been called off.

"Yes it's definitely been cancelled," says Alex Rayner, a PR spokesman for the
club. "We received a phone call from her office on Friday morning telling us it
was no longer going ahead. It was a bit last minute, but certainly not a problem
for us."

The news will no doubt come as some relief to some of Harman's colleagues on the
Labour benches. Since MPs are currently going out of their way to distance
themselves from Labour's current funding crisis, some were thought to be less
than enthusiastic about clinking champagne flutes with one of the Cabinet
ministers caught right in the thick of it.

Rod puts on a brave face after losing at the races

Rod Stewart, who is fiercely proud of his Scottish roots, was once described by
Ronnie Wood as "tighter than two coats of paint".

He was certainly none too chuffed to find himself out of pocket during a trip to
Newbury races over the weekend.

I spotted Stewart with his glamorous wife Penny at the Hennessy Gold Cup wincing
as one of his bets, a horse called O'Maly, unseated its jockey halfway through
the race.

"I've lost everything today, none of my tips have worked out for me," he told
me. "It's Penny that loves the races, personally I much prefer the football."

True to his word, Stewart then tootled off to find a television showing his
beloved Celtic play Hearts. His mood won't have improved much - Hearts equalised
with practically the last kick of the game.

Jagger opts for the noisy life

Sultry jewellery designer Jade Jagger has been lending her creative talents to
an ambitious new housing project in the Cotswolds.

Jagger, along with fellow design gurus Philippe Starck and Sophie Conran, has
been helping design The Lakes, a set of luxury homes which the developers claim
will make the fashionable West Country area to London what the Hamptons are to
New York. Jagger is thought to have already procured one for herself.

But there is one potential snag. One local reports that the plot falls in the
vicinity of the flightpath towards the nearby airbase at RAF Fairford.

"The B52s buzz over there the whole time," I'm told. "Perhaps Jade might have to
turn up some of that music she likes to party to in Ibiza."

A seat to Dai for

When Sir Dai Llewellyn stood in May's local elections under UKIP's angry banner,
he found himself on the receiving end of a thrashing.

Still, the experience hasn't dampened the notorious Bouncing Baronet's political
ambitions. He plans to stand again, this time for Parliament at the next general
election.

"I'll be contesting Cardiff North, which was my uncle's seat," he tells me.
"Like most people I was expecting an election this month so I've already filled
in all the forms."

Llewellyn will be attempting to unseat Welsh First Minister Rhodri Morgan's wife
Sally. Seeing as Llewellyn will also be campaigning to have the Welsh Assembly
scrapped, I reckon we can safely predict that fireworks are ahead.

Jarvis's bid for Eurovision glory is just Pulp fiction

It appears Jarvis Cocker will not be the man after all to save Britain from its
annual humiliation at the Eurovision Song Contest.

Earlier this year, the gangly popstar made a bizarre bid to pen the UK's entry
in 2008. "The door is always open if they want to ask me," he said. "I've always
wanted to do one."

Sadly, his interest appears to have waned. When Pandora recently tried to get
Cocker to commit to his pledge, I was practically laughed off the telephone
line. Chortled a spokesman: "Sorry, but I wouldn't hold your breath on that
one."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                December 2, 2007

Liberal Democrat MP Sarah Teather

BYLINE: Rod Liddle

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 208 words


The world's most irritating woman, the Liberal Democrat MP Sarah Teather, was on
BBC1's Question Time last week, persuading millions of people never, ever, to
vote for her party -and quickly to switch off the television to boot. Such a
pity.

Just when you thought it was okay to support the Lib Dems -having applauded
Vincent Cable's excellent performance in the House of Commons and even feeling
mildly well-disposed towards Chris Huhne -along comes this bowl-faced receptacle
of jabbering fifth-form outrage and whining sanctimony to remind you why you
hated them in the first place.

Glib, didactic and -on almost every issue -both ineluctably wrong and full of
conviction and self-righteousness. Hell, she made the UK Independence party's
Nigel Farage appear statesmanlike. Not many people can do that.

On the issue of Gillian Gibbons, the teacher sentenced to 15 days in prison for
allowing her pupils to call a teddy bear "Muhammad", Sarah revealed that this
was "nothing to do with Islam". Ah. So why does she think there was such a fuss
over all those Danish cartoons a while back, protests, death threats and the
like? I hope her own teddy bear, which I believe is also called Muhammad (take
note, jihadis), put her right as soon as she got home.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
