
                               1 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU bids to take over our borders

BYLINE: TODD CARDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 173 words


EUROCRATS are trying to take control of British borders.

Under a continent-wide immigration plan, MEPs want to create an EU Border Guard
System that controls all frontiers.

Critics said this could see the UK Border Agency closed and force Britain to
take more asylum seekers.

The EU Parliament's home affairs committee has approved a report that suggests
all member states sign up to the multi-million pound system.

Under the plans from Maltese MEP Dr Simon Busuttil, existing EU border agency
Frontex will be boosted so it can buy boats and other equipment.

It will be able to launch operations in any country with officers pooled from
member nations.

It will also force Britain, under a solidarity clause, to take its share of
refugees arriving in the European Union.

At the moment Britain is exempt from EU border controls and has so far resisted
pressure to join Euro agency Frontex.

Gerard Batten, MEP and UKIP immigration spokesman, said: "There is no doubt the
EU will use this as a way of trying to force Britain to take in asylum seekers."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: MEP Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                   daily Star

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

EU bids to take over UK borders

BYLINE: by TODD CARDY

SECTION: NEWS; 16

LENGTH: 173 words


EUROCRATS are trying to take control of British borders.

Under a continent-wide immigration plan, MEPs want to create an EU Border Guard
System that controls all frontiers.

Critics said this could see the UK Border Agency closed and force Britain to
take more asylum seekers.

The EU Parliament's home affairs committee has approved a report that suggests
all member states sign up to the multi-million pound system.

Under the plans from Maltese MEP Dr Simon Busuttil, existing EU border agency
Frontex will be boosted so it can buy boats and other equipment.

It will be able to launch operations in any country with officers pooled from
member nations.

It will also force Britain, under a solidarity clause, to take its share of
refugees arriving in the European Union.

At the moment Britain is exempt from EU border controls and has so far resisted
pressure to join Euro agency Frontex.

Gerard Batten, MEP and UKIP immigration spokesman, said: "There is no doubt the
EU will use this as a way of trying to force Britain to take in asylum seekers."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: MEP Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IMF called upon again

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 156 words


THE bottomless pit that is the Greek economy continues to create havoc. It now
looks as though, notwithstanding a raft of austerity measures, the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) will be required to step in with another huge tranche of
money to prevent Athens from defaulting. A sum of (EURO)30billion has been
mentioned on top of the (EURO)100billion that has already been promised.

Britain, not a member of the eurozone, nevertheless becomes doubly liable. It
must help Greece through the EU and through its contribution to the IMF. As UKIP
leader Nigel Farage said last week "The purpose of the IMF is primarily to
support stability in the developing world not to prop up the failed ambitions of
the Euro elite".

Without additional IMF funds the eurozone would be at greater risk of meltdown
than it is already. Britain supports the IMF but can it afford to do so if the
organisation is simply a fallback option for the profligate EU?

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

IMF called upon again;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER COLUMN; 12

LENGTH: 143  words


THE bottomless pit that is the Greek economy continues to create havoc. It now
looks as though the International Monetary Fund (IMF) will be required to step
in again to prevent Athens from defaulting. A sum of 30 billion euros has been
mentioned on top of the 100 billion euros that has already been promised.

Britain, not a member of the eurozone, nevertheless becomes doubly liable. It
must help Greece through the EU and through its contribution to the IMF. As UKIP
leader Nigel Farage said last week, "The purpose of the IMF is primarily to
support stability in the developing world not to prop up the failed ambitions of
the Euro elite".

Without additional IMF funds the eurozone would be at greater risk of meltdown
than it is already. Britain supports the IMF but can it afford to do so if the
organisation is simply a fallback option for the profligate EU?

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

IMF called upon again;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER COLUMN; 12

LENGTH: 154  words


THE bottomless pit that is the Greek economy continues to create havoc. It now
looks as though, notwithstanding a raft of austerity measures, the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) will be required to step in with another huge tranche of
money to prevent Athens from defaulting. A sum of ¤30billion has been mentioned
on top of the ¤100billion that has already been promised.

Britain, not a member of the eurozone, nevertheless becomes doubly liable. It
must help Greece through the EU and through its contribution to the IMF. As UKIP
leader Nigel Farage said last week: "The purpose of the IMF is primarily to
support stability in the developing world not to prop up the failed ambitions of
the Euro elite".

Without additional IMF funds the eurozone would be at greater risk of meltdown
than it is already. Britain supports the IMF but can it afford to do so if the
organisation is simply a fallback option for the profligate EU?

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

33% OF RAPISTS AND KILLERS 'ARE FOREIGN';
Shock toll for 5 forces...and £34m cop bill

BYLINE: DAVID LOWE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 313 words


IMMIGRANTS make up a THIRD of murder suspects and alleged rapists in a string of
areas, shock new figures reveal.

And one in seven of all people accused of these crimes in the UK as a whole is a
foreign national.

Data from police forces shows 93 foreign-born suspects were accused of murder
last year and 418 faced rape allegations.

Four forces each had 33 per cent of non-UK murder suspects - Kent, Lincolnshire
and Tayside and Fife in Scotland. The Met Police recorded the highest rate of
non-UK rape suspects at 32 per cent.

Cambridgeshire had an astonishing 57 per cent of murder suspects of foreign
origin. But that figure is calculated on just four accused out of a total of
seven. The soaring number of immigrants cost the authorities £34million for
translators last year to deal with non-English speaking suspects, victims and
witnesses. That's enough to pay for 1,000 cops.

The figures for immigrant suspects - obtained by The Sun with Freedom of
Information requests - throw up some surprises.

Bedfordshire and Hampshire police each had 25 per cent of non-UK murder suspects
- ahead of the Met's 23 per cent.

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten claimed: "The figures demonstrate the high proportion
of crime that is the result of uncontrolled immigration."

Jamaican drug dealer Dwayne Cupidon, 35, is one of the most vicious illegal
immigrant murderers.

Last July he got 26 years for killing and dismembering George Smith, 60, in
Barnet, North London.

d.lowe@the-sun.co.uk

Areas with highest percentage of non-UK murder suspects Cambridgeshire
Lincolnshire Kent Bedfordshire Hampshire Metropolitan AREA Total murder suspects
Non-UK suspects % 45211 43 57 33 33 25 25 23 7 15 644 185

Areas with highest percentage of non-UK rape suspects Metropolitan
Leicestershire Avon&Somerset Cambridgeshire Wiltshire AREA Total rape suspects
Non-UK suspects % 150 14 21 7 4 32 29 21 21 20 464 48 101 33 20

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Murder ... Cupidon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

New EU guards to police our borders

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 511  words


A EUROPEAN quango could take control of British border guards under alarming new
plans to create an EU-wide immigration agency.

Proposals passed by the European Parliament's home affairs committee call for
member states to staff an EU Border Guard System.

If MEPs get their way, the new agency will get a multimillion pound budget and
be able to deploy officers without consulting governments who supply them.

Critics say plans to reorganise the existing Frontex border agency are a first
step towards creating a continental immigration system.

The scheme is contained in a review of the Warsawbased EU border agency,
conducted by Maltese MEP Dr Simon Busuttil.

It says the various operations carried out by Frontex should be merged into one
EU Border Guard system and recommends an increase in its already bloated budget
so it can buy its own planes, boats and other equipment.

The review also says all EU member states - including Britain - should be
ordered to contribute officers to a pool of border guards.

It also insists members sign a "solidarity clause", which would force Britain to
take a share of all refugees arriving in the EU, whichever country they land in.

While Britain is not signed up to Frontex, the proposals say all member states
should be compelled to take part in the new system.

The European Commission is still trying to force Britain to join Frontex. The
report calls for analysis of "the need for the further development of the EU
Border Guard system and for the agency to employ independent guards acting under
its instructions".

Frontex does not have its own officers or equipment and relies on borrowing them
from member states when it embarks on missions such as patrolling the
Mediterranean or the Greece-Turkey border.

Under Dr Busuttil's plans, the agency would be able to launch initiatives,
meaning it could use UK Border Agency officers anywhere in the EU or set up
operations at British frontier points.

The proposals come as the EU battles a flood of tens of thousands of North
Africans fleeing the chaos of the "Arab Spring" uprisings.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP and immigration spokesman, said: "It is obvious the EU
is using the refugee crisis to further its ambition to create an operational
military force.

"There is no doubt that the EU will use this as a way o f trying to force
Britain to take in asylum seekers arrivin g elsewhere in Europe.

"Even if we manage to avoid being pulled into another costly system o f European
control we will be forced to pay for it through our EU contributions."

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan, said: "As if the EU wasn't undemocratic enough, it is
creating this enormous quango while we are tryin g to cut them at home.

"The only way for the UK to safeguard its frontiers is to back away from the
existin g systems the EU has set up."

When Frontex was first set up in 2005, it had a budget o f just GBP 5.3million.
That has risen to GBP 95.5million and next year it will top GBP 124million.

The UK Border Agency said: "The UK is not a participant in the Frontex
Regulation, so this proposal does not apply to the UK."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerard Batten, MEP for Ukip

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 29, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Meek Lib Dems pale next to squabbling UKIP

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 151 words


Here's thrilling news for Nick Clegg. At last there's a party leader who is
having a more torrid time: Nigel Farage of the UK Independence party. First, the
MEP David Campbell Bannerman, a former deputy leader, defected to the
Conservatives. Now another MEP seems to be threatening legal action.

When Marta Andreasen, once hailed as UKIP's Sarah Palin, recently called on
Farage to resign after the party's dismal haul in local elections, he dismissed
her as "hopelessly out of touch" and added "she hasn't been in the UK for
several months".

Andreasen now wants him to retract that remark, warning darkly of "other avenues
of redress". She says: "His comments create the impression that I am somehow an
absentee MEP. Nothing could be further from the truth."

UKIP and Farage, who was only re-elected leader last November, are beginning to
resemble a squabbling couple: can't live with him, can't live without him.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 28, 2011 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

Village People: Off the map

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 590 words


Nick Clegg is said to be furious about the appointment of Lord Ashcroft, that
immensely generous contributor to Conservative Party funds, as the Government's
new adviser on defence matters.

I do not want to get embroiled in the argument over whether his lordship's
collection of old military medals makes him a suitable appointment, but I do
hope that he will not be distracted from his mission to question ministers about
parts of the world none of us have ever been to.

It is only through Lord Ashcroft's questioning that we learnt this week that
three places in the world have never been visited by a British minister, ever -
the Chagos Islands, Nauru and Tuvali. Nauru and Tuvali are the world's smallest
countries (unless you count The Vatican). Chagos is the least populated, because
its people were  scandalously deported to make way for a US military base. It
used to be thought Lord Ashcroft's enduring interest in remote corners of the
old British Empire was part of a restless search for places where he could sink
his money, safe from the British taxman. But now he is officially domiciled in
the UK, that can no longer be true.

Daggers drawn

UKIP is not a happy ship. This week, they lost an MEP, David Campbell Bannerman,
who used to be a Tory, ratted to UKIP, and has re-ratted back to the Tories. And
the amazing row between their two MEPs from the South East, Nigel Farage and
Marta Andreasen, gathers pace. It started with her call for a new leader to
replace Farage after a disappointing showing in the local elections. He
retaliated by telling the BBC that she had not even set foot in the UK "for
several months". She fired off a letter telling him that his was "a blatant
lie", and yesterday she issued a warning that "I cannot and will not tolerate
such an untruth. I am now considering other avenues of redress." Never mind
independence from Europe. What Farage needs is to avoid fiery Spaniards.

Happy recovery

The cameras cut away from Barack Obama's speech in Parliament to catch a shot of
Ken Clarke snoozing, but, quite rightly, they did not broadcast a more alarming
interruption to the President's speech, when the MP, Jeremy Lefroy, collapsed
and was taken to hospital. He had become dehydrated, through food poisoning. He
was out of hospital the same evening, and his office said yesterday that he was
back at work in his Stafford constituency.

Bashful Cameron

David Cameron's press conference in the garden of Downing Street at Barack
Obama's side contrasts with an attack of shyness which seems to have come
between him and political journalists. Tony Blair used to hold monthly press
conferences which went on and on, giving dozens of journalists the chance to ask
a range of questions. Later these events were infected by the curse of Gordon
Brown, because every time he was due to hold one, a bad news story sudenly
broke, taking attention away from whatever Brown hoped to say.

Now these events have been quietly brought to a close. David Cameron has not
held one since October. There was one announced in February, but it was called
off when the PM added Egypt to a tour of the Gulf. There are no plans for
another in the near future.

"He likes to keep it more flexible," one No 10 insider said, pointing out that
Mr Cameron regularly takes questions from the media when he makes speeches,
meets foreign leaders or is at  international summits such as the G8 meeting in
Deauville which ended yesterday.  But this allows him to restrict questions to a
handful, much less of an ordeal than those hour-long sessions.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

VILLAGE PEOPLE

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 592 words


Off the map

Nick Clegg is said to be furious about the appointment of Lord Ashcroft, that
immensely generous contributor to Conservative Party funds, as the Government's
new adviser on defence matters. I do not want to get embroiled in the argument
over whether his lordship's collection of old military medals makes him a
suitable appointment, but I do hope that he will not be distracted from his
mission to question ministers about parts of the world none of us have ever been
to.

It is only through Lord Ashcroft's questioning that we learnt this week that
three places in the world have never been visited by a British minister, ever -
the Chagos Islands, Nauru and Tuvali. Nauru and Tuvali are the world's smallest
countries (unless you count The Vatican). Chagos is the least populated, because
its people were scandalously deported to make way for a US military base. It
used to be thought Lord Ashcroft's enduring interest in remote corners of the
old British Empire was part of a restless search for places where he could sink
his money, safe from the British taxman. But now he is officially domiciled in
the UK, that can no longer be true.

Daggers drawn

UKIP is not a happy ship. This week, they lost an MEP, David Campbell Bannerman,
who used to be a Tory, ratted to UKIP, and has re-ratted back to the Tories. And
the amazing row between their two MEPs from the South East, Nigel Farage and
Marta Andreasen, gathers pace. It started with her call for a new leader to
replace Farage after a disappointing showing in the local elections. He
retaliated by telling the BBC that she had not even set foot in the UK "for
several months". She fired off a letter telling him that his was "a blatant
lie", and yesterday she issued a warning that "I cannot and will not tolerate
such an untruth. I am now considering other avenues of redress." Never mind
independence from Europe. What Farage needs is to avoid fiery Spaniards.

Happy recovery

The cameras cut away from Barack Obama's speech in Parliament to catch a shot of
Ken Clarke snoozing, but, quite rightly, they did not broadcast a more alarming
interruption to the President's speech, when the MP, Jeremy Lefroy, collapsed
and was taken to hospital. He had become dehydrated, through food poisoning. He
was out of hospital the same evening, and his office said yesterday that he was
back at work in his Stafford constituency.

Bashful Cameron

David Cameron's press conference in the garden of Downing Street at Barack
Obama's side contrasts with an attack of shyness which seems to have come
between him and political journalists. Tony Blair used to hold monthly press
conferences which went on and on, giving dozens of journalists the chance to ask
a range of questions. Later these events were infected by the curse of Gordon
Brown, because every time he was due to hold one, a bad news story sudenly
broke, taking attention away from whatever Brown hoped to say.

Now these events have been quietly brought to a close. David Cameron has not
held one since October. There was one announced in February, but it was called
off when the PM added Egypt to a tour of the Gulf. There are no plans for
another in the near future.

"He likes to keep it more flexible," one No 10 insider said, pointing out that
Mr Cameron regularly takes questions from the media when he makes speeches,
meets foreign leaders or is at international summits such as the G8 meeting in
Deauville which ended yesterday. But this allows him to restrict questions to a
handful, much less of an ordeal than those hour-long sessions.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 27, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Germans join critics of the Baroness who 'fails on world stage';
Briton faces fresh attacks, David Charter and Dominic Kennedy report

BYLINE: David Charter; Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46,47

LENGTH: 1018 words


Senior German figures have raised concerns for the first time about the
performance of Baroness Ashton of Upholland as the crisis of confidence deepens
in the British peer who acts as Europe's Foreign Minister. Wolfgang Schäuble,
the Finance Minister, is the most senior German politician to speak out on the
failure of Lady Ashton to make an impression over the revolutions in the Arab
world.

Mr Schäuble said that the disappointing response to the rebellions showed that
Lady Ashton "does not have the power to portray Europe" as an actor on the world
stage. In Brussels, Elmar Brok, a German MEP from Chancellor Merkel's party,
told The Times that Lady Ashton had until the autumn to prove herself. The
warning came amid renewed talk of ousting her next year.

The entry of German heavyweights into the debate opens a new flank of criticism
after attacks about her lack of dynamism by French diplomats and media, as well
as complaints from several smaller EU countries.

The British peer was chosen in a messy compromise 16 months ago after David
Miliband, then the British Foreign Secretary, turned down the chance to be
Europe's first High Representative, and Gordon Brown failed to make the case for
Lord Mandelson or Geoff Hoon.

While the Lisbon Treaty states that the High Representative will serve for five
years, it provides a mid-term review clause for the EU Council President,
currently Herman Van Rompuy, and her critics view this as a chance to consider
Lady Ashton's position. The Lisbon Treaty also states that the High
Representative can be removed at any time by a qualified majority of member
states with the agreement of the European Commission President, Jose Manuel
Barroso.

"It is not the time for a final judgment; there is still progress possible. She
has until the autumn," said Mr Brok, a member of the European Parliament's
foreign affairs committee. He said that he wanted to see Lady Ashton being more
ambitious for her European External Action Service.

By the autumn, MEPs will know whether Lady Ashton will stick with her demand for
a 5.8 per cent budget rise next year, taking the annual cost of the EAS to
(EURO)491 million (£429 million). She faces a showdown with the British
Government, after David Lidington, the Europe Minister, called the rise
"somewhat ludicrous". But most MEPs want to see her fighting for the extra funds
and Lady Ashton will be wary of triggering a no-confidence vote in the European
Parliament.

Mr Schäuble spoke of his concerns about the EAS in the Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung newspaper. "The EU foreign policy chief Ashton does not have the power
to portray Europe," he said.

The report cited him complaining that Europe had not "spoken with one voice"
during the "Arabellion", referring to this year's uprisings in North Africa.
However, insurgents in Libya could not have been more pleased to see her when
she stepped onto the tarmac in rebel-held Benghazi this week to open an EU
office there. She could not believe her rapturous reception.

"I think I am more popular in Benghazi than in Britain," she told European
foreign ministers as she reported back on the new EU office in the city. For
someone in need of a makeover, this represented a rapid turnaround, not least
because, just two months ago, Lady Ashton resisted calls from Britain and France
for the no-fly zone that saved Benghazi from a bloodbath. While some in Europe
have attacked her "quiet diplomacy" approach, remaining invisible in her highly
paid post, she has managed to pose a real threat to Britain's diplomatic
service. William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, has asked British embassies
around the world to be on the lookout for power grabs by Lady Ashton's
officials.

Yet the 55-year-old peer's many European critics are frustrated at her lack of
ambition and are eager for signs that she will one day lead EU foreign policy
instead of following Britain, France or the United States.

She finds herself running a $470 million budget and 3,684 staff scattered across
137 delegations around the globe - a meteoric rise for someone who has never
been elected by the public to any post. The politician, who is paid $286,585
(£249,000) a year, studied A-levels at Wigan and District Mining and Technical
College. She was vicechairman of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and worked
for the Prince of Wales on Business in the Community.In 1988 she married the TV
poll pundit Peter Kellner, a confidant of Tony Blair. She does not seem to have
grown into her grand role or imposed herself on the world conversation as many
had hoped. On a global stage already crammed with the likes of Sarkozy, Merkel,
Blair and Clinton, the British baroness does not seem willing to grab a share of
the spotlight.However, she is now starting to notch up some successes.

She was instrumental in reviving talks between Kosovo and Serbia and in
persuading the Bosnian Serbs to drop plans for a divisive referendum.

This week she won plaudits for finding (EURO)3.5 billion in new money to help
countries on Europe's borders develop democratic institutions.

Quote, unquote

"I don't know any oligarchs; I don't think I've ever been on anyone's yacht. I
don't know any Rothschilds. I haven't the faintest idea what I'm paid. My
concern is to have enough money to live on; to pay my bills; to come home, see
Peter and the kids"

" It is incredible that we have failed to give unreserved support to the people
in the streets [in the Arab world]. Why is our reaction such a weak one, Mrs
Ashton?" Guy Verhofstadt, a former Belgian prime Minister and Liberal MEP

" It is disappointing listening to President Obama and Hillary Clinton speaking
boldly while you play second fiddle and are barely audible" Spanish conservative
MEP José Ignacio Salafranca, left, addressing Baroness Ashton in European
Parliament

" She was an extraordinary choice for the job, which is enormously powerful, and
every day she remains in it she heaps embarrassment on both herself and Britain"
Nigel Farage MEP, leader of UK Independence Party

" Lady Ashton must be the only person in Brussels unable to speak more than one
language fluently"

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton, who was welcomed in Benghazi, where she opened an EU
office, but she is under fire from Berlin
OLIVIER HOSLET / EPA
AgnÈs Poirier, left, French writer
Most MEPs want to see her fighting for extra funds
Baroness Ashton on appointment to Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 702 words


&#10002;And so a new chapter opens in the long-running saga to discover just
what happened to poor Ian Tomlinson and whether any individual can be held
responsible. As we report elsewhere, PC Simon Harwood, an officer in the Met,
will face criminal prosecution for striking Tomlinson with a baton and pushing
him to the ground during the G20 protests in April 2009. The wheels of justice
will turn, as they should, but they turn slowly and the process is never cheap.
During this month's inquest into the death of Tomlinson - which found unlawful
killing - the officer was accompanied to and from the hearing by two fellow
constables and one police sergeant, also members of his unit, the Territorial
Support Group (TSG). Over three days, that alone, we learn, cost the taxpayer
£2,300.

&#10002;Still, we live, we learn. And they teach many things in the army: when
to advance, when to retreat, lessons well taught to Patrick Mercer, the Tory MP
for Newark, and 25 years a soldier. As he spoke at the House of Commons on
Monday, all of his strategic skills were on display. Addressing a meeting
organised by the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers, and a dozen
members of both houses, Mercer told them that all the men under his command had
loved every minute of it; he'd never heard an unhappy word from any of them.
You're "talking bollocks", cried a member of the invited audience. This turned
out to be the author of The Skinback Fusiliers, a no-holds-barred expose. He
told Mercer in no uncertain terms that life at Catterick Garrison was very far
from happy, a view reinforced by another speaker, Lynn Farr, who set up
"Daniel's Trust" after her son died at Catterick in suspicious circumstances.
Points both critics were keen to raise with the Tory action man. But pretty
quickly, he was gone.

&#10002;And following the sudden disappearance of Bahrain's ruler, King Hamad
al-Khalifa, from the list of attendees at last month's royal wedding, the issue
of the brutal suppression of popular protest in Bahrain looms again for the
Queen - in the shape of a horse. Not just any horse. The Queen's three-year-old
Carlton House is hot favourite for the Derby at Epsom on 4 June. The colt, as a
yearling, was a gift from Sheikh Mohammed, who is the ruler of Dubai, its
defence minister and vice-president of the United Arab Emirates. The UAE has
sent 500 troops plus armoured vehicles to Bahrain where they were welcomed by
al-Khalifa, who said they would be used to "secure stability" in the kingdom.
The UAE has also sent troops and police to Saudi Arabia to help "guard
government buildings". If Carlton House, trained in Newmarket by Sir Michael
Stoute, wins a fortnight on Saturday it would be the first royal winner of the
Derby in 102 years. No wonder the Windsors are excited. Principles are
principles, it is true. But then, a gift's a gift.

&#10002;Shock in Brussels where Ukip MEPs are coming to terms with the defection
of David Campbell Bannerman to the Conservatives. No warning from him,
apparently; just crowing from the Tories. But we should have known, dejected
Ukipians say. The defection deal was apparently struck a month ago over steaks
with the enemy in Piccadilly. But just last week Campbell Bannerman joined five
Tories on a jolly to Taiwan. That's strange, the Ukipians said, we don't take
junkets; what's he up to. So the signs were there. Still hurts.

&#10002;Finally, Buckingham Palace was the place to be yesterday, but, slowly,
the masses are gathering in London's Mayfair. They gather for the Hef. Not Simon
Heffer, unfortunately. No, Hugh Hefner who is flying over from Los Angeles for
tomorrow's launch of a new Playboy Club. So many look forward to greeting him
with their slogan "Eff Off, Hef!". The new club is opening 30 years after the
closure of its predecessor establishment, which was also based in Mayfair. It
was targeted by a police raid and then by the licensing authorities. No such
risk this time, for everything will be above board, and in any event our police
long ago got bored of raiding nightclubs. So save for the protest, everything is
set fair. With cheers and leers, Hef, now 85, can proceed in his own grubby way.

diary@guardian.co.uk

hugh-muir@twitter.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 25, 2011
                                 First Edition

Ukip deputy defects back to the Tories;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Joe Churcher and Geoff Meade

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 219 words


MEP David Campbell Bannerman has defected from the UK Independence Party back to
the Conservatives, the Tories have announced. The former Ukip deputy leader,
inset, who came third last year behind Nigel Farage in a leadership vote, said
he had been won over by David Cameron. Mr Campbell Bannerman, who has
represented the East of England in the European Parliament since 2009, quit the
Tories in 2004 over the party's "two-faced position on Europe".

But he said: "I have been pleased with the robust stance taken by David Cameron
and Conservative MEPs over the EU budget negotiations and I believe that it is
Conservative MEPs who are working hard to defend Britain's interests."

Ukip called on Mr Campbell Bannerman to resign from the European Parliament. A
spokesman said: "It is clear David Bannerman has decided to put career before
principle.

He was obviously disappointed with his result in the leadership election last
year, where he achieved 14 per cent of the vote and concerned about whether he
could get re-selected by Ukip members in the Eastern Region. So he has decided
to secure his berth in the European Parliament until 2019 by joining a pro-EU
party." Richard Howitt MEP, of the European Parliamentary Labour Party, said: "
Ukip is in disarray, so it's no surprise that some of its members want out."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 25, 2011
                                 First Edition

i*spy

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 199 words


blogosphere Next month Unesco announces its new additions to the world heritage
list. It won't make it this year, but Wikipedia's Jimmy Wales (pictured) thinks
that the public-edited site should be the first website to join the likes of the
Egyptian pyramids and the Statue of Liberty on the list. Jared Keller at The
Atlantic assessed Wiki's chances and concluded: "Unesco would be better suited
to focus its resources on heritage sites facing more immediate challenges."

Guido Fawkes broke news of UKIP MEP David Campbell Bannerman's defection from
Nigel Farage's party back to the Conservatives. You could almost feel the
blogger's grin as he picked up this stinging quote from a "UKIP insider" about
Bannerman's split: "Our problem is now their problem."

Finally, at Salon, writer Alex Pareene begged the question: "Are we done with
Rush Limbaugh yet?" Pareene reflected on the notorious right-wing DJ's ratings,
which have nosedived: "While an increasingly resentful populace should be good
news for America's loudest, smartest right-wing emcee, he doesn't seem to be
winning new converts to his cause. I'm richer than you because I'm morally
superior is not a compelling argument, these days."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      May 25, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Ukip MEP defects back to Tories

BYLINE: By Joe Churcher and Geoff Meade

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 89 words


A senior member of the UK Independence Party, the MEP David Campbell Bannerman,
has defected back to the Conservatives.

The former Ukip deputy leader - who came third in the contest last year which
returned Nigel Farage to the party leadership - quit the Tories in 2004 over
their European policies.

But he said yesterday: "I have been pleased with the robust stance taken by
David Cameron and Conservative MEPs over the EU budget negotiations and I
believe that it is Conservative MEPs who are working hard to defend Britain's
interests."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 25, 2011 Wednesday 12:04 PM GMT

The law should protect family life - but not the men who ruin the lives of their
family

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1119 words


It was bad enough having to put up with the weasel-worded denials from Mr Huhne
when faced with his wife's allegation that he had conspired to pervert the
course of justice by falsely claiming that it was she, not he, driving when his
car was caught speeding. It was even worse when Mr Huhne made a public plea that
his former wife should refrain from such allegations in the interest of their
children.

What heart-warming concern from a man who  cared so much for his children that
he dumped their mother to clamber into bed with a bisexual lady who was in a
civil partnership with another lady. There is a strong case to be made that what
people get up to under their duvets is a private matter. However, to publicly
accuse the wife and mother he had dumped of heartlessness is not a private
matter, least of all when the accuser holds a public position in which probity
is a requirement.

It is here, I think, that some of our more self-important judges have also got
things badly wrong as they make up a law of privacy which has been neither
debated nor voted upon in Parliament. Surely the right to a private family life
is about one's life within the family. When the matter over which an injunction
against public awareness or comment is sought takes place outside the home and
the family, it is no longer a part of private family life.

In short, if a husband and father goes out whoring on the streets, in a brothel,
or through a public advertisement or agency providing services in what is now
known as the sex industry, he has left the privacy of his home and entered a
public marketplace.

Nor indeed does it seem right to me that those who behave in that marketplace in
a way which they fear might damage their own market value as public performers
of some kind should be able to use the Courts to suppress public knowledge of
that behaviour. That sounds to me like an abuse of the marketplace.  Vegetarians
rightly want to know what is in a food product they are offered in the market.
Are voters, or potential purchasers of a product endorsed by a celebrity not
entitled to know about those who enter the public arena to endorse, or sell
their products?

Of course privacy injunctions are big financial business for the lawyers and
consultants and big ego-boosting business for the judicial imperialists,
especially those who seek to judge what limitations should be set on Parliament
when it discusses these matters. And of course the tabloid press in particular
find it big business to print stories of the salacious behaviour of celebrities
of whom most of us have never heard.

Those who are tempted to do things which might attract opprobrium should
consider whether that is wise, rather than how they might keep it secret.

Soon after I entered the House of Commons I was approached by someone suggesting
that I should take a particular course of action which I thought was somewhat
inappropriate for a Member of The House. I asked the advice of Sir Harry
Legge-Bourke, the Member for the Isle of Ely, Chairman of the 1922, an
ex-Guardsman of distinction and as straight as a ramrod.

"Entirely a matter for you, dear boy," he told me. "I wouldn't dream of giving
you any advice about that. But if you would not like to read in the Daily Mail
tomorrow that you had done it... then don't do it."

It is not a bad test. Of course many of us may fail it at some time. But what is
really shameful is to do something discreditable, then to purchase an injunction
by pretending it was a private family matter, when it was not.

...

Once again I had a good deal of support for my Monday blog post, not least from
edtheted, phantom,vaselino, ravenscar, David Holderness, the liefactory,
peedoffscot (who wanted me to join UKIP)  Johnny Norfolk (who noted that the
ills of which I wrote had been caused by uncontrolled immigration) and many
more.  On the other hand bob 3, crosscop, The Slog, lonewolf, pietro 99, jeanrd
took the view that the problem was created well before 1997.

Well, of course there was immigration before 1997.   However it was simply not
on the scale which Blair wanted.  Yes we should have listened more to what Enoch
Powell was saying and some of us did.  That was the issue on which I first
quarrelled with Heath and it was the only issue on which I voted against the
Thatcher government on a three line whip.

The fact is that until the passage of the Commonwealth Immigration Act of 1962
people from the Commonwealth had the right to come to the United Kingdom.  The
Conservative Government passed the Commonwealth Immigration Act (and was
condemned by the Labour Opposition for doing so ) in 1962 to restrict those
rights.  It was strengthen by the Callaghan Government in 1968 and replaced by
The Immigration Act in 1971.

In my view immigration should have been more strictly controlled after that than
it was.  However the real mischief began with the Blair plan to change the
demographics of the country.  Net migration quadrupled between 1997 and 2000,
reaching 237,000.

NuLab imported 3 million migrants.  That will add 7million to the population
over the next quarter of a century.  It was milroy666 who asked the right
question.however. If 1997 was a turning point, why have we not turned back again
on to a sensible path?

These figures and more are available on the Migration Watch website, so I would
be grateful if those who want to blame Thatcher for what was done by Blair would
now line up to apologise for having it got it wrong.

Nor do I know if wildrover was alive in the early 1940's when he claims the
country was 'on the verge of revolution' . I was alive then.  He is wrong.  It
was not on the verge of revolution.

I can well understand why henrietta, ooopiop and Captain Quark are gloomy .  As
bella said the floodgates were opened in 1997. Then there were the usual gang of
anti Thatcherites like ironstone, who was put down by edtheted and free wales
who think she closed down British manufacturing industry.  As phantom and
pewkatchoo observed even ironston admitted that the businesses that failed,
failed because they needed subsidies.  Not all did.  Firms like our own  JCB
have prospered.  Foreign owned car makers do well here.  Jackfrost got it right.
The jobs that were lost were zombie jobs. and as flyinthe sky asked, why did not
NuLab reverse it all in their 13 years?There were several interesting posts from
soy sauce, bersher, meltonian, feudejoie,  and edtheted and davidaslindsay made
the interesting point that in the Spectator article which irritated me there was
an uspoken assumption that the only reform options are the Blairite ones.

I am only sorry that there were so many interesting comments as well as the
barmy ones that I could not take up all of them.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 707 words


&#10002;He is by all accounts, a mild-mannered man, but no wonder Ed Miliband's
cross. For it turns out that he won't be able to have his deviated septum
operation at the end of July at an NHS hospital local to his north London home,
as he'd announced. Thanks to cuts, he will have to convince his GP that he's a
"special case" - go private, or travel miles away, to a different part of the
country. The blacklist of treatments included "surgery for snoring" and
"correcting deviated septum" was drawn up by Ed's own local health body in
February. The list was in response to the restrictions introduced in September
when GPs were told not to make referrals for 25 NHS treatments unless in
"special circumstances". It was then extended in February to include 13 further
treatments. It means Ed won't be able to get his operation in any NHS trust in
an area spanning Enfield, Barnet, Camden, Haringey and Islington. When he mourns
the loss of local services, he means what he says.

&#10002;So it was Ryan Giggs. Who knew? And while we are talking
superinjunctions, what can we tell you about Giles Coren, the
journalist/broadcaster now apparently facing jail because he allegedly breached
another of them on Twitter? Well the tales are legion, but taken together they
tell of a man unwilling to dance to anyone else's rhythm. Once, facing orders
from the Times to travel to Blackpool on a story, he refused citing a prior
engagement: he was due to play a game of Eton Fives. For the uninitiated, that's
handball played on a three-sided court, modelled on the space between two
buttresses of Eton chapel. Not for everyone, but it definitely beats work, don't
you think?

&#10002;Yes, Twitter is in the wars, and not just here. For in Australia, media
types are gripped by the ongoing tussle between Chris Mitchell, editor-in-chief
of Rupert Murdoch's broadsheet the Australian, one of his former reporters and a
journalism academic. The academic tweeted claims by the reporter of bias in the
paper's coverage of climate change. Overcoming the organ's scepticism, the
reporter said, was "torture", "absolutely excruciating". Mitchell threatened to
sue on the basis that the tweets were inaccurate, but then audio surfaced
showing that they were, largely, a faithful representation of what was said. But
the facts themselves are wrong, said Mitchell, and I want an apology. Don't hold
your breath, replied the academic. Everyone's enjoying the spectacle: especially
the twittersphere. Especially the lawyers. Ker-ching!

&#10002;Hard times for councils, starved of funds by the coalition and under
constant attack from those who like to do the government's dirty work. Hard
times for messrs Giles Kenningham and Sheridan Westlake, both of whom work very
hard spinning for the Pickles, secretary of state for communities and local
government. Poor boys, when the dirt is dished - guilty or not - they get all
the blame, as occurred when there was a row over the character assassination of
Electoral Commission chair Jenny Watson. They protested innocence. Gus O'Donnell
had to be called in to calm tempers. Hard times too for lobby hacks in the
rightwing press, for though Kenningham and Westlake do get the blame for
everything, hacks complain they find many a day ruined when the Pickles calls
direct, raging at length against the municipalities and urging the papers to
stick the boot in. Still, there is a positive. At least Pickles isn't asking his
people to do anything he wouldn't do himself.

&#10002;A lot can happen in a week, as we said last week, with reference to the
decision of the festival HowTheLightGetsIn - which began yesterday in Hay - to
offer its platform to the oddball fire and brimstone Islamist Anjem Choudary. No
good will come of it, we said, especially as the event seemed likely to be
assailed by the English Defence League, and quite independently, Ukip. We were
right, for after receiving 40 abusive phone calls and intelligence suggesting a
"significant number of thugs" were making travel plans, organisers have
suggested to Choudary that it might be better if he stayed away. He'll be pretty
angry but in his way he'll be pretty pleased about how things have turned out.
Snubs, slights, grievance; all grist to the mill.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 24, 2011 Tuesday 1:50 PM GMT

David Campbell Bannerman returns to the Conservative Party. What now for UKIP?

BYLINE: By James Kirkup

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 303 words


David Campbell Bannerman, elected to the European Parliament as a UK
Independence Party MEP, has joined the Conservative Party.  Or rejoined, since
he was a member until about a decade ago.

CCHQ is very excited about this, issuing a statement from William Hague:

'I am very pleased that we can welcome David Campbell Bannerman back to the
Conservative Party.  The Conservative Party is bringing in people who want to
work in the national interest to sort out Britain's problems. I am sure David
Campbell Bannerman will be a valuable member of our team in the European
Parliament.'

The defection follows what some saw as fairly poor results for the party in the
local elections: UKIP held steady with 7 council seats.  Those results led to
Marta Andreasen, another UKIP MEP to call for the resignation of Nigel Farage,
the party leader. (See here for a BBC report. But note that Ms Andreasen has
been estranged from the leadership for some time.)

The latest YouGov tracker poll puts UKIP on 4 per cent of the national vote. Of
course, the party always performs much better in European elections, but that's
still pretty dismal.  Some wonder if David Cameron's recent hints of a more
traditional Tory agenda (immigration, a row with Brussels about the EU budget)
are undermining UKIP's appeal.

To be honest, I don't spend enough of my time thinking and talking about UKIP to
feel confident in drawing firm conclusions.  On the face of it, things don't
look great for UKIP today, and the 2014 European election, the party's
traditional lifeline, looks a long way away.

On the other hand, I'm aware that some of the people who kindly read this blog
have far greater knowledge of UKIP than I.  So I'd be delighted to hear what you
think of the state of the party and its prospects.

Over to you.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

GORDON BROWN NEVER TOLD US HE WANTED THE IMF JOB, SAYS HAGUE

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 432 words


WILLIAM Hague yesterday blamed Gordon Brown for failing to put himself forward
as a candidate to lead the International Monetary Fund after Britain instead
backed a Frenchwoman for the post.

The Foreign Secretary claimed that the former prime minister had not
communicated any interest in the job following the resignation of scandal-hit
Frenchman Dominique Strauss-Kahn.

Chancellor George Osborne put the final nail in the coffin of Mr Brown's hopes
by formally supporting French finance minister Christine Lagarde.

Mr Brown's allies accuse Mr Osborne of a 'petty blocking exercise' motivated by
personal dislike and say the Government was well aware that he was unofficially
campaigning for the job.

But Mr Hague told the BBC's Politics Show no one in government had been given
even an informal indication of his interest.

Its position on Mr Brown's fitness for the job was therefore 'an academic
point', he added. It is unusual for the Government to back a non-British
candidate over a home-grown one for a major international position. But Prime
Minister David Cameron suggested Mr Brown might not be the 'most appropriate'
choice as the job needs someone who 'understands the danger of excessive debt'.

As head of the IMF Mr Brown, an advocate of boosting public spending to
stimulate struggling economies, would have been bound to clash with Mr Osborne
over the Chancellor's spending cuts.

'We have never received any public or private communication in the Government
from Gordon Brown seeking to be a candidate for this position,' Mr Hague went
on. 'In any case we regard Christine Lagarde as the outstanding candidate.

'She has a very strong record in bringing about deficit reduction, in countries
living within their means. It is very important for anybody running the IMF to
have a strong sense of such things and strong international respect. She is most
definitely our preferred candidate.'

Former Labour Cabinet minister Tessa Jowell insisted developing countries would
welcome Mr Brown's appointment. 'If you want the IMF to be more than the rich
countries' institution, then Gordon Brown has an incredibly important
contribution to make.'

And UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'By supporting Mme Lagarde, a very clear
message is being sent from this government. That is that we want to continue to
support, with British money, the EU's doomed attempt to shore up the failing
bailouts of Greece, Portugal and Ireland.

'Britain should be championing an IMF head from outside Europe rather than
compounding the Eurozone disaster by supporting someone from within the
discredited currency block.'

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 23, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Evil knife crime is tearing us to pieces

BYLINE: Winston McKenzie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 738 words


ANOTHER day. Another stabbing. Another death. And we ask again: "When will it
ever end?" This plague, my friends, is serious. The murder of 15-year-old
Temidayo Fuwad Ogunneye was just the latest in a line of killings that has
afflicted youth in our cities. And particularly black youth.

Only on Thursday a police officer was stabbed and seriously injured in Croydon,
South London, while in the killing of Temidayo, in nearby Camberwell, the
perpetrator was allegedly heard to celebrate: "I done him, I stabbed him."
London has seen the biggest slaughter but there have been killings in many other
cities and nobody seems to be able to make it stop.

There are many good commentators but still no action. Many politicians but no
policy carried through. So many families are experiencing untimely grief, a
grief that's beyond words.

This is a tidal wave of destruction that has no mercy or feeling for anything in
its wake. It has taken a firm hold on society. Parents are frightened. Children
carry weapons for protection "just in case..." The documented 10.4 per cent fall
in gun crime last year masks the rise in knife crime. The burden on hospital
staff to save young lives is evident.

The worries first appeared on my radar in South London as long ago as 2002.
Schools were worried. Tales of guns, gangs, knives and the fatalities that
followed became commonplace.

Whispers could be heard in clubs, pubs and street corners. Youths had become
feral, nocturnal and turned in on themselves.

Police, MPs and councillors were not privy to what was really happening on the
street. Both national and local government proved unable to take action so I
decided to confront the problem.

I visited 23 out of the 27 secondary schools, colleges and pupil referral units
in Croydon and held a public conference to address the problems. We held the
Croydon Youth Games, a mini-Olympic-style competition for the children of
Greater London. A project to engage youngsters, not only in working towards
athletic goals but in a vast youth work experience project to put on and
administer the games themselves. It's a start.

Youths, if asked, tell you they feel vulnerable, lonely, helpless, rejected by
society but, above all, disenfranchised and cheated. I agree with them. Why?
Because after lecturing some 250 students bi-annually through my Youth Work
Experience Project I have come to understand their plight.

I hand out simple forms to 15-yearolds then realise many cannot spell, read or
write. It's heartbreaking. The embarrassment and despair is palpable. And it's
not just about drugs. Young job-seekers are suffering from malnutrition. No one
could comprehend that in modern-day Britain such events would have this
devastating effect on our society.

Almost 4,000 teenagers have been treated for knife wounds in the past five
years. Estimates suggest that more than 100 of the victims were under 14. The
number of 12-year-olds convicted of carrying a knife or sharp object has
doubled. More police on the streets are needed yet we are fed a daily dose of
"cuts".

We are fighting a war. Children as let anyone tell you otherwise. Community
police outside schools have stopped the drug-pushers from circling, however they
still deal in parks, malls and on the street.

The education system has been quoted as "not fit for purpose". I witness
dilapidated classrooms and playing fields squeezed ever smaller, children
drinking and smoking marijuana, both in and out of school, as the establishment
turns a blind eye through fear of recrimination within the school system.

Successive governments have hoodwinked the people with their spun figures and
announcements. Nothing could be further from the truth. Many good people and
communities try hard to make a difference but the lack of funds is devastating
and debilitating.

Schools should represent a wellorganised learning system, suitable for various
abilities, together with good order and discipline. The penal system should
represent punishment and communicate an understanding of how to comply with
society. We must teach basics, we will not see change unless we do.

Politicians do not have the resolve, ambition or strength of character to
resolve this situation. No one seems to have the will to implement punishment,
discipline or respect.

The next generation will rule the nation. With God's help let's catch them
before it's too late!

Winston McKenzie is the UKIP spokesman for culture, media and sport

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FERAL: Danger to society
Picture: SOLENT NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 23, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Evil knife crime is tearing us to pieces

BYLINE: Winston McKenzie

SECTION: COLUMNS; 14

LENGTH: 744  words


ANOTHER day. Another stabbing. Another death. And we ask again: "When will it
ever end?" This plague, my friends, is serious. The murder of 15-year-old
Temidayo Fuwad Ogunneye was just the latest in a line of killings that has
afflicted youth in our cities. And particularly black youth.

Only on Thursday a police officer was stabbed and seriously injured in Croydon,
South London, while in the killing of Temidayo, in nearby Camberwell, the
perpetrator was allegedly heard to celebrate: "I done him, I stabbed him."
London has seen the biggest slaughter but there have been killings in many other
cities and nobody seems to be able to make it stop.

There are many good commentators but still no action. Many politicians but no
policy carried through. So many families are experiencing untimely grief, a
grief that's beyond words.

This is a tidal wave of destruction that has no mercy or feeling for anything in
its wake.

It has taken a firm hold on society. Parents are frightened. Children carry
weapons for protection "just in case. . ."

The documented 10.4 per cent fall in gun crime last year masks the rise in knife
crime.

The burden on hospital staff to save young lives is evident.

The worries first appeared on my radar in South London as long ago as 2002.
Schools were worried. Tales of guns, gangs, knives and the fatalities that
followed became commonplace. Whispers could be heard in clubs, pubs and street
corners.

Youths had become feral, nocturnal and turned in on themselves.

Police, MPs and councillors were not privy to what was really happening on the
street. Both national and local government proved unable to take action so I
decided to confront the problem.

I visited 23 out of the 27 secondary schools, colleges and pupil referral units
in Croydon and held a public conference to address the problems.

We held the Croydon Youth Games, a mini-Olympic-style competition for the
children of Greater London. A project to engage youngsters, not only in working
towards athletic goals but in a vast youth work experience project to put on and
administer the games themselves. It's a start.

Youths, if asked, tell you they feel vulnerable, lonely, helpless, rejected by
society but, above all, disenfranchised and cheated. I agree with them. Why?
Because after lecturing some 250 students bi-annually through my Youth Work
Experience Project I have come to understand their plight.

I hand out simple forms to 15-year olds then realise many cannot spell, read or
write. It's heartbreaking. The embarrassment and despair is palpable. And it's
not just about drugs. Young job-seekers are suffering from malnutrition. No one
could comprehend that in modern-day Britain such events would have this
devastating effect on our society.

Almost 4,000 teenagers have been treated for knife wounds in the past five
years. Estimates suggest that more than 100 of the victims were under 14. The
number of 12-year-olds convicted of carrying a knife or sharp object has
doubled. More police on the streets are needed yet we are fed a daily dose of
"cuts".

We are fighting a war. Children as young as 12 are drug-runners. Don't let
anyone tell you otherwise. community police outside schools have stopped the
drug-pushers from circling, however they still deal in parks, malls and on the
street.

The education system has been quoted as "not fit for purpose". I witness
dilapidated classrooms and playing fields squeezed ever smaller, children
drinking and smoking marijuana, both in and out of school, as the establishment
turns a blind eye through fear of recrimination within the school system.

Successive governments have hoodwinked the people with their spun figures and
announcements. Nothing could be further from the truth. Many good people and
communities try hard to make a difference but the lack of funds is devastating
and debilitating.

Schools should represent a well-organised learning system, suitable for various
abilities, together with good order and discipline. The penal system should
represent punishment and communicate an understanding of how to comply with
society. We must teach basics, we will not see change unless we do.

Politicians do not have the resolve, ambition or strength of character to
resolve this situation. No one seems to have the will to implement punishment,
discipline or respect.

The next generation will rule the nation. With God's help let's catch them
before it's too late!

Winston McKenzie is the UKIP spokesman for culture, media and sport

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FERAL: Danger to society

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              May 22, 2011 Sunday

MRS HUNHE'S LICENCE....CLEAN BUT FOR 3 POINTS

BYLINE: BY DAVID DILLON

LENGTH: 782 words


PRESSURE on Chris Huhne over the 'penalty points affair' intensified last night
following the emergence of his former wife's driving licence.

The document is clean apart from the 2003 offence at the centre of the furore.

The disclosure comes as the embattled Energy Secretary prepares to be questioned
by detectives this week over claims that he allowed Vicky Pryce, 57, to take his
punishment for speeding.

There is growing clamour within the Liberal Democrats for Huhne to 'sort out the
problem' or step down from the Cabinet.

If the allegations are proved, Mr Huhne could face a charge of conspiring to
pervert the course of justice, which can carry a lengthy prison sentence.

Ms Pryce's licence is marked with a fixed penalty of three points for an offence
committed on March 12, 2003, the day Mr Huhne is alleged to have been caught
speeding while driving back from Stansted airport in Essex.

The fact that it is the only endorsement on the licence supports claims by
friends of Ms Pryce that she was 'not in the habit of breaking the speed limit'.

The points are marked on Ms Pryce's licence with the Court Code 1629 Z
indicating that the matter was dealt with by Southend Magistrates Court, whose
jurisdiction covers the road network between the airport and Mr Huhne's London
home Z and the Offence Code SP30, for 'exceeding the statutory speed limit on a
public road'.

The date is marked in the 'offence date' section rather than under 'conviction
date', which indicates that the offence did not require a court hearing and was
likely to have been resolved simply by Miss Pryce sending her driving licence
and fine payment to the court by post.

Detectives have been searching for records of the alleged speeding offence. They
previously thought that images and other records had been destroyed. An Essex
Police spokesman said: 'Some records may be retrievable and we are trawling all
those documents to see what they show.'

Sources close to Miss Pryce said the points were not placed on her licence until
May 2003 Z at least six weeks after the speeding offence was committed. This is
at least double the length of time the police say is typical for a fixed penalty
of that type, suggesting that there was a delay in the return of the relevant
paperwork. The time of the offence is not marked, but on the day in question, Ms
Pryce attended a conference in London in the morning and attended an event at
the London School of Economics in Central London where she stayed for a dinner
until past 10pm.

The dinner's location placed her at least an hour's drive away from the airport.
Records show that Mr Huhne was in the European Parliament in Strasbourg until
the afternoon of March 12. If he followed his normal routine, he would have then
boarded a Ryanair flight to Stansted, which landed at 10.23pm.

Friends of Mr Huhne say that he will tell detectives that he has 'no memory' of
what he did on the day of the alleged offence, and that he is unable to research
his whereabouts because his diaries and documents are in the house he previously
shared with Ms Pryce in Clapham, South London.

Police have already spoken to UKIP MEP Nigel Farage, who was regularly on that
flight to Stansted.

Mr Farage said: 'I have checked my records and I was on that flight. Chris Huhne
was often on that flight.'

Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg has already been dragged into the affair. The Deputy
Prime Minister may be asked to give evidence after it was revealed that he may
have shared a flight home from Strasbourg with Mr Huhne on the night in
question.

The case has the potential to heap further embarrassment on the Deputy Prime
Minister, who held a meeting with Mr Huhne on Monday Z reportedly at the behest
of David Cameron Z to establish the facts of the case.

It is understood that Mr Huhne did not directly address the issue of Ms Pryce,
instead restricting himself to a broad 'denial of wrongdoing'.

The Lib Dems are growing impatient with Mr Huhne's handling of the storm, which
has now been raging for more than a fortnight.

According to one of the party's MPs, a 'council of war' was held last week,
during which a senior frontbencher argued that Mr Huhne has 'got to go now
unless he can sort out the problem Z and quickly'.

'They know it is damaging the party at a time when morale is already at
rock-bottom following the disastrous local election results and the AV
referendum defeat,' the MP said. 'They are not convinced by his denials so far.'

Mr Huhne is also understood to be anxious that his long-term ambitions of
replacing Mr Clegg as leader are ebbing away by the hour, with Lib Dem President
Tim Farron now seen by most activists as leader-in-waiting.

'They are not convinced by his denials so far'

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 22, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEP claims 'plastic surgeon' is bogus;
'He is dangerous and preying on the vulnerable'

BYLINE: James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 354 words


A MAN who claims to be a surgeon who has persuaded David Cameron to consider a
voucher scheme for the NHS may be a dangerous quack who is preying on vulnerable
people, warns a leading MEP.

Dr Vladymir de Rothschild advertises his medical credentials on the internet and
says he has a specialist knowledge of treatments for varicose veins and has
operated on 17,000 people across the world, although not in Britain.

He claims he is a neurosurgeon and plastic surgeon specialising in hand
reconstruction. In reality, says Ukip's Gerard Batten, 65-year-old de Rothschild
is actually a French-born man called Vladymir Perisic.

He may have no medical qualifications, says the MEP, and lives in a modest
onebedroom flat in Bayswater, west London. Mr Batten told the EU Parliament in
Strasbourg: "It is alleged he uses his spurious medical credentials to defraud
vulnerable people. He is potentially a dangerous risk to the public."

He called for an investigation by Scotland Yard.

The de Rothschild CV lists him as working as a neurosurgeon in Zurich and being
a "principal consultant" at the Cambridge Private Hospital in Britain.

However, a former owner said de Rothschild had never worked there, but he had
approached management to say he wanted to buy the hospital. His offer was not
taken seriously. To work as a consultant in Britain he would have to have been a
member of the General Medical Council.

Confusingly, the doctor confirmed he is not a member of the GMC, saying he does
not practise in Britain.

London MEP Mr Batten became involved after complaints from a woman constituent
which led to de Rothschild being charged with impersonating a doctor.

The case against de Rothschild was thrown out by a judge in January 2006.

De Rothschild said: "I am shocked and amazed by the accusations. I am fully
medically qualified and I have patents for varicose vein surgery techniques."

De Rothschild is a member of the Royal Society of Medicine and regularly lunches
at its Wimpole Street HQ.

As a "retired fellow", however, he is not required to be a practising doctor.
The society declined to comment on the statement made by Mr Batten.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOUBTS: Vladymir de Rothschild

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 22, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

It's odd how massive [...]

BYLINE: INDIA KNIGHT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 220 words


?+ It's odd how massive royal events - be they funerals or weddings - feel as if
they happened back in the mists of time the moment they're over (although my
external Union Jack bunting is still up, to the horror of some friends, one of
whom recently asked if I'd joined UKIP).

The wedding of Kate Middleton and Prince William took place only three weeks ago
and already it feels as though at least six months have gone by since that
bank-holiday-rich period. Perhaps it's to do with retrospective embarrassment at
our sudden and temporary enthusiasm for the monarchy.

Anyway: the point is, could we stop going on about Pippa Middleton's bottom now,
please? It was - and remains, I'm sure - a nice bottom. It's good to know it was
achieved through Pilates. But I really don't need to see it - or to be told how
I, too, could achieve a similar bottom - every time I open a women's magazine.
She is 27. Of course she has a nice bottom. It's probably not the most
interesting thing about her. If we don't stop it right now, she will for ever be
known for her butt.

I don't want to be too po-faced, but really: if you're going to develop a crush
on an exciting new celeb, try and make it for reasons other than her callipygous
aspect. It's funny for two weeks and then it's just demeaning. And the two weeks
are well and truly up.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              May 22, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MEP claims 'plastic surgeon' is bogus

BYLINE: By James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 34

LENGTH: 362  words


'He is dangerous and preying on the vulnerable'

A MAN who claims to be a surgeon who has persuaded David Cameron to consider a
voucher scheme for the NHS may be a dangerous quack who is preying on vulnerable
people, warns a leading MEP.

Dr Vladymir de Rothschild advertises his medical credentials on the internet and
says he has a specialist knowledge of treatments for varicose veins and has
operated on 17,000 people across the world, although not in Britain.

He claims he is a neurosurgeon and plastic surgeon specialising in hand
reconstruction. In reality, says Ukip's Gerard Batten, 65-year-old de Rothschild
is actually a French-born man called Vladymir Perisic.

He may have no medical qualifications, says the MEP, and lives in a modest one
bedroom flat in Bayswater, west London.

Mr Batten told the EU Parliament in Strasbourg: "It is alleged he uses his
spurious medical credentials to defraud vulnerable people. He is potentially a
dangerous risk to the public."

He called for an investigation by Scotland Yard.

The de Rothschild CV lists him as working as a neurosurgeon in Zurich and being
a "principal consultant" at the Cambridge Private Hospital in Britain.

However, a former owner said de Rothschild had never worked there, but he had
approached management to say he wanted to buy the hospital. His offer was not
taken seriously. To work as a consultant in Britain he would have to have been a
member of the General Medical Council.

Confusingly, the doctor confirmed he is not a member of the GMC, saying he does
not practise in Britain.

London MEP Mr Batten became involved after complaints from a woman constituent
which led to de Rothschild being charged with impersonating a doctor. The case
against de Rothschild was thrown out by a judge in January 2006.

De Rothschild said: "I am shocked and amazed by the accusations. I am fully
medically qualified and I have patents for varicose vein surgery techniques."

De Rothschild is a member of the Royal Society of Medicine and regularly lunches
at its Wimpole Street HQ.

As a "retired fellow", however, he is not required to be a practising doctor.
The society declined to comment on the statement made by Mr Batten.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOUBTS: Vladymir de Rothschild

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU push for green energy costs another 1,500 jobs

BYLINE: Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 691 words


PRESSURE on Britain to cut its carbon emissions in a green energy drive cost
1,500 jobs yesterday - and they will not be the last, the Government has been
warned.

Tata Steel announced the redundancies at its Scunthorpe and Teeside plants,
blaming climate change legislation required by Brussels and the UK's new Climate
Change Act.

The prospect of higher energy costs aimed at reducing carbon emissions by
imposing limits would push the price of British steel to uncompetitive levels.

Karl-Ulrich Köhler, head of European operations for Tata, Britain's largest
steelmaker, said: "EU carbon legislation threatens to impose huge additional
costs on the steel industry.

"Besides, there remains a great deal of uncertainty about the level of further
unilateral carbon cost rises the UK Government is planning. These measures risk
undermining our competitiveness and we must make ourselves stronger in
preparation for them."

Godfrey Bloom, MEP for Scunthorpe and Ukip's business spokesman, said: "The mad
drive to Islingtonfriendly greenery is driving jobs out of the north. Don't they
get it, you cannot pile billions of pounds worth of extra costs on to industry
without a price being paid. "That price is the livelihoods of steel workers. The
Government and the EU are dangerous, damaging and deluded if they think that
throwing people on to the scrapheap of unemployment will effect the sea level in
Fiji."

He attacked Energy Secretary Chris Huhne and the EU over "misguided" legislation
and "confusing targets" that made a bad commercial situation "far worse".

He said: "Extra costs and additional targets are clearly undermining business
confidence. "It is clear that British manufacturing is put at high risk by the
ideologically charged Climate Change Act and Mr Huhne's latest environmentalist
nonsense. "British jobs are at risk, British competitiveness is undermined. Why?
So our Government can preen in a European spotlight."

According to an independent report, the UK's drive for green energy will send
£60billion and 600,000 jobs "up in smoke" by creating the "highest energy costs
in the world".

It says Mr Huhne's blueprint, more wind farms, green levies and taxes aimed at
making Britain a world leader in cutting greenhouse gases widely blamed for
global warming, will "undermine" Britain's ability to reduce its greenhouse gas
emissions by forcing out innovative companies. The Civitas think-tank study
accuses the Government of "sacri-ficing jobs for no green benefit".

Britain is already committed to cutting emissions by 34 per cent from the 1990
level by 2020 - the highest target of any industrialised nation. But Mr Huhne is
pressing for it to be 50 per cent by 2025 and potentially 60 per cent by 2030.
The report calls it "too much, too soon".

This year's Budget also committed Britain to setting a price for carbon in fuel
- effectively a pollution tax. The report says this is "pushing energy costs to
the highest in the world". It argues the biggest loser will be the energy
intensive and largely foreignowned chemicals industry, likely to quit Britain
leading to "mass unemployment" and price rises.

Report author David Merlin-Jones said: "There's no economic benefit to pricing
ourselves above competitors. At this rate when the present Government is long
gone, its binding targets will still be decimating the UK economy."

TUC general secretary Brendan Barber said: "It is vital that Government strikes
the right balance between climate change and industrial polices."

The Indian steel giant, which employs 20,000 Britons, is cutting 1,200 jobs in
Scunthorpe and 300 in Teesside at its Long Products division, loss-making due to
falling demand. That's about eight per cent of its UK workforce.

The firm said demand for steel in the UK was only two thirds of that seen in
2007 and is not expected to recover before 2016. But Tata did announce a
£400million investment in the division over the next five years to help turn it
around.

Keith Hazlewood, national secretary of the GMB union, said: "This is a
devastating blow to UK steelmaking, to the local communities and to the UK
economy."

'Environmentalist nonsense puts UK industry at risk'

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tata's steelworks in Scunthorpe yesterday where 1,200 jobs have gone
Worker leaving Scunthorpe plant yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday

EU push for green energy costs another 1,500 jobs

BYLINE: Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 685 words


PRESSURE on Britain to cut its carbon emissions cost 1,500 jobs yesterday - and
they will not be the last, the Government has been warned.

Tata Steel announced the redundancies at its Scunthorpe and Teesside plants,
blaming climate change legislation required by Brussels and the UK's new Climate
Change Act.

The prospect of higher energy costs aimed at reducing carbon emissions by
imposing limits would push the price of British steel to uncompetitive levels.

Karl-Ulrich Köhler, head of European operations for Tata, Britain's largest
steelmaker, said: "EU carbon legislation threatens to impose huge additional
costs on the steel industry.

"Besides, there remains a great deal of uncertainty about the level of further
unilateral carbon cost rises the UK Government is planning. These measures risk
undermining our competitiveness and we must make ourselves stronger in
preparation for them."

Godfrey Bloom, MEP for Scunthorpe and Ukip's business spokesman, said: "The mad
drive to Islington-friendly enery is driving jobs out of the north. You cannot
pile billions of pounds of extra costs on industry without a price being paid.
"That price is the livelihoods of steel workers. The Government and the EU are
dangerous, damaging and deluded if they think that throwing people on to the
scrapheap of unemployment will effect the sea level in Fiji."

He attacked Energy Secretary Chris Huhne and the EU over "misguided" legislation
and "confusing targets" that made a bad commercial situation "far worse".

He said: "Extra costs and additional targets are clearly undermining business
confidence. "It is clear that British manufacturing is put at high risk by the
ideologically charged Climate Change Act and Mr Huhne's latest environmentalist
nonsense. "British jobs are at risk, British competitiveness is undermined. Why?
So our Government can preen in a European spotlight."

According to an independent report, the UK's drive for green energy will send
£60billion and 600,000 jobs "up in smoke" by creating the "highest energy costs
in the world".

It says Mr Huhne's blueprint, more wind farms, green levies and taxes aimed at
making Britain a world leader in cutting green-house gases widely blamed for
global warming, will "undermine" Britain's ability to reduce its greenhouse gas
emissions by forcing out innovative companies. The Civitas think-tank study
accuses the Government of "sacri-ficing jobs for no green benefit".

Britain is already committed to cutting emissions by 34 per cent from the 1990
level by 2020 - the highest target of any industrialised nation. But Mr Huhne is
pressing for it to be 50 per cent by 2025 and potentially 60 per cent by 2030.
The report calls it "too much, too soon".

Report author David Merlin-Jones said: "There's no economic benefit to pricing
ourselves above competitors. At this rate when the present Government is long
gone, its binding targets will still be decimating the UK economy."

TuC general secretary Brendan Barber said: "it is vital that Govgreen ernment
strikes the right balance between climate change and industrial polices."

The Indian steel giant, which employs 20,000 Britons, is cutting 1,200 jobs in
Scunthorpe and 300 in Teesside at its Long Products division, loss-making due to
falling demand. That's about eight per cent of its UK workforce.

The firm said demand for steel in the UK was only two thirds of that seen in
2007 and is not expected to recover before 2016. But Tata did announce a
£400million investment in the division over the next five years to help turn it
around.

Keith Hazlewood, national secretary of the GMB union, said: "This is a
devastating blow to UK steelmaking, to the local communities and to the UK
economy." Last night tycoon Ratan Tata appeared to single out British managers
for their poor work ethic. He reportedly said that unlike workers in India, UK
bosses were unwilling to "go the extra mile".

His comments were dismissed as "surprising and disappointing" by David Frost,
director-general of the British Chamber of Commerce.

"That is not a world I recognise," he said.

'Environmentalist nonsense puts UK industry at risk'

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tata's steelworks in Scunthorpe yesterday where 1,200 jobs have gone
Worker leaving Scunthorpe plant yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU push for green energy costs another 1,500 jobs

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 683  words


PRESSURE on Britain to cut its carbon emissions in a green energy drive cost
1,500 jobs yesterday - and they will not be the last, the Government has been
warned.

Tata Steel announced the redundancies at its Scunthorpe and Teeside plants,
blaming climate change legislation required by Brussels and the UK's new Climate
Change Act.

The prospect of higher energy costs aimed at reducing carbon emissions by
imposing limits would push the price of British steel to uncompetitive levels.

Karl-Ulrich Köhler, head of European operations for Tata, Britain's largest
steelmaker, said: "EU carbon legislation threatens to impose huge additional
costs on the steel industry.

"Besides, there remains a great deal of uncertainty about the level of further
unilateral carbon cost rises the UK Government is planning. These measures risk
undermining our competitiveness and we must make ourselves stronger in
preparation for them."

Godfrey Bloom, MEP for Scunthorpe and Ukip's business spokesman, said:

"The mad drive to Islingtonfriendly greenery is driving jobs out of the north.
Don't they get it, you cannot pile billions of pounds worth of extra costs on to
industry without a price being paid.

"That price is the livelihoods of steel workers. The Government and the EU are
dangerous, damaging and deluded if they think that throwing people on to the
scrapheap of unemployment will effect the sea level in Fiji."

He attacked Energy Secretary Chris Huhne and the EU over "misguided" legislation
and "confusing targets" that made a bad commercial situation "far worse".

He said: "Extra costs and additional targets are clearly undermining business
confidence.

"It is clear that British manufacturing is put at high risk by the ideologically
charged Climate Change Act and Mr Huhne's latest environmentalist nonsense.

"British jobs are at risk, British competitiveness is undermined.

Why? So our Government can preen in a European spotlight."

According to an independent report, the UK's drive for green energy will send
GBP 60billion and 600,000 jobs "up in smoke" by creating the "highest energy
costs in the world".

It says Mr Huhne's blueprint, more wind farms, green levies and taxes aimed at
making Britain a world leader in cutting greenhouse gases widely blamed for
global warming, will "undermine" Britain's ability to reduce its greenhouse gas
emissions by forcing out innovative companies.

The Civitas think-tank study accuses the Government of "sacrificing jobs for no
green benefit".

Britain is already committed to cutting emissions by 34 per cent from the 1990
level by 2020 - the highest target of any industrialised nation. But Mr Huhne is
pressing for it to be 50 per cent by 2025 and potentially 60 per cent by 2030.
The report calls it "too much, too soon".

This year's Budget also committed Britain to setting a price for carbon in fuel
- effectively a pollution tax. The report says this is "pushing energy costs to
the highest in the world". It argues the biggest loser will be the energy
intensive and largely foreignowned chemicals industry, likely to quit Britain
leading to "mass unemployment" and price rises.

Report author David MerlinJones said: "There's no economic benefit to pricing
ourselves above competitors. At this rate when the present Government is lon g
gone, its binding targets will still be decimating the UK economy."

TUC general secretary Brendan Barber said: "It is vital that Government strikes
the right balance between climate change and industrial polices."

The Indian steel giant, which employs 20,000 Britons, is cuttin g 1,200 jobs in
Scunthorpe and 300 in Teesside at its Long Products division, loss-making due to
falling demand. That's about eight per cent of its UK workforce.

The firm said demand for steel in the UK was only two thirds o f that seen in
2007 and is not expected to recover before 2016.

But Tata did announce a GBP 400million investment in the division over the next
five years to help turn it around.

Keith Hazlewood, national secretary of the GMB union, said:

"This is a devastating blow to UK steelmaking, to the local communities and to
the UK economy."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Worker leaving Scunthorpe plant yesterday
Tata's steelworks in Scunthorpe yesterday where 1,200 jobs have gone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

EU push for green energy costs 1,500 jobs

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 339  words


EU pressure on Britain to cut its carbon emissions in a green energy drive cost
1,500 jobs yesterday and they will not be the last, the Government has been
warned.

Tata Steel announced the redundancies at its Scunthorpe and Teesside plants,
blaming climate change legislation required by Brussels and the UK's new Climate
Change Act.

Karl-Ulrich Köhler, head of European operations for Tata, Britain's largest
steelmaker, said: "EU carbon legislation threatens to impose huge additional
costs on the industry.

"Besides, there remains a great deal of uncertainty about the level of further
unilateral carbon cost rises the UK Government is planning. These measures risk
undermining our competitiveness and we must make ourselves stronger in
preparation for them."

Godfrey Bloom, MEP for Scunthorpe and UKIP's business spokesman, attacked Energy
Secretary Chris Huhne and the EU over the "misguided" legislation. He said:
"Extra costs and additional targets are clearly undermining business confidence.

British manufacturing is put at high risk by the ideologically charged Climate
Change Act and Mr Huhne's latest environmentalist nonsense.

"British jobs are at risk, British competitiveness is undermined. Why? So our
Government can preen in a European spotlight."

TUC general secretary Brendan Barber said: "It is vital that Government strikes
the right balance between climate change and industrial polices."

Indian steel giant Tata, which employs 20,000 Britons, is cutting 1,200 jobs in
Scunthorpe and 300 in Teesside at its Long Products division, about 8 per cent
of its UK workforce.

The news came as biscuit maker Burton's Foods announced it was closing one of
its factories with the loss of more than 200 jobs.

However, a further 60 posts that were under threat have been saved after the
Unite union secured a deal over the future of the plant at Moreton, Wirral,
where Jammy Dodgers and Wagon Wheels are made.

The closure date has been put back a month to December and the site's chocolate
refinery will remain on the site, Unite said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A shift worker leaves the plant in Scunthorpe where Tata Steel
announced 1,500 job losses

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Company blames 'double whammy' of carbon cuts

BYLINE: Helen Power

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 435 words


Tata, the Indian steel giant, blamed the Government's environmental policies
yesterday as it cut 1,500 jobs in one of Britain's poorest regions.

The company, which took much of the former British Steel business five years
ago, will axe 8 per cent of its British workforce. Its Scunthorpe plant is to
close with the loss of 1,200 jobs. A further 300 jobs will go in Teesside.

Unions described the cuts as a "devastating blow" to the region, which is
already home to some of Britain's worst unemployment blackspots.

Karl-Ulrich Köhler, Tata Steel's head of Europe, blamed the cuts on the decline
of the construction industry, but added that new EU environmental laws and
planned British legislation had compounded the problems.

"Europe's steel industry is in danger of becoming uncompetitive in the world
market because of European taxes on UK emissions," Dr Köhler said. "But in
Britain we are facing a double whammy of carbon targets."

The Government plans to bring in the world's toughest carbon emissions targets
by 2027. The EU has already said that member states must slash emissions, but
Britain will go farther and cut them by 80 per cent by 2050.

Godfrey Bloom, the UKIP MEP in whose Yorkshire & North Lincolnshire constituency
the Scunthorpe cuts will fall, said that the "misguided" carbon legislation had
made "a bad commercial situation far, far worse". He added: "Certain extra costs
and additional targets are clearly undermining business confidence. The result,
as we see, is lost jobs."

Keith Hazlewood, national secretary for manufacturing at the GMB union, said:
"All we've asked for is a level playing field. The Government is just piling
more costs on to us."

Dr Köhler said yesterday that he hoped the Government would be able to tinker
with the carbon legislation, which is the work of Chris Huhne, the Liberal
Democrat Climate Change Minister, in order to help Tata's exports. "We need
reliable long-term policies that support this business and an assessment of the
regulatory impact on our export," Dr Köhler said. "It is very clear that we have
been heard and listened to [by the Government]."

Vince Cable, the Business Secretary, said that he was "very disappointed by the
cuts", and added that he would be setting up a task force to help workers.

Ian Lucas, Labour's Shadow Industry Minister, called the announcement a worrying
sign for British manufacturing.

"This seriously calls into question how the Tory-led Government is facing up to
the challenges facing the economy, which has flatlined in the last six months."

'All we've asked for is a level playing field. Costs are being piled on to us'

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Huhne 'had previous affair while an MEP'

BYLINE: Steven Swinford; Mark Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 551 words


CHRIS HUHNE, the Energy Secretary who is fighting for his political future, was
facing questions yesterday over allegations that he had a second affair.

Mr Huhne is being investigated by police over claims that he persuaded his
estranged wife to take speeding points on his behalf. He left Vicky Pryce last
year for Carina Trimingham, an aide, who was previously in a lesbian civil
partnership.

It was alleged yesterday that Mr Huhne had a previous affair while he was an
MEP. Kelvin MacKenzie, former editor of The Sun, said: "I have discovered he had
another mistress. She was described by a friend of mine as a lady on gardening
leave.

"When he decided to run for Eastleigh [as an MP] he said the relationship was a
'distraction' and dumped her unceremoniously.

She was mortified, as she thought this was the 'big one' and had even helped him
pick the furniture for the house in Eastleigh."

A spokesman for Mr Huhne said he had no comment.

Meanwhile, detectives are trawling European Parliament records and interviewing
MEPs as they attempt to establish the movements of Mr Huhne on the day he was
allegedly caught speeding.

The Liberal Democrat minister has been accused of asking Miss Pryce to take the
points on his behalf after he was caught speeding while travelling home after a
day in the parliament. Mr Huhne will be interviewed by Essex Police next week to
answer questions about the allegations. The alleged offence took place on March
12, 2003, when he was travelling home from Stansted Airport.

Officers are interviewing MEPs who were on the same Ryanair flight Mr Huhne is
believed to have taken to establish whether he drove himself home.

It is alleged that Mr Huhne received the points after being caught speeding on
the M11 that night. He is alleged to have put his wife's name on the speeding
form and convinced her to accept the points.

The MEP Nigel Farage has been interviewed by detectives after he disclosed that
he took Flight 7775 that evening. The Ukip leader has given officers the names
of six other MEPs he believes were also on the flight but said he could not
recall if Mr Huhne was on board.

It is still unclear whether Mr Huhne took that flight, although records show
that he voted during the afternoon of March 12 and did not sign in the next day.

The only flight home that evening was 7775, which landed at Stansted at 10.23pm.
Miss Pryce was at a dinner in central London that evening which did not finish
until 10pm, giving her little time to travel to the airport, suggesting she did
not pick him up.

Mr Farage said that, during his interview yesterday, officers were keen to
discover details of the free parking scheme extended to MEPs by the Civil
Aviation Authority, and whether MEPs often drove themselves home from Stansted.
He said: "They wanted to know did MEPs get the train to Stansted and drive and I
was able to explain to him that in those days we had a special car parking pass
and that meant we could park in short stay bang opposite the entrance."

The Daily Telegraph has discovered that officers are likely to be frustrated in
their attempts to gather evidence to establish if Mr Huhne was driving as he
left the airport. A source said CCTV from the relevant period has been
destroyed, as have records which would show whether he used his car parking
permit that day.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BAN SHOPPING BAGS SAYS EU;
Retailers furious at plot to scrap plastic carriers EXCLUSIVE 'Banning shop bags
would be so ridiculous'

BYLINE: Dana Gloger

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 652 words


THE EU was under fire last night for seeking a ban on plastic shopping bags to
fight pollution.

Shops in Britain could be outlawed from stocking them, or alternatively there
might be a new tax to dramatically reduce their use.

But angry retailers say any move would hit sales, while doing nothing to save
the environment.

Richard Dodd of the British Retail Consortium said yesterday: "A Europe-wide ban
on bags is unnecessary. It is likely to alienate customers from the green
agenda, which is the opposite of what the European Union is trying to do. It is
not appropriate for the EU to get involved."

The average British family uses 12 plastic carriers for the weekly food shop,
while 46 per cent take home up to 10 from each visit. A ban would require people
to remember to take their own bags each time they go shopping. Unplanned trips
will be almost wiped out as bags will not be available for purchases.

The news comes as retail sales jumped by 1.1 per cent last month, the biggest
rise in 23 months.

But experts warn that the retail sector's growth is still extremely fragile.
Banning plastic bags could set the recovery back by badly hitting consumer
spending.

The EU Commission said each person in Europe used about 500 bags a year, and
most of them were never re-used.

"Fifty years ago, the single-use plastic bag was almost unheard of.

Evolving

"Now we use them for a few minutes and they pollute our environment for
decades," said EU Environment Commissioner Janez Potocnik.

"That's why we are looking at all the options, including a Europe-wide ban on
plastic carrier bags."

Mr Potocnik added: "Social attitudes are evolving and there is a widespread
desire for change.

"We need the views of as many people as possible to complement our scientific
analyses and help drive policy on this issue, which is suffocating our
environment."

British Retail Consortium spokesman Mr Dodd said: "Retailers have been very
successful already at working with customers on reducing the number of bags
handed out. This has been achieved on  a voluntary basis and is the best way.

Many people already carry their own bags around with them - but because they
want to, not because they are being forced to.

"If you use the heavy hand of the law you're more likely to turn people off." He
added: "Sometimes people make unplanned shopping trips and they will need bags.
There is no reason why they should not be able to get these."

Mr Dodd added: "Climate change is important, but these bags are the wrong focus
and should not be demonised. "They are not the major issue. Food waste, for
example, is a far more important issue."

Jasmine Birtles of consumer advice service Money Magpie said: "Plastic bags are
actually among the most recycled things in homes. People re-use them again and
again, whether for shopping, or as bin bags or for other uses. They are very
useful."

She added: "This announcement by the EU is very patronising. We don't need them
to legislate on such things for us."

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Paul Nuttall said: "People and businesses are
already changing their habits through reusable bags and charging at
supermarkets.

"All well and good. Now we have the EU clambering on board demanding the right
to tax or ban something that every single person uses. It is the height of
arrogance."

Failure

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "This would be a kick in the teeth for consumers. It
is a ridiculous idea.

"They don't seem to realise that many people use plastic carrier bags for all
sorts of other purposes.

"Shoppers will end up buying more bin liners instead, which are far worse for
the environment.

"In Ireland, they tried imposing charges on carrier bags. It was a complete
failure that only helped to boost supermarket profits."

The Irish charges came into force in 2002. Retailers are required by law to pass
the tax on to shoppers. Wales and Northern Ireland have introduced levies of 5
pence and 15 pence respectively.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BAN SHOPPING BAGS SAYS EU

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Dana Gloger

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 697  words


Retailers furious at plot to scrap plastic carriers

THE EU was under fire last night for seeking a ban on plastic shopping b ags to
fight pollution.

Shops in Britain could be outlawed from stocking them, or alternatively there
might be a new tax to dramatically reduce their use.

But angry retailers say any move would hit sales, while doing nothing to save
the environment.

Richard Dodd of the British Retail Consortium said yesterday: "A Europe-wide ban
on bags is unnecessary. It is likely to alienate customers from the green
agenda, which is the opposite of what the European Union is trying to do. It is
not appropriate for the EU to get involved."

The average British family uses 12 plastic carriers for the weekly food shop,
while 46 per cent take home up to 10 from each visit. A ban would require people
to remember to take their own bags each time they go shopping. Unplanned trips
will be almost wiped out as bags will not be available for purchases.

The news comes as retail sales jumped by 1.1 per cent last month, the biggest
rise in 23 months.

But experts warn that the retail sector's growth is still extremely fragile.

Banning plastic bags could set the recovery back by badly hitting consumer
spending.

The EU Commission said each person in Europe used about 500 bags a year, and
most of them were never re-used.

"Fifty years ago, the single-use plastic bag was almost unheard of.

"Now we use them for a few minutes and they pollute our environment for decades,
" said EU Environment Commissioner Janez Potocnik.

"That's why we are looking at all the options, including a Europe-wide ban on
plastic carrier bags."

Mr Potocnik added: "Social attitudes are evolving and there is a widespread
desire for change.

"We need the views of as many people as possible to complement our scientific
analyses and help drive policy on this issue, which is suffocating our
environment."

British Retail Consortium spokesman Mr Dodd said: "Retailers have been very
successful already at working with customers on reducing the number of bags
handed out. This has been achieved on a voluntary basis and is the best way.

Many people already carry their own bags around with them - but because they
want to, not because they are being forced to.

"If you use the heavy hand of the law you're more likely to turn people off."

He added: "Sometimes people make unplanned shopping trips and they will need
bags. There is no reason why they should not be able to get these."

Mr Dodd added: "Climate change is important, but these bags are the wrong focus
and should not be demonised.

"They are not the major issue. Food waste, for example, is a far more important
issue."

Jasmine Birtles of consumer advice service Money Magpie said: "Plastic bags are
actually among the most recycled things in homes. People re-use them again and
again, whether for shopping, or as bin bags or for other uses.

They are very useful."

She added: "This announcement by the EU is very patronising. We don't need them
to legislate on such things for us."

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Paul Nuttall said: "People and businesses are
already changing their habits through reusable bags and charging at
supermarkets.

"All well and good. Now we have the EU clambering on board demanding the right
to tax or ban something that every single person uses. It is the height of
arrogance."

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "This would be a kick in the teeth for consumers. It
is a ridiculous idea.

"They don't seem to realise that many people use plastic carrier bags for all
sorts of other purposes.

"Shoppers will end up buying more bin liners instead, which are far worse for
the environment.

"In Ireland, they tried imposing charges on carrier bags. It was a complete
failure that only helped to boost supermarket profits."

The Irish charges came into force in 2002. Retailers are required by law to pass
the tax on to shoppers.

Wales and Northern Ireland have introduced levies of 5 pence and 15 pence
respectively.

Q Does the EU meddle too much in our lives?

YES: 0901 030 8346 NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

EU demands ban on plastic bags

BYLINE: By Dana Cloger

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 346  words


THE EU was under fire last night after it proposed banning plastic shopping bags
to fight pollution.

Bags could either be banned or taxed under the scheme.

An average family uses 12 bags for each weekly food shop, while 46 per cent of
Britons take home up to 10 from each trip to the shops.

This will mean people will have to carry around the necessary bags each time
they shop.

The EU Commission said that each person in Europe used around 500 bags per year,
claiming that most of them were never re-used.

"Fifty years ago, the single-use plastic bag was almost unheard of.

Now we use them for a few minutes and they pollute our environment for decades,
" EU Environment Commissioner Janez Potocnik said.

"That's why we are looking at all the options, including a Europe-wide ban on
plastic carrier bags."

But Richard Dodd, from the British Retail Consortium, said: "This is not
something which it is appropriate for the EU to get involved in.

"Retailers have been very successful already at working with customers on
reducing the number of bags handed out. Many people already carry their own bags
around with them."

Consumer adviser Jasmine Birtles from Money Magpie disagreed that bags are only
being used once, saying they are among the most recycled of household items.

"People re-use them again and again, whether for shopping, or as bin bags or for
other uses.

"The EU seems to be increasingly like a Communist regime where it expect member
states to do what it wants whether they like it or not."

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Paul Nuttall said: "People and businesses are
already changing their habits through reusable bags and charging at
supermarkets."

Conservative backbencher Philip Davies, MP for Shipley, said: "They don't seem
to realise that many people use plastic carrier bags for all sorts of other
purposes after taking their shopping home such as lining wastepaper baskets.

"Shoppers will end up buying more bin liners instead, which are far worse for
the environment.

"In Ireland, they tried imposing charges on carrier bags.

"It only helped to boost supermarket profits."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The EU could bring in bag ban

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday

HUHNE AGREES TO A POLICE GRILLING ON SPEEDING 'LIE'

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN AND NEIL SEARS

LENGTH: 698 words


AND DID CLEGG SHARE FLIGHT HOME WITH HIM ON THE FATEFUL NIGHT?

CHRIS Huhne last night agreed to be grilled by police over allegations he
persuaded his wife to take the blame for a speeding offence that he had
committed.

The Energy Secretary will surrender himself for questioning next week as he
tries to avoid criminal charges that would leave his career in tatters.

Yesterday it emerged that Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg could now be dragged into
the affair. The Deputy Prime Minister may be asked to give evidence after it was
revealed that he may have shared a flight home from Strasbourg with Mr Huhne on
the night of the speeding offence.

Mr Huhne's decision comes after claims there is a 'good case' against him.

Detectives could interview his estranged wife Vicky Pryce as early as today
after they recovered at least one original document relating to the incident in
2003.

Friends of Miss Pryce say Mr Huhne forced her to take penalty points so he could
avoid a driving ban when he was caught speeding on the M11 south of Stansted
airport.

Essex Police is investigating whether there is enough evidence to launch a
formal criminal inquiry into whether he perverted the course of justice.

Mr Huhne's spokesman said yesterday: 'Chris Huhne contacted Essex Police today
to offer to help them with their inquiry. He will be speaking to them next
week.'

A police source said records of the speeding offence had been located, but
added: 'We don't know the extent of them at the moment.'

An insider said officers were confident of making quick progress, adding: 'I
think it will be established whether or not an offence was committed. There are
ways and means of getting things off computers. We are trying to find a data
source to identify a particular offence.'

Another source added: 'We're more confident we can build a good case now.'

The police interviews began last night when UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage told officers he took a flight from Strasbourg to Stansted on the night
in question, March 12, 2003. He said Mr Huhne, then a Euro MP, regularly took
the same flight and then drove home, though he was not certain he was with him
on that day.

Mr Farage said: 'I have checked my records and I was on that flight and drove
home. The police are interested in the fact that I was on that plane. Chris
Huhne was often on that flight. We all had passes for the car park right outside
the gate. You would be mad not to drive.'

European Parliament records show that Mr Clegg, also an MEP in 2003, attended
votes in Strasbourg the same day but failed to clock in the next day, indicating
that he too went home on the key night.

Mr Clegg's spokesman said: 'We don't think he was on the plane. He was living in
Brussels and Nottingham. He would have flown to East Midlands airport.'

But there was no East Midlands flight that night and Mr Clegg's office has been
unable to locate paper proof of where he travelled.

Lib Dem MEP Bill Newton-Dunn said Mr Clegg regularly used the flight. 'Nick
Clegg and I both represented the East Midlands at the time, and Stansted was the
best airport, so we both used the direct Ryanair flight there from Strasbourg,'
he said.

On the day in question, the Ryanair flight landed at 10.23pm. The timing is
crucial since Miss Pryce was attending a conference at the London School of
Economics that evening. She later had dinner there, which ended after 10pm Z
indicating she was not likely to have been driving a speeding car more than 50
miles away.

Others likely to be questioned by police include a judge friend of Miss Pryce in
whom she is said to have confided at the time of the alleged incident.

Last night a senior LibDem source said: 'The conventional wisdom is that Huhne
will end up having to go. He is being highly reckless in taking it to the wire
like this. Chris clearly doesn't think they will find the evidence. He wants to
brazen it out. He is brazen. That's what he does.'

Tory sources said David Cameron would 'not lift a finger to help' Mr Huhne if he
is found to have lied. To add to Mr Huhne's embarrassment, a 2005 photograph
yesterday emerged of him grinning in the back of a police vehicle Z next to a
mobile speed camera and a traffic officer.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

No gender blenders here, thank you;
City Diary

BYLINE: Rupert Neate

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 77 words


ANOTHER City figure from the Simon Murray school of misogyny. After the
septuagenarian Glencore chairman colourfully dismissed the idea of quotas for
women in boardrooms, UKIP MEP and former City economist Godfrey Bloom has jumped
in with both feet.

"I feel it my duty to warn all my old City colleagues that amongst other
proposals special gender discrimination is on its way to City boards. So line up
your token women everyone."

Clearly a fan of Emmeline Pankhurst.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Emmeline Pankhurst would not be thrilled by Bloom's talk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 19, 2011
                                 First Edition

Bloom beats a familiar drum;
the diary

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 91 words


Godfrey Bloom, the economist who is now the UKIP MEP for Yorkshire, has got
himself worked up over new European rules requiring companies to do more to
promote women to top jobs. "I feel it my duty to warn all my old City colleagues
that... special gender discrimination is on its way to City boards," he says.
"So line up your token women everyone." It's fair to say the MEP has form on
this issue, once telling an interviewer that "no self-respecting small
businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age".

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 19, 2011 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Business Diary: Bloom warns of token women

SECTION: BUSINESS NEWS

LENGTH: 356 words


Godfrey Bloom, the economist who is now the UKIP MEP for Yorkshire, has got
himself worked up over the European Parliament's backing for new corporate
governance rules requiring companies to do more to promote women to top jobs. "I
feel it my duty to warn all my old City colleagues that amongst other proposals,
special gender discrimination is on its way to City boards," he says. "So line
up your token women everyone." It's fair to say the MEP has a little form on
this issue, once telling an interviewer that "no self-respecting small
businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age".

Baghdady gets his apprentices

Stock market investor Mike Baghdady announced six months ago that he was looking
for 15 ordinary people for trading jobs at his firm. Now Baghdady has found his
trainees and is promising to give each one £100,000 to trade with - the best
will get a full-time job. We await the results with interest, although the fact
that Baghdady employed "business psychologist" Edna Agbarha, one of the wackier
contenders on The Apprentice just now, to help him pick doesn't fill us with
hope.

Gross all set to keep his man

Bill Gross can relax. As the Diary reported yesterday, Gross was alarmed to see
rumours that his co-chief Mohamed El-Erian might take over from Dominique
Strauss-Kahn at the IMF. But now El-Erian has scotched the gossip. Although he
thinks "this feudal selection approach [to choosing the head of the IMF] must be
changed, and now is the time to do it", El-Erian adds that he has no intention
of taking the job.

When Buffett ran into security

HBO's premiere of Too Big to Fail, the movie based on Andrew Ross Sorkin's
account of the financial crisis, attracted astar-studded audience at the Museum
of Modern Art in New York. The crowd included everyone from the financier George
Soros to the actor Michael Douglas. One of the biggest names almost didn't get
past security, however. Warren Buffett had to admit to the doormen that he
hadn't brought his ticket - and was almost turned away before an embarrassed
event organiser intervened.

businessdiary@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

BUSINESS DIARY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 360 words


Bloom warns of token women

Godfrey Bloom, the economist who is now the UKIP MEP for Yorkshire, has got
himself worked up over the European Parliament's backing for new corporate
governance rules requiring companies to do more to promote women to top jobs. "I
feel it my duty to warn all my old City colleagues that amongst other proposals,
special gender discrimination is on its way to City boards," he says. "So line
up your token women everyone." It's fair to say the MEP has a little form on
this issue, once telling an interviewer that "no self-respecting small
businessman with a brain in the right place would ever employ a lady of
child-bearing age".

Baghdady gets his apprentices

Stock market investor Mike Baghdady announced six months ago that he was looking
for 15 ordinary people for trading jobs at his firm. Now Baghdady has found his
trainees and is promising to give each one £100,000 to trade with - the best
will get a full-time job. We await the results with interest, although the fact
that Baghdady employed "business psychologist" Edna Agbarha, one of the wackier
contenders on The Apprentice just now, to help him pick doesn't fill us with
hope.

Gross all set to keep his man

Bill Gross can relax. As the Diary reported yesterday, Gross was alarmed to see
rumours that his co-chief Mohamed El-Erian might take over from Dominique
Strauss-Kahn at the IMF. But now El-Erian has scotched the gossip. Although he
thinks "this feudal selection approach [to choosing the head of the IMF] must be
changed, and now is the time to do it", El-Erian adds that he has no intention
of taking the job.

When Buffett ran into security

HBO's premiere of Too Big to Fail, the movie based on Andrew Ross Sorkin's
account of the financial crisis, attracted a star-studded audience at the Museum
of Modern Art in New York. The crowd included everyone from the financier George
Soros to the actor Michael Douglas. One of the biggest names almost didn't get
past security, however. Warren Buffett had to admit to the doormen that he
hadn't brought his ticket - and was almost turned away before an embarrassed
event organiser intervened.

businessdiary@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

HUHNE HELPS COPS IN SPEEDING PROBE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 200 words


CABINET minister Chris Huhne was clinging on to his job last night as he
prepared to speak to police over his alleged speeding offence cover-up.

A spokeswoman for the Energy Secretary said: "Chris Huhne contacted Essex Police
today to offer to help. He will be speaking to them next week."

Mr Huhne's ex-wife Vicky Pryce will also be quizzed over whether he asked her to
accept licence points on his behalf eight years ago. It is believed Mr Huhne,
56, travelled on a Ryanair flight from Strasbourg to Stansted on March 12, 2003,
which landed at 10.23pm.

He denies suggestions he was caught speeding on the M11 on his way home and
asked Ms Pryce, 57, to take his penalty to avoid a ban. She has a strong alibi
placing her in London that night.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, 47, who was on the flight, insists Mr Huhne was there,
but the airline declined to confirm or deny it.

Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke, 70, yesterday acknowledged Mr Huhne is "in
trouble" but added that he had no reason "at the moment" to doubt him.

Despite doubts over whether records from 2003 would still be kept, a police
source last night said that "they think there may be" archive court evidence
relating to the alleged offence.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DENIAL MrHuhne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

HUHNE WIFE WAS 'BULLIED'

BYLINE: MIKE SULLIVAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 290 words


THE estranged wife of Cabinet Minister Chris Huhne has admitted signing his
speeding form to spare him a ban - but only after he "bullied" her into it.

Vicky Pryce has now spoken to police over her allegation she took three points
for Lib Dem Energy Secretary Mr Huhne.

And she has told friends he named her as the driver without asking her after a
camera clocked his car on the M11 in Essex on the night of March 12 2003.

The mum of three said she first knew of the offence when a letter arrived from
police. A friend said: "Vicky knows technically she might have committed an
offence of perverting the course of justice by owning up to something she had
not done. But she only did it under duress after he pleaded and bullied her into
taking the blame."

Estranged Mr Huhne has strenuously denied getting economist Vicky to take the
speeding points.

It is known Vicky was in London that evening. UKIP leader Nigel Farage says he
is "99.9 per cent sure" Mr Huhne was with him on a flight that landed at
Stansted, Essex, that night.

Mr Huhne would have driven home on the M11 had he left his car at Stansted. His
spokeswoman yesterday said he had contacted Essex Police and will speak to them
next week.

Mr Farage said police were due to speak to him last night about the flight from
Strasbourg to Stansted.

Mr Huhne was in a new row yesterday after he was accused of leaking a note from
Defence Secretary Liam Fox to the PM protesting about overseas aid increases.
Friends of Mr Fox suspect Mr Huhne leaked it to "distract attention".

. .Vicky There was yet more embarrassment for Mr Huhne yesterday after a picture
emerged of him using a speed camera.

The snap, taken in 2005, shows him in the back of a Hampshire camera van.

m.sullivan@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Estranged . .Vicky
Snap happy ... Chris Huhne smiles in pose with speed camera in 2005

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Carbon pledge will double energy bills

BYLINE: By John Ingham and Dana Gloger

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 515  words


BELEAGUERED Energy Secretary Chris Huhne yesterday committed Britain to
"exceptionally ambitious" cuts in carbon emissions despite warnings that they
could help double domestic energy bills in a decade.

Mr Huhne, who is fighting for his political life over allegations about speeding
points, said that by 2025 Britain will have halved its greenhouse gas emissions
from 1990 levels.

That is a significant expansion of the previous pledge to cut emissions by 34
per cent by 2020.

He also announced plans to develop giant offshore wind turbines, which would be
nearly as tall as Big Ben.

Mr Huhne overcame Cabinet resistance to push through the plan and make Britain
the first country in the world to make legally binding commitments to slash
emissions in the 2020s.

But critics warned that the consumer will have to foot the bill. Mark Todd,
director of price comparison service Energyhelpline.com, said the drive would
cost households around GBP 10.8billion a year extra by 2020, taking the average
bill from GBP 1,150 to GBP 1,600.

He warned: "Fuel scarcity, political turmoil and natural disasters will drive
this figure even higher and it would not be beyond the bounds of possibility to
see bills almost double to GBP 2,000 by 2020.

Once again the ordinary consumer is ending up footing the bill."

Price comparison site uSwitch.com also warned that annual energy bills could hit
GBP 1,600 within nine years.

Ann Robinson, director of consumer policy, said: "By 2020 the average bill will
have rocketed by nearly GBP 500. This doesn't even take into account any price
rises.

"Today's announcement could be the death knell for cheap energy."

Others feared big business would be driven abroad. The Civitas think-tank said
the plans would create the "highest energy costs in the world" and send turnover
worth GBP 60billion and 600,000 jobs "up in smoke".

UKIP's environment spokesman Lord Monckton said the move would not make any
difference to the climate. He described it as "the largest tax increase in human
history" driven "by blind, superstitious faith".

Even supporters warned the scheme was ambitious.

David Symons, of environmental consultants WSP Environment & Energy, said the
move meant that by 2030 the UK would have to generate 97 per cent of electricity
from low carbon sources, insulate 3.5 million homes and have 60 per cent of new
cars run on electricity.

Dr Tim Fox, head of Energy and Environment at the Institution of Mechanical
Engineers, said: "These proposals are welcome but exceptionally ambitious and
are unlikely to be achieved without policy support.

"The scale of the engineering deployment required to reduce emissions on this
scale has never been seen in any industrialised nation."

The Prime Minister said:

"This is the right approach for Britain if we are to combat climate change,
secure our energy supplies for the long-term and seize the economic
opportunities that green industries hold."

Mr Huhne said: "It puts Britain at the leading edge of a new global industrial
transformation as well as making good our determination that this will be the
greenest government ever."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Embattled Huhne yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bankers get loan from EU

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 191  words


FURY erupted yesterday as it emerged that British taxpayers are helping
refurbish a luxury tourist resort owned by wealthy foreign bankers.

The Treasury is underwriting an GBP 11million loan to revamp a four-star,
beach-front complex in Morocco. The loan comes from the European Investment
Bank, set up to aid development in the EU and emerging nations.

But the British share of the risk means that if the loan is unpaid, taxpayers
would have to fork out 16p in every pound.

However, if the project succeeds, the repayments go to the EIB while the owners
rake in the profits.

The disclosure sparked anger yesterday.

John O'Connell, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said:

"Businesses at home can't get finance they need to grow. Hardworking families
are already helping to bail out basket case economies in Ireland and Portugal."

UKIP's Marta Andreasen, said: "It is scandalous that our taxpayers who are
struggling to survive and make their mortgage payments in this economic crisis
are subsidising playgrounds for the rich and well paid."

The Yasmina village, near Tetouan, is part of a French chain owned by CDG
Capital which has assets of over GBP 20billion.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

POINTS OF DISORDER 1

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 57 words


MUTINOUS Liam "sod the world's hungry" Fox is unofficial head of Compassionless
Conservatives.

Unlike the Prime Spinner, the rebellious, m e m o -w riting Defence Secretary
doesn't pretend he cares.

The Desert Fox rivals Ukip's Nigel Farage as leader of Britain's version of the
US no-spending Tea Party.

We should call ours the Mad Hatter Tea Party.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP BOSS: HUHNE IN FRAME ON SPEED RAP;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON; TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 201 words


CHRIS Huhne WAS in Essex the night of the speeding offence threatening his
career, according to UKIP leader Nigel Farage.

MEP Mr Farage said last night that he and Mr Huhne were on the same flight from
Strasbourg to Stansted airport on March 12, 2003.

That was the date of the offence in Essex - home to Stansted.

The Lib Dem Energy Secretary denies suggestions that he got his estranged wife
Vicky Pryce to take his speeding points so he could dodge a ban.

She has an alibi that puts her in London that day until at least 10pm.

Mr Farage said his records confirmed he flew to Stansted on Ryanair on Wednesday
March 12.

He insisted: "I was on that flight with Chris Huhne."

Mr Farage said they were both regulars on Wednesday night flights from
Strasbourg. EU records show Mr Huhne signed in at the European Parliament on the
Wednesday and took part in votes that day. But he did not sign in next day -
suggesting he flew home on Wednesday night.

A former Lib Dem press officer said he was "99.9 per cent sure" Mr Huhne left on
March 12.

Mr Huhne faced jibes in the Commons yesterday. But when asked if he could still
give full attention to his job he replied: "I can indeed."

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk Jane Moore - Page 11

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Passenger ... UKIP's Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New claim on Huhne ban 'con';
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 49 words


FRESH evidence damaging Chris Huhne's claims that he did not try to dodge a
speeding ban emerged last night.

UKIP chief Nigel Farage said he flew into Essex with him the day of the alleged
offence there.

Energy Secretary Mr Huhne was accused of getting his ex to take the rap.

Full Story - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Doubts ... Chris Huhne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIP BOSS: HUHNE IN FRAME ON SPEED RAP

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON; TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 207 words


CHRIS Huhne was under mounting pressure last night after claims by UKIP's leader
put him in the frame for the speeding rap he's accused of trying to dodge.

MEP Nigel Farage said last night that he and Mr Huhne were on the same flight
from Strasbourg to Stansted airport on March 12, 2003.

That was the date of the offence in Essex - home to Stansted.

The Lib Dem Energy Secretary denies suggestions that he got his estranged wife
Vicky Pryce to take his speeding points so he could dodge a ban.

She has an alibi that puts her in London that day until at least 10pm.

Mr Farage said his records confirmed he flew to Stansted on Ryanair on Wednesday
March 12.

He insisted: "I was on that flight with Chris Huhne."

Mr Farage said they were both regulars on Wednesday night flights from
Strasbourg. EU records show Mr Huhne signed in at the European Parliament on the
Wednesday and took part in votes that day. But he did not sign in next day -
suggesting he flew home on Wednesday night.

A former Lib Dem press officer said he was "99.9 per cent sure" Mr Huhne left on
March 12.

Mr Huhne faced jibes in the Commons yesterday. But when asked if he could still
give full attention to his job he replied: "I can indeed."

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

Jane Moore - Page 11

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Passenger ... UKIP's Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Huhne dunnit?;
UKIP BOSS CLAIMS HE WAS IN ESSEX

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 50 words


CHRIS Huhne WAS in Essex the day of the speeding rap threatening his career,
UKIP boss Nigel Farage claimed last night.

Mr Farage said he flew into Stansted with him.

Energy Secretary Mr Huhne is accused of getting his wife to take the penalty
points so he could avoid a driving ban.

Full Story - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Doubts ... Chris Huhne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Huhne 'in frame' on speed rap

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 111 words


FRESH evidence damaging Chris Huhne's claims that he did not try to dodge a
speeding ban emerged last night.

UKIP chief Nigel Farage said he flew from Strasbourg into Stansted, Essex, with
him the day of the alleged offence there - March 12, 2003.

Energy Secretary Mr Huhne was accused of getting his ex Vicky Pryce to take the
rap.

She has an alibi that puts her in London that day until at least 10pm.

Mr Farage said his records confirmed he flew to Stansted on Ryanair on Wednesday
March 12.

He insisted: "I was on that flight with Chris Huhne."

A former Lib Dem press officer said he was "99.9 per cent sure" Mr Huhne left
after EU Parliament business ended on March 12.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flight ... Huhne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

UKIP BOSS: HUHNE IN FRAME ON SPEED RAP

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN ; GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 246 words


FRESH evidence damaging Chris Huhne's claims that he did not try to dodge a
speeding ban emerged last night.

UKIP chief Nigel Farage said he flew from Strasbourg into Stansted, Essex, with
him the day of the alleged offence there.

Lib Dem Energy Secretary Mr Huhne denies suggestions he got his estranged wife
Vicky Pryce to take his speeding points so he could dodge a ban.

She has an alibi that puts her in London that day until at least 10pm. MEP Mr
Farage, below left, said his records confirmed he flew to Stansted on Ryanair on
Wednesday March 12, 2003. He insisted: "I was on that flight with Chris Huhne."

Mr Farage said they were both regulars on Wednesday night flights from
Strasbourg.

EU records show Mr Huhne signed in at the European Parliament on the Wednesday
and took part in votes that day. But he did not sign in next day - suggesting he
flew home on Wednesday night.

A former Lib Dem press officer said he was "99.9 per cent sure" Mr Huhne, left,
left on March 12.

Mr Huhne faced jibes in the Commons yesterday. But when asked if he could still
give full attention to his job he replied: "I can indeed." Shadow energy
secretary Meg Hillier ridiculed Mr Huhne by accusing him of a "go-slow" approach
to green issues and urging him to "accelerate" his plans.

Labour MP Geraint Davies asked if he thought speed limits should be raised -
while another backbencher Barry Gardiner said he was glad Mr Huhne was in the
"driving seat" on eco policies.

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Eurovision's Waterloo;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 40 words


SIR - On Saturday, my children made me endure an evening of excruciating
auditory torment listening to the Eurovision Song Contest (report, May 14).

Since then, I have had an almost uncontrollable urge to join Ukip.

Dr Alan T. Evans

Newburgh, Fife

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Now our bill for EU bailout hits GBP 12.5bn

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 631  words


BRITAIN'S liability for shoring up the collapsing euro soared to a colossal GBP
12.5billion last night following a European Union rescue deal for Portugal.

Chancellor George Osborne yesterday agreed with other European finance ministers
that the UK will pour GBP 4.3billion into a GBP 68billion international bailout
package for the debt-laden Portuguese economy.

On top of cash already pledged to Ireland and Greece, the move raises Britain's
financial involvement in supporting the crisis-hit eurozone to GBP 500 for every
household in the country.

And fears were growing that the total liability figure could rocket to more than
GBP 15billion if Britain is forced to contribute to an expected second
international bailout for the Greeks.

Last night critics savaged the Treasury's decision to join another lavish EU
rescue at a time of swingeing austerity measures in the UK.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "This is a disastrous deal for Britain.

"At a time of public-spending cuts at home, millions of hard-working families
around the country will be wondering how we got into this mess.

"It is extraordinary in the week when it becomes apparent that lenders will not
get the money back from the Greek bailout that we should be going ahead with
throwing billions into a Portuguese bailout."

Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Osborne must
decide who he wishes to please, either the UK taxpayer or his fellow EU finance
ministers? Who is he working for - us or them?"

Charlotte Linacre, campaign manager at the TaxPayers' Alliance, said:

"This news is disastrous. The Government is failing UK taxpayers by not
resisting further EU bailouts.

"It's utterly wrong that while we look for necessary spending cuts in the UK,
any savings made are being squandered propping up a failing eurozone."

Finance ministers from the 27 EU nations agreed the GBP 68billion bailout for
Portugal at a meeting in Brussels that went ahead in spite of the arrest of
International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn in New York on sex
attack allegations.

The decision to help Portugal follows fears about a crippling sovereign debt
crisis which threatens to bankrupt the Lisbon government.

Mr Osborne agreed that Britain will contribute GBP 4.3billion but Treasury
officials insisted the Chancellor was a "reluctant participant", forced into
joining the rescue because of a deal agreed by his Labour predecessor Alistair
Darling last year.

They pointed out that the cash was a loan and not a handout, and claim that
stringent conditions attached to the bailout would prevent the Portuguese
government from defaulting on the credit.

But the contribution comes on top of GBP 1.2billion that Britain plunged into an
IMF aid package for Greece last year and a further GBP 7billion in emergency
loans to Ireland.

It means the total British liability for euro bailouts so far has reached GBP
12.5billion.

Worryingly, the figure is around half the cash saved by the Government this year
through austerity spendin g cuts.

Some experts warn that the British Government may be forced to contribute a
further GBP 2.6billion to increasin g the EU and IMF support for Greece,
increasing the UK's liability to GBP 15.1billion.

That figure is equivalent to GBP 604 for every household in the country, adding
further weight to the Daily Express campaign to get Britain out of the EU.

Treasury sources were last night insisting that Britain will not be expected to
join in a further EU financial package for Greece.

A spokesman said: "We were not part of the original European bailout for Greece
and there is no proposal to bring us into the next one."

Officials also pointed out that yesterday's Brussels meeting agreed a legal text
that means Britain will not play a part in any eurozone bailouts after 2013.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Osborne agreed deal
Campaigner Charlotte Linacre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 701 words


&#10002;There are many ways to have a well-noted debate about matters academic
and sociological. Is sending an invite to professional Islamic controversialist
Anjem Choudary one of them? The organisers of the festival How the Light Gets
In, which runs parallel to Hay next week, are about to find out. For many
advantages accrue from putting Choudary - proponent of sharia law in Britain and
once an acolyte of the notorious Omar Bakri - on two panels debating female
equality and terrorism, as the festival organisers plan to do. The prospect of a
memorable confrontation between Choudary and others. And lots of publicity. But
there are downsides. You make enemies; in this case opposition has been
triggered by angry sorts within Ukip who have been busy writing to the event's
sponsors, including the Independent, demanding Choudary be disinvited. But it
doesn't end with Ukip, for the little Englanders have made noise enough to bring
the event to the attention of English Defence League types, who indicate that
they too might fancy a typically boisterous day out in Herefordshire. Both
Choudary and festival director Hilary Lawson insist they are keen to go ahead,
but organisers must now assess with police the potential for public disorder.
"At this stage, we believe our original decision was the right one," Lawson told
us. Will it go ahead? A lot can happen in a week.

&#10002;The free speech card is a pretty strong one, and quite understandably
the organisers are playing it. Unsurprising nevertheless that some might make a
fuss at Choudary being given his place among the thinkers and philosophers. When
activists took to the streets the other day to bemoan the shooting of Osama bin
Laden, Choudary was the noisiest of them. But then, as the irrepressible
Choudary told us yesterday, many all over the world join him in lamenting Bin
Laden's passing, not least the al-Qaida leader's relatives who continue to
insist the killing was illegal. Eric Holder, Obama's attorney general, says it
was perfectly legal, and last week justified the shooting on the basis that
under the laws of war, the slaying of the enemy commander is quite permissible.
Is that true, we asked Geoffrey Robertson QC. No, he said. "Only when the
commander is in the field. Other than that, it's legal language creep." Some
commanders bestride the battlefield. Others opt for a blanket and the telly.

&#10002;Still, the administration's interpretation of the laws of war does take
us into interesting territory. For Newt Gingrich, now a Republican nominee for
the presidency, has described Mr WikiLeaks, Julian Assange, as an enemy
combatant, as has his party colleague Sarah Palin. Does that not make the man
who leaked the secrets a prime candidate for the sort of justice meted out to
Bin Laden? Mr Wiki looks secure in that stately home near Norwich it is true,
but then Bin Laden once seemed unreachable. Lahore or rural Suffolk: to navy
seals with guns, they are about the same.

&#10002;A terrible time, meanwhile, for the LSE; think of those embarrassing
links with Colonel Gaddafi and the resignation of much loved director Howard
Davies. Little wonder that the high-ups saw fit to equip staff with a little red
pamphlet telling them what to do in an emergency. At the back it lists
government websites to which one might usefully turn. Someone thought the
www.preparingforemergencies.co.uk was one of them. It isn't. "In an effort to
worry the public and convince them to vote for us again next year, and because
George Bush asked us to, this website includes the common sense advice found in
the Preparing for Emergencies booklet," it says. It's a spoof. Amusing, but in
extremis, hardly helpful.

&#10002;Finally, will Bob Dylan be given the freedom of Haringey to mark his
70th birthday on 24 May? For Dylan, according to the local trades council, has
had a long association with the north London borough, through his links with
Dave Stewart of the Eurythmics. At one stage, proponents say, Bob was "reputed
to be thinking of relocating to Crouch End". It didn't happen, but it could
have, and if it had, he would have been a local resident. Lucky man. A Grammy,
and now this.

diary@guardian.co.uk

hugh-muir@twitter.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 16, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

PM told to get tough with Europe

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 202 words


DAVID Cameron was challenged to take a more robust stance with the EU yesterday
amid growing fears that Britain will again be forced to bail out ailing eurozone
nations.

With fury mounting that taxpayers will be dragged into a fresh rescue deal for
Greece, a survey has revealed the Prime Minister should get tough with Europe.

The poll for Lord Ashcroft, former Tory party deputy chairman, shows that 17 per
cent of party members want the PM to take a more hardline approach that includes
leaving the European Union. It was second only to sorting out the economy as the
main issue Tories consider vital to win over voters.

Other demands include tackling immigration, introducing tax cuts, fighting crime
and reforming the NHS.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, said the poll "makes it clear that people want the
Government to defend Britain's interests far more robustly".

The findings also lend weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of
the EU. It comes as the row over funding eurozone bailouts looks set to rumble
on.

Chancellor George Osborne has said he cannot extract Britain from an EU
mechanism of support until 2013 but he will tell EU counterparts this week
Britain should not help in any new package.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 16, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

What's the dress code for protest marches?

BYLINE: Virginia Blackburn

SECTION: COLUMNS; 14

LENGTH: 696  words


TO THE barricades! Last Saturday I was extremely excited: I was about to attend
my first ever protest rally.

The reason for my slightly late start as a radical campaigner is the perilous
state of this country's finances and a protest laid on by Rally Against Debt,
which believes that Government spending cuts do not go far enough. I'm not
really a revolutionary sort of gal, unless you count fashion revolutions that
declare that cerise is the new black, but my mother walked in the civil rights
marches of the Sixties and now it's my turn. Comrades, to arms!

Actually, "comrades" isn't quite the right word for it. The people behind this
rally include the UK Independence Party, with whom I don't always agree, and the
TaxPayers' Alliance, with whom I do. It's unlikely that we're going to encounter
too many members of the Workers Revolutionary Party, or indeed, the TUC, but
we're Middle Britain and we're angry! Yeah! Provoke us much further and we will
have to tell you, very politely of course, that we've just about jolly well had
enough.

But never having been to one of these things before, any number of problems
bedevil me. For a start, what do I wear? Pearls before noon is never acceptable
and this rally is being held in the morning, presumably so that we all have
plenty of time to go on to an agreeable lunch.

In the end it's black skinny jeans and a bomber jacket.

Then there's the next worry: will there be violence? All those students
protesting a few weeks ago ran amok all over Fortnum & Mason's. While we are all
clearly far too civilised to do anything similar, what if some of the rowdier
element turn up to make a fuss? Should I be armed? In the event, I took a
biography of Rudolf Nureyev with me: it's a chunky book, so I could use it as a
shield or bop someone on the nose with it. It could also provide some reading
matter, were the more esoteric points about taxation policy to prove a little
wearisome. After all, this is a rally held by people who think fiscal stimulus
is a point worth debating all night.

AT the rally, held opposite the Houses of Parliament a carnival atmosphere was
in full swing. Some of the usual suspects were there, such as Nigel Farage, head
of UKIP, and Bill Cash, the Eurosceptic Tory MP, as well as at least one member
of the Monster Raving Loony Party. Titter ye not: it is worth remembering that
some of the Raving Loony's manifesto points are now law (passports for pets, for
a start. ) But the rest of us really are Middle Britain. And my, we're erudite.

The nature of the protest is very clear from the placards. There's "Stop
spending money we don't have, " on one, "No more EU bailouts, " on another and
the altogether saucier, "Go stimulate yourself." But this is a gathering that
knows the price of its tomatoes: one placard has a chart on it, with figures
revealing the rising levels of public spending as a percentage of the wealth of
the country.

No rally is complete without a call to revolution, so after some good natured
chanting of "Cuts now, " firebrands start stepping up to the mark. By firebrands
I mean people such as Farage and Cash, along with the Conservative MP Priti
Patel and Matthew Sinclair, director of the Taxpayers' Alliance. If they told us
to storm down Whitehall I must have missed it. The worst incitement to violence
came when one of the speakers mentioned a woman who was being paid out of the
public purse in her job as a nurse, but who was actually a fulltime union
activist.

"To the gallows with her!" cried a spectator, which got a big laugh.

Nigel Farage made the sound point that we were not there because we wanted to
close libraries, but because this country's debt amounts to theft from our
children and grandchildren. But he was as good natured as anyone: "If you go to
a Tom Jones concert, you expect Delilah, " he retorted when his typical anti-EU
rhetoric drew a little mocking laughter.

I thoroughly enjoyed my time as a firebrand: you meet such lovely people. Fellow
revolutionaries drifted off to some of the capital's restaurants for luncheon;
others went to admire the art galleries in Trafalgar Square.

A very British act of rebellion, all told. Oh - and the rain held off.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ERUDITE: The Rally Against Debt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 16, 2011 Monday 7:49 AM GMT

New Labour brought back slums and illiteracy, betraying Old Labour's legacy

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1305 words


It is not unusual these days to hear something dispiriting or annoying on the
BBC's Today Programme (although it is still compulsive listening) but I was
unusually shocked to hear last week a reporter's account of conditions in
Slough. She had accompanied a inspector from the borough council tracking down
unauthorised buildings from wooden sheds to substantial breeze block buildings
in back gardens of mainly terraced houses. These were it seemed, rented by a new
generation of Rachmans to people living with little or no access to washing or
toilet facilities.

What she was describing was something from a century ago, long before slum
housing was virtually abolished in the third quarter of the 20th century. Now in
21st-century Britain it is back.

If I was shocked, what must ordinary decent members of the Labour Party feel?
That party played a great role in the battles against slum landlords and
settting decent standards of housing.

Nor is it just the slums that have made a comeback. Tuberculosis, the killer of
millions was banished, for good we thought, from Britain by the early post war
years. Now TB is back and doubtless prospering in the new slums.

By the middle of the last century somthing like 95 per cent of school leavers,
even at 14, were literate and reasonably numerate. Stallholders and their
customers in the markets could add, subtract multiply and divide. Now illiteracy
and inumeracy are back rendering many youngsters all but unemployable.

What is more, in those days we all understood anyone speaking with a BBC accent
and, give or take a bit of trouble with the stronger regional accents, we could
all communicate freely with each other. That is no longer so. Whole communities
either see no need to communicate with the rest of us, or in the cases of many
womenfolk, are prohibited from doing so.

When the historians look back on these unwelcome changes to the society in which
we live they will have little trouble in putting a date on when they began. It
was, of course, 1997.

That was why my week was finally spoiled on Friday when I found in my copy of
The Spectator a eulogy to Tony Blair, suggesting that all the best of the
reforms being carried through by the Coalition had their roots in the benign
rule of NuLabour.

That is not quite how I see it, although I have to admit that no socialist has
ever had greater success in the redistribution of income and capital than Mr
Blair during the years in which he first left us all, including the very
poorest, deep in debt, and then became very, very rich.

I sometimes wonder which political party needed de-toxicification.

...

First of all I should thank generalfeldmarschell for his very kind remarks about
my habit of reading and commenting on as many of your posts as possible. As he
says, it is very time-consuming and from time to to time my personal
responsibilities here at home may mean I cannot do as much as I would like.
However, it is the nearest thing we have these days to the old fashioned public
meetings with hecklers!

Some of you liked my Birthday Honours (and raspberries ) list, and some did not.
That is life, I guess, but I did detect something of a consensus led by Mark
Steven Conway, Ian_Roger_Hong_Kong, incensed and ben arnulffsen, that I ought to
have included Danny Alexander with a 7 or even 8. That is probably right.
thought about it but felt the list was getting a bit long, so I shall keep him
in mind for next year.

Then darkseid thought my last comment that Clegg would by next year be a turkey
fearful of an early Christmas, was 'tribal nonsense'. I think that it was fair.
An election now would hit both the partners hard. It will be better for Cameron
once the new boundaries are in place, but that will not help Clegg. None the
less, I don't think the Lib Dems will be mad enough to pull the Government down
and I still expect it to run for four years at least.

There was a laugh for us all in Saucy Jack's comment that the EU has no power
over the immigration from non-EU states. Well, no, but as morning star, ben
arnulfssen and bersher pointed out, once a member state has admitted such an
immigrant he is free to move within the EU. What is more, once he is granted a
passport (they are not expensive) from one of the dodgier member states he is
entitled to come here for his benefits and to bring in his extended family.

I managed to 'disgust' bill 40 by my analysis. He found that Lib Dems voted
'with enthusiasm', whilst Labour and Tory voters felt betrayed. How odd then
that the Lib Dems lost seats whilst the Tories and Labour gained them by the
hundreds. In the same curious way he declared that 'Vince is great', a view
which gained more derision than support.

Perhaps the most interesting post was from nagsman with the sporting suggestion
of a Private Member's Bill to prohibit the Government making any payment of over
50,000 to any organisation unable to secure an audit of its accounts. I think
the Whips would block that one.

There was a long post from bersher which I thought well worth reading, but it
was Equus Merde who spoke for many saying that what the country badly needs is
leadership.

While there was no lack of posts on my previous blog looking at the local
election and referendum results, a huge number of them were from trolls and
people trying in vain to have some sort of sane discussion with them. Sadly that
is just not possible.

Then there were posts like those from scottishman, who suffers from the delusion
that Thatcher closed down a profitable steel industry. Now just why would she,
or I as her Industry Secretary, want to do that? What possible advantage could
have come to the government from closing a profitable tax paying business and
putting taxpaying workers on the dole at the taxpayer's expense? That was a
question asked by jaantieu amongst others, but answer came there none. Well, not
from him, but hospitallier pointed out the truth.

Nor did any of Thatcher's critics answer hospitallier's question: If everyone
hated Thatcher, how did she keep getting elected?

There was a lot of debate about Scotland and the SNP and I was glad of general
support from jconrad and others. As venerablebede said, a Scottish Unionist
Party would need to avoid being caught up in the bowlers and sash style of
sectarian politics and Henry Hill thought it would be divisive. That was odd. I
thought that the SNP were the ones wanting to divide this country and the
Unionists wanted to keep it together, so just who is divisive? Amongst
supporters of Unionism were wonton and bersher.

The East Lothian Question was raised by rastusctastey and nagsman raised the
matter of the Barnett formula which Lord (Joel) Barnett rightly proclaims is now
hopelessly distorted. That is part of the reason that the SNP has been popular,
as it has increased spending without having to increase taxation. If auld fermer
believes there is no cross border flow of cash to Scotland I wonder where he
thinks it is all coming from.

As bersher said, the loss of Scotland from the Union would be regrettable,
although as tanuki observed it would probably mean the end of Labour
governments. There was a good point made by lord lucan (and by Simon Heffer in
Wednesday's Telegraph) that it would be appropriate to ask the English if we
wanted to end the Union.

As usual alhamilton spoke for UKIP, urging Scottish Tories to defect, whilst
alan campbell sneered at that party. I do not think UKIP is likely to be a big
force in the next Parliament but they should do very well in the 2014 European
elections and that might act as a springboard.

One of the most pertinent comments came from ooopiop on the need to check the
Left-wing, indeed neo-Marxist slant of teaching in schools and the former
polytechnics and I am grateful for his suggestion that my words on the coal
strike might well be more widely distributed.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

TMOS2_R_13_A_15_BOOKS2

LENGTH: 732 words


.TXT

FEATHERED FRIENDSHIPS

REVIEW

RORY MCGRATH

BIRDS BRITANNIA

BY STEPHEN MOSS

COLLINS 617.99 % 614.99 INC P&P

Congratulations to Stephen Moss, not only on this fine piece of writing, but on
actually getting a book about birds and bird-watching published. If I were to
mention my own book, Bearded Tit, which I'm not going to, it would solely be to
persuade you that I have first-hand experience of how difficult it is to
convince publishers to get excited about birds.

Bird-watching is one of those things, isn't it? Insultingly and incorrectly, it
is lumped together with train-spotting as a nerdy, blokey slightly suspicious
activity for people of a certain age. But it's much more popular than it first
appears. Bird-watching is like listening to Leonard Cohen or voting UKIP; quite
a few people do it but they don't always own up to it.

Moss swoops down on the subject from a not altogether predictable angle: the
peculiarly British affection for our feathered friends (and occasional enemies).
We welcome them into our gardens, put food out for them in the winter, and look
forward to our first sightings of returning summer visitors. We don't routinely
shoot them and stick them in a casserole like some do, but let's not mention any
names (French, Greek, Maltese, Italians, Spanish).

Birds Britannia is divided into four categories: garden birds, water birds,
seabirds and countryside birds, and Moss leads us through the history of our
relationship with them in easily digestable bite-sized morsels. The book is a
riot of fact and information, familiar to seasoned twitchers but fascinating to
the beginner.

The racily promiscuous sex life of the dunnock is always a good read. And I
hadn't realised that the robin's association with Christmas and Christmas cards
is partly due to the fact that postmen used to wear red tunics and were
nicknamed 'robins'. Nor did I know that eider down (the feathers of the female
eider duck) can still fetch as much as 6600 a kilo. Or that the eider duck is a
record holder for fastest flying duck: 47.5 mph. Not bad for what is also our
heaviest duck.

At times in the past we have been rabid hunters of birds, not only for
consumption. Moss reminds us how widespread collecting was in the 18th and 19th
Century: stuffed birds and birds' eggs could command vast financial reward.
Equally desirable were their feathers for decorating hats and clothes.

And, of course, those birds which threatened our agriculture (finches, in
particular, are big seed-eaters) were destroyed in their hundreds of thousands,
either shot, caught in very thin nets or trapped on tree branches smeared with a
very sticky, corrosive substance called bird-lime. In many cases, this led to
the loss of entire species.

The book also documents the impact on birds of great events in history, such as
the world wars and the industrial revolution. It paints a frighteningly stark
picture of how the intensification of agriculture has changed the size and
make-up of our bird population almost beyond recognition. In particular,
pesticides used in intensive farming have wiped out billions of insects on which
many bird species relied for food.

The fate of the corncrake is particularly heartrending. It nests in crop fields,
and when the harvest starts, moving from the edges of the field inwards, the
corncrake's instinct is to take refuge towards the middle of the field where,
inevitably, it is minced up by a combine harvester. These birds are now all but
extinct in Britain, with just a few remaining in some parts of Ireland.

There are many other wonders lost to us for ever, but there are some success
stories. Anyone who has, like me, nearly crashed their car on the M40 while
gazing at the elegance and agility of a red kite, may be surprised to learn that
this supreme bird was down to its last breeding pair not long ago. Once confined
mainly to West Wales, it is now spreading. Three days ago I saw a pair over
Cambridge city centre.

But I'm glad to say that Birds Britannia is not a finger-wagging treatise
excoriating mankind for his cruelty to our avian cousins. Moss welcomes the
stage we're at now of enlightened concern for birds and their fragile habitats.

The message of the book is one of hope: the future of birds looks rosier now
than it has done for some time. But we must not get complacent, and reading this
book reminds us that bird-watching is a small act of revolution.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

Right-wing rally a damp squib

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 162 words


The Rally Against Debt was organised by the right-wing Taxpayers Alliance and
supported by members of the Conservative and UK Independence parties. It claimed
to give voice to "the silent majority who think Britain is living beyond its
means" and styled itself as a response to the TUC's March 26 demonstration on
which over 500,000 thronged the streets of London. The silent majority proved
silent indeed, with the Metropolitan Police estimating that "about 350" people
attended. People at the rally chanted: "What do we want? Cuts! When do we want
them? Now!"Anti-cuts campaigners holding a counter-protest waved a sign mocking
the rally which read: "Libraries suck." A TUC spokesman said: "Half a million
people joined the TUC march for the alternative to deep spending cuts." The fact
that only a few hundred people rallied for more Sure Start centre closures and
punitive cuts on disabled people shows how little support there is for the
government's economic plans."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 15, 2011

While the European left dithers, the right marches menacingly on

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1110 words


It is hard not to be very uneasy. Every month, there is another milestone passed
in the ever onward march of Europe's populist, anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim,
nativist right. "If they want to turn Stockholm, Gothenburg or Malmo into a
Scandinavian Beirut with clan wars, honour killings and gang rapes, let them do
it. We can always put a barrier on the Oresund bridge," said Pia Kjaersgaard,
leader of Denmark's People's party recently. On Wednesday, she got her way.

Denmark is unilaterally to introduce border and customs controls on its borders
with Germany and Sweden - an event Kjaersgaard and her party celebrated with
pink champagne and Danish bacon crisps. Her detestation of foreigners, and
Muslim immigrants in particular, are the central force in Danish politics.
Border controls were the price of her support for the minority government's
controversial package of welfare and pension cuts.

Customs and identification checks on the 60,000 cars daily crossing the bridge
between Denmark and Sweden may appear to be an irritant just to the travellers
concerned, but in fact they represent a dagger pointed at the heart of one of
the EU's great accomplishments. The free movement of people in Europe is
underwritten by the Schengen Agreement - a "beautiful achievement", according to
EU commissioner for home affairs Cecilia Malmstrom: she is right.

But Denmark chose to put itself outside EU law and mortally wound the agreement.
EU interior ministers - reacting to Europe's new paranoias - were to agree just
hours later to give countries the right to do just what Denmark has done. But
wider agreement is uncertain and in any case might take months. So the Danes
jumped the gun. The EU be damned. Kjaersgaard would like to leave it anyway.

The trouble is that the Danish People's Party is not alone. There are the True
Finns in Finland, the Hungarian Jobbik party, the Dutch Party for Freedom, the
Italian Northern League, the Austrian Freedom party, the Sweden Democrats and
the National Front in France, led by the politically astute Marine Le Pen. All
are on the rise, and it's not easy to see what might slow their progress.

There were not many ideas on offer at the Progressive Governance conference in
Oslo at the end of last week - a gathering of the leaders of Europe's
centre-left and policy thinkers. Denial is the default position, because the
left does not want to believe its own people could descend to hating immigrants
with the ferocity of the populist right. To make concessions is to legitimise
attitudes that should only stay on the margins. The Spanish socialists spoke for
the consensus, saying that the left must make the case that immigration is a
force for good - it makes Europe richer. Others, such as the Danish and Dutch
social democrats, were more street-wise, wanting to bend to the popular mood.
After all, immigration does create economic losers. The left cannot allow purism
to come before realism.

The trouble is that the longer the left's response is confused, the more the
populist right has begun to make anti-immigrant attitudes culturally acceptable.
Unless a quick response can be found to the economic dislocation, uncertain job
prospects and sense that European states cannot offer their populations security
that is feeding the current mood, noxious attitudes will start to become
culturally and politically entrenched. The French socialist Olivier Ferrand
observed that in France, Marine le Pen had "republicanised" the National Front
so that it now possessed a suite of attractive policies on pensions, industrial
policy and employment borrowed from the left. Her party was infiltrating unions
and attracting support from the liberal professions alike - all attracted by her
criticism of the " globalist", " pro-EU" mainstream political parties. If it
were just a choice between the left and her, the left would win: but given
France's curious electoral system and her rising popularity, the left may be
knocked out of the first presidential election round before it gets the chance
in the final round. But while the centre-left seems the obvious political loser,
the centre-right is not immune. Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP loses votes to the
National Front but David Cameron's Tories lose votes to the British National
Party and Ukip. In Britain, Cameron tried to consolidate his position with a
speech doubting the virtues of multiculturalism and a promise to limit
immigration to tens of thousands. In France, the debate is more toxic. A
politician courting the populist vote has to signal his or her attitude to
Muslims - hence Sarkozy's banning of the burqa.

For what is unifying all Europe's populist right is outright hostility to
Muslims. What has triggered the attack on the Schengen Agreement is fear of
another wave of Muslim immigrants from north Africa. But immigration controls
are only as strong as their weakest link - and every national European
politician is prey to electors' fears that the EU or another country is just
that weakest link. Thus the descent into beggar my neighbour anti-immigration
policies. But these quickly become beggar my neighbour tax and trade policies.
It is a culture of closure, negation and mutual suspicion.

To stop this movement becoming a stampede, the European left has to find a more
certain voice. It must argue passionately for a good capitalism that will drive
growth, employment and living standards by a redoubled commitment to innovation
and investment. It must spearhead the case for new international rules of
governance that can make citizens believe that globalisation is not a terrifying
threat; it need not be a charter for bankers making dynastic fortunes for doing
nothing valuable, nor an unstoppable force homogenising national cultures.

The left must also accept that immigration offends basic attitudes to fairness.
Once any host population starts to believe that new immigrants can get benefits
without paying anything into the collective pot they feel cheated. Immigrants
need to be offered ways of earning their citizenship to ease their path on
arrival. Get the economics and fairness right and much of the so-called threat
to identity will fall away.

The good news is that, slowly, the European left is becoming aware of what it
needs to do: the bad news is that it still sounds such an uncertain note, and
there is so much distrust of the state and the EU on which effective action is
predicated. Nonetheless, it is a battle for the soul of Europe - and at the
moment the wrong side is winning.

Captions:

Marine Le Pen greets supporters at the far-right Front National annual congress
in Tours, France, in January.

Photograph by

Stephane Mahe/Reuters


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 15, 2011

300 rally for more cuts in spending

BYLINE: Tracy McVeigh

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 279 words


It was never going to rally the nation, but yesterday's pro-government
demonstration outside parliament did manage to attract about 300 people, who
carried placards demanding more spending cuts and cheered the burning of a
European Union flag.

The Rally Against Debt was organised in response to the TUC protests in London
in March, in which hundreds of thousands marched against cuts.

Despite being the butt of derision on many social media websites, from where the
idea for the rally originated, the small but determined group insisted that they
were speaking for the silent majority who believe that the cuts are needed.

Organisers compared the rally to the US Tea Party movement, but the turnout was
far lower than had been pledged and it finished earlier than planned. Even one
of the most vocal supporters of the rally, Toby Young, the author, apologised
for missing it - because he had a previous engagement at a pirate exhibition.

Annabelle Fuller, a former adviser to Ukip, said that it was a significant
demonstration "highlighting the importance of tackling the huge public-sector
deficit, and the need for substantial spending cuts".

At one point, people chanted: "What do we want? Cuts! When do we want them?
Now!"

Speakers at the event included Paul Staines, a rightwing political blogger who
uses the pseudonym Guido Fawkes, Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers'
Alliance, and Nigel Farage of Ukip. Sinclair said that cuts to state spending
were essential: "There have been lots of chances for other groups to register
their protest, and we want to give a voice to people who represent quite a heavy
majority who think spending cuts are right and necessary."


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                  May 15, 2011
                                 3 Star Edition

'We want cuts' demo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 74 words


HUNDREDS of protesters staged a demonstration opposite the Houses of Parliament
yesterday in support of Government spending cuts.

The rally, organised by the TaxPayers' Alliance, was supported by the
Conservative party and UKIP - who also want the Government to stop bailing out
other EU countries.

Alliance spokesman Matthew Sinclair said: "Some areas aren't being cut while
spending rises elsewhere, on the EU and international development."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

'WE WANT CUTS' DEMO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


HUNDREDS of protesters staged a demonstration opposite the Houses of Parliament
yesterday in support of Government spending cuts.

The rally, organised by the TaxPayers' Alliance, was supported by the
Conservative party and UKIP - who also want the Government to stop bailing out
other EU countries.

Alliance spokesman Matthew Sinclair said: "Some areas aren't being cut while
spending rises elsewhere, on the EU and international development."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 15, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EUROPE ON THE BRINK;
The deepening crisis in Greece and the collapse of the Schengen borders
agreement are serious threats to the European utopia of political and economic
union. Martin Vander Weyer asks how much longer the dream can last

BYLINE: Martin Vander Weyer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1729 words


The visionaries who dreamed of a peaceful and united Europe after the end of the
Second World War - Robert Schuman, Jean Monnet, Paul-Henri Spaak and their ilk -
must be looking down in puzzlement and dismay.

Schuman, the Luxembourg-born Frenchman who was the so-called Father of Europe,
spoke in 1949 of "a great experiment''. Six decades on, the complex political
and monetary contraption of the European Union is still a work in progress.

The utopian ideal of a European whole that is greater than its parts remains
essential to the rhetoric. This boltingtogether of half a billion people in 27
nation states, many of which had waged war against each other, half of which are
either former components of the communist bloc or former Right-wing
dictatorships, and 17 of which now share a currency, is in many ways a triumph
of cooperation and political tenacity.

Yet the reality is that the great experiment has developed stresses and
pressurepoints that must make even the most ardent Europhile wonder how long it
can hold together. The financial collapse of Greece and the disintegration of
the Schengen Agreement on passport-free borders vividly illuminate that risk.

And it is not a risk which Britons can watch smugly from over the water, telling
ourselves how wise we have been to maintain a truculent attitude to everything
emanating from Brussels, to have kept our island frontiers intact, and to have
shunned the single currency. We would certainly prefer a financially stable
Europe as our closest neighbour - a strong competitor perhaps, but also a
prosperous customer for our exports. We recognise the value of a coherent
European voice in world affairs. We do not want the continent to regress into
internal strife and protectionism.

Charlie Bean, the Bank of England deputy governor, spoke this week of the "messy
consequence" for Britain if the Greek situation is allowed to descend into
chaos. In truth there can be no benefit to us from a European cataclysm, beyond
the opportunity it offers to Ukip to say "I told you so."

But why has the founders' dream mutated into this crisis? At the heart of
Europe's problems is a failure of logic. Monetary union was hailed as the
locomotive of progress towards a European super-power. Yet monetary union itself
can only flourish on the basis of a high degree of political and fiscal
integration. Without those elements its destiny is to be torn apart: one
interest rate and one exchange rate cannot possibly fit all the members of a
group of nations with widely different industrial and financial strengths, tax
regimes and political cultures.

That was made startlingly apparent last week by news that the German economy is
surging ahead at a growth rate of almost 5 per cent per annum, with France close
behind, while Portugal, Italy and Ireland lag in the distance and Greece
(despite an unexpected growth rebound) teeters on the brink of the abyss.

Last year's (EURO)110 billion EU-IMF bail-out for Greece always looked temporary
- it was clearly inadequate. It was apparent then, and is even more so now, that
there is a lack of political will in Athens to drive the fiscal austerity
measures that were a condition of the deal. Greek trade unions are whipping up
violent opposition to a proposed (EURO)50 billion privatisation programme, even
though, as an IMF spokesman sighed this week, "that's probably less than 20 per
cent of the assets that Greece could privatise''.

The Greek public debt position is in fact considerably worse than it was at the
time of last year's bail-out - forecast to reach almost 160 per cent of gross
domestic product in 2012. The country's downgraded debt, shunned by investors,
now offers extraordinarily high yields and there is little hope of Greece being
able to access international bond markets in the foreseeable future. A recent
Bloomberg poll found that 85 per cent of investors believe Greece will
eventually default on its sovereign debt - and a majority think Portugal and
Ireland will go the same way.

Yet a "haircut" for holders of Greek debt - writing off, say, 40 per cent of it,
to bring it back to around 100 per cent of GDP, at a huge cost to the European
Central Bank (ECB) which now holds much of the paper - would not greatly improve
Greece's capability to service the remainder. Even if austerity measures are
fully enacted, which looks unlikely, there will be a borrowing requirement of
some (EURO)27 billion next year which only another emergency EU loan package can
provide.

And that can only happen if German voters and parliamentarians permit it,
because it is Germany that must bear the lion's share of this and every other
eurozone bail-out. Chancellor Angela Merkel declares that: "We can offer
solidarity only if Greece's stability and eagerness to reform is proven." But
she knows it will have to be done anyway if the alternative is to allow the euro
to split asunder, and the European ideal to disintegrate with it.

Logic dictates that the option of ejecting from the euro any member that is
terminally unable to meet its obligations ought to be on the table for urgent
discussion. But there is no exit mechanism available. It is said that
Jean-Claude Trichet, the ECB president, will not allow the possibility to be
mentioned in his presence. The Italian central banker Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa,
the chief architect of the euro in the 1990s, said shortly before his death last
December that he could see "nobody with authority who predicts anything like [a
break-up of the euro]''.

This blindness in Brussels and Frankfurt extends to more creative ideas such as
the splitting of the euro into two: a hard "northern" currency with Germany and
France at its core, and a softer "southern" one which would find its own
devalued level, making heavily indebted peripheral economies suddenly more
competitive.

For now, however, the euro is sacrosanct, whatever the cost in terms of lost
international confidence and respect - but Europe's leaders are too weak to
drive forward the fiscal and political integration that is the only path to
securing the euro's permanency. At a time when the ECB most needs to assert
itself, it is riven with arguments over the likely appointment of an Italian,
Mario Draghi, to follow Trichet as president. That would give Italy two of the
bank's six executive committee seats; and the vice-president is Portuguese,
swinging the balance of power towards southern borrower states, and, in its
critics' eyes, diminishing the ECB's authority.

More importantly, where are today's political titans to compare with Schuman and
Monnet, or indeed with the second-generation line-up of Kohl of Germany,
Mitterand of France and, as president of the Commission, the formidable Jacques
Delors? What does Herman Van Rompuy, the grey Belgian who is the first permanent
president of the European Council, have to say about the debt crisis or the
impact of turmoil in North Africa? What of Baroness Ashton, Gordon Brown's
nominee for the role of the EU's first "high representative" for foreign
affairs? The Van Rompuy-Ashton combination has set a benchmark for nonimpact in
global affairs that would be hard to match. As the pinnacle of the power
structure established by the Treaty of Lisbon to drive through the next stage of
Europe unification, they might as well not exist.

That point underlines another internal contradiction.

The EU cannot have powerful, charismatic leaders in their own name - it chose
not to have Tony Blair, for example - because they would usurp the platform
which national leaders such as Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy reserve for
themselves, in the hope of bolstering their standing with national electorates.
Merkel, at the head of a fractious coalition, buffeted by voters angered at the
prospect of paying for repeated bailouts, has no coherent strategy for the
sovereign debt crisis. Sarkozy is wholly obsessed with his fading prospect of
winning a second presidential term.

In effect, today's Europe has no leaders. But it has strong political forces at
work. In France, Denmark and elsewhere, the harsh economic conditions of the
past three years have generated an upsurge in the anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim
Right-wing fringe. Nationalism, anathema to pan-Europeanism, is on the rise. And
that has brought into question the 1985 Schengen Agreement which removed
frontier procedures between 25 European states - 22 EU members plus Norway,
Iceland and Switzerland.

This absence of passport requirements and customs checks across a vast stretch
of the continent was, along with euro notes and coins, the most visible symbol
of progress towards the European ideal. But 15 of the "Schengen states"
indicated last week that free borders should be suspended to avert a tide of
migration from north Africa. Relatively small numbers of Tunisians and Libyans
arriving in Italy have already provoked France to tighten up its south-eastern
border, and Denmark to reinstate frontier guards.

Realists might say Schengen was always a treaty too far - that while nation
states still exist, border checks have a legitimate function; that just as the
single currency cannot be fully achieved without political union, neither can
the permanent abolition of frontiers. Nevertheless, the arrangement has operated
for 25 years, and the idealists are still holding out. EU home affairs
commissioner Cecilia Malmström called Schengen "a gift to the citizens" of
Europe, while German foreign minister Guido Westerwelle said that "the free
movement of people is too valuable to be sacrificed by domestic considerations".

But the resurgent nationalists are not listening, and neither are the voters who
don't want to pick up bills for other nations' follies. The European ideal looks
more fragile today than at any time since it began to evolve in the 1970s from a
"common market" to an enlarged community of states.

And that is no cause for celebration or schadenfreude. Tarnished and flawed
though it may be, the EU has made a huge contribution to peace and has supported
the democratic aspirations of many millions of people. It urgently needs two
things: a strategy to deal with the debt crisis in which no options are ruled
out, and a new set of leaders.

Martin Vander Weyer is business editor of 'The Spectator'

"There can be no benefit to us from a European cataclysm

"It urgently needs a strategy to deal with the debt crisis, and new leaders

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 15, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

High-speed rail could harm the Coalition;
To the Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 210 words


SIR - Until last Thursday, it had been widely believed that the Government's
destructive and unwanted plans for high-speed rail (HS2) would have no
consequences for Coalition parties at the ballot box. This was based on the view
that since local Conservative and Liberal Democrat councillors opposed the
scheme, voters would not punish them for the pro-HS2 stance of their parties
nationally.

But the district council elections saw just the beginnings of an electoral
revolt in the Chilterns. In Great Missenden, a previously very safe Conservative
seat which had voted 72 per cent Conservative in 2007 fell to a Stop HS2
Independent on a 60 per cent turnout. In nearby Cholesbury, The Lee and
Bellingdon, the anti-HS2 UK Independence Party polled 28 per cent of the vote in
the ward of the Conservative leader of Chiltern district council. His share of
the vote fell by 25 per cent compared with the elections four years ago.

The Great Missenden result shows that if the Government chooses to push ahead
with HS2 this December, the decision will have real electoral consequences for
the Coalition parties in Buckinghamshire and right along the route, beginning in
2013 with the county council elections.

Cllr Seb Berry (Independent) Great Missenden, Buckinghamshire

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 15, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron must create a coalition of voters for victory next time;
Commentary

BYLINE: LORD ASHCROFT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1003 words


David Cameron's first anniversary as Prime Minister saw Westminster preoccupied
with the state of the Coalition: the mood of Liberal Democrat ministers after
their crushing AV and local election defeats, and Tory reaction to their
complaints.

To most people, those things are secondary. What matters to me is not the
coalition between the parties, but how to create the coalition of voters who
will elect a Conservative government with an overall majority.

Against the odds, Conservative support has held up well since last May. But the
Tories need to do more than just keep the voters who put them in office: we will
only be able to implement a Conservative manifesto in full if we get a bigger
share of the vote than we did last time.

Expanding the Conservative vote is a strategic challenge for Mr Cameron. First,
he must hold together his voters from 2010. These included first-time Tories
voting against Gordon Brown's Labour administration, who were still wary of the
Conservatives, as well as loyalists who may since have become frustrated by the
compromises of two-party government.

Just as important, he must attract new voters - many of whom have long believed
the Conservatives are not for people like them - at a time of economic
uncertainty and "Tory cuts".

To provide some signposts through this conundrum I have conducted detailed
research among people who voted Tory in 2010, and people who considered doing so
but ultimately decided against it.

On top of that, a huge poll of more than 10,000 electors has helped define the
issues and opinions that drive different kinds of voters.

Some think the Government is a bit too Tory, and some think it is not Tory
enough: can both be persuaded to vote for David Cameron in four years' time?
Those who voted Tory were mostly happy with how things are going. Nearly nine
out of ten thought the right decisions were being made on the economy and three
quarters supported the cuts.

More said their view of the party had improved since the election than said it
was worse. If they disliked some coalition compromises, they usually thought the
answer was a Conservative majority next time, not to vote for smaller parties
that make trenchant pronouncements without the prospect of office.

The most vulnerable Conservatives are not frustrated long-standing supporters,
but the first-time Tories who were less positive to start with. These were twice
as likely as Tory voters generally to think the cuts are too quick and too deep,
and were as likely to say their view of the party had changed for the worse as
to say it had improved.

For those who considered voting Tory in 2010 but thought better of it, the
biggest barrier (which Tories are sick of hearing about but which is real
nonetheless) was the continuing impression that the party is for the rich, not
people like them. Their minds are not closed, though: a quarter said the
Government was doing better than they had expected, most thought the right
decisions were being made on the economy and they rated the Conservatives ahead
on measures such as being willing to take tough decisions for the long term -
though behind on things like standing for fairness.

Unlike Conservative voters, though, most said they would prefer the present
Coalition to a Tory government with an overall majority - a potential obstacle
to them voting Conservative if an outright Tory victory looks like a real
prospect.

The biggest policy success was welfare reform: I found people understood and
supported the plans, and knew they were being delivered.

On immigration, though most supported Tory policies put forward at the election,
they were far from certain what had actually been done. On the NHS, a litmus
test for voters suspicious of Tory motives, people were very sceptical of the
proposed reforms, and had no idea how they were supposed to benefit patients.

Crime risks being a missed opportunity: having expected this Government to be
tougher, they had heard only of police cuts and plans to send fewer criminals to
prison. There was sturdy support for cutting the deficit, but the Government
seems to many voters to see everything - economic growth, welfare reform,
immigration control - as a means to this end.

This is a danger: what is the bigger mission for which the Conservatives need to
be re-elected? Voters want to support a party that has a vision they can
identify with. The Big Society shows no sign of serving this purpose: most still
find the concept too nebulous to get to grips with.

Steady poll ratings obscure the fact that the Conservatives have lost close to
one in eight of their 2010 voters - usually over the economy and the NHS, or
because they don't rate David Cameron.

They have been replaced by a chunk of the electorate that did not vote Tory, but
have been persuaded on exactly these things - the economy, and David Cameron's
leadership. Welfare reform and a view that the Tories share their values are
also important among 2010 non-Tories who would now vote for the party.

The things that will build and maintain the Conservative voting coalition, then,
are fundamentally mainstream concerns: the economy, David Cameron, welfare,
crime, the NHS, and a demonstration that the Conservatives share voters' values.

Attracting new voters need not alienate existing supporters. If we get it right
on the big themes and have a clear purpose, we will keep existing voters and
attract new ones; if we get it wrong, they will scatter to the four winds:
Labour, Ukip - even the Lib Dems. A majority in 2015 is going to be tough to
achieve. Margaret Thatcher proved it is possible to win in tough times. But to
do that - as I always tell politicians - you have to remember: it's not about
you, it's about the voters.

Lord Ashcroft KCMG is a former deputy chairman of the Conservative Party. His
report, Project Blueprint: Winning a Conservative Majority in 2015, is available
to read in full online at lordashcroft.com

"People want a vision they can identify with. The Big Society shows no sign of
serving this purpose

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Haiku Herman sees stars where we see a black hole;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 135 words


How have you been celebrating Europe Week? I marked the occasion by inviting a
few German friends to a Greek restaurant, where we watched the staff enjoying a
wild party. The owner then presented us with a huge bill, which we are refusing
to pay.

The EU president, Herman van Rompuy, wrote a celebration haiku. Of course he
did. Here it is: "A corona of stars/Rolling over the deep blue sea/Together
forever."

A more accurate account might be: "A stonking pile of debt/In it up to our
necks/Together forever." You'll notice I've been a little extravagant with the
syllables, but that's the Brussels way.

? I see that UKIP has taken its first step towards government. The party has
taken control of the council in Ramsey, Cambridgeshire.

Does this mean that the market town will now be pulling out of the European
Union?

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A LORDS TAKEOVER BY EURO TICS CAN BE STOPPED ONLY BY ELECTIONS

BYLINE: PATRICK O FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 394 words


NICK CLEGG'S ambition of turning the House of Lords into an entirely or mainly
elected chamber is not something that most Daily Express readers would normally
concern themselves with. To be honest it sounds like just another chattering
class obsession.

But I have come round to the view that the Lords must be made democratically
accountable to the people. The reason is that the current way of selecting peers
- appointing establishment time-servers - has turned it into a hotbed of
European federalists. The Lords is now full of people I have always regarded as
ghastly pro-EU creatures, party turncoats such as Lord Davies of Stamford and
Lord Dykes, third-raters such as Lib Dem Lord Wallace and returnees from the
Eurogravy train such as Labour's Lord Tomlinson. Much of the time they spout
rubbish about paying homage to Brussels. They were at it again on Monday turning
their guns on this newspaper's crusade to get Britain out of the EU. Lord
Wallace complained about the opposition of The Daily Express to the flying of
the EU flag from British public buildings.

Wallace claimed that the coalition intends to "spell out the advantages to
Britain of being in the European Union in order to get back at some of the
nonsense put out by the Daily Express". But I am aware of no Government plan to
advertise the alleged advantages of membership. Indeed my impression is that
several serving ministers would be unable to name any.

Against this array of Europhiles fearlessly stand a few men of principle such as
Tory peer Lord Stevens, a former chairman of Express Newspapers, and former UKIP
leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch. On Monday Pearson reminded the pro-Brussels
coven: "Millions of people in this country actually welcome the campaign to
leave the EU which the Daily Express has started." He later challenged Dykes to
admit "that the absence of the European flag on most of our public buildings
reflects the wishes of the British people".

Dykes claimed absurdly that if the British people were consulted about flying
the EU flag "they would probably be very much in favour of it". Here is a man
who needs to be made to put such an idea in a manifesto and see what reaction it
gets from voters. So, yes, let us support Mr Clegg's plan to make peers stand
for election and force the most egregious Europhiles to test their arguments in
the court of public opinion.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A LORDS TAKEOVER BY EURO FANATICS CAN BE STOPPED ONLY BY ELECTIONS

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 394  words


NICK CLEGG'S ambition of turning the House of Lords into an entirely or mainly
elected chamber is not something that most Daily Express readers would normally
concern themselves with. To be honest it sounds like just another chattering
class obsession.

But I have come round to the view that the Lords must be made democratically
accountable to the people. The reason is that the current way of selecting peers
- appointing establishment time-servers - has turned it into a hotbed of
European federalists. The Lords is now full of people I have always regarded as
ghastly pro-EU creatures, party turncoats such as Lord Davies of Stamford and
Lord Dykes, third-raters such as Lib Dem Lord Wallace and returnees from the
Eurogravy train such as Labour's Lord Tomlinson.

Much of the time they spout rubbish about paying homage to Brussels. They were
at it again on Monday turning their guns on this newspaper's crusade to get
Britain out of the EU. Lord Wallace complained about the opposition of The Daily
Express to the flying of the EU flag from British public buildings.

Wallace claimed that the coalition intends to "spell out the advantages to
Britain of being in the European Union in order to get back at some of the
nonsense put out by the Daily Express". But I am aware of no Government plan to
advertise the alleged advantages of membership. Indeed my impression is that
several serving ministers would be unable to name any.

Against this array of Europhiles fearlessly stand a few men of principle such as
Tory peer Lord Stevens, a former chairman of Express Newspapers, and former UKIP
leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch. On Monday Pearson reminded the pro-Brussels
coven: "Millions of people in this country actually welcome the campaign to
leave the EU which the Daily Express has started." He later challenged Dykes to
admit "that the absence of the European flag on most of our public buildings
reflects the wishes of the British people".

Dykes claimed absurdly that if the British people were consulted about flying
the EU flag "they would probably be very much in favour of it". Here is a man
who needs to be made to put such an idea in a manifesto and see what reaction it
gets from voters. So, yes, let us support Mr Clegg's plan to make peers stand
for election and force the most egregious Europhiles to test their arguments in
the court of public opinion.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday

Pro-cuts activists hold Tea Party-style rally

BYLINE: Robert Booth and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 541 words


Hundreds of pro-cuts activists are expected to descend on Westminster today to
"rally against debt", in the first sign of a radical Tea Party-style mass
movement to challenge the anti-cuts lobby.

The protest will be attended by an alliance of rightwing and libertarian
activists including members of the TaxPayers' Alliance (TPA), the UK
Independence party and the Freedom Association, a libertarian pressure group set
up by Norris McWhirter, better known for co-founding the Guinness Book of
Records.

More than 1,000 people indicated online that they planned to attend and many
said they believed the government was not cutting public spending deeply enough.
The Conservative MPs Priti Patel and Bill Cash, and the Ukip leader, Nigel
Farage, are due to make speeches, and Toby Young, the broadcaster and free
school pioneer, said he would attend.

The action comes as rightwing groups grow increasingly interested in learning
from the US Tea Party movement, which has mobilised hundreds of thousands of
activists to march against Barack Obama's policies. Electoral Commission records
show that in March Ukip activists registered the name Tea Party as a political
party. It is not yet active but they said they could field candidates in general
elections, byelection or local elections.

"We have seen the Tea Party in the States and although I am not sure if it would
take off here . . . we have set it up so we feel we can use it any time we want
to get it off the ground," said Michael McGough, national executive committee
member of Ukip, who will attend the rally. "If we have to bail out Greece then
there may be potential in the longer term, so we have got it in reserve for when
we need it."

Last year it emerged that the TPA was being advised by Freedom Works, a

powerful Washington organisation credited with helping to destabilise the Obama
administration through its mobilisation of 800,000 grassroots activists under
the Tea Party banner.

"We are into freedom, small government, independence of the individual and low
tax and low spending," said Annabelle Fuller, a former assistant to Farage, who
initiated the rally after being "completely appalled" by the TUC's March for the
Alternative, which attracted 500,000 people to London in March.

"I was incredibly frustrated that the debate was about whether you could cope
with the cuts or not because actually there are people happy with this policy
and we want more."

Organisers have been urging activists to carry placards saying "Stop spending my
money", "Reckless waste bankrupting Britain" and "Wake up to Britain's debt".

The pro-cuts activists will include Mark Littlewood, the former Lib Dem
spokesman and now director of the Institute for Economic Affairs free-market
thinktank, and Ruth Lea, the high-profile economist.

Littlewood said: "There seems to be a belief that the only reason we are in
these problems is the behaviour of a few bankers in 2008, but it is down to
collective greed of the voting population of this country. We need considerably
more cuts."

Anti-cuts activists are understood to be considering mounting informal
counter-demonstrations.

Captions:

Conservative MP for Witham, Priti Patel, is one of the people expected to speak
at the 'rally against debt' in London today

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 14, 2011 Saturday

'Rally against debt' activists call for more cuts in Westminster protest

BYLINE: Tracy McVeighguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 581 words

ABSTRACT

Pro-cuts groups, including Ukip and the TaxPayers' Alliance, look to US Tea
Party movement for inspiration as anger grows over EU bailouts

FULL TEXT

It was never going to rally the nation, but the pro-cuts demonstration outside
parliament did manage to attract about 350 people, who carried placards
demanding more spending cuts and cheered the burning of an EU flag.

The Rally Against Debt was organised in response to the TUC protests in London
in March, in which hundreds of thousands marched against the government's
austerity measures.

Despite being the butt of derision on many social media websites, from where the
idea for the rally originated, the small but determined group insisted they were
speaking for the silent majority who believe that the cuts are needed.

Organisers compared the rally to the US Tea Party movement, but the turnout was
far lower than had been pledged -  - and it finished earlier than planned.

Even one of the most vocal supporters of the rally, the author Toby Young,
apologised for missing it because he had a previous engagement at a pirate
exhibition.

Annabelle Fuller, a former adviser to Ukip, said that it was a significant
demonstration "highlighting the importance of tackling the huge public sector
deficit, and the need for substantial spending cuts".

At one point, people chanted: "What do we want? Cuts! When do we want them?
Now!"

Speakers at the event included Paul Staines, a rightwing political blogger who
uses the pseudonym Guido Fawkes, Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers'
Alliance, and Nigel Farage of Ukip.

Sinclair said that cuts to state spending were essential: "There have been lots
of chances for other groups to register their protest, and we want to give a
voice to people who represent quite a heavy majority who think spending cuts are
right and necessary.

"But some areas aren't being cut at all while spending is rising elsewhere, with
contributions to the EU and international development spending."

The organisation's debt clock, mounted on a lorry, was driven past the protest
several times.

Priti Patel, Conservative MP for Witham, said: "This government is all about
deficit reduction. I don't think enough people realise the extent of the debt
facing this country. It is totally unsustainable.

"This is a wake-up call that debt is here to stay unless we deal with it in a
serious way."

Mark Littlewood, director general of the Institute of Economic Affairs, told the
rally: "We won't put up with this. We are the selfless movement. We're not
asking for money, we're asking for cuts to make sure our children and
grandchildren don't have to foot the bill."

One protester, James Dighton, a 24-year-old accountant from Leeds, said: "It's
very important to get the message out there that not everyone in the country
thinks the cuts are unnecessary - quite the opposite, in fact."

A handful of protesters opposed to cuts were also present, with one waving a
sign mocking the rally that read: "Libraries suck."

The action comes amid growing interest among rightwing groups in learning from
the US Tea Party movement, which has mobilised hundreds of thousands of
activists to march against Barack Obama's policies. Electoral commission records
show that in March, Ukip activists registered the name Tea Party as a political
party. It is not yet active, but they said they could field candidates in
general elections, byelections and local elections.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Outrage as Question Time is filmed from Wormwood Scrubs

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words


THE BBC faced a furious backlash last night over its decision to broadcast
Question Time from inside a prison.

Convicted criminals will get the chance to grill Justice Secretary Kenneth
Clarke, former Home Secretary Jack Straw and other panellists during next week's
show from Wormwood Scrubs.

The decision could see burglars, robbers and drug dealers asking questions
alongside law-abiding members of the public during the show, hosted by David
Dimbleby.

The BBC yesterday defended using the west London jail - a category B prison
accepting inmates aged over 21 who do not require maximum security.

The corporation confirmed that 10 prisoners, none serving violent crimes, and 10
staff members would join the 100-strong audience.

None of the inmates has yet been chosen. Filming of the popular political show
inside a prison follows a controversial decision by the European Court of Human
Rights last month to give the UK six months to comply with its ruling to extend
the right to vote to convicted prisoners.

But it has sparked anger from politicians and members of the public who feel
that those who break the law have given up the right to take part in a political
debate.

Tory backbencher Priti Patel, said: "It is outrageous and I am appalled.

"Criminals who are sent to prison should be banged up, not given the privilege
of sitting in a cosy television audience."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, said: "This is classic BBC clever-dickery - they are
trying to skew the European Court of Human Rights argument in favour of
prisoners.

"Prisoners' points of view are interesting but not relevant."

The BBC faced outrage two years ago when BNP leader Nick Griffin was on the
show.

His appearance sparked ugly protests outside BBC Television Centre as
anti-fascist groups grappled with 300 police at the gates. A BBC spokesman said
yesterday: "The involvement in the debate of prisoners and prison staff will
offer Question Time viewers a unique insight into their views on the issue of
the right to vote as well as more general questions."

The show will be recorded at around 8.30pm next Thursday and then broadcast at
10.35pm. Andrew Neilson, assistant director at the Howard League for Penal
Reform, said: "In the past it has been incredibly difficult to film in these
institutions and the prison service has not been an open host.

"We welcome this move as it is a chance to extend the public debate to all UK
citizens which include prisoners."

He added: "It is obviously timely because of the prison votes issues."

David Cameron was asked about the issue of prisoner votes at Prime Minister's
questions on Wednesday. He said: "The House of Commons has given a very clear
view that prisoners shouldn't have the vote. My own view is that prisoners
shouldn't have the vote." About 30,000 members of the public apply to join the
audience of Question Time each year. Some feel they have been cheated by the
decision.

Viewer Gary Harries, 34, of Leicester, said: "Why should prisoners get the
chance to appear on the show when ordinary members of the public apply and get
turned down.

"It's a disgrace. It may well be a lively debate but I for one won't be
watching."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Dimbleby will host next week's show from Wormwood Scrubs, above.
Inmates in the audience will be able to quiz politicians

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 13, 2011 Friday

Pro-cuts activists to rally against debt

BYLINE: Robert Boothguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 669 words

ABSTRACT

Hundreds of rightwing and libertarian activists expected to gather in London to
press for deeper cuts to public spending

FULL TEXT

Hundreds of pro-cuts activists are expected to descend on Westminster on
Saturday to "rally against debt", in the first sign of a radical Tea Party-style
mass movement to challenge the anti-cuts lobby.

The protest will be attended by an alliance of rightwing and libertarian
activists including members of the TaxPayers' Alliance (TPA), the anti-Europe UK
Independence party and the Freedom Association, a libertarian pressure group set
up by Norris McWhirter, better known for co-founding the Guinness Book of
Records.

More than 1,000 people have indicated online that they plan to attend and many
said they believed the government was not cutting public spending deeply enough.
The Conservative MPs Priti Patel and Bill Cash and the Ukip leader, Nigel
Farage, are due to make speeches, and Toby Young, the broadcaster and free
school pioneer, said he would attend.

The action comes amid a growing interest among rightwing groups in learning from
the US Tea Party movement, which has mobilised hundreds of thousands of
activists to march against Barack Obama's policies. Electoral Commission records
show that in March Ukip activists registered the name Tea Party as a political
party. It is not yet active but they said they could field candidates in general
elections, byelection or local elections.

"We have seen the Tea Party in the States and although I am not sure if it would
take off here ... we have set it up so we feel we can use it any time we want to
get it off the ground," said Michael McGough, national executive committee
member of Ukip, who will attend the rally. "If we have to bail out Greece then
there may be potential in the longer term, so we have got it in reserve for when
we need it."

Last year it emerged that the TPA was being advised by Freedom Works, a powerful
Washington organisation credited with helping to destabilise the Obama
administration through its mobilisation of 800,000 grassroots activists under
the Tea Party banner.

"We are into freedom, small government, independence of the individual and low
tax and low spending," said Annabelle Fuller, a former assistant to Farage, who
initiated the rally after being "completely appalled" by the TUC's , which
attracted 500,000 people to London in March. "I was incredibly frustrated that
the debate was about whether you could cope with the cuts or not because
actually there are people happy with this policy and we want more."

Organisers have been urging activists to carry placards saying: "Stop spending
my money", "Reckless waste bankrupting Britain" and "Wake up to Britain's debt".

The TPA, which calls for low tax and spending and has donors in common with the
Conservative party, will bring its lorry-mounted debt clock, which constantly
updates the national debt. It has urged its 55,000 supporters to turn out,
citing three reasons: the "immorality" of living beyond our means and passing on
debt to the next generation; taxes should pay for services, not debt interest;
and UK taxpayers should not have to pay for bailouts of failing eurozone
countries.

The pro-cuts activists will include Mark Littlewood, the former Lib Dem
spokesman and now director of the Institute for Economic Affairs free-market
thinktank, and Ruth Lea, the high-profile economist.

Littlewood said: "There seems to be a belief that the only reason we are in
these problems is the behaviour of a few bankers in 2008, but it is down to
collective greed of the voting population of this country. We need considerably
more cuts. Public spending is out of control. This isn't a government-sponsored
rally by any means. Even if their cuts were carried through in full they will
not solve this huge dead weight of debt."

He said it was morally wrong to expect future generations to pay off the debt.
Anti-cuts activists are understood to be considering mounting informal
counter-demonstrations.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 13, 2011 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

The Diary: The Godfather; HowTheLightGetsIn; dreamthinkspeak; Venice Biennale;
Samantha Womack

BYLINE: By Alice Jones

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 725 words


More respect is due


The Corleone family just keeps growing. The latest addition to the clan is a
prequel novel, to be published by William Heinemann in July 2012. The Family
Corleone will be set in Depression-era New York and will follow the young   Vito
Corleone's rise to power. Since The Godfather author Mario Puzo died in   1999,
his estate has approved two literary sequels, both by Mark   Winegardner. This
time, Ed Falco, Professor of English at Virginia Tech, has   been hired to write
the hit, based on Puzo's unproduced screenplay for The   Godfather IV.

"The novel is largely set as Prohibition is coming to an   end. I explore some
issues that haven't been explored. Neither of the movies   really explain much
about Luca Brasi, about why he's so loyal to Vito and so   feared by others,"
says Falco on his university website. "There's   one big surprise, but I can't
tell." There's also a beefed-up role for   Carmela "Mama" Corleone. Perhaps
Falco is taking after the Mob and   looking out for family. His niece is Edie
Falco, who won three Emmys as   small-screen moll Carmela Soprano. She would be
perfect casting should   Francis Ford Coppola decide to film the prequel. But
who would take on the   mantle of Marlon Brando as the young Don? Might we soon
see Leonardo   DiCaprio and Johnny Depp duelling over the rights?

Festival trouble

The debates haven't even started but HowTheLightGetsIn is already riling the
crowds. Ukip and the English Defence League are threatening to march on the
philosophy festival, which kicks off in Hay on 26 May, to protest against
appearance in two debates of Anjem Choudary. The controversial Islamist and
advocate of Sharia Law is slated to appear in "When Women Rule the World"   and
a debate about terror as a tool of war. Local Ukip candidate, Christine
Williams, has called for his invitation to be withdrawn. "This man, who
praises terrorists and calls for the murder of British servicemen, should   not
be given a spotlight. His views are vile and he is a disgrace." In   response
the Festival Director Hilary Lawson said, "We do not endorse   the views of any
of our speakers. We have not given Anjem Choudary a   platform to present his
views unchallenged... And we encourage those who   regard his views as beyond
the pale to come and express their opinion and   make their case." With or
without placards.

Still thinking big

Their mesmerising Before I Sleep, a site-specific Cherry Orchard set over four
floors of a disused department store was the highlight of last year's   Brighton
Festival. Now dreamthinkspeak are preparing for a London show. In   the
Beginning Was the End will open at Somerset House in November and is   inspired
by the apocalypse and Leonardo da Vinci's A Cloudburst of Material
Possessions, "a drawing that depicts a bank of clouds out of which a   multitude
of material objects are falling". Their last residency in the   building was
Don't Look Back, a spooky promenade around its forgotten   stairwells and
corridors, in 2004. Meanwhile, if you missed it in Brighton,   Before I Sleep is
moving into an unoccupied office block in Amsterdam next   month for the Holland
Festival.

Sinking feeling

A month ago, I wrote about the Benetton family's plans to show graffiti
artists in the Fondaco dei Tedeschi during the Venice Biennale. Now the
project has been postponed, while Rem Koolhaas' renovation of the   16th-century
building into a culture/ shopping centre is completed. "This   is a very large
historic building and has been unoccupied for many years,"   said a Benetton
spokesman. "Due to its condition, we were unable to   finish the modifications
necessary to ensure the safety of the crowds."   Perhaps they discovered that
it's sinking.

EastEnders star returns to acting

Samantha Womack is gearing up to play the female lead in South Pacific at
London's Barbican this summer, her first major role since leaving   EastEnders.
The actress resigned from the soap in January over a harrowing   storyline,
which saw her character lose her baby to cot death, stating that   she "couldn't
stop crying" during filming and "felt ill"   playing the part. It's to be hoped
she's developed a stronger stomach since   then. As Nellie Forbush, she'll have
tackle heartbreak, war, death and   racism - singing and dancing the whole way
through.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fury at courses for thugs

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words


A NEW 'punishment' for anti-social yobs involving sending them to classes to
discuss their crimes and watch DVDs was greeted with outrage yesterday.

Shoplifters and thugs who commit "minor offences" will be allowed to attend the
two-and-a-half hour courses instead of fines or community punishments.

During the course, they will watch educational DVDs, talk about their crimes and
think about the impact they have on victims.

But to spare their blushes, those on the Anti-Social Behaviour Diversion Scheme
will have electronic handsets to answer some questions, so they do not have to
give their responses out loud.

The scheme was launched by Devon and Cornwall police this week and is the first
in the country. The force defended the courses saying they "empowered" offenders
to "change their attitude and behaviour".

Worry But yesterday Gerard Batten, justice spokesman for Ukip said: "The
criminal justice system is failing when it comes to young offenders and there is
a need to turn them away from crime, but I don't believe this is the way.
Humiliating them by sticking them in the stocks for an afternoon in the market
square would probably have more effect."

Gary Streeter, Tory MP for South West Devon, said: "If it forces people to face
up to the consequences of what they do then rehabilitation can only be a good
thing, but there does also need to be a punishment."

Peter Berrow, a Tory councillor in Plymouth, said: "I just hope this scheme
won't destroy the ethos of what is right and wrong. I worry this could be seen
as too much of a gimmick."

Details of the alternative punishment comes as a row rages about Justice
Minister Ken Clarke's plans to cut the prison population with softer sentencing.

Statistics published this week showed offenders given longer sentences went on
to commit fewer crimes after being freed than those serving shorter jail terms.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury as our cutbacks are squandered on bailing out Greece in secret deal

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 645  words


ANGER is growing over a secretive deal to stitch together another bail-out for
Greece which could cost Britain more than half the GBP 22billion saved this year
in spending cuts.

EU finance chief Jean-Claude Juncker was accused of covering up talks which
could mean British taxpayers will have to pay out yet more cash to prop up the
failing euro.

Held in Luxembourg last week, the talks could mean tens of billions in extra
financial help for Greece on top of a GBP 95billion bail-out last year.

Critics are furious the ongoing euro-zone debt crisis could eat up funds saved
to cut our own record budget deficit.

Tory MP Peter Bone said: "Britain should have absolutely nothing to do with any
further bail-out of Greece. There is no way we should go through all the cuts
and hardship of the Government's austerity measures to bail out the euro.

"It is ludicrous that lollipop ladies are being cut in my constituency in
Wellingborough because the Greek government won't make the cuts to get its
finances in order."

Mr Juncker, the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, chaired an emergency meeting of EU
finance ministers on Friday. It was held following rumours that Greece was on
the brink of quitting the euro and reviving its own currency, the drachma.

However, fury erupted after Mr Juncker's officials at first denied the deal. His
spokesman, Guy Schuller, was quoted as saying: "I totally deny that there is a
meeting, these reports are totally wrong."

Later, however, officials confirmed that the meeting had taken place, fuelling
suspicions that EU chiefs are stitching up a multi-billion deal behind
taxpayers' backs.

Austrian newspaper Der Standard yesterday savaged Mr Juncker as a "master of
lies". It described the move as "a fatal error that multiplies the scepticism of
the citizens".

German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung said: "Seldom have we seen politicians
acting as irresponsibly as they did on Friday evening.

"Within hours the governments of the euro countries managed to fritter away the
last remaining trust the people of Europe still have in the bail-out action."

Greece's GBP 300billion sovereign debt crisis triggered a crisis in the
euro-zone last year, leading to the bail-out package from the International
Monetary Fund and other EU nations. But the Greek government now fears that loan
is not enough.

Sources say it is asking for an extra GBP 50billion to keep its administration
functioning into 2013.

It is not clear whether Britain will have to contribute, but Chancellor George
Osborne has refused to rule out handing over cash, thanks to a deal agreed by
Labour.

Mr Osborne yesterday confirmed that a team of financial experts were visiting
Greece to make assessments of the country's economy. He told MPs that the IMF,
European Commission and European Central Bank were checking to see if Athens had
implemented austerity measures agreed under the bail-out.

Riots have flared and protests have been staged in Athens and Lisbon against the
austerity measures imposed as part of the bail-out deals on both Greece and
Portugal.

Mr Osborne told MPs: "We have not been asked to make a contribution. The issue
for Greece is whether it lives up to the commitments it has entered into."

Any British contribution would come on top of GBP 7billion given to Ireland and
GBP 4.3billion expected to be handed out to Portugal.

Treasury officials say the money is being given in the form of loans rather than
handouts, and that British taxpayers will only be liable if any of the countries
default on their debts.

As the row intensified, further controversy erupted after the European
Parliament signed off accounts for GBP 450billion from 27 EU quangos - despite
an investigation by the European Court of Auditors.

Ukip MEP Mart Andreasen, a former EU auditor, said: "It is nothing short of
madness while the EU's auditing arm is investigating possible fraud and
mismanagement."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fire bombs set police alight during protests in Athens against
austerity measures, while crowds marched in Lisbon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      May 11, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Campaign to ban wild circus animals wins huge public support

BYLINE: By Martin Hickman, Consumer Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NATURE

LENGTH: 577 words


An overwhelming majority of the public backs a ban on wild animals performing in
circuses. A total of 71 per cent favour a ban, with 21 per cent opposed and 7
per cent saying they don't know, according to an opinion poll commissioned by
The Independent.

The Government is expected to announce within days that it has rejected a ban
in favour of a system of voluntary self-regulation by circuses.

Ministers in the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs are
sympathetic to ending the days of wild animals in the big top but Downing
Street has blocked a ban because of concerns about increasing "red tape",
according to animal welfare organisations.

Around 20 wild animals including tigers, zebras and pythons perform in three
British circuses. The Great British Circus is breeding lions for future
performances.

More than 1,000 members of the public were surveyed about the issue by
pollsters ComRes on 3 May. They were asked: "Would you support or   oppose a ban
on the use of wild animals such as lions and tigers from   circuses?"

A ban was backed by supporters of all three main political parties -
Conservatives by 70 per cent, Labour by 76 per cent and Liberal Democrats by
83 per cent.

Support was lower among followers of the SNP (64 per cent), Ukip (43 per cent)
and BNP (41 per cent). But even in those parties - and in every one of the   30
political, geographic and demographic groups surveyed - there was no   majority
support for the status quo.

Women were more in favour of a ban than men (76 per cent versus 66 per cent),
and younger people more in favour than old.

Support for a ban was slightly stronger among people in lower social classes D
and E (75 per cent) than among A and B professionals (70 per cent).

The findings are consistent with the results of previous opinion polls. A MORI
poll in 1999 found 72 per cent support for a ban, rising to 80 per cent in
2005. A year later Ipsos-MORI found 63 per cent and ICM 64 per cent of   people
in favour of a ban.

More than 10,000 people have signed The Independent's online petition   calling
for the Government to announce a ban, while hundreds of Twitterers   have urged
their followers to sign.

The three circuses - the Great British Circus, Circus Mondao and Peter Jolly's
- say their wild animals are well cared for, are not forced to perform   tricks
and have large enough enclosures.

Animal welfare experts at the RSPCA and the British Veterinary Association,
among others, say wild animals should not perform tricks in the big top
because of the constant travel, loud crowds, and smaller enclosures than   those
in zoos.

The RSPCA, BVA, Captive Animals Protection Society and the Born Free
Foundation are backing The Independent's campaign.

Animal Defenders International, the organisation which shot the undercover
footage of a groom beating Anne the elephant at Bobby Roberts Super Circus,
yesterday gave its support.

ADI has been campaigning to end the use of wild animals in circuses for a
decade. Helder Constantino, its head of parliamentary affairs, said: "It's
time for the Government to end this anachronism once and for all, and ADI
wholeheartedly support The Independent's campaign to ban the use of   animals in
circuses."

The petition has been so succesful that we have decided to double the   petition
target to 20,000 signatories. Please help by sharing this article   and links to
the petition at independent.co.uk/circusanimals

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Campaign to ban wild circus animals wins huge public support

BYLINE: Martin Hickman Consumer Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 541 words


AN OVERWHELMING majority of the public backs a ban on wild animals performing in
circuses. A total of 71 per cent favour a ban, with 21 per cent opposed and 7
per cent saying they don't know, according to an opinion poll commissioned by
The Independent.

The Government is expected to announce within days that it has rejected a ban in
favour of a system of voluntary self-regulation by circuses.

Ministers in the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs are
sympathetic to ending the days of wild animals in the big top but Downing Street
has blocked a ban because of concerns about increasing "red tape", according to
animal welfare organisations.

Around 20 wild animals including tigers, zebras and pythons perform in three
British circuses. The Great British Circus is breeding lions for future
performances.

More than 1,000 members of the public were surveyed about the issue by pollsters
ComRes on 3 May. They were asked: "Would you support or oppose a ban on the use
of wild animals such as lions and tigers from circuses?"

A ban was backed by supporters of all three main political parties -
Conservatives by 70 per cent, Labour by 76 per cent and Liberal Democrats by 83
per cent.

Support was lower among followers of the SNP (64 per cent), Ukip (43 per cent)
and BNP (41 per cent). But even in those parties - and in every one of the 30
political, geographic and demographic groups surveyed - there was no majority
support for the status quo.

Women were more in favour of a ban than men (76 per cent versus 66 per cent),
and younger people more in favour than old.

Support for a ban was slightly stronger among people in lower social classes D
and E (75 per cent) than among A and B professionals (70 per cent).

The findings are consistent with the results of previous opinion polls. A MORI
poll in 1999 found 72 per cent support for a ban, rising to 80 per cent in 2005.
A year later Ipsos-MORI found 63 per cent and ICM 64 per cent of people in
favour of a ban.

More than 10,000 people have signed The Independent's online petition calling
for the Government to announce a ban, while hundreds of Twitterers have urged
their followers to sign.

The three circuses - the Great British Circus, Circus Mondao and Peter Jolly's -
say their wild animals are well cared for, are not forced to perform tricks and
have large enough enclosures.

Animal welfare experts at the RSPCA and the British Veterinary Association,
among others, say wild animals should not perform tricks in the big top because
of the constant travel, loud crowds, and smaller enclosures than those in zoos.

The RSPCA, BVA, Captive Animals Protection Society and the Born Free Foundation
are backing The Independent's campaign.

Animal Defenders International, the organisation which shot the undercover
footage of a groom beating Anne the elephant at Bobby Roberts Super Circus,
yesterday gave its support.

ADI has been campaigning to end the use of wild animals in circuses for a
decade. Helder Constantino, its head of parliamentary affairs, said: "It's time
for the Government to end this anachronism once and for all, and ADI
wholeheartedly support The Independent's campaign to ban the use of animals in
circuses."

To sign the petition, visit independent.co.uk/circusanimals

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now EU wastes £225m of your money on 'spin'

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 458 words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats were slammed yesterday after it emerged they plan to spend
more than £225million of taxpayers' money next year on pro-EU propaganda and
spin.

The shameless plans were discovered in the small print of proposals for an
inflation-busting 4.9 per cent rise in the EU's total budget for 2012.

The details emerged on Europe Day - an annual commemoration of the first step
taken in 1950 to create the union. It drew demonstrators on to the streets of
Britain to shred the EU flag in a major snub to Brussels' demands for it to be
flown across the entire bloc.

Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe thinktank, said: "Taxpayers shouldn't
be paying for PR exercises that vainly try to make them love the EU. The EU
needs reform, not more spin."

Nearly half the proposed budget, £115million, would be spent on administration
and more than 1,000 staff in the EU's communication division.

A further £84million would go on "informing about policy", while some £25million
is earmarked for events and publicity to promote Europe.

Within the proposed package, £31million would be spent over the next four years
on "information events" aimed at journalists to help "connect" the Commission
with the people by ensuring they can provide "reliable and timely" coverage of
the EU.

Ukip leader and Euro MP Nigel Farage said he feared a "sinister" attempt to
"indoctrinate" journalists, adding: "Do they think journalists, or the public,
are stupid? No amount of money or PR can make people like the EU or stop the
press reporting the political reality of Brussels."

A Commission spokesman said the communications budget added up to less than 0.2
per cent of the overall EU draft budget.

Yesterday two Government departments flew the EU flag. Lib Dem Business
Secretary Vince Cable hoisted it over his offices in Westminster and it was also
raised above the Department for Communities and Local Government. Downing
Street, however, refused to fly the flag.

Ukip member Ken White organised a protest against Europe Day in Maidenhead,
Berks, where a pair of garden shears were used to shred the EU flag.

He said: "Why should the EU demand we fly their flag. The whole thing is so
undemocratic.

We must fight this."

A protest also overshadowed yesterday's celebrations at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg. In a major embarrassment for the EU, politicians from the UK, the
Netherlands, France and Denmark held up their national flags.

Mr Farage, who led the protest, said: "We have never voted for this EU flag or
anthem, nor has anybody else in Europe voted for it. It has no legitimacy
whatsoever."

Europe Day commemorates the anniversary of French Foreign Minister Robert
Schuman's call for a coal and steel community - the forerunner of the EU.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The blue-and-gold banner of the EU flutters in front of Big Ben
yesterday
The EU flag is shredded during a protest in Maidenhead yesterday organised by
Ukip's Ken White, left
Picture: MIKE PARTRIDGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now EU wastes GBP 225m of your money on 'spin'

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 496  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats were slammed yesterday after it emerged they plan to spend
more than GBP 225million of taxpayers' money next year on pro-EU propaganda and
spin.

The shameless plans were discovered in the small print of proposals for an
inflation-busting 4.9 per cent rise in the EU's total budget for 2012.

The details emerged on Europe Day - an annual commemoration of the first step
taken in 1950 to create the union. It drew demonstrators on to the streets of
Britain to shred the EU flag in a major snub to Brussels' demands for it to be
flown across the entire bloc.

Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe thinktank, said: "Taxpayers shouldn't
be paying for PR exercises that vainly try to make them love the EU. The EU
needs reform, not more spin."

Nearly half the proposed budget, GBP 115million, would be spent on
administration and more than 1,000 staff in the EU's communication division.

A further GBP 84million would go on "informing about policy", while some GBP
25million is earmarked for events and publicity to promote Europe.

Within the proposed package, GBP 31million would be spent over the next four
years on "information events" aimed at journalists to help "connect" the
Commission with the people by ensuring they can provide "reliable and timely"
coverage of the EU.

Ukip leader and Euro MP Nigel Farage said he feared a "sinister" attempt to
"indoctrinate" journalists, adding:

"Do they think journalists, or the public, are stupid? No amount of money or PR
can make people like the EU or stop the press reporting the political reality of
Brussels."

A Commission spokesman said the communications budget added up to less than 0.2
per cent of the overall EU draft budget.

Yesterday two Government departments flew the EU flag.

Lib Dem Business Secretary Vince Cable hoisted it over his offices in
Westminster and it was also raised above the Department for Communities and
Local Government.

Downing Street, however, refused to fly the flag.

Ukip member Ken White organised a protest against Europe Day in Maidenhead,
Berks, where a pair of garden shears were used to shred the EU flag.

He said: "Why should the EU demand we fly their flag.

The whole thing is so undemocratic. We must fight this."

A protest also overshadowed yesterday's celebrations at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg. In a major embarrassment for the EU, politicians from the UK, the
Netherlands, France and Denmark held up their national flags.

Mr Farage, who led the protest, said: "We have never voted for this EU flag or
anthem, nor has anybody else in Europe voted for it. It has no legitimacy
whatsoever."

Europe Day commemorates the anniversary of French Foreign Minister Robert
Schuman's call for a coal and steel community - the forerunner of the EU.

Is the EU a waste of taxpayers' money?

YES: 0901 030 8342 NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088 No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The EU flag is shredded during a protest in Maidenhead yesterday
organised by Ukip's
Ken White, left The blue-and-gold banner of the EU flutters in front of Big Ben
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Now EU wastes GBP 225m of your money on 'spin'

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 498  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats were slammed yesterday after it emerged they plan to spend
more than GBP 225million of taxpayers' money next year on pro-EU propaganda and
spin.

The shameless plans were discovered in the small print of proposals for an
inflation-busting 4.9 per cent rise in the EU's total budget for 2012.

They emerged on Europe Day - an annual commemoration of the first step taken on
May 9, 1950, to creating the union. It drew demonstrators on to the streets of
Britain to shred the EU flag in a major snub to Brussels' demands for it to be
flown across the entire bloc.

Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe thinktank, said: "Taxpayers shouldn't
be paying for PR exercises that vainly try to make them love the EU. The EU
needs reform, not more spin."

Nearly half the proposed budget, GBP 115million, would be spent on
administration and more than 1,000 staff in the EU's communication division.

A further GBP 84million would go on "informing about policy". Some GBP 7million
is earmarked for events and publicity promoting "Europe for citizens" will eat
up GBP 25million.

Proposed spending also includes GBP 31million over four years for "information
events" aimed at journalists to help "connect" the Commission with the people.

Ukip leader and Euro MP Nigel Farage said he spied a "sinister" attempt to
"indoctrinate" journalists, adding:

"Do they think journalists, or the public, are stupid? No amount of money or PR
can make people like the EU or stop the press reporting the political reality of
Brussels."

A Commission spokesman said the communications budget added up to less than 0.2
per cent of the overall EU draft budget.

The row came as it emerged that only 5 per cent of European Parliament and
Commission posts are held by British workers, despite Britain making up 12 per
cent of the EU's population.

Lack of language skills is blamed for the issue and Michael Shackleton, head of
the European Parliament's PR operation in Britain, said:

"People like me are coming to retirement and it's very clear there are not
enough people to take our places."

Yesterday two Government departments flew the EU flag.

Lib Dem Business Secretary Vince Cable hoisted the blue and-gold banner over his
offices in Westminster and it was also raised above the Department for
Communities and Local Government.

Downing Street refused to fly it. Ukip member Ken White led the high street
protest in Maidenhead, Berks, wielding a pair of garden shears to shred the EU
flag.

He said: "Why should the EU demand that we fly their flag when the whole thing
is so undemocratic?

"It's not right and we have got to fight this."

Europe Day commemorates the anniversary of French Foreign Minister Robert
Schuman's call for a coal and steel community - the forerunner of the EU.

Is the EU a waste of taxpayers' money?

YES: 0901 030 8342 NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088 No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Ukip protest in Maidenhead yesterday, headed by Ken White, left,
where the EU flag was shredded
The blue-and-gold banner of the EU flutters in front of Big Ben yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 10, 2011 Tuesday 1:38 PM GMT

It's not just the Labour Party - the Left is in meltdown all over Europe

BYLINE: By Toby Young

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1441 words


Tempting though it is to blame Ed Miliband for Labour's poor performance in the
local and regional elections, I doubt Labour would have fared much better under
another leader. As David Goodhart pointed out in The Independent, Labour's
success has traditionally been dependent on an alliance between the traditional
working-class and middle-class liberals and that coalition has now collapsed:

Labour has lost around 4 million working-class voters since 1997, and at the
last general election, for the first time, Labour's middle-class vote (in the
ABC1 sense) was higher than its working-class (C2DE) vote. To win an election,
Labour needs to win back lots of those blue-collar voters; the trouble is that
Labour's middle-class voters, especially the liberal graduates among them, have
increasingly divergent values and interests.

The draining away of working-class support isn't a problem confined to the
Labour Party. Left-wing parties all over Europe are facing similar difficulties.
Labour was punished by the British electorate last year, polling its lowest
share of the vote since 1983, but not as severely as the Social Democrats were
by the Swedes, polling their lowest share of the vote since universal suffrage
was introduced in 1921. This was the first time in the Social Democrats' history
that it lost two elections in a row. Only 22 per cent of those Swedes in work
voted Social Democrat in 2010, a number that fell to 13 per centin the Stockholm
region.

The same picture emerges wherever you look. In the European election in June,
2009, the Left took a hammering. In Germany, the Social Democrats polled just 20
per centof the vote, their worst result since the Second World War. In France,
the Socialist Party only mustered 16.5 per cent, its lowest share of the vote in
a European election since 1994. In Italy, the Democrats polled 26.1 per cent,
seven percentage points less than they received at the last Italian election. As
David Miliband pointed out in a recent lecture: "Left parties are losing
elections more comprehensively than ever before. They are fragmenting at just
the time the Right is uniting. I don't believe this is some kind of accident."

So what are the causes of this meltdown? It's particularly baffling given that
the whole of Europe was adversely affected by the recent problems afflicting the
international banking system. One of the reasons socialists believe history is
on their side is because they think capitalism is inherently unstable, lurching
from one crisis to another. Yet the financial crisis of 2007-08 has sent voters
scurrying towards the Right, not the Left. What's going on?

The obvious answer is immigration. The educated liberal elites who control most
Left-wing parties are pro-immigration. Not only do they believe in its economic
benefits, they believe in the virtue of diversity as an end itself. The
traditional European working classes, by contrast, are suspicious of immigrants
and worry about them taking their jobs or -worse -taking money out of a welfare
pot they haven't contributed to. These tensions were containable when the
majority of immigrants were from the developed world, but have been brought into
sharp relief with the increase in immigration from the Middle East, Africa and
Latin America - asylum seekers as opposed to economic migrants. In Sweden, for
instance, the proportion of immigrants from less developed countries increased
from 13 per centto 36 per centbetween 1980 and 2000. Of the one million
immigrants who've entered Sweden since 1990, three quarters of them aren't in
full-time employment. These are the welfare free-riders that the Right-wing
Sweden Democrats drew attention to in their 2010 election campaign, polling 5.7
per centof the vote.

On the face of it, mass immigration has been the undoing of leftwing political
parties across Europe since it erodes the shared values that are an essential
prerequisite of a well-funded welfare state. Why should indigenous, working
populations support the high levels of taxation necessary to sustain generous
welfare payments if the beneficiaries are people unlike themselves? If they
can't look at a benefit recipient and think, "There, but for the grace of God,
go I", why should they continue to pay such high taxes?This problem was spelt
out by David Willetts a few years ago:

The basis on which you can extract large sums of money in tax and pay it out in
benefits is that most people think the recipients are people like themselves,
facing difficulties that they themselves could face. If values become more
diverse, if lifestyles become more differentiated, then it becomes more
difficult to sustain the legitimacy of a universal risk-pooling welfare state.
People ask: 'Why should I pay for them when they are doing things that I
wouldn't do?' This is America versus Sweden. You can have a Swedish welfare
state provided that you are a homogeneous society with intensely shared values.
In the United States you have a very diverse, individualistic society where
people feel fewer obligations to fellow citizens. Progressives want diversity,
but they thereby undermine part of the moral consensus on which a large welfare
state rests.

In Britain, as in other European states, traditional working class voters no
longer trust the Left-wing party to put their interests above those of recent
immigrants. In a recent but as yet unpublished YouGov poll, respondents were
asked whether Britain now feels like a foreign country. Working-class
centre-left voters agreed by 64 per cent to 26 per cent.

But this isn't the whole of the story. After all, the Left fared equally badly
in the recent Finnish elections, yet only 2.5 per centof the population of
Finland are foreign-born, most from Russia, Estonia and Sweden. Earlier this
year, the True Finns - Finland's equivalent of UKIP - polled 19 per centof the
vote, a five-fold increase since 2007. The Social Democrats, by contrast, saw
their share of the vote fall from 21.44 per centin 2007 to 19.1 per cent. The
vote-winning policy for the True Finns was their opposition to the Portuguese
bail-out and their success could well be a blueprint for insurgent, Right-wing
parties across Europe as the crisis in the Eurozone deepens. If working class
voters can no longer empathise with those in need in their own countries, as
Willetts suggests, it's likely that they won't empathise with those in foreign
countries, either.

What seems to be happening across Europe is the fracturing of both the state and
the super-state as sources of tribal identity. The European Union has only ever
commanded the loyalty of the liberal middle classes and as their political
alliance with traditional working-class voters collapses it seems increasingly
unlikely that the EU will survive the current economic crisis, at least not in
its present form. More surprising has been the decline of the state as a unit
capable of commanding people's loyalty. In Scotland, the beneficiary of Labour's
desertion by working-class voters has been the Scottish Nationalist Party and
that, too, seems a pattern likely to be repeated elsewhere. Ethnicity in Europe
is beginning to trump more abstract sources of collective identity, as it did in
the former Soviet Union after the collapse of the Communist control system in
1989. If UKIP changed its name to the England Independence Party it might see a
surge in its support comparable to that of the True Finns.

It would be premature to completely write off the Left as a political force in
Europe. The most obvious direction for Labour to go in if it wants to win back
its traditional working class supporters is to propose tighter immigration
controls than those currently being imposed by the Coalition - and my reading of
why Maurice Glasman's "Blue Labour" is gaining traction within the Party is that
it would provide the ideological fig leaf to do precisely that. But working
class voters might have a hard time trusting Ed Miliband if he suddenly embraces
draconian immigration controls.

What the Left needs is an intellectual colossus, someone capable of articulating
a vision that re-unites the liberal intelligentsia with the traditional working
class and persuades them to put the interests of the collective - whether the
nation state or something larger and more abstract - before those of their
family and their tribe. Ultimately, the reason for the left's political failure
is the intellectual vacuum at the heart of the Left-wing project, the absence of
an intellectually robust alternative to free-market capitalism. In the meantime,
Right-wing and nationalist parties will keep on making gains at the Left's
expense.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

ANDREW PIERCE COLUMN

LENGTH: 682 words


SORRY, CHRIS, BUT WASN'T IT ALL YOUR IDEA?

After the Lib-Dem's worst electoral performance in two decades, Energy Secretary
Chris Huhne seems the most likely of the senior party members to quit the
Cabinet. It was Huhne who angrily demanded in Cabinet that the Prime Minister
condemn the personal attacks on Nick Clegg by the 'No to AV' campaign.

This is the same sanctimonious Huhne who in the Lib-Dem leadership contest in
2007 dubbed his opponent 'Calamity Clegg'.

You would think, judging by his incessant, self-serving carping and whingeing,
that Huhne was a reluctant convert to the coalition.

Far from it. In fact, Huhne was the first senior Lib-Dem to float the idea of
going into government with the Tories. It was back in November 2006 when Tony
Blair was still PM and Sir Menzies Campbell was Lib-Dem leader.

At an away day for Lib-Dem MPs behind closed doors at Henley Management Centre,
Huhne was the sole voice among the party's 62 MPs to float what was a then a
heretical idea of working with the Tories in a hung parliament.

Then, in January 2010

, well before the election in May last year, he was at it again when he wrote a
report for Nick Clegg which advocated a coalition with Labour or the Tories as
the most effective means of tackling the yawning budget deficit.

This was in spite of the fact that, in the coalition negotiations, Danny
Alexander, Lib-Dem Chief Secretary and David Laws, his short-lived predecessor,
actually wanted to limit co-operation. But Huhne's view of full co-operation
prevailed.

Incidentally, Huhne was also a key player in the decision to abandon the
Lib-Dems' opposition to raising university tuition fees. So next time you hear
Huhne ranting about the iniquitious nature of the coalition remember: it's his
fault as much as Calamity Clegg's.

In case anyone wonders if UKIP is made up of little more than wall-to-wall
eccentrics, take a look at this offering from the party's online shop. Under the
heading 'special offer', it's a 'Happy 18th birthday from UKIP card' , for the
princely sum of 10p. But a word of caution. UKIP warns prospective buyers:
'Please note , envelopes not supplied.'

Conspiracy theorists are having a field day after the Tory Party
eve-of-local-election broadcast was temporarily suspended on the BBC because of
a 'technical fault'.

One blog said: 'We could hear the announcer and music played against a screen in
glowing Labour red. We believe very strongly that this was deliberate blocking
by BBC employees, and illegal under election fairness regulations . . . It was
just glaring and blatant sabotage by [the] BBC at some level.'

Sounds like paranoia to me.

Jon Snow, Channel 4's card-carrying Labour Party presenter, was on the money
with this tweet only four hours before polling stations closed on Thursday: 'I
sense a surge for the ''Yes'' vote, but have absolutely no rational grounds for
so doing.'

You can say that again.

Sally Bercow, the airhead wife of Speaker John Bercow memorably posed for
photographs in the shadow of Big Ben draped only in a bed sheet.

The publicity-crazed Mrs Bercow has now secured a deal to write a book. Good
thing it's a work of fiction. After all, she was sacked from a leading PR firm
Consolidated Communications back in 1994 after it claimed she had lied about
having a degree from Oxford University.

'The rocks will melt with the sun before tuition fees are introduced in
Scotland.' , Alex Salmond, the SNP leader who was victorious in last week's
poll, crowing about the continued injustice of devolution to long-suffering
English taxpayers.

Barely a day went by in the disastrous 'Yes to AV' campaign without a cameo
performance by Eddie Izzard, who was once a famous comedian.

Now we know why. He wants to be an MP. Just what Westminster needs: a
cross-dressing, B-list celebrity. He could always borrow the Speaker John
Bercow's tights if he ladders his own.

If NICK Clegg is ousted as leader of the Lib Dems, the suggestion at Westminster
is that he would not be out of a job for long , he could easily find new
employment hosting Radio 4's comedy quiz show I'm Sorry I Haven't A Clue.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

DOWNING ST WON'T FLY EU FLAG TODAY

LENGTH: 132 words


DOWNING Street will today refuse to fly the European Union flag on Europe Day.

The decision highlights a split within the Coalition on how to mark May 9, which
has been celebrated across the EU since 1985.

The Foreign Office will not fly the 12-star EU flag and George Osborne's
Treasury will also stick to the union flag.

Lib Dem Business Secretary Vince Cable will, however, hoist the blue and gold
banner over his offices in Westminster.

Europe Day commemorates the anniversary of French Foreign Minister Robert
Schuman's initial 1950 call for a coal and steel community Z the forerunner of
the EU.

A Downing Street aide said: 'We are just keeping it simple. We will have the
Union flag flying.'

The UK Independence Party dismissed Downing Street's decision as merely 'weak
Eurosceptic posturing'.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 8, 2011

AZED No. 2,032 Plain: AZED 2,029 Solution & notes

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW BOOKS PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 491 words


Across 1, ca. in spa; 10, anag. + ma in story; 12, qua(g) in lot; 16, p in pier;

churchwarden, type of pipe; 21, let re in due; noose vt; 22, (b)oring; O-ring;
27, anag less a; 28, t + for in OE; 29, hidden rev.; Wranglers, brand of jeans;
30, rede t ermine; 31, dere in rid.

Down 1, anag. less E; 2, Ch. Eve lure; 3, a Rita; ref. stage play (and film)
Educating

Rita by Willy Russell; 4, UKIP (rev.) + l; see etym. at pikul; 7, quit in coo!;
8, rump

in tup; 9, ever in anag.; 17, clip fed; 20, tide in bed; 23, a rete; 26, ma +
vin.

AZED No. 2,029 prizewinners

1 Russell Bowden, Warrington

2 Martin Wilson, Oldham

3 T. Mitchell, Wootton Bassett, Wiltshire

PRIZE RULES

pounds 25 in book tokens for the first three

correct solutions opened. Solutions

postmarked no later than Saturday

to AZED No. 2,032, The Observer, 90

York Way, London N1 9GU

Name

Address

Postcode

ACROSS

1 Large vessel with meaty liquor - it's prepared for market (8)

7 One shortened length with piece of writing - it was a good

deed (4)

10 Riot of old causing tremulous U-turn around threshold (10)

11 Stupefied when confronted by marsupial? (6)

12 Brother accepts fair intermediary (6)

14 One in a suit almost rejected gym shoes (4)

16 A book receiving initially hostile reception (6)

17 This sea-god on rare map I'll get redone for European

mariners (6)

18 Aphrodisiac in drinking cups before sex? Former spouse

put off (9)

19 Fatter, wobbling, I'm beginning to exercise - this happens

later (9)

24 Indian army chief died on Arab going after retreating prince (6)

25 What's published, penned by e.g. Dexter, lavishly praised? (6)

27 This French artist, il a . . . atelier organise, peut-etre? (4)

29 Rear Admiral with shortened round (plastic) stiff collar,

old-fashioned (6)

30 To bungle a round, I put in e.g. an onion (6)

31 It accompanies mush perhaps in odd glace that's melted (10)

32 Pacific salmon: odd bits found in meat soup (4)

33 Hack lock containing spring (8)

DOWN

1 Wing's day, getting try as of old (4)

2 Secret poison made by a former pipsqueak from argon and sodium (10, 2 words)

3 Type of Scottish fireclay used in quantum physics (6)

4 Marat butchered, pierced by end of couteau? A fatal one,

clearly (6)

5 Perimeter guard maybe is dismissive of admittance (9)

6 What Arab bhisti carries: sweet liquor, see, not old (6)

7 Months ending year in e.g. Oz (4)

8 De Klerk losing lead, worsted - such an experience for his opponents? (6)

9 Climbing courses, at the end, carrying weight? (8)

13 Stiff herbaceous plants growing wild in SE Mustique (10)

15 One vehement speech, time limited, blows counter to what's prevalent? (9)

16 Woe over condition, a form of smallpox (8)

20 Classes getting second-class mark in tests? (6)

21 What roused drunken porter, wretch with shabby clothes? (6)

22 Mixture of mud and soil I cast making models (6)

23 Stiff hair that's dressed up in South Africa (6)

26 Bear protected in tribal uplands (4)

28 Favourite uncle doffing lid for birds (4)

The Chambers Dictionary (2008) is recommended.


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 8, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Don't worry, Cleggy, surly Ted wins in the unloved stakes

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 159 words


At this difficult time we must all rally round to cheer up Nick Clegg. So I'm
delighted to reveal that there's a political figure who still seems even more
unpopular than he is.

Sir Edward Heath, former prime minister, left his home to the nation. But the
nation hasn't been at all grateful (and would probably have preferred something
practical, like a fondue set). Admiring crowds have failed to flock to the
Georgian pile in Salisbury's Cathedral Close. So now the Charity Commission has
approved plans to sell the house, Arundells.

"He wasn't very popular round here," sighs a former neighbour. "Although he did
once invite me to a cocktail party." Heath was an international-class
curmudgeon. One invitation was probably enough.

? What is the correct way of celebrating Europe Day tomorrow? "I will be in
Strasbourg drinking two bottles of champagne," says the UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom.
"And then beating to death the nearest Lib Dem." Ah, the old traditions.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 8, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Polls lack magic as voters fail to break free of apathy;
Normality now is chitchat and cappuccinos as an understated election kept the
status quo, writes Justine McCarthy in Banbridge

BYLINE: Justine McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 2459 words


HARRY HAMILTON stood on a constituent's doorstep during the election campaign
and belted out the Queen hit, I Want to Break Free. Which is pretty much how
most people felt at Banbridge leisure centre in Co Down as the election count
wore on this weekend.

While he was on the stump, Hamilton, an Alliance candidate by day and a Freddie
Mercury impersonator by night, when he goes under the stage name of Flash Harry,
was showered with requests for a quick rendition from his Queen repertoire.
Mostly he declined, leaving voters unimpressed. He was eliminated after the
fourth count in Upper Bann.

Sinn Fein had gambled that a demographic shift in the constituency could give
them a second seat in the old bailiwick of David Trimble, the former Ulster
Unionist party (UUP) leader now known as Baron Trimble of Lisnagarvey. The SDLP,
who used to have Brid Rodgers here, complained the strategy could split the
nationalist vote (the parties had a seat each in the outgoing assembly) but the
Shinners are way beyond tribal niceties. They threw the kitchen sink at it.

"Gerry Adams sent bus loads of his people up from Meath every day for the last
three weeks," reported a unionist rival. "They were going around doing polls,
asking people what they wanted." Even Martin Ferris TD made the trek from Kerry
North to woo the waverers.

In the end, Sinn Fein was denied a second seat by Joanne Dobson (UUP), the
daughter of a former Star of the Co Down beauty queen, who had campaigned for
more nursery school places. Normalisation now rules in the North, despite
occasional reminders of the bad old days. "In the event of an emergency, a fire
alarm will sound," warned a sign in the count hall.

Candidates and party workers sought refuge from the long count in the upstairs
cafe. There was no escaping normalisation here, among tables groaning with
cappuccinos and chat about DUP [Democratic Unionist party] leader Peter
Robinson's Twitter habit.

It seems that the first minister, a carp enthusiast, recently tweeted that he
fell into his pond while cleaning it.

The outgoing Stormont assembly was the first devolved government to run its full
course in 40 years, surviving the wobble caused by Iris Robinson's affair with a
handsome teenager. After so much excitement, the election was something of a
damp squib, particularly as it was devoid of a candidate called Paisley. Voter
apathy is the new flashpoint in Northern Ireland politics.

"I suppose a 55% [turnout] isn't bad. It's twice as good as England," says Colin
McCusker, a UUP candidate.

"The problem here is there's no opposition to challenge the executive.

The Belfast agreement is 13 years old. It's served its purpose."

McCusker, 40, is the youngest son of Harold, a former deputy leader of the UUP,
an MP for Upper Bann, and a leading light of the Orange Order, who died of
cancer 21 years ago. "My politics are of a different era," says his son, who
polled 3,402 first preference votes but failed to get elected. "My father
wouldn't have shared a platform with Sinn Fein, never mind shaking hands with
them."

The real enemy, according to McCusker the Younger, is the DUP, whose "sole
existence is to eradicate the UUP".

At a nearby table, the decibels rise as a group of UUP councillors discuss the
twinning ceremony in Ballina town hall on May 20 of Portadown and the Mayo town.
"Enda Kenny might be there," one of the councillors discloses excitedly. This in
a constituency that houses Drumcree, home of the north's most contentious Orange
parade.

It was in this constituency, too, that Constable Stephen Carroll of the PSNI was
shot dead by the Continuity IRA in March 2009.

Councillor Ronnie Harkness, a former school principal and a former member of the
Ulster Defence Regiment, described the bonhomie down at the town hall these
days. "Not between Sinn Fein and the DUP, but with everyone else, it's all
Christian names and talk of football," he said. Down in the counting hall,
whenever Amanda Mason, the deputy returning officer, climbed onto her podium to
declare someone elected, the applause was perfunctory.

Compared to the DUP people swaddled in their party colours, Sinn Fein's dress
code was so understated that its members were difficult to identify. Conor
Murphy, the regional development minister in the last assembly, diplomatically
said he was willing to serve in any capacity, after topping the poll in Newry
and Armagh with 9,127 first preferences.

"We had a very warm reception on the doorstep," said the Sinn Fein MP, whose
home was attacked by dissidents two years ago.

"People don't want to go back to the past."

Newry and Armagh, however, has not managed to completely shed the old ways. Not
one female candidate featured among the 11 competing for six seats.

STRANGFORD Cecil Andrews 601 (2%) UKIP Jonathan Bell 4,265 (14.4%) DUP ELECTED
1st count Joe Boyle 2,525 (8.5%) SDLP ELECTED 6th count Mickey Coogan 902 (3%)
Sinn Fein Simon Hamilton 3,456 (11.6%) DUP ELECTED 5th count Kieran McCarthy
4,284 (14.4%) Alliance ELECTED 1st count Michelle McIlveen 4,573 (15.4%) DUP
ELECTED 1st count David McNarry 2,773 (9.3%) UUP Mike Nesbitt 3,273 (11%) UUP
ELECTED 6th count Billy Walker 2,175 (7.3%) DUP Terry Williams 841 (2.8%) TUV
Electorate: 62,178 Turnout: 48% Quota: 4,239 SOUTH ANTRIM Thomas Burns 3,406
(10.6%) SDLP Trevor Clarke 4,607 (14.3%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Adrian David
Cochrane Watson UUP 2,285 (7.1%) David RJ Ford 4,554 (14.2%) Alliance ELECTED
2nd count Paul Girvan 4,844 (15.1%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Danny Kinahan 3,445
(10.7%) UUP ELECTED 3rd count Pam Lewis 2,866 (8.9%) DUP ELECTED 4th count Mel
Lucas 1,091 (3.4%) TUV Mitchel McLaughlin 4,662 (14.5%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st
count Stephen Parkes 404 (1.3%) BNP Electorate: 65,231 Turnout: 50% Quota: 4,596
NORTH ANTRIM Jim Allister 4,061 (10.1%) TUV ELECTED 9th count Jayne Dunlop 1,848
(4.6%) Alliance Paul Frew 6,581 (16.3%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Bill Kennedy 2,189
(5.4%) UUP David McIlveen 3,275 (8.1%) DUP ELECTED 8th count Daithi McKay 6,152
(15.3%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count Declan O'Loan 3,682 (9.1%) SDLP Audrey
Patterson 668 (1.7%) TUV Evelyne Robinson 3,256 (8.1%) DUP Mervyn Storey 6,083
(15.1%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Robin Swann 2,518 (6.2%) UUP ELECTED 9th count
Electorate: 74,760 Turnout: 55% Quota: 5,760 FERMANAGH & S TYRONE Pat Cox 997
(2.1%) Ind Kenny Donaldson 2,366 (4.9%) UUP Alex Elliott 1,231 (2.6%) TUV Tom
Elliott 6,896 (14.4%) UUP ELECTED 1st count Phil Flanagan 5,042 (10.6%) Sinn
Fein ELECTED 6th count Arlene Foster 6,876 (14.3%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Tommy
Gallagher 4,606 (9.6%) SDLP Michelle Gildernew 16,833 (19%) Sinn Fein ELECTED
1st count Sean Lynch 5,146 (10.7%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 6th count Maurice Morrow
4,844 (10.1%) DUP ELECTED 5th count Hannah Su 845 (1.8%) Alliance Electorate:
70,985 Turnout: 68% Quota: 6,786 SOUTH DOWN Naomi Bailie 3,050 (7.3%) Sinn Fein
Willie Clarke 3,882 (9.3%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 7th count Cadogan Enright 1,107
(2.7%) Green David Griffin 864 (2.1%) Alliance John McCallister 4,409 (10.6%)
UUP ELECTED 6th count Karen McKevitt 3,758 (9%) SDLP ELECTED 8th count Eamonn
O'Neill 2,663 (6.4%) SDLP Henry Reilly 2,332 (5.6%) UKIP Margaret Ritchie 8,506
(20.4%) SDLP ELECTED 1st count Caitriona Ruane 5,955 (14.3%) Sinn Fein ELECTED
2nd count Jim Wells 5,200 (12.5%) DUP ELECTED 5th count Electorate: 73,240
Turnout: 58% Quota: 5,962 WEST TYRONE Michaela Boyle 5,057 (12.9%) Sinn Fein
ELECTED 4th count Allan Bresland 4,063 (10.3%) DUP Thomas Buchanan 5,005 (12.7%)
DUP ELECTED 5th count Eric Bullick 856 (2.2%) Alliance Joe Byrne 3,362 (8.6%)
SDLP ELECTED 5th count Pat Doherty 5,659 (14.4%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count
Ross Hussey 4,069 (10.3%) UUP ELECTED 5th count Declan McAleer 3,016 (7.7%) Sinn
Fein Barry McElduff 5,992 (15.2%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count Paddy McGowan
1,141 (2.9%) Ind Eugene McMenamin 1,100 (2.8%) Ind Electorate: 62,970 Turnout:
62% Quota: 5,618 BELFAST EAST Tommy Black 201 (0.6%) Ind Judith Cochrane 4,329
(13.4%) Alliance ELECTED 7th count Ann Cooper 337 (1%) BNP Michael Copeland
2,194 (6.8%) UUP ELECTED 11th count Sammy Douglas 2,668 (8.2%) DUP ELECTED 11th
count Brian Ervine 1,493 (4.6%) PUP Martin Gregg 572 (1.8%) Green Chris Lyttle
4,183 (12.9%) Alliance ELECTED 9th count Kevin McNally 102 (0.3%) Ind Robin
Newton 2,436 (7.5%) DUP ELECTED 2nd count Niall O Donnghaile 1,030 (3.2%) Party
Dawn Purvis 1,702 (5.3%) Ind Peter Robinson 9,149 (28.3%) DUP ELECTED 1st count
Philip Robinson 943 (2.9%) UUP Stephen Stewart 46 (0.1%) Ind Harry Toan 712
(2.2%) TUV Magdalena Wolska 250 (0.8%) SDLP Electorate: 61,263 Turnout: 53%
Quota: 4,622 LAGAN VALLEY Pat Catney 2,165 (6.1%) SDLP Jonathan Craig 4,263
(12%) DUP ELECTED 5th count Paul Givan 4,352 (12.3%) DUP ELECTED 7th count
Brenda Hale 2,910 (8.2%) DUP ELECTED 7th count Mark Hill 1,482 (4.2%) UUP Trevor
Lunn 4,389 (12.4%) Alliance ELECTED 6th count Basil McCrea 5,771 (16.3%) UUP
ELECTED 1st count Edwin Poots 7,329 (20.7%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Conor Quinn
592 (1.7%) Green Mary-Kate Quinn 1,203 (3.4%) Sinn Fein Lyle Rea 1,031 (2.9%)
TUV Electorate: 67,532 Turnout: 53% Quota: 5,071 BELFAST SOUTH Clare Bailey 889
(2.8%) Green Brian Faloon 414 (1.3%) PBP Alliance Mark Finlay 1,394 (4.3%) UUP
Anna Lo 6,390 (19.8%) Alliance ELECTED 1st count Paddy Lynn 135 (0.4%) WP Alex
Maskey 4,038 (12.5%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 5th count Conall McDevitt 3,191 (9.9%)
SDLP ELECTED 5th count Alasdair McDonnell 4,527 (14%) SDLP ELECTED 2nd count
Michael McGimpsey 2,988 (9.2%) UUP ELECTED 5th count Paddy Meehan 234 (0.7%) Ind
Ruth Patterson 3,800 (11.8%) DUP Samuel Smyth 29 (0.1%) Ind Jimmy Spratt 4,045
(12.5%) DUP ELECTED 5th count Nico Torregrosa 234 (0.7%) UKIP Electorate: 62,484
Turnout: 52% Quota: 4,616 BELFAST NORTH Paula Bradley 3,488 (10.4%) DUP ELECTED
7th count Fred Cobain 2,758 (8.2%) UUP William Humphrey 3,724 (11.1%) DUP
ELECTED 7th count Gerry Kelly 6,674 (19.9%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count John
Lavery 332 (1%) Workers' party JJ Magee 998 (3%) Sinn Fein Alban Maginness 4,025
(12%) SDLP ELECTED 6th count Nelson McCausland 5,200 (15.5%) DUP ELECTED 1st
count Raymond McCord 1,176 (3.5%) Ind Carál Ní Chuilín 2,999 (9%) Sinn Fein
ELECTED 6th count Billy Webb 2,096 (6.3%) Alliance Electorate: 68,119 Turnout:
50% Quota: 4,782 BELFAST WEST Alex Attwood 3,765 (10.9%) SDLP ELECTED 10th count
Gerry Carroll 1,661 (4.8%) PBP Alliance Colin Keenan 802 (2.3%) SDLP Brian
Kingston 2,587 (7.5%) DUP Pat Lawlor 384 (1.1%) Ind John Lowry 589 (1.7%) WP
Bill Manwaring 1,471 (4.2%) UUP Paul Maskey 5,343 (15.4%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st
count Fra McCann 4,481 (12.9%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 10th count Jennifer McCann
5,239 (15.1%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count Dan McGuinness 365 (1.1%) Alliance
Brian Pelan 122 (0.4%) Ind Sue Ramsey 4,116 (11.9%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 11th count
Pat Sheehan 3,723 (10.8%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 11th count Electorate: 61,520
Turnout: 58% Quota: 4,951 UPPER BANN Sydney Anderson 5,854 (13.8%) DUP ELECTED
5th count Joanne Dobson 3,348 (7.9%) UUP ELECTED 7th count Sam Gardiner 3,676
(8.7%) UUP ELECTED 7th count Harry Hamilton 1,979 (4.7%) Alliance Dolores Kelly
4,846 (11.4%) SDLP ELECTED 7th count Colin McCusker 3,402 (8%) UUP Johnny
McGibbon 4,879 (11.5%) Sinn Fein Sheila McQuaid 786 (1.9%) Alliance Stephen
Moutray 5,645 (13.3%) DUP ELECTED 5th count John O'Dowd 6,649 (15.7%) Sinn Fein
ELECTED 1st count Barbara Trotter 272 (0.6%) UKIP David Vance 1,026 (2.4%) TUV
Electorate: 77,905 Turnout: 54% Quota: 6,053 MID ULSTER Harry Hutchinson 243
(0.6%) PBP Alliance Austin Kelly 1,214 (2.8%) SDLP Gary McCann 241 (0.6%) Ind
Hugh McCloy 933 (2.2%) Ind Ian McCrea 7,127 (16.7%) DUP ELECTED 1st count
Michael McDonald 398 (0.9%) Alliance Patsy McGlone 5,065 (11.9%) SDLP ELECTED
5th count Martin McGuinness 8,957 (21%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count Walter
Millar 2,075 (4.9%) TUV Ian Milne 2,635 (6.2%) Sinn Fein Francie Molloy 4,263
(10%) Sinn Fein Michelle O'Neill 5,178 (12.1%) Sinn Fein Sandra Overend 4,409
(10.3%) UUP Electorate: 66,602 Turnout: 65% Quota: 6,106 EAST LONDONDERRY
Bernadette Archibald 2,639 (7.6%) Sinn Fein Gregory Campbell 6,319 (18.2%) DUP
ELECTED 1st count Thomas Conway 2,222 (6.4%) SDLP John Dallat 2,967 (8.5%) SDLP
ELECTED 6th count Boyd Douglas 1,568 (4.5%) TUV Barney Fitzpatrick 1,905 (5.5%)
Alliance David Harding 1,458 (4.2%) UUP Lesley MacAulay 1,472 (4.2%) UUP David
McClarty 3,003 (8.6%) Ind ELECTED 7th count Adrian McQuillan 2,633 (7.6%) DUP
ELECTED 7th count Cathal O hOisín 4,681 (13.5%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 6th count
George Robinson 3,855 (11.1%) DUP ELECTED 7th count Electorate: 65,226 Turnout:
53% Quota: 4,961 EAST ANTRIM Roy Beggs 3,042 (10.5%) UUP ELECTED 9th count
Stewart Dickson 2,889 (10%) Alliance ELECTED 9th count Daniel Donnelly 664
(2.3%) Green David Hilditch 3,288 (11.3%) DUP ELECTED 2nd count Gordon Lyons
1,321 (4.6%) DUP Justin McCamphill 1,333 (4.6%) SDLP Rodney McCune 1,851 (6.4%)
UUP Oliver McMullan 2,369 (8.2%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 10th count Steven Moore 511
(1.8%) BNP Gerardine Marie Mulvenna Alliance 1,620 (5.6%) Alastair Ross 1,608
(5.5%) DUP ELECTED 6th count Ruth Wilson 1,346 (4.6%) TUV Sammy Wilson 7,181
(24.7%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Electorate: 61,617 Turnout: 48% Quota: 4,147 FOYLE
Martina Anderson 6,950 (17.9%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count Pol Callaghan 2,624
(6.8%) SDLP Terry Doherty 60 (0.2%) Ind Mark Durkan 4,970 (12.8%) SDLP ELECTED
4th count Colum Eastwood 2,967 (7.6%) SDLP ELECTED 7th count Paul Fleming 2,612
(6.7%) Sinn Fein William Hay 7,154 (18.4%) DUP ELECTED 1st count Eamonn McCann
3,120 (8%) PBP Alliance Raymond McCartney 3,638 (9.4%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 7th
count Paul McFadden 1,280 (3.3%) Ind Keith McGrellis 334 (0.9%) Alliance Pat
Ramsey 3,138 (8.1%) SDLP ELECTED 7th count Electorate: 68,663 Turnout: 58%
Quota: 5,551 NORTH DOWN Steven Agnew 2,207 (7.9%) Green Colin Breen 1,343 (4.8%)
UUP Alan Chambers 1,765 (6.3%) Ind Leslie Cree 1,585 (5.6%) UUP Gordon Dunne
3,741 (13.3%) DUP ELECTED 2nd count Alex Easton 5,175 (18.4%) DUP ELECTED 1st
count Stephen Farry 3,131 (11.1%) Alliance Conor Keenan 293 (1%) Sinn Fein Liam
Logan 768 (2.7%) SDLP Alan McFarland 1,879 (6.7%) Ind Fred McGlade 615 (2.2%)
UKIP Peter Weir 3,496 (12.l4%) DUP ELECTED 2nd count Anne Wilson 2,100 (7.5%)
Alliance Electorate: 62,170 Turnout: 46% Quota: 4,015 NEWRY & ARMAGH Cathal
Boylan 6,614 (14.2%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 2nd count Dominic Bradley 7,123 (15.3%)
SDLP ELECTED 1st count Mickey Brady 3,254 (8.2%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 6th count
Barrie Halliday 830 (1.8%) TUV William Irwin 6,101 (13.1%) DUP ELECTED 3rd count
Danny Kennedy 8,718 (18.7%) UUP ELECTED 1st count James Malone 90 (0.2%) Ind
Conor Murphy 9,127 (19.6%) Sinn Fein ELECTED 1st count David Murphy 734 (1.6%)
Alliance Thomas O'Hanlon 3,825 (8.2%) SDLP Robert Woods 98 (0.2%) UKIP
Electorate: 77,544 Turnout: 61% Quota: 6,646

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The DUP's Mervan Storey, left, and Paul Frew celebrate in North Antrim;
Right, SDLP leader Margaret Ritchie after casting her vote at Glasswater Primary
School, Crossgar Co Down; Below right, Jonathan Craig of the DUP with his wife
Yvonne in Lisburn
Peter Robinson wins in East Belfast; Below left Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein
is elected in Mid Ulster; Below right, John Dallat, the SDLP winner in East
Londonderry is congratulated at the count; Inset, Harry Hamilton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Treatment gets easier for expats with two homes

SECTION: GLOBETROTTER;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 328 words


LIFE should soon become a little easier for thousands of expats who divide their
time between Britain and a second home near the Mediterranean.

From 2013, they should be able to have treatment in an EU state and reclaim the
cost from the NHS.

Ratification in Brussels of the Cross Border Healthcare Directive should be
valuable to those with two homes. They could have elective surgery at a state
hospital wherever they are, rather than having their itinerary determined by a
future appointment.

Implementation of the directive - originally scheduled for 2011 - has been
hampered by disputes between countries. And even 2013 is uncertain as individual
states may not pass legislation until later.

A sticking point has been whether patients should be reimbursed in full. The UK
has successfully resisted full repayment whatever the bill. Patients will be
reimbursed only to the cost of the procedure in their home state. A doctor in
the patient's home country will need to approve treatment in advance. Organ
transplants and long-term care are excluded.

Fears have been voiced that the change will lead to extra administration costs.
Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, complained: "The rules will
turn the UK's NHS into a bureaucratic nightmare. Extra staff will be needed to
chase up money owed from countries such as Romania."

But the EU executive puts the overall cost at only £30million, and current
cross-border health care at only one per cent of total European health care
spend.

The big gainers could be those Britons who spend six months a year abroad. To
use the NHS for non-emergency care, Britons must spend 181 days in the country.
This condition may well not be met by those who prolong their winter stays
abroad. They would not qualify for routine treatment abroad, and risk NHS
rejection on their return.

However, by getting authorisation for their treatment abroad, the individual
gains flexibility - especially if waiting times abroad are short.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday

Local authority elections: England

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 3907 words


Unitary

Bath & North East Somerset

* No overall control

LD gain 3/C lose 3

New council: Ind 2/C 29/LD 29/Lab 5

Bedford*

* No overall control

Ind down 4/LD down 1/Lab up 5/C up 4

New council: C 12/LD 12/Lab 12/Ind 4

Blackburn with Darwen

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/C lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: C 17/Lab 37/Ind 4/LD 6

Blackpool

* Lab gain from Conservative

LD lose 2/C lose 13/Lab gain 15

New council: LD 1/C 14/Lab 27

Bournemouth

* Conservative

LD lose 5/Ind lose 4/C gain 9

New council: Ind 3/LD 3/Lab 3/C 45

Bracknell Forest

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 2/C 40

Brighton & Hove

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C lose 8/Green gain 10

New council: Lab 13/C 18/Green 23

Bristol

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Green gain 1/LD lose 5/Lab gain 4

New council: C 14/Green 2/Lab 21/LD 33

Cheshire East*

* Conservative

LD down 7/Ind up 4/Lab up 9/C down 5

New council: Ind 10/Lab 14/Vacant 2/LD 4/C 52

Cheshire West & Chester*

* Conservative

UKIP down 1/Ind down 4/LD down 3/Lab up 19/C down 8

New council: LD 1/Lab 32/C 42

Darlington

* Lab

LD lose 1/C lose 4/Lab gain 5

New council: C 14/Lab 34/LD 5

Derby

* No overall control

LD lose 3/C lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: Ind 1/LD 12/C 16/Lab 22

East Riding of Yorkshire

* Conservative

LD lose 10/Ind lose 1/Lab gain 3/C gain 8

New council: LD 3/Ind 5/C 53/Lab 6

Halton

* Lab

Ind lose 2/LD lose 3/C lose 2/Lab gain 7

New council: C 3/Ind 3/Lab 44/LD 6

Hartlepool

* Lab

LD lose 3/Ind lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: Ind 12/LD 2/Lab 29/C 4

Herefordshire

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/LD lose 6/Ind gain 9/C lose 2

New council: Green 1/Lab 1/Ind 23/LD 3/C 30

Kingston-upon-Hull

* Lab gain from Liberal Democrat

Ind lose 1/LD lose 10/Lab gain 11

New council: Ind 1/C 2/LD 22/Lab 34

Leicester

* Lab

LD lose 6/C lose 6/Lab gain 12

New council: C 1/LD 1/Lab 52

Luton

* Lab

C lose 2/LD lose 9/Lab gain 11

New council: Lab 36/C 4/LD 8

Medway

* Conservative

Ind lose 3/LD lose 4/Lab gain 5/C gain 2

New council: Lab 15/Ind 2/LD 3/C 35

Middlesbrough

* Lab

C lose 2/Ind lose 1/Lab gain 3

New council: Green 1/LD 1/Ind 12/Lab 30/C 4

Milton Keynes

* No overall control

LD lose 4/C gain 4

New council: LD 18/C 21/Ind 3/Lab 9

North East Lincolnshire

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/LD lose 5/C lose 1/Lab gain 7

New council: C 14/Lab 19/LD 9

North Lincolnshire

* Conservative gain from Lab

Ind lose 3/Lab lose 2/C gain 5

New council: Lab 20/C 23

North Somerset

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/LD gain 1/Ind gain 1/C lose 4

New council: Green 1/C 42/Lab 5/LD 6/Ind 7

Nottingham

* Lab

LD lose 6/C lose 2/Lab gain 8

New council: C 5/Lab 50

Peterborough

* Conservative

Eng Dem lose 1/Lab gain 3/C lose 2

New council: Eng Dem 1/LD 3/Lib 3/C 38/Ind 6/Lab 6

Plymouth

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C lose 4/Lab gain 5

New council: Lab 25/C 32

Poole

* Conservative lose to NOC

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council: LD 18/C 21/Ind 3

Portsmouth

* Liberal Democrat

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 17/Lab 2/LD 23

Reading

* No overall control

LD lose 3/Green gain 1/C lose 1/Lab gain 3

New council: Ind 1/C 16/Green 2/Lab 22/LD 5

Redcar & Cleveland

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/C lose 5/Lab gain 7

New council: LD 16/Lab 32/Ind 5/C 6

Slough

* Lab

Ind lose 3/Lib lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 1/Lab gain 4

New council: Lib 1/Ind 2/LD 2/Lab 27/C 9

South Gloucestershire

* No overall control

Lab gain 6/LD lose 7/C gain 1

New council: Lab 15/LD 21/C 34

Southampton

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C lose 2/Lab gain 4

New council: Lab 19/C 26/LD 3

Southend-on-Sea

* Conservative

LD lose 2/Ind gain 2

New council: LD 10/C 28/Lab 4/Ind 9

Stockton-on-Tees

* No overall control

LD lose 1/C lose 1/Ind lose 3/Lab gain 5

New council: C 12/Ind 13/Lab 27/LD 4

Stoke-on-Trent*

* Lab gain from NOC

LD down 4/BNP down 5/C down 6/Ind down 8/Lab up 7

New council: C 2/Lab 34/Ind 8

Swindon

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/C lose 2

New council: Lab 17/C 38/LD 4

Telford & Wrekin

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 6/C lose 10/Lab gain 16

New council: Ind 1/C 17/LD 3/Lab 33

Thurrock

* No overall control

Ind lose 3/C gain 1/Lab gain 2

New council: C 22/Lab 24/Ind 3

Torbay

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/UKIP gain 1/LD lose 1/C lose 1

New council: Lab 1/UKIP 1/C 22/Ind 3/LD 9

Warrington

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 6/Lab gain 6

New council: LD 17/Lab 34/C 6

West Berkshire

* Conservative

LD lose 3/C gain 3

New council: LD 13/C 39

Windsor & Maidenhead Royal

* Conservative

LD lose 14/C gain 14

New council: LD 1/R 1/Ind 4/C 51

Wokingham

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council: C 45/LD 9

York

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 11/C gain 3/Lab gain 8

New council: Ind 1/C 10/Green 2/Lab 26/LD 8

Metro

Barnsley

* Lab

Ind lose 5/Lab gain 5

New council: Ind 14/Lab 43/C 6

Birmingham

* No overall control

Respect lose 1/LD lose 7/C lose 6/Lab gain 14

New council: Respect 2/LD 24/C 39/Lab 55

Bolton

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 3/C lose 1/Lab gain 5

New council: C 20/Lab 35/LD 5

Bradford

* No overall control

LD lose 3/C lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: Ind 1/LD 11/BNP 2/C 29/Green 3/Lab 44

Bury

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 3/C lose 3/Lab gain 6

New council: C 20/Lab 26/LD 5

Calderdale

* No overall control

Ind lose 3/LD lose 2/Lab gain 3/C gain 2

New council: BNP 1/Lab 13/LD 14/Ind 2/C 21

Coventry

* Lab

C lose 5/Lab gain 5

New council: LD 1/Soc 1/C 17/Lab 35

Doncaster

* Lab

Ind lose 6/LD lose 1/Lab gain 7

New council: Lab 43/Ind 5/LD 6/C 9

Dudley

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 2/C lose 1

New council: UKIP 1/Lab 28/C 43

Gateshead

* Lab

LD lose 5/Lab gain 5

New council: Lib 1/LD 14/Lab 51

Kirklees

* No overall control

Ind gain 1/LD lose 6/C gain 2/Lab gain 3

New council: LD 14/C 21/Lab 27/Ind 3/Green 4

Knowsley

* Lab

LD lose 3/Lab gain 3

New council: LD 4/Lab 59

Leeds

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 5/C lose 1/Lab gain 7

New council: LD 16/Green 2/C 21/Ind 5/Lab 55

Liverpool

* Lab

LD lose 12/Lab gain 12

New council: Green 2/LD 24/Lib 3/Lab 61

Manchester

* Lab

C lose 1/LD lose 10/Ind lose 1/Lab gain 12

New council: Ind 1/LD 21/Lab 74

Newcastle-upon-Tyne

* Lab gain from Liberal Democrat

LD lose 10/Lab gain 10

New council: Ind 1/Vacant 2/LD 32/Lab 43

North Tyneside

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 1/C lose 5/Lab gain 6

New council: C 19/Lab 35/LD 6

Oldham

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 6/Lab gain 7

New council: Ind 1/LD 21/Lab 34/C 4

Rochdale

* No overall control

Ind lose 5/LD lose 4/C gain 2/Lab gain 7

New council: LD 13/C 14/Lab 29/Ind 4

Rotherham

* Lab

Ind lose 2/C lose 2/Lab gain 4

New council: BNP 1/Ind 1/Lab 54/C 7

Salford

* Lab

LD lose 2/Ind lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: C 11/Ind 2/LD 3/Lab 44

Sandwell

* Lab

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Ind 2/LD 3/Lab 58/C 9

Sefton

* No overall control

LD lose 5/Lab gain 5

New council: UKIP 1/C 14/LD 23/Lab 28

Sheffield

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 9/Lab gain 9

New council: Ind 1/Green 2/LD 32/Lab 49

Solihull

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/Lab lose 2/Green gain 2/LD lose 4/C gain 6

New council: Ind 1/LD 12/C 29/Green 3/Lab 6

South Tyneside

* Lab

C lose 1/LD lose 1/Ind lose 1/Lab gain 3

New council: C 1/LD 1/Ind 13/Lab 39

St Helens

* Lab

LD lose 6/C lose 1/Lab gain 7

New council: Lab 35/C 4/LD 9

Stockport

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/C gain 2/LD lose 4/Lab gain 3

New council: C 11/Lab 16/LD 31/Ind 5

Sunderland

* Lab

C lose 4/Lab gain 4

New council: LD 1/C 14/Ind 4/Lab 56

Tameside

* Lab

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Ind 1/Lab 48/C 8

Trafford

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Lab 22/C 37/LD 4

Wakefield

* Lab

Ind lose 2/LD lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: C 21/Ind 3/Lab 39

Walsall

* Conservative lose to NOC

Ind lose 2/LD lose 1/C lose 5/Lab gain 8

New council: Ind 1/Lab 26/C 28/LD 5

Wigan

* Lab

C lose 2/LD lose 1/Ind lose 4/Lab gain 7

New council: Ind 10/LD 2/C 5/Lab 58

Wirral

* No overall control

LD lose 5/Lab gain 5

New council: LD 10/C 27/Lab 29

Wolverhampton

* Lab

LD lose 1/C lose 3/Lab gain 4

New council: C 22/LD 3/Lab 35

Non Metro

Allerdale

* No overall control

LD lose 4/C lose 6/Ind gain 4/Lab gain 6

New council: C 12/Ind 16/Lab 28

Amber Valley

* Conservative

New council: Lab 14/BNP 2/C 29

Arun

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 5/C gain 7

New council: Ind 1/Lab 3/LD 4/C 48

Ashfield

* Lab gain from NOC

C lose 1/Ind lose 7/LD lose 7/Lab gain 15

New council: Lab 24/Ind 3/LD 6

Aylesbury Vale

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 2/UKIP gain 2/LD lose 4/C gain 1

New council: LD 17/Lab 2/UKIP 2/C 38

Babergh

* No overall control

Lab gain 2/LD lose 3/C gain 1

New council: Ind 10/LD 12/C 18/Lab 3

Barrow-in-Furness

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 7/C lose 6/Lab gain 13

New council: Lab 29/C 7

Basildon

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Lab 11/LD 2/C 29

Basingstoke & Deane

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council: Lab 11/LD 13/Ind 2/C 34

Bassetlaw

* Lab gain from NOC

C lose 5/Lab gain 5

New council: C 18/Lab 27/Ind 3

Blaby

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C gain 2

New council: C 28/LD 5/Lab 6

Bolsover

* Lab

Respect lose 1/Green gain 1/R lose 2/Ind lose 2/Lab gain 4

New council: Green 1/R 1/Ind 3/Lab 32

Boston

* Conservative gain from Boston

BNP lose 1/Eng Dem gain 2/Lab gain 3/Boston lose 14/Ind lose 2/C gain 12

New council: C 19/Eng Dem 2/Lab 3/Boston 4/Ind 4

Braintree

* Conservative

R lose 4/Lab lose 1/C gain 5

New council: Ind 1/R 1/Green 2/C 47/Lab 9

Breckland

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: Ind 3/Lab 4/C 47

Brentwood

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Ind 1/Lab 1/C 28/LD 7

Broadland

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Lab 1/LD 12/C 34

Bromsgrove

* Conservative

Ind lose 7/R gain 2/Lab gain 4/C gain 1

New council: Lab 10/R 2/C 27

Broxbourne

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 3/C 35

Broxtowe

* No overall control

Ind lose 2/LD lose 5/Lab gain 7

New council: Lab 17/C 18/LD 9

Burnley

* Liberal Democrat

Ind lose 1/BNP lose 1/Lab gain 2

New council: BNP 1/Lab 16/LD 23/C 5

Cambridge

* Liberal Democrat

LD lose 4/Lab gain 4

New council: Ind 1/Lab 14/Green 2/LD 25

Cannock Chase

* No overall control

LD lose 6/C gain 3/Lab gain 3

New council: LD 11/C 13/Lab 17

Canterbury

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/Lab gain 1/LD lose 6/C gain 7

New council: LD 11/Lab 3/C 36

Carlisle

* No overall control

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Ind 2/C 22/Lab 24/LD 4

Castle Point

* Conservative

New council: Ind 16/C 25

Charnwood

* Conservative

LD lose 4/Lab gain 3/C gain 1

New council: BNP 1/Ind 1/LD 1/Lab 16/C 33

Chelmsford

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/LD lose 11/C gain 10

New council: Ind 1/Lab 1/LD 15/C 40

Cherwell

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 2/C lose 1

New council: LD 3/Lab 4/C 43

Chesterfield

* Lab gain from Liberal Democrat

LD lose 23/Lab gain 23

New council: LD 14/Lab 34

Chichester

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 3/C gain 4

New council: Ind 2/C 38/LD 8

Chiltern

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/LD lose 4/C gain 3

New council: Ind 2/C 33/LD 5

Chorley

* Conservative lose to NOC

LD lose 1/C lose 4/Lab gain 5

New council: Ind 2/LD 2/Lab 20/C 23

Christchurch

* Conservative

LD lose 3/Ind lose 1/C gain 4

New council: LD 1/Ind 2/C 21

Colchester

* No overall control

New council: C 24/LD 26/Ind 3/Lab 7

Copeland

* Lab

Ind lose 1/C lose 3/Lab gain 4

New council: C 15/Ind 2/Lab 34

Corby

* Lab

LD lose 2/C lose 4/Lab gain 6

New council: Lab 22/LD 3/C 4

Cotswold

* Conservative

Ind gain 3/LD gain 7/C lose 10

New council: LD 12/C 27/Ind 5

Craven

* Conservative

New council: C 18/LD 4/Ind 8

Crawley

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: Lab 13/C 24

Dacorum

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 2/C 43/LD 6

Dartford

* Conservative

R lose 2/Lab lose 3/C gain 5

New council: C 31/R 4/Lab 9

Daventry

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: LD 2/Lab 2/C 34

Derbyshire Dales

* Conservative

LD lose 4/Lab gain 1/C gain 3

New council: Ind 1/Vacant 1/C 28/LD 4/Lab 5

Dover

* Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab gain 4/C lose 2

New council: Lab 19/C 26

East Cambridgeshire

* Conservative

Ind gain 2/LD lose 3/C gain 1

New council: LD 10/C 25/Ind 4

East Devon

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council: LD 10/C 43/Ind 6

East Dorset

* Conservative

LD lose 5/C gain 5

New council: C 30/LD 6

East Hampshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 8/C gain 10

New council: C 39/LD 5

East Hertfordshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 3/C gain 5

New council: Ind 2/LD 2/C 46

East Lindsey

* No overall control

Lab gain 2/Ind lose 2

New council: Lab 10/Ind 18/LD 2/C 30

East Staffordshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/Lab gain 4/C lose 2

New council: LD 1/Lab 16/C 22

Eastbourne

* Liberal Democrat

C gain 5/LD lose 5

New council: C 12/LD 15

Eastleigh

* Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/LD gain 3

New council: Ind 2/LD 38/C 4

Eden

* Ind lose to NOC

LD gain 3/Ind lose 7/C gain 4

New council: Ind 13/C 16/LD 9

Elmbridge

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council: R 16/C 35/Ind 4/LD 5

Epping Forest

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council: BNP 1/Lab 1/R 10/Ind 3/C 37/LD 6

Epsom & Ewell

* R

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 2/C lose 1/LD lose 4/R gain 4

New council: R 26/C 3/Lab 3/LD 6

Erewash

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 2/Lab gain 6/C lose 2

New council: Lab 25/C 26

Exeter

* No overall control

Lib lose 2/LD lose 2/Lab gain 4

New council: Lib 1/C 11/Lab 19/LD 9

Fenland

* Conservative

LD gain 1/Ind gain 3/C lose 4

New council: LD 2/C 34/Ind 4

Forest Heath

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/Ind lose 3/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council: Ind 1/Lab 1/LD 2/C 23

Forest of Dean

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Ind lose 3/Lab gain 9/C lose 4

New council: LD 1/Ind 11/Lab 17/C 19

Fylde

* Conservative

R lose 1/Ind gain 5/C lose 4

New council: R 2/Ind 20/C 26/LD 3

Gedling

* Lab gain from Conservative

Ind lose 5/LD lose 5/C lose 13/Lab gain 23

New council: C 15/LD 3/Lab 32

Gloucester

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council: LD 10/C 19/Lab 7

Gravesham

* Lab gain from Conservative

C lose 8/Lab gain 8

New council: C 19/Lab 25

Great Yarmouth

* Conservative

New council: Lab 15/C 24

Hambleton

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council: LD 2/Ind 3/C 39

Harborough

* Conservative

LD lose 3/C gain 3

New council: Ind 1/C 27/LD 9

Harlow

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C lose 1/Lab gain 3

New council: Lab 14/C 17/LD 2

Harrogate

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 3/LD lose 5/C gain 8

New council: LD 17/Ind 3/C 34

Hart

* Conservative

New council: LD 10/C 20/Ind 5

Havant

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 1/LD 2/C 35

Hertsmere

* Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C gain 1

New council: C 35/Lab 4

High Peak

* Conservative lose to NOC

LD lose 3/C lose 9/Lab gain 12

New council: C 15/Lab 21/LD 3/Ind 4

Hinckley & Bosworth

* Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 1/C gain 3/LD lose 2

New council: Lab 1/C 15/LD 18

Horsham

* Conservative

LD lose 5/C gain 5

New council: Ind 2/C 34/LD 8

Huntingdonshire

* Conservative

LD lose 4/C gain 4

New council: Ind 1/UKIP 2/C 41/LD 8

Hyndburn

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/C lose 3/Lab gain 4

New council: C 14/Lab 18/Ind 3

Ipswich

* Lab gain from NOC

LD lose 3/C lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council: C 16/Lab 28/LD 4

Kettering

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 3/C lose 2

New council: Ind 1/C 26/Lab 9

Lewes

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

Ind lose 1/LD lose 3/C gain 4

New council: Ind 1/LD 18/C 22

Lichfield

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 5/Lab gain 5/C gain 2

New council: Lab 10/C 46

Lincoln

* Lab gain from NOC

C lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: LD 1/C 15/Lab 17

Maidstone

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council: LD 21/C 30/Ind 4

Maldon

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council: C 28/Ind 3

Malvern Hills

* Conservative

Green gain 1/Ind gain 1/LD gain 5/C lose 7

New council: LD 11/Green 2/C 21/Ind 4

Melton

* Conservative

Ind lose 4/Lab gain 4

New council: Ind 1/C 20/Lab 7

Mendip

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 3/LD lose 5/C gain 8

New council: Ind 1/LD 15/C 31

Mid Devon

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lib gain 1/LD lose 2/Ind lose 3/C gain 4

New council: Lib 1/Ind 11/C 24/LD 6

Mid Suffolk

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/Green gain 1/LD lose 4/Ind gain 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 1/C 22/Green 4/LD 6/Ind 7

Mole Valley

* No overall control

New council: C 17/LD 18/Ind 6

New Forest

* Conservative

LD lose 8/C gain 8

New council: C 54/LD 6

Newark & Sherwood

* Conservative lose to NOC

LD lose 1/Ind lose 3/Lab gain 8/C lose 4

New council: Lab 15/C 22/LD 3/Ind 6

Newcastle-under-Lyme

* No overall control

UKIP lose 2/LD lose 5/C lose 3/Lab gain 10

New council: Vacant 1/LD 12/C 20/Lab 24/UKIP 3

North Devon

* Conservative lose to NOC

Ind gain 7/LD lose 3/C lose 4

New council: Ind 11/LD 14/C 18

North Dorset

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/LD lose 7/C gain 6

New council: C 23/Ind 4/LD 6

North East Derbyshire

* Lab

LD lose 7/Ind lose 5/C gain 6/Lab gain 6

New council: C 17/Ind 2/Lab 34

North Hertfordshire

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council: C 34/Lab 7/LD 8

North Kesteven

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/C gain 2

New council: Ind 13/C 27/LD 3

North Norfolk

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

Ind gain 1/LD lose 12/C gain 11

New council: Ind 1/UKIP 1/LD 18/C 28

North Warwickshire

* Lab gain from Conservative

C lose 3/Lab gain 3

New council: C 17/Lab 18

North West Leicestershire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/BNP lose 2/LD lose 2/Lab gain 11/C lose 6

New council: LD 1/Lab 16/C 21

Norwich

* No overall control

C lose 2/LD lose 1/Green gain 1/Lab gain 2

New council: Green 15/Lab 18/C 2/LD 4

Pendle

* No overall control

LD lose 4/Lab gain 3/C gain 1

New council: Ind 1/LD 12/Lab 16/C 18/BNP 2

Preston

* Lab gain from NOC

Ind lose 2/LD lose 1/C lose 1/Lab gain 4

New council: Ind 1/C 21/Lab 29/LD 6

Purbeck

* No overall control

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: C 11/LD 11/Ind 2

Redditch

* Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab gain 2

New council: LD 1/Lab 11/C 17

Reigate & Banstead

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1/Green gain 1/C lose 1

New council: Green 2/Ind 2/LD 3/C 38/R 6

Ribble Valley

* Conservative

LD lose 3/C gain 3

New council: Ind 1/C 33/LD 6

Richmondshire

* No overall control

LD lose 2/C lose 2/Ind gain 4

New council: C 14/Ind 16/LD 4

Rochford

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: Green 1/Ind 1/R 1/C 32/LD 4

Rossendale

* Conservative lose to NOC

LD lose 1/C lose 3/Lab gain 4

New council: Ind 1/C 16/Lab 17/LD 2

Rother

* Conservative

Lab gain 2/Ind gain 2/LD lose 3/C lose 1

New council: Lab 2/C 27/Ind 4/LD 5

Rugby

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 11/C 29/LD 8

Runnymede

* Conservative

New council: C 36/Ind 6

Rushcliffe

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/Lab gain 3/LD lose 5/C gain 1

New council: Ind 1/Green 2/Vacant 2/C 34/Lab 5/LD 6

Rushmoor

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council: C 32/LD 4/Lab 6

Ryedale

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 6/Lib gain 1/Ind lose 1/C gain 6

New council: LD 2/C 20/Ind 4/Lib 4

Scarborough

* No overall control

Green lose 1/LD lose 2/Lab gain 4/Ind lose 2/C gain 1

New council: Ind 14/Green 2/C 25/LD 3/Lab 6

Sedgemoor*

* Conservative

LD down 1/Ind up 2/Lab up 3/C down 6

New council: Lab 13/Ind 2/LD 2/C 31

Selby

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: Lab 10/Ind 2/C 29

Sevenoaks

* Conservative

BNP lose 1/LD lose 5/C gain 6

New council: Ind 1/LD 2/Lab 4/C 47

Shepway

* Conservative

LD lose 6/C gain 6

New council: Ind 2/C 44

South Bucks

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council: Ind 1/LD 1/C 38

South Cambridgeshire

* Conservative

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council: Lab 1/LD 18/C 31/Ind 7

South Derbyshire*

* Conservative

Ind down 1/Lab up 4/C down 3

New council: Lab 17/C 19

South Hams

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/Ind lose 2/Green gain 2/LD lose 4/C gain 3

New council: Ind 1/Lab 1/Green 3/C 30/LD 5

South Holland

* Conservative

New council: Ind 12/C 25

South Kesteven

* Conservative

LD lose 4/Lab gain 4/Ind lose 5/C gain 5

New council: LD 1/Ind 11/Vacant 3/C 37/Lab 6

South Lakeland

* Liberal Democrat

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 1/C 18/LD 32

South Norfolk

* Conservative

New council: C 39/LD 7

South Northamptonshire

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/LD gain 2/Ind lose 1/C lose 2

New council: Lab 1/LD 2/C 33/Ind 6

South Oxfordshire

* Conservative

LD lose 3/Lab gain 3/Ind gain 4/C lose 4

New council: C 33/LD 4/Lab 4/Ind 7

South Ribble

* Conservative

Toad lose 1/UKIP lose 1/LD lose 1/Lab gain 12/C lose 9

New council: LD 1/Lab 21/C 33

South Somerset

* Liberal Democrat

Ind lose 2/C gain 8/LD lose 6

New council: C 25/LD 31/Ind 4

South Staffordshire

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1

New council: Lab 2/C 42/Ind 5

St Albans

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Green gain 1/LD lose 6/C gain 5

New council: Green 1/Ind 1/LD 24/C 29/Lab 3

St Edmundsbury

* Conservative

LD lose 3/Green lose 1/Lab gain 1/Ind gain 1/C gain 2

New council: Lab 3/C 38/Ind 4

Stafford

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Green gain 1/LD lose 2/Lab gain 5/C lose 3

New council: Green 1/Ind 1/Lab 17/LD 2/C 38

Staffordshire Moorlands

* Conservative lose to NOC

R lose 3/BNP lose 1/LD lose 2/Lab gain 2/Ind gain 7/C lose 3

New council: UKIP 1/Ind 18/C 26/LD 4/Lab 7

Stevenage

* Lab

New council: Lab 27/LD 3/C 9

Stratford-on-Avon

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/LD lose 3/C gain 2

New council: LD 16/Ind 3/C 34

Stroud

* Conservative lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 4

New council: Lab 11/C 25/Ind 3/Green 6/LD 6

Suffolk Coastal

* Conservative

Ind gain 2/Lab gain 3/LD lose 4/C lose 1

New council: Ind 2/Lab 4/C 44/LD 5

Surrey Heath

* Conservative

LD lose 7/C gain 7

New council: Ind 2/Lab 2/C 36

Swale

* Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab gain 3/C lose 1

New council: Ind 1/LD 1/Lab 13/C 32

Tamworth

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council: Ind 1/C 23/Lab 6

Tandridge

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Ind 2/C 34/LD 6

Taunton Deane

* No overall control

Ind lose 2/Lab gain 2/LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council: Ind 2/LD 23/C 28/Lab 3

Teignbridge

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 7/C gain 8

New council: LD 13/C 26/Ind 7

Tendring

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 4/R gain 3/Lab gain 2/Ind lose 6/C gain 5

New council: Ind 13/LD 2/R 3/C 33/Lab 9

Test Valley

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 2/C gain 3

New council: LD 12/C 36

Tewkesbury

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/LD lose 4/C gain 5

New council: LD 11/C 24/Ind 3

Thanet

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 6/C lose 6

New council: Lab 26/C 27/Ind 3

Three Rivers

* Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: Ind 1/C 14/LD 29/Lab 4

Tonbridge & Malling

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/LD lose 3/C gain 2

New council: Lab 1/LD 4/C 48

Torridge

* No overall control

Lab gain 1/Green gain 1/LD gain 1/Ind lose 4/C gain 1

New council: Green 1/Lab 1/Ind 10/C 18/LD 6

Tunbridge Wells

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 1/Ind gain 1/UKIP gain 1/C lose 2

New council: Ind 1/Lab 1/UKIP 1/C 39/LD 6

Uttlesford

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 6/C gain 7

New council: Ind 2/C 34/LD 8

Vale of White Horse

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 1/LD lose 14/C gain 13

New council: Lab 1/LD 19/C 31

Watford

* Liberal Democrat

C lose 1/Lab gain 2/LD lose 1

New council: Ind 1/C 2/LD 24/Green 3/Lab 6

Waveney

* Conservative lose to NOC

LD lose 2/Ind lose 2/Lab gain 8/C lose 4

New council: Green 1/Ind 1/C 23/Lab 23

Waverley

* Conservative

LD lose 3/Ind lose 3/C gain 6

New council: Ind 1/C 56

Wealden

* Conservative

Green lose 2/LD lose 10/Ind lose 2/C gain 14

New council: LD 3/C 47/Ind 5

Wellingborough

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab gain 5/C lose 4

New council: C 27/Lab 9

Welwyn Hatfield

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab gain 4/C lose 3

New council: LD 2/C 37/Lab 9

West Devon*

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD down 5/Ind down 2/C up 7

New council: C 19/LD 3/Ind 9

West Dorset

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 3/C gain 4

New council: LD 11/C 32/Ind 5

West Lancashire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 2

New council: Lab 21/C 33

West Lindsey*

* Conservative

Lab up 2/Ind up 2/LD down 3/C down 1

New council: LD 11/Lab 2/C 21/Ind 3

West Oxfordshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 3/C gain 4

New council: Lab 1/LD 4/C 44

West Somerset*

* Conservative gain from Ind

LD down 1/Lab up 1/Ind down 9/C up 6

New council: C 19/Lab 2/Ind 7

Weymouth & Portland

* No overall control

LD lose 1/Lab gain 2/C lose 1

New council: LD 10/C 17/Ind 2/Lab 7

Winchester

* No overall control

Lab gain 1/LD lose 1

New council: Lab 1/Ind 2/C 27/LD 27

Worcester

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council: Lab 11/C 19/Ind 2/LD 3

Worthing

* Conservative

New council: Ind 1/LD 11/C 25

Wychavon

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/LD lose 6/C gain 5

New council: Lab 1/Vacant 1/C 38/LD 5

Wyre

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/Lab gain 7/C lose 5

New council: Lab 15/C 40

Wyre Forest

* Conservative

Ind CHC lose 3/Lab gain 2/C gain 1

New council: C 24/Ind 3/Ind CHC 4/Lib 5/Lab 6

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Elections: Scottish parliament: Welsh assembly

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 5853 words


Aberdeen Central

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Kevin Stewart (SNP) 10,058 (39.99%)

Lewis Macdonald (Lab) 9,441 (37.54%)

Sandy Wallace (C) 3,100 (12.33%)

Sheila Thomson (LD) 2,349 (9.34%)

Mike Phillips (Nat Front) 201 (0.80%)

Scottish National Party majority 617 (2.45%)

0.54% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 57,396

Turnout 25,149 (43.82%)

Aberdeen Donside

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Brian Adam (SNP) 14,790 (55.27%)

Barney Crockett (Lab) 7,615 (28.46%)

Ross Thomson (C) 2,166 (8.09%)

Millie McLeod (LD) 1,606 (6.00%)

David Henderson (Ind) 371 (1.39%)

Christopher Willett (Nat Front) 213 (0.80%)

Scottish National Party majority 7,175 (26.81%)

6.87% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,145

Turnout 26,761 (47.66%)

Aberdeen South & Kincardine North

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Maureen Watt (SNP) 11,947 (41.63%)

Greg Williams (Lab) 5,624 (19.60%)

John Sleigh (LD) 4,994 (17.40%)

Stewart Whyte (C) 4,058 (14.14%)

Marie Boulton (Ind) 1,860 (6.48%)

Ross Willett (Nat Front) 214 (0.75%)

Scottish National Party majority 6,323 (22.03%)

15.77% swing LD to SNPElectorate 54,338

Turnout 28,697 (52.81%)

Aberdeenshire East

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Alex Salmond (SNP) 19,533 (64.50%)

Alison McInnes (LD) 4,238 (13.99%)

Geordie Burnett Stuart (C) 4,211 (13.90%)

Peter Smyth (Lab) 2,304 (7.61%)

Scottish National Party majority 15,295 (50.50%)

19.53% swing LD to SNPElectorate 57,591

Turnout 30,286 (52.59%)

Aberdeenshire West

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Dennis Robertson (SNP) 12,186 (42.55%)

Mike Rumbles (LD) 8,074 (28.20%)

Nanette Milne (C) 6,027 (21.05%)

Jean Morrison (Lab) 2,349 (8.20%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,112 (14.36%)

13.45% swing LD to SNPElectorate 53,779

Turnout 28,636 (53.25%)

Airdrie & Shotts

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Alex Neil (SNP) 11,984 (50.15%)

Karen Whitefield (Lab) 9,983 (41.78%)

Robert Crozier (C) 1,396 (5.84%)

John Love (LD) 531 (2.22%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,001 (8.37%)

5.50% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 51,336

Turnout 23,894 (46.54%)

Almond Valley

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Angela Constance (SNP) 16,704 (54.34%)

Lawrence Fitzpatrick (Lab) 11,162 (36.31%)

Andrew Hardie (C) 1,886 (6.14%)

Emma Sykes (LD) 656 (2.13%)

Neil McIvor (Nat Front) 329 (1.07%)

Scottish National Party majority 5,542 (18.03%)

9.01% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 59,896

Turnout 30,737 (51.32%)

Angus North & Mearns

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Nigel Don (SNP) 13,660 (54.82%)

Alex Johnstone (C) 6,374 (25.58%)

Kevin Hutchens (Lab) 3,160 (12.68%)

Sanjay Samani (LD) 1,726 (6.93%)

Scottish National Party majority 7,286 (29.24%)

4.15% swing C to SNPElectorate 52,124

Turnout 24,920 (47.81%)

Angus South

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Graeme Dey (SNP) 16,164 (58.47%)

Hugh Campbell Adamson (C) 5,581 (20.19%)

Willie Campbell (Lab) 3,703 (13.40%)

David Fairweather (Angus Ind) 1,321 (4.78%)

Clive Sneddon (LD) 874 (3.16%)

Scottish National Party majority 10,583 (38.28%)

9.31% swing C to SNPElectorate 54,922

Turnout 27,643 (50.33%)

Argyll & Bute

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Michael Russell (SNP) 13,390 (50.57%)

Jamie McGrigor (C) 4,847 (18.31%)

Mick Rice (Lab) 4,041 (15.26%)

Alison Hay (LD) 3,220 (12.16%)

George Doyle (Ind) 542 (2.05%)

George White (Lib) 436 (1.65%)

Scottish National Party majority 8,543 (32.27%)

8.52% swing C to SNPElectorate 49,028

Turnout 26,476 (54.00%)

Ayr

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

John Scott (C) 12,997 (38.94%)

Chic Brodie (SNP) 11,884 (35.61%)

Gordon McKenzie (Lab) 7,779 (23.31%)

Eileen Taylor (LD) 713 (2.14%)

Conservative majority 1,113 (3.34%)

5.16% swing C to SNPElectorate 61,563

Turnout 33,373 (54.21%)

Banffshire & Buchan Coast

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Stewart Stevenson (SNP) 16,812 (67.24%)

Michael Watt (C) 4,592 (18.37%)

Alan Duffill (Lab) 2,642 (10.57%)

Galen Milne (LD) 958 (3.83%)

Scottish National Party majority 12,220 (48.87%)

3.48% swing C to SNPElectorate 53,698

Turnout 25,004 (46.56%)

Caithness, Sutherland & Ross

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Rob Gibson (SNP) 13,843 (48.40%)

Robbie Rowantree (LD) 6,385 (22.33%)

John MacKay (Lab) 5,438 (19.01%)

Edward Mountain (C) 2,934 (10.26%)

Scottish National Party majority 7,458 (26.08%)

17.32% swing LD to SNPElectorate 55,116

Turnout 28,600 (51.89%)

Carrick, Cumnock & Doon Valley

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Adam Ingram (SNP) 13,250 (46.16%)

Richard Leonard (Lab) 10,669 (37.17%)

Peter Kennerley (C) 4,160 (14.49%)

Andrew Chamberlain (LD) 624 (2.17%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,581 (8.99%)

11.77% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 59,368

Turnout 28,703 (48.35%)

Clackmannanshire & Dunblane

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Keith Brown (SNP) 13,253 (48.34%)

Richard Simpson (Lab) 9,644 (35.18%)

Callum Campbell (C) 3,501 (12.77%)

Tim Brett (LD) 1,018 (3.71%)

Scottish National Party majority 3,609 (13.16%)

5.20% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 49,415

Turnout 27,416 (55.48%)

Clydebank & Milngavie

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Gil Paterson (SNP) 12,278 (43.28%)

Des McNulty (Lab) 11,564 (40.76%)

Alice Struthers (C) 2,758 (9.72%)

John Duncan (LD) 1,769 (6.24%)

Scottish National Party majority 714 (2.52%)

6.56% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 53,018

Turnout 28,369 (53.51%)

Clydesdale

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Aileen Campbell (SNP) 14,931 (49.87%)

Karen Gillon (Lab) 10,715 (35.79%)

Colin McGavigan (C) 4,291 (14.33%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,216 (14.08%)

8.89% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,828

Turnout 29,937 (52.68%)

Coatbridge & Chryston

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Elaine Smith (Lab) 12,161 (52.24%)

John Wilson (SNP) 9,420 (40.47%)

Jason Lingiah (C) 1,317 (5.66%)

Rod Ackland (LD) 381 (1.64%)

Labour majority 2,741 (11.77%)

3.28% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 51,206

Turnout 23,279 (45.46%)

Cowdenbeath

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Helen Eadie (Lab) 11,926 (46.46%)

Ian Chisholm (SNP) 10,679 (41.60%)

Belinda Don (C) 1,792 (6.98%)

Keith Legg (LD) 997 (3.88%)

Mike Heenan (Land) 276 (1.08%)

Labour majority 1,247 (4.86%)

4.85% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 54,284

Turnout 25,670 (47.29%)

Cumbernauld & Kilsyth

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Jamie Hepburn (SNP) 13,595 (53.83%)

Cathie Craigie (Lab) 10,136 (40.14%)

James Boswell (C) 1,156 (4.58%)

Martin Oliver (LD) 367 (1.45%)

Scottish National Party majority 3,459 (13.70%)

10.79% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 48,006

Turnout 25,254 (52.61%)

Cunninghame North

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Kenneth Gibson (SNP) 15,539 (52.61%)

Allan Wilson (Lab) 9,422 (31.90%)

Maurice Golden (C) 4,032 (13.65%)

Mallika Punukollu (LD) 543 (1.84%)

Scottish National Party majority 6,117 (20.71%)

10.29% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,548

Turnout 29,536 (52.23%)

Cunninghame South

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Margaret Burgess (SNP) 10,993 (49.84%)

Irene Oldfather (Lab) 8,645 (39.20%)

Alistair Haw (C) 1,871 (8.48%)

Ruby Kirkwood (LD) 547 (2.48%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,348 (10.65%)

9.93% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 50,926

Turnout 22,056 (43.31%)

Dumbarton

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Jackie Baillie (Lab) 12,562 (44.06%)

Iain Robertson (SNP) 10,923 (38.32%)

Graham Smith (C) 3,395 (11.91%)

Helen Watt (LD) 858 (3.01%)

George Rice (Ind) 770 (2.70%)

Labour majority 1,639 (5.75%)

0.24% swing SNP to LabElectorate 53,470

Turnout 28,508 (53.32%)

Dumfriesshire

* Labour gain from Con

Boundary change

Elaine Murray (Lab) 12,624 (39.58%)

Gillian Dykes (C) 9,468 (29.68%)

Aileen Orr (SNP) 8,384 (26.29%)

Richard Brodie (LD) 1,419 (4.45%)

Labour majority 3,156 (9.89%)

5.99% swing C to LabElectorate 59,716

Turnout 31,895 (53.41%)

Dundee City East

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Shona Robison (SNP) 16,541 (64.23%)

Mohammed Asif (Lab) 5,862 (22.76%)

Brian Docherty (C) 2,550 (9.90%)

Allan Petrie (LD) 800 (3.11%)

Scottish National Party majority 10,679 (41.47%)

12.47% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 54,404

Turnout 25,753 (47.34%)

Dundee City West

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Joe Fitzpatrick (SNP) 14,089 (57.60%)

Richard McCready (Lab) 7,684 (31.41%)

Colin Stewart (C) 1,625 (6.64%)

Alison Burns (LD) 1,063 (4.35%)

Scottish National Party majority 6,405 (26.18%)

8.88% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 53,841

Turnout 24,461 (45.43%)

Dunfermline

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Bill Walker (SNP) 11,050 (37.66%)

Alex Rowley (Lab) 10,420 (35.52%)

Jim Tolson (LD) 5,776 (19.69%)

James Reekie (C) 2,093 (7.13%)

Scottish National Party majority 630 (2.15%)

13.54% swing LD to SNPElectorate 55,479

Turnout 29,339 (52.88%)

East Kilbride

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Linda Fabiani (SNP) 14,359 (48.01%)

Andy Kerr (Lab) 12,410 (41.49%)

Graham Simpson (C) 2,260 (7.56%)

Douglas Herbison (LD) 468 (1.56%)

John Houston (Ind) 414 (1.38%)

Scottish National Party majority 1,949 (6.52%)

6.64% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 58,251

Turnout 29,911 (51.35%)

East Lothian

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Iain Gray (Lab) 12,536 (38.96%)

Dave Berry (SNP) 12,385 (38.49%)

Derek Brownlee (C) 5,344 (16.61%)

Ettie Spencer (LD) 1,912 (5.94%)

Labour majority 151 (0.47%)

3.12% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,333

Turnout 32,177 (57.12%)

Eastwood

* Labour gain from Con

Boundary change

Ken Macintosh (Lab) 12,662 (39.66%)

Jackson Carlaw (C) 10,650 (33.36%)

Stewart Maxwell (SNP) 7,777 (24.36%)

Gordon Cochrane (LD) 835 (2.62%)

Labour majority 2,012 (6.30%)

8.74% swing C to LabElectorate 50,476

Turnout 31,924 (63.25%)

Edinburgh Central

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Marco Biagi (SNP) 9,480 (32.67%)

Sarah Boyack (Lab) 9,243 (31.86%)

Alex Cole-Hamilton (LD) 5,937 (20.46%)

Iain McGill (C) 4,354 (15.01%)

Scottish National Party majority 237 (0.82%)

10.16% swing LD to SNPElectorate 53,606

Turnout 29,014 (54.12%)

Edinburgh Eastern

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Kenny MacAskill (SNP) 14,552 (47.36%)

Ewan Aitken (Lab) 12,319 (40.09%)

Cameron Buchanan (C) 2,630 (8.56%)

Martin Veart (LD) 1,227 (3.99%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,233 (7.27%)

4.53% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 55,773

Turnout 30,728 (55.09%)

Edinburgh Northern & Leith

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Malcolm Chisholm (Lab) 12,858 (41.63%)

Shirley-Anne Somerville (SNP) 12,263 (39.71%)

Sheila Low (C) 2,928 (9.48%)

Dan Farthing (LD) 2,836 (9.18%)

Labour majority 595 (1.93%)

2.66% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 59,138

Turnout 30,885 (52.23%)

Edinburgh Pentlands

* Scottish National Party gain from Con

Boundary change

Gordon MacDonald (SNP) 11,197 (37.26%)

David McLetchie (C) 9,439 (31.41%)

Ricky Henderson (Lab) 7,993 (26.60%)

Simon Clark (LD) 1,420 (4.73%)

Scottish National Party majority 1,758 (5.85%)

7.42% swing C to SNPElectorate 52,620

Turnout 30,049 (57.11%)

Edinburgh Southern

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Jim Eadie (SNP) 9,947 (29.43%)

Paul Godzik (Lab) 9,254 (27.38%)

Mike Pringle (LD) 8,297 (24.55%)

Gavin Brown (C) 6,298 (18.64%)

Scottish National Party majority 693 (2.05%)

12.06% swing LD to SNPElectorate 54,868

Turnout 33,796 (61.60%)

Edinburgh Western

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Colin Keir (SNP) 11,965 (35.77%)

Margaret Smith (LD) 9,276 (27.73%)

Lesley Hinds (Lab) 7,164 (21.42%)

Gordon Lindhurst (C) 5,047 (15.09%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,689 (8.04%)

12.60% swing LD to SNPElectorate 56,338

Turnout 33,452 (59.38%)

Ettrick, Roxburgh & Berwickshire

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

John Lamont (C) 12,933 (44.88%)

Paul Wheelhouse (SNP) 7,599 (26.37%)

Euan Robson (LD) 4,990 (17.32%)

Rab Stewart (Lab) 2,986 (10.36%)

Jesse Rae (ND) 308 (1.07%)

Conservative majority 5,334 (18.51%)

1.39% swing C to SNPElectorate 54,327

Turnout 28,816 (53.04%)

Falkirk East

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Angus MacDonald (SNP) 14,302 (50.77%)

Cathy Peattie (Lab) 10,767 (38.22%)

Lynn Munro (C) 2,372 (8.42%)

Ross Laird (LD) 727 (2.58%)

Scottish National Party majority 3,535 (12.55%)

9.33% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,408

Turnout 28,168 (49.94%)

Falkirk West

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Michael Matheson (SNP) 15,607 (55.35%)

Dennis Goldie (Lab) 9,862 (34.97%)

Allan Finnie (C) 2,086 (7.40%)

Callum Chomczuk (LD) 644 (2.28%)

Scottish National Party majority 5,745 (20.37%)

8.91% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 55,739

Turnout 28,199 (50.59%)

Fife Mid & Glenrothes

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Tricia Marwick (SNP) 13,761 (52.30%)

Claire Baker (Lab) 9,573 (36.38%)

Allan Smith (C) 1,676 (6.37%)

Jim Parker (Pensioners) 673 (2.56%)

Callum Leslie (LD) 630 (2.39%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,188 (15.92%)

3.43% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 53,701

Turnout 26,313 (49.00%)

Fife North East

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Rod Campbell (SNP) 11,029 (37.16%)

Iain Smith (LD) 8,437 (28.43%)

Miles Briggs (C) 5,618 (18.93%)

Colin Davidson (Lab) 3,613 (12.17%)

Mike Scott-Hayward (UKIP) 979 (3.30%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,592 (8.73%)

15.02% swing LD to SNPElectorate 58,858

Turnout 29,676 (50.42%)

Galloway & Dumfries West

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Alex Fergusson (C) 11,071 (36.91%)

Aileen McLeod (SNP) 10,209 (34.03%)

Willie Scobie (Lab) 7,954 (26.52%)

Joe Rosiejak (LD) 763 (2.54%)

Conservative majority 862 (2.87%)

2.40% swing C to SNPElectorate 56,611

Turnout 29,997 (52.99%)

Glasgow Anniesland

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Bill Kidd (SNP) 10,329 (43.19%)

Bill Butler (Lab) 10,322 (43.16%)

Matthew Smith (C) 2,011 (8.41%)

Paul McGarry (LD) 1,000 (4.18%)

Marc Livingstone (Comm Brit) 256 (1.07%)

Scottish National Party majority 7 (0.03%)

10.09% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 55,411

Turnout 23,918 (43.16%)

Glasgow Cathcart

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

James Dornan (SNP) 11,918 (45.45%)

Charlie Gordon (Lab) 10,326 (39.38%)

Richard Sullivan (C) 2,410 (9.19%)

Eileen Baxendale (LD) 1,118 (4.26%)

John McKee (Ind) 450 (1.72%)

Scottish National Party majority 1,592 (6.07%)

6.53% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 58,525

Turnout 26,222 (44.80%)

Glasgow Kelvin

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Sandra White (SNP) 10,640 (43.34%)

Pauline McNeill (Lab) 9,758 (39.75%)

Natalie McKee (LD) 1,900 (7.74%)

Ruth Davidson (C) 1,845 (7.52%)

Tom Muirhead (Ind) 405 (1.65%)

Scottish National Party majority 882 (3.59%)

4.03% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 61,893

Turnout 24,548 (39.66%)

Glasgow Maryhill & Springburn

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Patricia Ferguson (Lab) 9,884 (48.14%)

Bob Doris (SNP) 8,592 (41.85%)

Stephanie Murray (C) 1,222 (5.95%)

Sophie Bridger (LD) 833 (4.06%)

Labour majority 1,292 (6.29%)

5.43% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,622

Turnout 20,531 (36.26%)

Glasgow Pollok

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Johann Lamont (Lab) 10,875 (47.46%)

Chris Stephens (SNP) 10,252 (44.74%)

Andrew Morrison (C) 1,298 (5.66%)

Isabel Nelson (LD) 490 (2.14%)

Labour majority 623 (2.72%)

8.53% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 58,429

Turnout 22,915 (39.22%)

Glasgow Provan

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Paul Martin (Lab) 10,037 (52.32%)

Anne McLaughlin (SNP) 7,958 (41.48%)

Majid Hussain (C) 777 (4.05%)

Michael O'Donnell (LD) 413 (2.15%)

Labour majority 2,079 (10.84%)

8.68% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 55,118

Turnout 19,185 (34.81%)

Glasgow Shettleston

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

John Mason (SNP) 10,128 (47.76%)

Frank McAveety (Lab) 9,542 (45.00%)

David Wilson (C) 1,163 (5.48%)

Ruaraidh Dobson (LD) 371 (1.75%)

Scottish National Party majority 586 (2.76%)

12.61% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 55,874

Turnout 21,204 (37.95%)

Glasgow Southside

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Nicola Sturgeon (SNP) 12,306 (54.43%)

Stephen Curran (Lab) 7,957 (35.20%)

David Meikle (C) 1,733 (7.67%)

Kenn Elder (LD) 612 (2.71%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,349 (19.24%)

9.68% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 52,325

Turnout 22,608 (43.21%)

Greenock & Inverclyde

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Duncan McNeil (Lab) 12,387 (43.91%)

Stuart McMillan (SNP) 11,876 (42.10%)

Graeme Brooks (C) 2,011 (7.13%)

Ross Finnie (LD) 1,934 (6.86%)

Labour majority 511 (1.81%)

6.90% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,989

Turnout 28,208 (49.50%)

Hamilton, Larkhall & Stonehouse

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Christina McKelvie (SNP) 12,202 (48.13%)

Tom McCabe (Lab) 9,989 (39.40%)

Margaret Mitchell (C) 2,547 (10.05%)

Ewan Hoyle (LD) 616 (2.43%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,213 (8.73%)

10.99% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 56,123

Turnout 25,354 (45.18%)

Inverness & Nairn

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Fergus Ewing (SNP) 16,870 (51.54%)

Dave Stewart (Lab) 7,125 (21.77%)

Mary Scanlon (C) 3,797 (11.60%)

Christine Jardine (LD) 3,763 (11.50%)

Donald Boyd (SCP) 646 (1.97%)

Ross Durance (UKIP) 530 (1.62%)

Scottish National Party majority 9,745 (29.77%)

4.85% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 62,168

Turnout 32,731 (52.65%)

Kilmarnock & Irvine Valley

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Willie Coffey (SNP) 16,964 (53.25%)

Matt McLaughlin (Lab) 10,971 (34.44%)

Grant Fergusson (C) 3,309 (10.39%)

Robbie Simpson (LD) 614 (1.93%)

Scottish National Party majority 5,993 (18.81%)

7.40% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 63,257

Turnout 31,858 (50.36%)

Kirkcaldy

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

David Torrance (SNP) 12,579 (45.24%)

Marilyn Livingstone (Lab) 12,397 (44.59%)

Ian McFarlane (C) 2,007 (7.22%)

John Mainland (LD) 820 (2.95%)

Scottish National Party majority 182 (0.65%)

6.19% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 60,079

Turnout 27,803 (46.28%)

Linlithgow

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Fiona Hyslop (SNP) 17,027 (49.81%)

Mary Mulligan (Lab) 12,936 (37.84%)

Christopher Donnelly (C) 2,646 (7.74%)

Jenni Lang (LD) 1,015 (2.97%)

Mike Coyle (Nat Front) 558 (1.63%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,091 (11.97%)

6.42% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 65,025

Turnout 34,182 (52.57%)

Midlothian North & Musselburgh

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Colin Beattie (SNP) 14,079 (47.22%)

Bernard Harkins (Lab) 11,083 (37.17%)

Scott Douglas (C) 2,541 (8.52%)

Ian Younger (LD) 1,254 (4.21%)

Alan Hay (Ind) 861 (2.89%)

Scottish National Party majority 2,996 (10.05%)

7.61% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 58,246

Turnout 29,818 (51.19%)

Midlothian South, Tweeddale & Lauderdale

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Christine Grahame (SNP) 13,855 (43.51%)

Jeremy Purvis (LD) 8,931 (28.05%)

Ian Miller (Lab) 5,312 (16.68%)

Peter Duncan (C) 3,743 (11.76%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,924 (15.46%)

5.87% swing LD to SNPElectorate 57,781

Turnout 31,841 (55.11%)

Moray

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Richard Lochhead (SNP) 16,817 (58.81%)

Douglas Ross (C) 5,873 (20.54%)

Kieron Green (Lab) 3,580 (12.52%)

Jamie Paterson (LD) 1,327 (4.64%)

Donald Gatt (UKIP) 999 (3.49%)

Scottish National Party majority 10,944 (38.27%)

6.19% swing C to SNPElectorate 56,215

Turnout 28,596 (50.87%)

Motherwell & Wishaw

* Labour hold

Boundary change

John Pentland (Lab) 10,713 (43.81%)

Clare Adamson (SNP) 10,126 (41.41%)

Bob Burgess (C) 1,753 (7.17%)

John Swinburne (Pensioners) 945 (3.86%)

Tom Selfridge (SCP) 547 (2.24%)

Beverley Hope (LD) 367 (1.50%)

Labour majority 587 (2.40%)

10.20% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 53,610

Turnout 24,451 (45.61%)

Na H-Eileanan An Iar

* Scottish National Party hold

Alasdair Allan (SNP) 8,496 (65.30%)

Donald Crichton (Lab) 3,724 (28.62%)

Charlie McGrigor (C) 563 (4.33%)

Peter Morrison (LD) 228 (1.75%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,772 (36.68%)

15.82% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 21,834

Turnout 13,011 (59.59%)

Orkney Islands

* Liberal Democrat hold

Liam McArthur (LD) 2,912 (35.72%)

James Stockan (Ind) 2,052 (25.17%)

Donna Heddle (SNP) 2,044 (25.07%)

Jamie Halcro Johnston (C) 686 (8.42%)

William Sharkey (Lab) 458 (5.62%)

Liberal Democrat majority 860 (10.55%)

17.70% swing LD to IndElectorate 16,393

Turnout 8,152 (49.73%)

Paisley

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

George Adam (SNP) 10,913 (42.65%)

Evan Williams (Lab) 10,665 (41.68%)

Gordon McCaskill (C) 2,229 (8.71%)

Eileen McCartin (LD) 1,783 (6.97%)

Scottish National Party majority 248 (0.97%)

7.80% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 52,066

Turnout 25,590 (49.15%)

Perthshire North

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

John Swinney (SNP) 18,219 (60.83%)

Murdo Fraser (C) 7,866 (26.26%)

Pete Cheema (Lab) 2,672 (8.92%)

Victor Clements (LD) 1,196 (3.99%)

Scottish National Party majority 10,353 (34.56%)

6.53% swing C to SNPElectorate 53,412

Turnout 29,953 (56.08%)

Perthshire South & Kinross-Shire

* Scottish National Party hold

Boundary change

Roseanna Cunningham (SNP) 16,073 (51.49%)

Elizabeth Smith (C) 8,907 (28.53%)

Patricia Duncan (Lab) 3,980 (12.75%)

Willie Robertson (LD) 2,256 (7.23%)

Scottish National Party majority 7,166 (22.96%)

9.25% swing C to SNPElectorate 58,093

Turnout 31,216 (53.73%)

Renfrewshire North & West

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Derek Mackay (SNP) 11,510 (41.86%)

Stuart Clark (Lab) 9,946 (36.17%)

Annabel Goldie (C) 5,489 (19.96%)

Andrew Page (LD) 550 (2.00%)

Scottish National Party majority 1,564 (5.69%)

8.42% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 49,060

Turnout 27,495 (56.04%)

Renfrewshire South

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Hugh Henry (Lab) 12,933 (48.06%)

Andy Doig (SNP) 10,356 (38.49%)

Alistair Campbell (C) 2,917 (10.84%)

Gordon Anderson (LD) 702 (2.61%)

Labour majority 2,577 (9.58%)

5.41% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 50,221

Turnout 26,908 (53.58%)

Rutherglen

* Labour hold

Boundary change

James Kelly (Lab) 12,489 (46.05%)

Jim McGuigan (SNP) 10,710 (39.49%)

Martyn McIntyre (C) 2,096 (7.73%)

Lisa Strachan (LD) 1,194 (4.40%)

Caroline Johnstone (Ind) 633 (2.33%)

Labour majority 1,779 (6.56%)

7.43% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 57,777

Turnout 27,122 (46.94%)

Shetland Islands

* Liberal Democrat hold

Tavish Scott (LD) 4,462 (47.51%)

Billy Fox (Ind) 2,845 (30.29%)

Jean Urquhart (SNP) 1,134 (12.08%)

Jamie Kerr (Lab) 620 (6.60%)

Sandy Cross (C) 330 (3.51%)

Liberal Democrat majority 1,617 (17.22%)

Electorate 17,505

Turnout 9,391 (53.65%)

Skye, Lochaber & Badenoch

* Scottish National Party gain from LD

Boundary change

Dave Thompson (SNP) 14,737 (46.18%)

Alan MacRae (LD) 9,742 (30.52%)

Linda Stewart (Lab) 4,112 (12.88%)

Kerensa Carr (C) 2,834 (8.88%)

Ronnie Campbell (ND) 490 (1.54%)

Scottish National Party majority 4,995 (15.65%)

12.97% swing LD to SNPElectorate 57,024

Turnout 31,915 (55.97%)

Stirling

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Bruce Crawford (SNP) 14,858 (48.87%)

John Hendry (Lab) 9,188 (30.22%)

Neil Benny (C) 4,610 (15.16%)

Graham Reed (LD) 1,296 (4.26%)

Jack Black (Ind) 454 (1.49%)

Scottish National Party majority 5,670 (18.65%)

9.93% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 51,458

Turnout 30,406 (59.09%)

Strathkelvin & Bearsden

* Scottish National Party gain from Labour

Boundary change

Fiona McLeod (SNP) 14,258 (42.24%)

David Whitton (Lab) 12,456 (36.90%)

Stephanie Fraser (C) 4,438 (13.15%)

Gordon MacDonald (LD) 2,600 (7.70%)

Scottish National Party majority 1,802 (5.34%)

7.69% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 59,323

Turnout 33,752 (56.90%)

Uddingston & Bellshill

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Michael McMahon (Lab) 11,531 (46.13%)

Richard Lyle (SNP) 10,817 (43.28%)

Mark Brown (C) 2,117 (8.47%)

Fraser Macgregor (LD) 530 (2.12%)

Labour majority 714 (2.86%)

9.04% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 55,584

Turnout 24,995 (44.97%)

Glasgow

Ruth Davidson (C)

Hanzala Malik (Lab)

Drew Smith (Lab)

Anne McTaggart (Lab)

Humza Yousaf (SNP)

Bob Doris (SNP)

Patrick Harvie (Green)

Highlands & Islands

Jamie McGrigor (C)

Mary Scanlon (C)

Rhoda Grant (Lab)

Dave Stewart (Lab)

John Finnie (SNP)

Jean Urquhart (SNP)

Mike MacKenzie (SNP)

Lothian

David McLetchie (C)

Gavin Brown (C)

Sarah Boyack (Lab)

Kez Dugdale (Lab)

Neil Findlay (Lab)

Alison Johnstone (Green)

Margo MacDonald (Ind)

Scotland Central

Margaret Mitchell (C)

Siobhon McMahon (Lab)

Mark Griffin (Lab)

Margaret McCulloch (Lab)

Richard Lyle (SNP)

John Wilson (SNP)

Clare Adamson (SNP)

Scotland Mid & Fife

Murdo Fraser (C)

Elizabeth Smith (C)

John Park (Lab)

Claire Baker (Lab)

Richard Simpson (Lab)

Willie Rennie (LD)

Annabelle Ewing (SNP)

Scotland North East

Alex Johnstone (C)

Nanette Milne (C)

Richard Baker (Lab)

Jenny Marra (Lab)

Lewis Macdonald (Lab)

Alison McInnes (LD)

Mark McDonald (SNP)

Scotland South

Claudia Beamish (Lab)

Graeme Pearson (Lab)

Jim Hume (LD)

Aileen McLeod (SNP)

Joan McAlpine (SNP)

Paul Wheelhouse (SNP)

Chic Brodie (SNP)

Scotland West

Annabel Goldie (C)

Jackson Carlaw (C)

Mary Fee (Lab)

Neil Bibby (Lab)

Margaret McDougall (Lab)

Stewart Maxwell (SNP)

Stuart McMillan (SNP)

Wales

Aberavon

* Labour hold

David Rees (Lab) 12,104 (64.11%)

Paul Nicholls-Jones (PC) 2,793 (14.79%)

Tamojen Morgan (C) 2,704 (14.32%)

Helen Ceri Clarke (LD) 1,278 (6.77%)

Labour majority 9,311 (49.32%)

8.65% swing PC to LabElectorate 50,754

Turnout 18,879 (37.20%)

Aberconwy

* Conservative gain from Plaid Cymru

Janet Finch-Saunders (C) 6,888 (33.95%)

Iwan Hughes (PC) 5,321 (26.23%)

Eifion Williams (Lab) 5,206 (25.66%)

Mike Priestley (LD) 2,873 (14.16%)

Conservative majority 1,567 (7.72%)

7.95% swing PC to CElectorate 44,978

Turnout 20,288 (45.11%)

Alyn & Deeside

* Labour hold

Carl Sargeant (Lab) 11,978 (52.61%)

John Bell (C) 6,397 (28.10%)

Pete Williams (LD) 1,725 (7.58%)

Shane Brennan (PC) 1,710 (7.51%)

Michael Whitby (BNP) 959 (4.21%)

Labour majority 5,581 (24.51%)

4.29% swing C to LabElectorate 61,751

Turnout 22,769 (36.87%)

Arfon

* Plaid Cymru hold

Alun Ffred Jones (PC) 10,024 (56.75%)

Christina Rees (Lab) 4,630 (26.21%)

Aled Davies (C) 2,209 (12.51%)

Rhys Jones (LD) 801 (4.53%)

Plaid Cymru majority 5,394 (30.54%)

2.45% swing Lab to PCElectorate 41,093

Turnout 17,664 (42.99%)

Blaenau Gwent

* Labour gain from Ind

Alun Davies (Lab) 12,926 (63.96%)

Jayne Sullivan (Ind) 3,806 (18.83%)

Darren Jones (PC) 1,098 (5.43%)

Bob Hayward (C) 1,066 (5.27%)

Brian Urch (BNP) 948 (4.69%)

Martin Blakebrough (LD) 367 (1.82%)

Labour majority 9,120 (45.12%)

33.95% swing Ind to LabElectorate 53,230

Turnout 20,211 (37.97%)

Brecon & Radnorshire

* Liberal Democrat hold

Kirsty Williams (LD) 12,201 (43.04%)

Chris Davies (C) 9,444 (33.31%)

Christopher Lloyd (Lab) 4,797 (16.92%)

Gary Price (PC) 1,906 (6.72%)

Liberal Democrat majority 2,757 (9.73%)

4.45% swing LD to CElectorate 53,546

Turnout 28,348 (52.94%)

Bridgend

* Labour hold

Carwyn Jones (Lab) 13,499 (56.16%)

Alex Williams (C) 6,724 (27.98%)

Tim Thomas (PC) 2,076 (8.64%)

Briony Davies (LD) 1,736 (7.22%)

Labour majority 6,775 (28.19%)

8.89% swing C to LabElectorate 59,104

Turnout 24,035 (40.67%)

Caerphilly

* Labour hold

Jeff Cuthbert (Lab) 12,521 (48.97%)

Ron Davies (PC) 7,597 (29.71%)

Owen Meredith (C) 3,368 (13.17%)

Kay David (LD) 1,062 (4.15%)

Anthony King (BNP) 1,022 (4.00%)

Labour majority 4,924 (19.26%)

5.25% swing PC to LabElectorate 62,049

Turnout 25,570 (41.21%)

Cardiff Central

* Labour gain from Liberal Democrat

Jenny Rathbone (Lab) 8,954 (37.90%)

Nigel Howells (LD) 8,916 (37.73%)

Matt Smith (C) 3,559 (15.06%)

Chris Williams (PC) 1,690 (7.15%)

Mathab Khan (Ind) 509 (2.15%)

Labour majority 38 (0.16%)

14.74% swing LD to LabElectorate 64,347

Turnout 23,628 (36.72%)

Cardiff North

* Labour gain from Con

Julie Morgan (Lab) 16,384 (47.59%)

Jonathan Morgan (C) 14,602 (42.41%)

Ben Foday (PC) 1,850 (5.37%)

Matt Smith (LD) 1,595 (4.63%)

Labour majority 1,782 (5.18%)

9.77% swing C to LabElectorate 66,934

Turnout 34,431 (51.44%)

Cardiff South & Penarth

* Labour hold

Vaughan Gething (Lab) 13,814 (50.27%)

Ben Gray (C) 7,555 (27.49%)

Liz Musa (PC) 3,324 (12.10%)

Sian Cliff (LD) 2,786 (10.14%)

Labour majority 6,259 (22.78%)

6.24% swing C to LabElectorate 75,038

Turnout 27,479 (36.62%)

Cardiff West

* Labour hold

Mark Drakeford (Lab) 13,067 (47.13%)

Craig Williams (C) 7,166 (25.85%)

Neil McEvoy (PC) 5,551 (20.02%)

David Morgan (LD) 1,942 (7.00%)

Labour majority 5,901 (21.28%)

3.77% swing C to LabElectorate 64,219

Turnout 27,726 (43.17%)

Carmarthen East & Dinefwr

* Plaid Cymru hold

Rhodri Glyn Thomas (PC) 12,501 (44.92%)

Anthony Jones (Lab) 8,353 (30.02%)

Henrietta Hensher (C) 5,635 (20.25%)

Will Griffiths (LD) 1,339 (4.81%)

Plaid Cymru majority 4,148 (14.91%)

7.01% swing PC to LabElectorate 54,243

Turnout 27,828 (51.30%)

Carmarthen West & Pembrokeshire South

* Conservative hold

Angela Burns (C) 10,095 (35.85%)

Christine Gwyther (Lab) 8,591 (30.51%)

Nerys Evans (PC) 8,373 (29.74%)

Selwyn Runnett (LD) 1,097 (3.90%)

Conservative majority 1,504 (5.34%)

2.50% swing Lab to CElectorate 58,435

Turnout 28,156 (48.18%)

Ceredigion

* Plaid Cymru hold

Elin Jones (PC) 12,020 (41.34%)

Liz Evans (LD) 10,243 (35.23%)

Luke Evetts (C) 2,755 (9.48%)

Richard Boudier (Lab) 2,544 (8.75%)

Chris Simpson (Green) 1,514 (5.21%)

Plaid Cymru majority 1,777 (6.11%)

3.51% swing PC to LDElectorate 56,983

Turnout 29,076 (51.03%)

Clwyd South

* Labour hold

Ken Skates (Lab) 8,500 (42.42%)

Paul Rogers (C) 5,841 (29.15%)

Mabon ap Gwynfor (PC) 3,719 (18.56%)

Bruce Roberts (LD) 1,977 (9.87%)

Labour majority 2,659 (13.27%)

3.77% swing C to LabElectorate 54,499

Turnout 20,037 (36.77%)

Clwyd West

* Conservative hold

Darren Millar (C) 10,890 (43.30%)

Crispin Jones (Lab) 6,642 (26.41%)

Eifion Lloyd Jones (PC) 5,775 (22.96%)

Brian Cossey (LD) 1,846 (7.34%)

Conservative majority 4,248 (16.89%)

5.40% swing Lab to CElectorate 57,980

Turnout 25,153 (43.38%)

Cynon Valley

* Labour hold

Christine Chapman (Lab) 11,626 (61.97%)

Dafydd Trystan Davies (PC) 5,111 (27.24%)

Dan Saxton (C) 1,531 (8.16%)

Ian Walton (LD) 492 (2.62%)

Labour majority 6,515 (34.73%)

2.96% swing PC to LabElectorate 52,133

Turnout 18,760 (35.98%)

Delyn

* Labour hold

Sandy Mewies (Lab) 10,695 (46.11%)

Matt Wright (C) 7,814 (33.69%)

Carrie Harper (PC) 2,918 (12.58%)

Michele Jones (LD) 1,767 (7.62%)

Labour majority 2,881 (12.42%)

5.03% swing C to LabElectorate 53,996

Turnout 23,194 (42.96%)

Dwyfor Meirionnydd

* Plaid Cymru hold

Dafydd Elis-Thomas (PC) 9,656 (46.55%)

Simon Baynes (C) 4,239 (20.44%)

Louise Hughes (Gwynedd) 3,225 (15.55%)

Martyn Singleton (Lab) 2,623 (12.65%)

Steve Churchman (LD) 1,000 (4.82%)

Plaid Cymru majority 5,417 (26.11%)

6.99% swing PC to CElectorate 44,669

Turnout 20,743 (46.44%)

Gower

* Labour hold

Edwina Hart (Lab) 12,866 (48.06%)

Caroline Jones (C) 8,002 (29.89%)

Darren Price (PC) 3,249 (12.14%)

Peter May (LD) 2,656 (9.92%)

Labour majority 4,864 (18.17%)

6.92% swing C to LabElectorate 61,909

Turnout 26,773 (43.25%)

Islwyn

* Labour hold

Gwyn Price (Lab) 12,116 (57.95%)

Steffan Lewis (PC) 4,527 (21.65%)

David Chipp (C) 2,497 (11.94%)

Peter Whalley (BNP) 1,115 (5.33%)

Tom Sullivan (LD) 653 (3.12%)

Labour majority 7,589 (36.30%)

10.09% swing PC to LabElectorate 54,893

Turnout 20,908 (38.09%)

Llanelli

* Labour gain from Plaid Cymru

Keith Davies (Lab) 10,359 (39.74%)

Helen Mary Jones (PC) 10,279 (39.43%)

Andrew Morgan (C) 2,880 (11.05%)

Sian Caiach (Llanelli) 2,004 (7.69%)

Cheryl Philpott (LD) 548 (2.10%)

Labour majority 80 (0.31%)

7.19% swing PC to LabElectorate 58,838

Turnout 26,070 (44.31%)

Merthyr Tydfil & Rhymney

* Labour hold

Huw Lewis (Lab) 10,483 (54.26%)

Tony Rogers (Ind) 3,432 (17.76%)

Amy Kitcher (LD) 2,480 (12.84%)

Noel Turner (PC) 1,701 (8.80%)

Chris O'Brien (C) 1,224 (6.34%)

Labour majority 7,051 (36.50%)

0.14% swing Ind to LabElectorate 55,031

Turnout 19,320 (35.11%)

Monmouth

* Conservative hold

Nick Ramsay (C) 15,087 (50.29%)

Mark Whitcutt (Lab) 8,970 (29.90%)

Janet Ellard (LD) 2,937 (9.79%)

Fiona Cross (PC) 2,263 (7.54%)

Steve Uncles (Eng Dem) 744 (2.48%)

Conservative majority 6,117 (20.39%)

4.13% swing C to LabElectorate 64,857

Turnout 30,001 (46.26%)

Montgomeryshire

* Conservative gain from Ind

Russell George (C) 10,026 (43.72%)

Wyn Williams (LD) 7,702 (33.58%)

Nick Colbourne (Lab) 2,609 (11.38%)

David Senior (PC) 2,596 (11.32%)

Conservative majority 2,324 (10.13%)

9.50% swing LD to CElectorate 48,675

Turnout 22,933 (47.11%)

Neath

* Labour hold

Gwenda Thomas (Lab) 12,736 (53.40%)

Alun Llewelyn (PC) 6,346 (26.61%)

Alex Powell (C) 2,780 (11.66%)

Michael Green (BNP) 1,004 (4.21%)

Mathew McCarthy (LD) 983 (4.12%)

Labour majority 6,390 (26.79%)

9.54% swing PC to LabElectorate 57,533

Turnout 23,849 (41.45%)

Newport East

* Labour hold

John Griffiths (Lab) 9,888 (50.81%)

Nick Webb (C) 4,500 (23.12%)

Ed Townsend (LD) 3,703 (19.03%)

Chris Paul (PC) 1,369 (7.03%)

Labour majority 5,388 (27.69%)

9.11% swing C to LabElectorate 55,120

Turnout 19,460 (35.30%)

Newport West

* Labour hold

Rosemary Butler (Lab) 12,011 (52.19%)

David Williams (C) 7,791 (33.85%)

Lyndon Binding (PC) 1,626 (7.07%)

Liz Newton (LD) 1,586 (6.89%)

Labour majority 4,220 (18.34%)

6.21% swing C to LabElectorate 63,180

Turnout 23,014 (36.43%)

Ogmore

* Labour hold

Janice Gregory (Lab) 12,955 (63.93%)

Danny Clark (PC) 3,379 (16.67%)

Martyn Hughes (C) 2,945 (14.53%)

Gerald Francis (LD) 985 (4.86%)

Labour majority 9,576 (47.26%)

6.28% swing PC to LabElectorate 55,442

Turnout 20,264 (36.55%)

Pontypridd

* Labour hold

Mick Antoniw (Lab) 11,864 (50.85%)

Mike Powell (LD) 4,170 (17.87%)

Joel James (C) 3,659 (15.68%)

Ioan Bellin (PC) 3,139 (13.45%)

Ken Owen (ND) 501 (2.15%)

Labour majority 7,694 (32.97%)

9.28% swing LD to LabElectorate 60,028

Turnout 23,333 (38.87%)

Preseli Pembrokeshire

* Conservative hold

Paul Davies (C) 11,541 (42.40%)

Terry Mills (Lab) 9,366 (34.41%)

Rhys Sinnett (PC) 4,226 (15.53%)

Rob Kilmister (LD) 2,085 (7.66%)

Conservative majority 2,175 (7.99%)

1.58% swing C to LabElectorate 57,758

Turnout 27,218 (47.12%)

Rhondda

* Labour hold

Leighton Andrews (Lab) 12,650 (63.16%)

Sera Evans-Fear (PC) 5,911 (29.52%)

James Jeffreys (C) 969 (4.84%)

George Summers (LD) 497 (2.48%)

Labour majority 6,739 (33.65%)

2.77% swing PC to LabElectorate 52,532

Turnout 20,027 (38.12%)

Swansea East

* Labour hold

Mike Hedges (Lab) 11,035 (58.36%)

Daniel Boucher (C) 2,754 (14.56%)

Dic Jones (PC) 2,346 (12.41%)

Sam Samuel (LD) 1,673 (8.85%)

Joanne Shannon (BNP) 1,102 (5.83%)

Labour majority 8,281 (43.79%)

6.05% swing C to LabElectorate 60,246

Turnout 18,910 (31.39%)

Swansea West

* Labour hold

Julie James (Lab) 9,885 (45.33%)

Steve Jenkins (C) 5,231 (23.99%)

Rob Speht (LD) 3,654 (16.76%)

Carl Harris (PC) 3,035 (13.92%)

Labour majority 4,654 (21.34%)

4.09% swing C to LabElectorate 62,345

Turnout 21,805 (34.97%)

Torfaen

* Labour hold

Lynne Neagle (Lab) 10,318 (46.21%)

Elizabeth Haynes (Ind) 4,230 (18.94%)

Natasha Asghar (C) 3,306 (14.81%)

Jeff Rees (PC) 2,716 (12.16%)

Susan Harwood (BNP) 906 (4.06%)

Will Griffiths (LD) 852 (3.82%)

Labour majority 6,088 (27.27%)

0.52% swing Lab to IndElectorate 61,126

Turnout 22,328 (36.53%)

Vale Of Clwyd

* Labour hold

Ann Jones (Lab) 11,691 (50.71%)

Ian Gunning (C) 7,680 (33.31%)

Alun Lloyd Jones (PC) 2,597 (11.26%)

Heather Prydderch (LD) 1,088 (4.72%)

Labour majority 4,011 (17.40%)

8.49% swing C to LabElectorate 56,232

Turnout 23,056 (41.00%)

Vale Of Glamorgan

* Labour hold

Jane Hutt (Lab) 15,746 (47.35%)

Angela Jones-Evans (C) 11,971 (36.00%)

Ian Johnson (PC) 4,024 (12.10%)

Damian Chick (LD) 1,513 (4.55%)

Labour majority 3,775 (11.35%)

5.55% swing C to LabElectorate 71,062

Turnout 33,254 (46.80%)

Wrexham

* Labour hold

Lesley Griffiths (Lab) 8,368 (44.78%)

John Marek (C) 5,031 (26.92%)

Bill Brereton (LD) 2,692 (14.41%)

Marc Jones (PC) 2,596 (13.89%)

Labour majority 3,337 (17.86%)

3.15% swing C to LabElectorate 53,516

Turnout 18,687 (34.92%)

Ynys Mon

* Plaid Cymru hold

Ieuan Wyn Jones (PC) 9,969 (41.42%)

Paul Williams (C) 7,032 (29.22%)

Joe Lock (Lab) 6,307 (26.21%)

Rhys Taylor (LD) 759 (3.15%)

Plaid Cymru majority 2,937 (12.20%)

7.27% swing PC to CElectorate 49,431

Turnout 24,067 (48.69%)

South Wales Central

Andrew Davies (C)

David Melding (C)

John Dixon (LD)

Leanne Wood (PC)

South Wales East

William Graham (C)

Mohammad Asghar (C)

Jocelyn Davies (PC)

Lindsay Whittle (PC)

South Wales West

Suzy Davies (C)

Byron Davies (C)

Peter Black (LD)

Bethan Jenkins (PC)

Wales Mid & West

Joyce Watson (Lab)

Rebecca Evans (Lab)

Bill Powell (LD)

Simon Thomas (PC)

Wales North

Mark Isherwood (C)

Antoinette Sandbach (C)

Aled Roberts (LD)

Llyr Huws Gruffydd (PC)

Captions:

Julie Morgan, the Labour candidate for Cardiff North, celebrates with her
husband, former first minister Rhodri Morgan, after she captured the Welsh
assembly seat from the Conservatives

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2011



CORRECTION: *  In the list headed Elections: Scottish parliament - 7 May,
regarding the Welsh assembly election outcome, comprising 40 constituency seats
and a further 20 seats elected from five regions (each with four seats): a
graphic was published without some final updates to certain regional outcomes.
In the Mid and West Wales region, two seats were colour-coded blue for
Conservative wins when they should have been red for Labour. In the South Wales
West region, two seats were coloured green for Plaid Cymru when the outcome was
actually two Tory wins, one Plaid and one Liberal Democrat. And on an
accompanying list of individual constituency results, Llanelli should have been
coded red for a Labour win, not green for Plaid Cymru (Elections: Welsh
assembly, 7 May, page 33).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

WE'RE ALL POLLAXED;
ELECTION 2011 WINNERS AND LOSERS

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 781 words


POLITICIANS were facing a long haul last night as Northern Ireland ballots were
counted at a snail's pace.

The first MLAs were not elected until around 6.30pm as election hopefuls were
forced to wait hours to see who would get an office in Stormont.

One MLA joked that he should have brought a sleeping bag to the count centre.

The poll was also marred by a low turnout - predicted to reach a figure of 55%
or lower.

But early indications showed Sinn Fein and the DUP looking at election gains
while the Ulster Unionists were heading for meltdown.

Alliance looked last night like they stood to make some gains and the SDLP were
holding their own, although Dolores Kelly in Upper Bann and Declan O'Loan in
North Antrim looked shaky.

DUP leader Peter Robinson said: "It is very pleasing and rewarding to hear that
right across the province our candidates are doing so well because they put a
lot of work into it.

"We didn't ask for a mandate from the people to enhance the standing of the
Democratic Unionist Party, we asked for a mandate to keep Northern Ireland
moving forward."

Mr Robinson was set to romp home in East Belfast despite having the lost the
constituency's Westminster seat in the General Election.

His career was rocked last year by the revelations that his wife and former MP
Iris Robinson had an affair with a teenager and had secured loans from
developers to help her lover set up a business.

His party colleague Nigel Dodds said the count was "very, very slow" but added
that vote management had "delivered" for his party across Northern Ireland.

Martin McGuinness also added questions need to be asked about the counting after
he was able to listen to Scottish results on Thursday night.

But on the results last night he said that the vote was "rewarding people who
have shown leadership".

The Deputy First Minister and IRA commander said that he had been in the homes
of Protestants who offered him their first preference votes.

Last night Sinn Fein's Conor Murphy, the SDLP's Dominic Bradley and Ulster
Unionist Danny Kennedy were the first to be elected when the first preference
votes were announced for Newry and Armagh. Sinn Fein's Cathal Boylan got in on
the second count.

Mr Murphy's party colleague John O'Dowd was elected in Upper Bann soon after. In
East Derry, Gregory Campbell was elected on the first count where the UUP were
given a bloody nose by the man they deselected.

David McClarty received 3,003 first preference votes compared to the two UUP
candidates who got 1,458 and 1,472.

In Lagan Valley the DUP's former Environment Minister Edwin Poots and Ulster
Unionist Basil McCrea got their jobs back on the first count.

Boundary changes there were blamed for a 9% dip in the Sinn Fein vote.

SDLP leader Margaret Ritchie topped the poll in South Down but there was
criticism of the party's vote management after she won 8,506 first preference
votes when the quota was 5,961.

One of her two running mates was looking likely to lose out, it was predicted
last night, however insiders said they wanted her to "top the poll" to beat Sinn
Fein's Caitriona Ruane.

South Down, where the DUP's Jim Wells fell and broke his collar bone taking down
election posters, also threw up an interesting result with more than 2,300 first
preference votes for Ukip candidate Henry Reilly.

In Strangford it was looking as though former UTV anchorman Mike Nesbitt was
polling better than sitting MLA David McNarry.

Martina Anderson, tipped last night to be a Sinn Fein Minister, regained her
seat in Foyle on the first count along with former Speaker and DUP man Willie
Hay.

In DUP stronghold North Antrim, TUV chief Jim Allister was looking likely to get
a seat while a boundary change was looking like it might cost the SDLP's Declan
O'Loan his place in Stormont. O'Loan said: "It is conceivable I could lose it."

In East Belfast, Dawn Purvis' seat was looking shaky, while in South Belfast
where Alliance's Anna Lo topped the poll and sitting MLA Conall McDevitt was
looking like a possible SDLP casualty.

In North Belfast, outgoing Stormont minsters Gerry Kelly of Sinn Fein and the
DUP's Nelson McCausland were elected.

At the count centre in Omagh a table collapsed throwing counted votes across the
floor meaning they had to be counted again while hairdryers had to be used to
peel apart votes that had become sodden when a ballot box got wet in the rain.

The run-in to polling day was marked by an upsurge in violence by dissident
republicans opposed to the peace process.

The extremists launched a series of attacks, culminating in the murder of police
constable Ronan Kerr who was killed when a boobytrap bomb exploded under his car
in Omagh, Co Tyrone, last month.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WAIT Count went into the night WIRED Martin McGuinness gets ready for a
TV interview RETURN Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams GOOD Anna Lo was on course
to retain her seat FIRST CHOICE Peter Robinson arrives at count in Newtownards
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

WIN SOME LOSE SOME;
(Where's Wally? Can you find him?)

SECTION: HOLY ROOD ELECTION 2011;FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 4692 words


7,510 (28.47%); (C) 3,751 (14.22%); (LD) 3,739 (14.17%); (Others) 32 (0.12%).
Gray, I (Lab) 12,536 38.96 Berry, D (SNP) 12,385 38.49 Brownlee, D (C) 5,344
16.61 Spencer, E (LD) 1,912 5.94 May 2007 (Lab) 10,822 (34.48%); (SNP) 8,713
(27.76%); (C) 6,032 (19.22%); (LD) 5,822 (18.55%). Turnout 26,476 (54.00%) %Vote
Russell, M (SNP) 13,390 50.57 McGrigor, J (C) 4,847 18.31 Rice, M (Lab) 4,041
15.26 Hay, A (LD) 3,220 12.16 Doyle, G (Ind) 542 2.05 White, G (Lib) 436 1.65
May 2007 (SNP) 9,914 (34.53%); (LD) 9,107 (31.72%); (C) 5,544 (19.31%); (Lab)
4,143 (14.43%). SNP hold Electorate 57,396 Turnout 25,149 (43.82%) %Vote
Stewart, K (SNP) 10,058 39.99 Macdonald, L (Lab) 9,441 37.54 Wallace, S (C)
3,100 12.33 Thomson, S (LD) 2,349 9.34 Phillips, M (Nat Front) 201 0.80 May 2007
(SNP) 7,684 (30.34%); (Lab) 7,335 (28.96%); (LD) 6,824 (26.95%); C) 3,481
(13.75%). CUMBERNAULD & KILSYTH SNP gain Electorate 48,006 Turnout 25,254
(52.61%) %Vote Hepburn, J (SNP) 13,595 53.83 Craigie, C (Lab) 10,136 40.14
Boswell, J (C) 1,156 4.58 Oliver, M (LD) 367 1.45 May 2007 Craigie (Lab) 12,672
(48.03%); Hepburn (SNP) 10,593 (40.15%); O''Donnell (LD) 1,670 (6.33%); Harding
(C) 1,447 (5.48%). EASTWOOD Lab gain Electorate 50,476 Turnout 31,924 (63.25%)
%Vote Macintosh, K (Lab) 12,662 39.66 Carlaw, J (C) 10,650 33.36 Maxwell, S
(SNP) 7,777 24.36 Cochrane, G (LD) 835 2.62 May 2007 (C) 12,825 (41.10%); (Lab)
9,337 (29.93%); (SNP) 4,912 (15.74%); (LD) 3,141 (10.07%); (Others) 986 (3.16%).
AYR C hold Electorate 61,563 Turnout 33,373 (54.21%) %Vote Scott, J (C) 12,997
38.94 Brodie, C (SNP) 11,884 35.61 McKenzie, G (Lab) 7,779 23.31 Taylor, E (LD)
713 2.14 May 2007 (C) 13,820 (39.98%); (Lab) 9,445 (27.32%); (SNP) 9,101
(26.33%); (LD) 2,013 (5.82%); (Others) 187 (0.54%). ABERDEEN DONSIDE SNP hold
Electorate 56,145 Turnout 26,761 (47.66%) %Vote Adam, B (SNP) 14,790 55.27
Crockett, B (Lab) 7,615 28.46 Thomson, R (C) 2,166 8.09 McLeod, M (LD) 1,606
6.00 Henderson, D (Ind) 371 1.39 Willett, C (Nat Front) 213 0.80 May 2007 (SNP)
12,165 (44.81%); (Lab) 8,614 (31.73%); (LD) 4,340 (15.99%); C) 2,027 (7.47%).
CUNNINGHAME NORTH SNP hold Electorate 56,548 Turnout 29,536 (52.23%) %Vote
Gibson, K (SNP) 15,539 52.61 Wilson, A (Lab) 9,422 31.90 Golden, M (C) 4,032
13.65 Punukollu, M (LD) 543 1.84 May 2007 (SNP) 9,287 (30.73%); (Lab) 9,247
(30.59%); (C) 5,459 (18.06%); (Others) 4,423 (14.63%); (LD) 1,810 (5.99%).
EDINBURGH CENTRAL SNP gain Electorate 53,606 Turnout 29,014 (54.12%) %Vote
Biagi, M (SNP) 9,480 32.67 Boyack, S (Lab) 9,243 31.86 Cole-Hamilton, A (LD)
5,937 20.46 McGill, I (C) 4,354 15.01 May 2007 (LD) 8,679 (30.75%); (Lab) 7,960
(28.20%); (SNP) 6,392 (22.65%); (C) 5,173 (18.33%); (Others) 20 (0.07%).
BANFFSHIRE & BUCHAN COAST SNP hold Electorate 53,698 Turnout 25,004 (46.56%)
%Vote Stevenson, S (SNP) 16,812 67.24 Watt, M (C) 4,592 18.37 Duffill, A (Lab)
2,642 10.57 Milne, G (LD) 958 3.83 May 2007 (SNP) 15,856 (59.75%); (C) 4,731
(17.83%); (Lab) 3,229 (12.17%); (LD) 2,670 (10.06%); (Others) 53 (0.20%).
ABERDEEN SOUTH & KINCARDINE NORTH SNP gain Electorate 54,338 Turnout 28,697
(52.81%) %Vote Watt, M (SNP) 11,947 41.63 Williams, G (Lab) 5,624 19.60 Sleigh,
J (LD) 4,994 17.40 Whyte, S (C) 4,058 14.14 Boulton, M (Ind) 1,860 6.48 Willett,
R (Nat Front) 214 0.75 May 2007 (LD) 10,134 (35.79%); (SNP) 8,063 (28.47%);
(Lab) 5,080 (17.94%); C) 5,040 (17.80%). CUNNINGHAME SOUTH SNP gain Electorate
50,926 Turnout 22,056 (43.31%) %Vote Burgess, M (SNP) 10,993 49.84 Oldfather, I
(Lab) 8,645 39.20 Haw, A (C) 1,871 8.48 Kirkwood, R (LD) 547 2.48 May 2007 (Lab)
10,270 (43.82%); (SNP) 8,110 (34.60%); (C) 3,080 (13.14%); (LD) 1,977 (8.44%).
EDINBURGH EASTERN SNP gain Electorate 55,773 Turnout 30,728 (55.09%) %Vote
MacAskill, K (SNP) 14,552 47.36 Aitken, E (Lab) 12,319 40.09 Buchanan, C (C)
2,630 8.56 Veart, M (LD) 1,227 3.99 May 2007 (Lab) 11,072 (36.28%); (SNP) 10,527
(34.49%); (LD) 4,943 (16.20%); (C) 3,977 (13.03%). CAITHNESS, SUTHERLAND & ROSS
SNP gain Electorate 55,116 Turnout 28,600 (51.89%) %Vote Gibson, R (SNP) 13,843
48.40 Rowantree, R (LD) 6,385 22.33 MacKay, J (Lab) 5,438 19.01 Mountain, E (C)
2,934 10.26 May 2007 (LD) 12,030 (40.42%); (SNP) 9,480 (31.85%); (Lab) 3,942
(13.24%); (C) 3,288 (11.05%); (Others) 1,023 (3.44%). ABERDEENSHIRE EAST SNP
hold Electorate 57,591 Turnout 30,288 (52.59%) %Vote Salmond, A (SNP) 19,535
64.50 McInnes, A (LD) 4,238 13.99 Burnett Stuart, G (C) 4,211 13.90 Smyth, P
(Lab) 2,304 7.61 May 2007 (SNP) 12,515 (43.21%); (LD) 9,202 (31.77%); (C) 4,712
(16.27%); Lab) 2,239 (7.73%); (Others) 293 1.01%). DUMBARTON Lab hold Electorate
53,470 Turnout 28,508 (53.32%) %Vote Baillie, J (Lab) 12,562 44.06 Robertson, I
(SNP) 10,923 38.32 Smith, G (C) 3,395 11.91 Watt, H (LD) 858 3.01 Rice, G (Ind)
770 2.70 May 2007 (Lab) 11,638 (38.62%); (SNP) 10,051 (33.36%); (C) 4,727
(15.69%); (LD) 3,406 (11.30%); (Others) 309 (1.03%). CARRICK, CUMNOCK & DOON
VALLEY EDINBURGH NORTHERN & LEITH Lab hold Electorate 59,138 Turnout 30,885
(52.23%) %Vote Chisholm, M (Lab) 12,858 41.63 Somerville, S A (SNP) 12,263 39.71
Low, S (C) 2,928 9.48 Farthing, D (LD) 2,836 9.18 May 2007 (Lab) 10,695
(35.17%); (SNP) 8,491 (27.92%); (LD) 8,164 (26.85%); (C) 3,059 (10.06%). SNP
gain Electorate 59,368 Turnout 28,703 (48.35%) %Vote Ingram, A (SNP) 13,250
46.16 Leonard, R (Lab) 10,669 37.17 Kennerley, P (C) 4,160 14.49 Chamberlain, A
(LD) 624 2.17 May 2007 (Lab) 13,619 (45.02%); (SNP) 9,216 (30.47%); (C) 5,532
(18.29%); (LD) 1,137 (3.76%); (Others) 745 (2.46%). ABERDEENSHIRE WEST SNP gain
Electorate 53,779 Turnout 28,636 (53.25%) %Vote Robertson, D (SNP) 12,186 42.55
Rumbles, M (LD) 8,074 28.20 Milne, N (C) 6,027 21.05 Morrison, J (Lab) 2,349
8.20 May 2007 (LD) 12,332 (40.92%); (SNP) 8,553 (28.38%); (C) 7,387 (24.51%);
Lab) 1,753 (5.82%); (Others) 111 0.37%). DUMFRIESSHIRE Lab gain Electorate
59,716 Turnout 31,895 (53.41%) %Vote Murray, E (Lab) 12,624 39.58 Dykes, G (C)
9,468 29.68 Orr, A (SNP) 8,384 26.29 Brodie, R (LD) 1,419 4.45 May 2007 (C)
11,499 (36.96%); (Lab) 10,850 (34.88%); (SNP) 6,107 (19.63%); (LD) 2,604
(8.37%); (Others) 50 (0.16%). EDINBURGH PENTLANDS SNP gain Electorate 52,620
Turnout 30,049 (57.11%) %Vote MacDonald, G (SNP) 11,197 37.26 McLetchie, D (C)
9,439 31.41 Henderson, R (Lab) 7,993 26.60 Clark, S (LD) 1,420 4.73 May 2007 (C)
11,178 (35.12%); (Lab) 8,436 (26.50%); (SNP) 8,319 (26.14%); (LD) 3,882
(12.20%); (Others) 14 (0.04%). CLACKMANNANSHIRE & DUNBLANE SNP hold Electorate
49,415 Turnout 27,416 (55.48%) %Vote Brown, K (SNP) 13,253 48.34 Simpson, R
(Lab) 9,644 35.18 AIRDRIE & SHOTTS SNP gain DUNDEE CITY EAST


May 2007 (SNP) 10,666 (38.73%); (Lab) 9,904 (35.96%); (C) 4,505 (16.36%); (LD)
2,391 (8.68%); (Others) 75 (0.27%). Electorate 54,404 Turnout 25,753 (47.34%)
%Vote Robison, S (SNP) 16,541 64.23 Asif, M (Lab) 5,862 22.76 Docherty, B (C)
2,550 9.90 Petrie, A (LD) 800 3.11 May 2007 (SNP) 13,041 (49.05%); (Lab) 8,649
(32.53%); (C) 3,024 (11.37%); (LD) 1,871 (7.04%). SNP gain Electorate 54,868
Turnout 33,796 (61.60%) %Eadie, J (SNP) 9,947 Godzik, P (Lab) 9,254 Pringle, M
(LD) 8,297 Brown, G (C) 6,298 May 2007 (LD) 11,731 (36.39%); (7,776 (24.12%);
(C) 7,194 (22.32%); (SNP) 5,533 (17.17%). Neil, A (SNP) 11,984 50.15 Whitefield,
K (Lab) 9,983 41.78 Crozier, R (C) 1,396 5.84 Love, J (LD) 531 2.22 May 2007
(Lab) 10,280 (42.70%); (SNP) 9,647 (40.07%); (C) 2,028 (8.42%); (LD) 1,258
(5.23%); (Others) 862 (3.58%). ALMOND VALLEY SNP hold Electorate 59,896 Turnout
30,737 (51.32%) %Vote Constance, A (SNP) 16,704 54.34 Fitzpatrick, L (Lab)
11,162 36.31 Hardie, A (C) 1,886 6.14 Sykes, E (LD) 656 2.13 McIvor, N (Nat
Front) 329 1.07 May 2007 (SNP) 11,616 (39.71%); (Lab) 11,612 (39.70%); (C) 2,359
(8.06%); LD) 1,844 (6.30%); (Others) 1,821 6.23%). CLYDEBANK & MILNGAVIE SNP
gain Electorate 53,018 Turnout 28,369 (53.51%) %Vote Paterson, G (SNP) 12,278
43.28 McNulty, D (Lab) 11,564 40.76 Struthers, A (C) 2,758 9.72 Duncan, J (LD)
1,769 6.24 May 2007 (Lab) 12,074 (40.57%); (SNP) 8,916 (29.96%); (C) 4,285
(14.40%); (LD) 3,934 (13.22%); (Others) 551 (1.85%). DUNDEE CITY WEST SNP hold
Electorate 53,841 Turnout 24,461 (45.43%) %Vote Fitzpatrick, J (SNP) 14,089
57.60 McCready, R (Lab) 7,684 31.41 Stewart, C (C) 1,625 6.64 Burns, A (LD)
1,063 4.35 May 2007 (SNP) 11,416 (45.55%); (Lab) 9,303 (37.12%); (LD) 2,553
(10.19%); (C) 1,793 (7.15%). EDINBURGH WESTERN SNP gain Electorate 56,338
Turnout 33,452 (59.38%) %Keir, C (SNP) 11,965 Smith, M (LD) 9,276 Hinds, L (Lab)
7,164 Lindhurst, G (C) 5,047 May 2007 (LD) 13,300 (39.63%); (7,541 (22.47%); (C)
7,018 (20.91%); (Lab) 5,156 (15.36%); (Others) (1.63%). CLYDESDALE SNP gain
Electorate 56,828 Turnout 29,937 (52.68%) %Vote Campbell, A (SNP) 14,931 49.87
Gillon, K (Lab) 10,715 35.79 McGavigan, C (C) 4,291 14.33 May 2007 (Lab) 10,924
(37.44%); (SNP) 9,845 (33.74%); (C) 5,744 (19.69%); (LD) 2,664 (9.13%). ETTRICK,
ROXBURGH & BERWICKSHIRE ANGUS NORTH & MEARNS SNP hold Electorate 52,124 Turnout
24,954 (47.87%) %Vote Don, N (SNP) 13,660 54.74 Johnstone, A (C) 6,374 25.54
Hutchens, K (Lab) 3,160 12.66 Samani, S (LD) 1,760 7.05 May 2007 (SNP) 10,194
(43.43%); (C) 5,278 (22.48%); (LD) 4,888 (20.82%); Lab) 3,114 (13.27%).
DUNFERMLINE SNP gain Electorate 55,479 Turnout 29,339 (52.88%) %Vote Walker, B
(SNP) 11,050 37.66 Rowley, A (Lab) 10,420 35.52 Tolson, J (LD) 5,776 19.69
Reekie, J (C) 2,093 7.13 May 2007 (LD) 9,030 (33.18%); (Lab) 8,953 (32.89%);
(SNP) 6,553 (24.08%); (C) 2,277 (8.37%); (Others) 406 (1.49%). C hold Electorate
54,327 Turnout 28,816 (53.04%) %Lamont, J (C) 12,933 Wheelhouse, P (SNP) 7,599
Robson, E (LD) 4,990 Stewart, R (Lab) 2,986 Rae, J (ND) 308 May 2007 (C) 11,336
(39.04%); (9,822 (33.83%); (SNP) 5,154 (17.75%); (Lab) 2,404 (8.28%); (Others)
(1.10%). COATBRIDGE & CHRYSTON Lab hold Electorate 51,206 Turnout 23,279
(45.46%) %Vote Smith, E (Lab) 12,161 52.24 Wilson, J (SNP) 9,420 40.47 Lingiah,
J (C) 1,317 5.66 Ackland, R (LD) 381 1.64 May 2007 (Lab) 11,288 (47.70%); (SNP)
6,948 (29.36%); (Others) 2,517 (10.64%); (C) 1,845 (7.80%); (LD) 1,068 (4.51%).
EAST KILBRIDE SNP gain Electorate 58,251 Turnout 29,911 (51.35%) %Vote Fabiani,
L (SNP) 14,359 48.01 Kerr, A (Lab) 12,410 41.49 Simpson, G (C) 2,260 7.56
Herbison, D (LD) 468 1.56 Houston, J (Ind) 414 1.38 May 2007 (Lab) 13,885
(44.51%); (SNP) 11,777 (37.76%); (C) 2,854 (9.15%); (LD) 2,677 (8.58%). ANGUS
SOUTH SNP hold Electorate 54,922 Turnout 27,643 (50.33%) %Vote Dey, G (SNP)
16,164 58.47 Campbell Adamson, H (C) 5,581 20.19 Campbell, W (Lab) 3,703 13.40
Fairweather, D Angus Ind) 1,321 4.78 Sneddon, C (LD) 874 3.16 May 2007 (SNP)
14,398 (47.11%); (C) 8,391 (27.46%); (Lab) 4,651 (15.22%); LD) 3,122 (10.22%).
FALKIRK EAST SNP gain Electorate 56,408 Turnout 28,168 (49.94%) %MacDonald, A
(SNP) 14,302 Peattie, C (Lab) 10,767 Munro, L (C) 2,372 Laird, R (LD) 727
COWDENBEATH Lab hold Electorate 54,284 Turnout 25,670 (47.29%) %Vote Eadie, H
(Lab) 11,926 46.46

(16.26%); (C) 3,244 (11.21%). HAMILTON, LARKHALL & STONEHOUSE Stephens, C (SNP)
10,252 44.74 Morrison, A (C) 1,298 5.66 Nelson, I (LD) 490 2.14 May 2007 (Lab)
12,126 (52.65%); (SNP) 7,571 (32.87%); (LD) 1,611 (7.00%); (C) 1,597 (6.93%);
(Others) 125 (0.54%). Kidd, B (SNP) 10,329 43.19 Butler, B (Lab) 10,322 43.16
Smith, M (C) 2,011 8.41 McGarry, P (LD) 1,000 4.18 Livingstone, M (Comm Brit)
256 1.07 May 2007 (Lab) 12,013 (47.97%); (SNP) 6,968 (27.83%); (C) 3,047
(12.17%); (LD) 2,207 (8.81%); (Others) 806 (3.22%). SNP hold Electorate 55,739
Turnout 28,199 (50.59%) %Vote Matheson, M (SNP) 15,607 55.35 Goldie, D (Lab)
9,862 34.97 Finnie, A (C) 2,086 7.40 Chomczuk, C (LD) 644 2.28 May 2007 (SNP)
12,129 (41.84%); (Lab) 11,386 (39.27%); (C) 2,929 (10.10%); (LD) 2,548 (8.79%).
SNP gain Electorate 56,123 Turnout 25,354 (45.18%) %McKelvie, C (SNP) 12,202
48.13 McCabe, T (Lab) 9,989 39.40 Mitchell, M (C) 2,547 10.05 Hoyle, E (LD) 616
May 2007 (Lab) 11,945 (43.71%); (SNP) 8,322 (30.45%); (C) 3,794 (13.88%); (LD)
2,179 (7.97%); (Others) 1,087 (3.98%). GLASGOW PROVAN Lab hold Electorate 55,118
Turnout 19,185 (34.81%) %Vote Martin, P (Lab) 10,037 52.32 McLaughlin, A (SNP)
7,958 41.48 Hussain, M (C) 777 4.05 O''Donnell, M (LD) 413 2.15 May 2007 (Lab)
11,074 (56.17%); (SNP) 5,514 (27.97%); (LD) 1,273 (6.46%); (C) 1,255 (6.37%);
(Others) 598 (3.03%). GLASGOW CATHCART SNP gain Electorate 58,525 Turnout 26,222
(44.80%) %Vote Dornan, J (SNP) 11,918 45.45 Gordon, C (Lab) 10,326 39.38
Sullivan, R (C) 2,410 9.19 Baxendale, E (LD) 1,118 4.26 McKee, J (Ind) 450 1.72
May 2007 (Lab) 10,096 (38.15%); (SNP) 8,244 (31.15%); (Others) 3,001 (11.34%);
(C) 2,753 (10.40%); (LD) 2,372 (8.96%). INVERNESS & NAIRN SNP hold Electorate
62,168 Turnout 32,731 (52.65%) %Ewing, F (SNP) 16,870 51.54 Stewart, D (Lab)
7,125 21.77 Scanlon, M (C) 3,797 11.60 Jardine, C (LD) 3,763 11.50 Boyd, D (SCP)
646 Durance, R (UKIP) 530 May 2007 (SNP) 15,101 (40.98%); (10,106 (27.42%);
(Lab) 7,702 (20.90%); (C) 3,885 (10.54%); (Others) (0.15%). FIFE MID &
GLENROTHES SNP hold Electorate 53,701 Turnout 26,313 (49.00%) %Vote Marwick, T
(SNP) 13,761 52.30 Baker, C (Lab) 9,573 36.38 Smith, A (C) 1,676 6.37 Parker, J
(Pensioners) 673 2.56 Leslie, C (LD) 630 2.39 May 2007 (SNP) 11,188 (44.40%);
(Lab) 8,905 (35.34%); (LD) 2,841 (11.27%); (C) 2,240 (8.89%); (Others) 24
(0.10%). FIFE NORTH EAST SNP gain Electorate 58,858 Turnout 29,676 (50.42%)
%Vote Campbell, R (SNP) 11,029 37.16 Smith, I (LD) 8,437 28.43 Briggs, M (C)
5,618 18.93 Davidson, C (Lab) 3,613 12.17 Scott-Hayward, M (UKIP) 979 3.30 May
2007 (LD) 12,435 (42.26%); (C) 7,869 (26.74%); (SNP) 6,169 (20.97%); (Lab) 2,312
(7.86%); (Others) 638 (2.17%). GLASGOW SHETTLESTON SNP gain Electorate 55,874
Turnout 21,204 (37.95%) %Vote Mason, J (SNP) 10,128 47.76 McAveety, F (Lab)
9,542 45.00 Wilson, D (C) 1,163 5.48 Dobson, R (LD) 371 1.75 May 2007 (Lab)
9,967 (52.81%); (SNP) 5,727 (30.34%); (C) 1,410 (7.47%); (LD) 1,203 (6.37%);
(Others) 566 (3.00%). GLASGOW KELVIN SNP gain Electorate 61,893 Turnout 24,548
(39.66%) %Vote White, S (SNP) 10,640 43.34 McNeill, P (Lab) 9,758 39.75 McKee, N
(LD) 1,900 7.74 Davidson, R (C) 1,845 7.52 Muirhead, T (Ind) 405 1.65 May 2007
(Lab) 7,624 (33.80%); (SNP) 6,617 (29.33%); (Others) 3,371 (14.94%); (LD) 3,067
(13.60%); (C) 1,880 (8.33%). KILMARNOCK & IRVINE VALLEY SNP hold Electorate
63,257 Turnout 31,858 (50.36%) %Coffey, W (SNP) 16,964 53.25 McLaughlin, M (Lab)
10,971 34.44 Fergusson, G (C) 3,309 10.39 Simpson, R (LD) 614 May 2007 (SNP)
14,295 (42.76%); (Lab) 12,953 (38.75%); (C) 4,123 (12.33%); (LD) 2,056 (6.15%).
GLASGOW MARYHILL & SPRINGBURN GLASGOW SOUTHSIDE SNP gain Electorate 52,325
Turnout 22,608 (43.21%) %Vote Sturgeon, N (SNP) 12,306 54.43 Curran, S (Lab)
7,957 35.20 Meikle, D (C) 1,733 7.67 Elder, K (LD) 612 2.71 May 2007 (Lab) 8,543
(39.81%); (SNP) 8,516 (39.68%); (LD) 2,071 (9.65%); (C) 1,650 (7.69%); (Others)
680 (3.17%). GALLOWAY & DUMFRIES WEST C hold Electorate 56,611 Turnout 29,997
(52.99%) %Vote Fergusson, A (C) 11,071 36.91 McLeod, A (SNP) 10,209 34.03
Scobie, W (Lab) 7,954 26.52 Rosiejak, J (LD) 763 2.54 May 2007 (C) 12,756
(39.09%); (SNP) 10,252 (31.41%); (Lab) 7,797 (23.89%); (LD) 1,569 (4.81%);
(Others) 261 (0.80%). Lab hold Electorate 56,622 Turnout 20,531 (36.26%) %Vote
Ferguson, P (Lab) 9,884 48.14 Doris, B (SNP) 8,592 41.85 Murray, S (C) 1,222
5.95 Bridger, S (LD) 833 4.06 May 2007 (Lab) 9,979 (49.23%); (SNP) 6,501
(32.07%); (LD) 2,132 (10.52%); (C) 1,500 (7.40%); (Others) 160 (0.79%).
KIRKCALDY SNP gain Electorate 60,079 Turnout 27,803 (46.28%) %Torrance, D (SNP)
12,579 45.24 Livingstone, M (Lab) 12,397 44.59 McFarlane, I (C) 2,007 Mainland,
J (LD) 820 May 2007 (Lab) 12,890 (45.10%); (SNP) 9,536 (33.36%); (LD) 3,716
(13.00%); (C) 2,441 (8.54%). GREENOCK & INVERCLYDE Lab hold Electorate 56,989
Turnout 28,208 (49.50%) %Vote McNeil, D (Lab) 12,387 43.91 McMillan, S (SNP)
11,876 42.10 Brooks, G (C) 2,011 7.13 Finnie, R (LD) 1,934 6.86 May 2007 (Lab)
12,753 (44.07%); GLASGOW POLLOK Lab hold Electorate 58,429 Turnout 22,915
(39.22%) %Vote GLASGOW ANNIESLAND SNP gain Electorate 55,411 LINLITHGOW

HERE'S how the 56 list MSPs were elected in the eight regions of Scotland. These
regions each elect seven MSPs through the Additional Member System. Electorate
65,025 Turnout 34,182 (52.57%) %Vote Hyslop, F (SNP) 17,027 49.81 Mulligan, M
(Lab) 12,936 37.84 Donnelly, C (C) 2,646 7.74 Lang, J (LD) 1,015 2.97 Coyle, M
(Nat Front) 558 1.63 May 2007 (Lab) 13,402 (39.86%); (SNP) 13,108 (38.99%); (C)
3,570 (10.62%); (LD) 2,547 (7.58%); (Others) 993 (2.95%). SNP hold Electorate
58,093 Turnout 31,216 (53.73%) %Vote Cunningham, R (SNP) 16,073 51.49 Smith, E
(C) 8,907 28.53 Duncan, P (Lab) 3,980 12.75 Robertson, W (LD) 2,256 7.23 May
2007 (SNP) 11,431 (36.86%); (C) 10,047 (32.39%); (LD) 5,211 (16.80%); (Lab)
3,906 (12.59%); (Others) 420 (1.35%). MIDLOTHIAN NORTH & MUSSELBURGH SNP gain
Electorate 58,246 Turnout 29,818 (51.19%) %Vote Beattie, C (SNP) 14,079 47.22
Harkins, B (Lab) 11,083 37.17 Douglas, S (C) 2,541 8.52 Younger, I (LD) 1,254
4.21 Hay, A (Ind) 861 2.89 May 2007 (Lab) 11,670 (40.48%); (SNP) 10,177
(35.30%); (LD) 3,969 (13.77%); (C) 2,611 (9.06%); (Others) 401 (1.39%).
RENFREWSHIRE NORTH & WEST SNP gain Electorate 49,060 Turnout 27,495 (56.04%)
%Vote Mackay, D (SNP) 11,510 41.86 Clark, S (Lab) 9,946 36.17 Goldie, A (C)
5,489 19.96 Page, A (LD) 550 2.00 May 2007 (Lab) 11,341 (40.71%); (SNP) 8,236
(29.57%); (C) 6,420 (23.05%); (LD) 1,476 (5.30%); (Others) 383 (1.37%). GLASGOW
(Glasgow Anniesland; Glasgow Cathcart; Glasgow Kelvin; Glasgow Maryhill &
Springburn; Glasgow Pollok; Glasgow Provan; Glasgow Shettleston; Glasgow
Southside; Rutherglen) Elected: Ruth Davidson (C); Hanzala Malik (Lab); Drew
Smith (Lab); Anne McTaggart (Lab); Humza Yousaf (SNP); Bob Doris (SNP); Patrick
Harvie (Green) SNP 83,109 (39.82%) Lab 73,031 (34.99%) C 12,749 (6.11%) Green
12,454 (5.97%) CAC 6,972 (3.34%) LD 5,312 (2.55%) Pensioners 3,750 (1.80%) BNP
2,424 (1.16%) Soc Lab 2,276 (1.09%) SCP 1,501 (0.72%) SUP 1,447 (0.69%) SSP
1,362 (0.65%) UKIP 1,123 (0.54%) Pirate 581 (0.28%) Ind 338 (0.16%) Homeland 283
(0.14%) SNP maj 10,078 (4.83) 8.04% swing SNP to Lab Electorate 511,974; Turnout
208,712 (40.77%, %) 2007 Lab maj 23,971 (11.24%); Turnout 213,184 (43.19%)
HIGHLANDS & ISLANDS (Argyll & Bute; Caithness, Sutherland & Ross; Inverness &
Nairn; Moray; Na h-Eileanan an Iar; Orkney Islands; Shetland Islands; Skye,
Lochaber & Badenoch) Elected: Jamie McGrigor (C); Mary Scanlon (C); Rhoda Grant
(Lab); Dave Stewart (Lab); John Finnie (SNP); Jean Urquhart (SNP); Mike
MacKenzie (SNP) SNP 85,082 (47.53%) Lab 25,884 (14.46%) LD 21,729 (12.14%) C
20,843 (11.64%) Green 9,076 (5.07%) SCP 3,541 (1.98%) UKIP 3,372 (1.88%)
Pensioners 2,770 (1.55%) BBB 1,764 (0.99%) Lib 1,696 (0.95%) Soc Lab 1,406
(0.79%) BNP 1,134 (0.63%) SSP 509 (0.28%) Solidarity 204 (0.11%) SNP maj 59,198
(33.07) SCOTLAND MID & FIFE (Clackmannanshire & Dunblane; Cowdenbeath;
Dunfermline; Fife Mid & Glenrothes; Fife North East; Kirkcaldy; Perthshire
North; Perthshire South & Kinrossshire; Stirling) Elected: Murdo Fraser (C);
Elizabeth Smith (C); John Park (Lab); Claire Baker (Lab); Richard Simpson (Lab);
Willie Rennie (LD); Annabelle Ewing (SNP) SNP 116,691 (45.20%) Lab 64,623
(25.03%) C 36,458 (14.12%) LD 15,103 (5.85%) Green 10,914 (4.23%) Pensioners
4,113 (1.59%) UKIP 2,838 (1.10%) Soc Lab 1,771 (0.69%) BNP 1,726 (0.67%) Ind
1,466 (0.57%) SSP 834 (0.32%) SCP 786 (0.30%) CPA 638 (0.25%) Solidarity 202
(0.08%) SNP maj 52,068 (20.17) 7.43% swing SNP to Lab Electorate 494,779;
Turnout 258,163 (52.18%, %) 2007 SNP maj 13,742 (5.32%); Turnout 258,513
(52.68%) SCOTLAND NORTH EAST (Aberdeen Central; Aberdeen Donside; Aberdeen South
& Kincardine North; Aberdeenshire East; Aberdeenshire West; Angus North &
Mearns; Angus South; Banffshire & Buchan Coast; Dundee City East; Dundee City
West) Elected: Alex Johnstone (C); Nanette Milne (C); Richard Baker (Lab); Jenny
Marra (Lab); Lewis Macdonald (Lab); Alison McInnes (LD); Mark McDonald (SNP) SNP
140,749 (52.71%) Lab 43,893 (16.44%) C 37,681 (14.11%) LD 18,178 (6.81%) Green
10,407 (3.90%) Pensioners 4,420 (1.66%) UKIP 2,477 (0.93%) SCP 2,159 (0.81%) BNP
1,925 (0.72%) Soc Lab 1,459 (0.55%) SSP 1,115 (0.42%) Ind Cox 758 (0.28%) Nat
Front 640 (0.24%) Angus Ind 471 (0.18%) Solidarity 286 (0.11%) MIDLOTHIAN SOUTH,
TWEEDDALE & LAUDERDALE SNP hold Electorate 57,781 Turnout 31,841 (55.11%) %Vote
Grahame, C (SNP) 13,855 43.51 Purvis, J (LD) 8,931 28.05 Miller, I (Lab) 5,312
16.68 Duncan, P (C) 3,743 11.76 May 2007 (SNP) 10,971 (33.94%); (LD) 9,770
(30.23%); (Lab) 6,247 (19.33%); (C) 5,235 (16.20%); (Others) 97 (0.30%).
RENFREWSHIRE SOUTH Lab hold Electorate 50,221 Turnout 26,908 (53.58%) %Vote
Henry, H (Lab) 12,933 48.06 Doig, A (SNP) 10,356 38.49 Campbell, A (C) 2,917
10.84 Anderson, G (LD) 702 2.61 May 2007 (Lab) 14,838 (51.00%); (SNP) 8,902
(30.60%); (C) 3,646 (12.53%); (LD) 1,251 (4.30%); (Others) 459 (1.58%). MORAY
SNP hold Electorate 56,215 Turnout 28,596 (50.87%) %Vote Lochhead, R (SNP)
16,817 58.81 Ross, D (C) 5,873 20.54 Green, K (Lab) 3,580 12.52 Paterson, J (LD)
1,327 4.64 Gatt, D (UKIP) 999 3.49 May 2007 (SNP) 14,007 (49.78%); (C) 6,721
(23.88%); (Lab) 3,959 (14.07%); (LD) 3,413 (12.13%); (Others) 40 (0.14%).
RUTHERGLEN Lab hold Electorate 57,777 Turnout 27,122 (46.94%) %Vote Kelly, J
(Lab) 12,489 46.05 McGuigan, J (SNP) 10,710 39.49 McIntyre, M (C) 2,096 7.73
Strachan, L (LD) 1,194 4.40 Johnstone, C (Ind) 633 2.33 May 2007 (Lab) 12,378
(44.57%); (SNP) 6,431 (23.16%); (LD) 5,343 (19.24%); (C) 2,396 (8.63%); (Others)
1,225 (4.41%). SHETLAND ISLANDS LD hold MOTHERWELL & WISHAW Lab hold Electorate
53,610

Turnout 9,391 (53.65%) %Vote Scott, T (LD) 4,462 47.51 Fox, B (Ind) 2,845 30.29
Urquhart, J (SNP) 1,134 12.08 Kerr, J (Lab) 620 6.60 Cross, S (C) 330 3.51 May
2007 Scott (LD) 6,531 (66.68%); Simpson (SNP) 1,622 (16.56%); Jones (C) 972
(9.92%); Burnett (Lab) 670 (6.84%). Pentland, J (Lab) 10,713 43.81 Adamson, C
(SNP) 10,126 41.41 Burgess, B (C) 1,753 7.17 Swinburne, J (Pensioners) 945 3.86
Selfridge, T (SCP) 547 2.24 Hope, B (LD) 367 1.50 May 2007 (Lab) 12,675
(48.37%); (SNP) 6,701 (25.57%); (Others) 3,102 (11.84%); (C) 2,165 (8.26%); (LD)
1,563 (5.96%). SKYE, LOCHABER & BADENOCH SNP gain Electorate 57,024 Turnout
31,915 (55.97%) %Vote Thompson, D (SNP) 14,737 46.18 MacRae, A (LD) 9,742 30.52
Stewart, L (Lab) 4,112 12.88 Carr, K (C) 2,834 8.88 Campbell, R (ND) 490 1.54
May 2007 (LD) 11,318 (41.84%); (SNP) 8,534 (31.55%); (Lab) 3,857 (14.26%); (C)
3,170 (11.72%); (Others) 170 (0.63%). NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR SNP hold Electorate
21,834 Turnout 13,011 (59.59%) %Vote Allan, A (SNP) 8,496 65.30 Crichton, D
(Lab) 3,724 28.62 McGrigor, C (C) 563 4.33 Morrison, P (LD) 228 1.75 May 2007
Allan (SNP) 6,354 (46.63%); Morrison (Lab) 5,667 (41.59%); Ferguson (LD) 852
(6.25%); Petrie (C) 752 (5.52%). STIRLING SNP gain Electorate 51,458 Turnout
30,406 (59.09%) %Vote Crawford, B (SNP) 14,858 48.87 Hendry, J (Lab) 9,188 30.22
Benny, N (C) 4,610 15.16 Reed, G (LD) 1,296 4.26 Black, J (Ind) 454 1.49 May
2007 (Lab) 10,934 (34.01%); (SNP) 10,545 (32.80%); (C) 7,012 (21.81%); (LD)
3,152 (9.81%); (Others) 502 (1.56%). ORKNEY ISLANDS LD hold Electorate 16,393
Turnout 8,152 (49.73%) %Vote McArthur, L (LD) 2,912 35.72 Stockan, J (Ind) 2,052
25.17 Heddle, D (SNP) 2,044 25.07 Halcro Johnston, J (C) 686 8.42 Sharkey, W
(Lab) 458 5.62 May 2007 McArthur (LD) 4,113 (47.53%); Mowat (SNP) 1,637
(18.92%); Gardiner (C) 1,632 (18.86%); MacDonald (Lab) 1,134 (13.11%); Johnson
(Ind) 137 (1.58%). Electorate 335,283; Turnout 179,010 (53.39%, %) 2007 SNP maj
26,132 (14.24%); Turnout 183,481 (54.82%) LOTHIAN (Almond Valley; Edinburgh
Central; Edinburgh Eastern; Edinburgh Northern & Leith; Edinburgh Pentlands;
Edinburgh Southern; Edinburgh Western; Linlithgow; Midlothian North &
Musselburgh) Elected: David McLetchie (C); Gavin Brown (C); Sarah Boyack (Lab);
Kez Dugdale (Lab); Neil Findlay (Lab); Alison Johnstone (Green); Margo
Mac-Donald (Ind) SNP 110,953 (39.18%) Lab 70,544 (24.91%) C 33,019 (11.66%)
Green 21,505 (7.59%) Ind 18,732 (6.61%) LD 15,588 (5.50%) Pensioners 3,218
(1.14%) BNP 1,978 (0.70%) UKIP 1,822 (0.64%) Soc Lab 1,681 (0.59%) SSP 1,183
(0.42%) SCP 914 (0.32%) Lib 697 (0.25%) CPA 553 (0.20%) Solidarity 327 (0.12%)
Ind Hogg 294 (0.10%) Ind O''Neill 134 (0.05%) Ind Brown 61 (0.02%) SNP maj
40,409 (14.27) 7.03% swing SNP to Lab Electorate 515,510; Turnout 283,203
(54.94%, %) 2007 SNP maj 612 (0.21%); Turnout 285,675 (55.24%) SCOTLAND CENTRAL
(Airdrie & Shotts; Coatbridge & Chryston; Cumbernauld & Kilsyth; East Kilbride;
Falkirk East; Falkirk West; Hamilton, Larkhall & Stonehouse; Motherwell &
Wishaw; Uddingston & Bellshill) Elected: Margaret Mitchell (C); Siobhon McMahon
(Lab); Mark Griffin (Lab); Margaret McCulloch (Lab); Richard Lyle (SNP); John
Wilson (SNP); Clare Adamson (SNP) SNP 108,261 (46.35%) Lab 82,459 (35.31%) C
14,870 (6.37%) Pensioners 5,793 (2.48%) Green 5,634 (2.41%) LD 3,318 (1.42%) SCP
3,173 (1.36%) Soc Lab 2,483 (1.06%) BNP 2,214 (0.95%) SUP 1,555 (0.67%) UKIP
1,263 (0.54%) Ind 821 (0.35%) SSP 820 (0.35%) Solidarity 559 (0.24%) Homeland
333 (0.14%) SNP maj 25,802 (11.05) 10.08% swing SNP to Lab Electorate 486,263;
Turnout 233,556 (48.03%, %) 2007 Lab maj 22,573 (9.12%); Turnout 247,645
(50.20%) Ind McBride 190 (0.07%) SNP maj 96,856 (36.27) 7.68% swing SNP to Lab
Electorate 548,238; Turnout 267,045 (48.71%, %) 2007 SNP maj 57,878 (20.90%);
Turnout 276,868 (51.24%) SCOTLAND SOUTH (Ayr; Carrick, Cumnock & Doon Valley;
Clydesdale; Dumfriesshire; East Lothian; Ettrick, Roxburgh & Berwickshire;
Galloway & Dumfries West; Kilmarnock & Irvine Valley; Midlothian South,
Tweeddale & Lauderdale) Elected: Claudia Beamish (Lab); Graeme Pearson (Lab);
Jim Hume (LD); Aileen McLeod (SNP); Joan McAlpine (SNP); Paul Wheelhouse (SNP);
Chic Brodie (SNP) SNP 114,270 (40.98%) Lab 70,595 (25.32%) C 54,352 (19.49%) LD
15,096 (5.41%) Green 8,535 (3.06%) Pensioners 4,418 (1.58%) UKIP 3,243 (1.16%)
Soc Lab 2,906 (1.04%) BNP 2,017 (0.72%) SCP 1,924 (0.69%) Solidarity 813 (0.29%)
SSP 697 (0.25%) SNP maj 43,675 (15.66) 7.95% swing SNP to Lab Electorate
525,784; Turnout 278,866 (53.04%, %) 2007 Lab maj 658 (0.23%); Turnout 282,832
(54.30%) SCOTLAND WEST (Clydebank & Milngavie; Cunninghame North; Cunninghame
South; Dumbarton; Eastwood; Greenock & Inverclyde; Paisley; Renfrewshire North &
West; Renfrewshire South; Strathkelvin & Bearsden) Elected: Annabel Goldie (C);
Jackson Carlaw (C); Mary Fee (Lab); Neil Bibby (Lab); Margaret McDougall (Lab);
Stewart Maxwell (SNP); Stuart McMillan (SNP) SNP 117,306 (41.54%) Lab 92,530
(32.77%) C 35,995 (12.75%) LD 9,148 (3.24%) Green 8,414 (2.98%) Pensioners 4,771
(1.69%) Soc Lab 2,865 (1.01%) SCP 2,468 (0.87%) BNP 2,162 (0.77%) UKIP 2,000
(0.71%) SSP 1,752 (0.62%) BBB 1,204 (0.43%) Pirate 850 (0.30%) Ind 460 (0.16%)
Solidarity 446 (0.16%) SNP maj 24,776 (8.77) 7.40% swing SNP to Lab Electorate
532,097; Turnout 282,371 (53.07%, %) 2007 Lab maj 17,679 (6.02%); Turnout
293,801 (55.57%) STRATHKELVIN & BEARSDEN SNP gain Electorate 59,323 Turnout
33,752 (56.90%) %Vote McLeod, F (SNP) 14,258 42.24 Whitton, D (Lab) 12,456 36.90
Fraser, S (C) 4,438 13.15 MacDonald, G (LD) 2,600 7.70 May 2007 (Lab) 11,527
(32.29%); (SNP) 7,944 (22.25%); (Others) 6,979 (19.55%); (C) 4,903 (13.73%);
(LD) 4,345 (12.17%). PAISLEY SNP gain Electorate 52,066 Turnout 25,590 (49.15%)
%Vote Adam, G (SNP) 10,913 42.65 Williams, E (Lab) 10,665 41.68 McCaskill, G (C)
2,229 8.71 McCartin, E (LD) 1,783 6.97 May 2007 (Lab) 11,566 (44.38%); (SNP)
7,755 (29.75%); (LD) 4,134 (15.86%); (C) 2,304 (8.84%); (Others) 305 (1.17%).
UDDINGSTON & BELLSHILL Lab hold Electorate 55,584 Turnout 24,995 (44.97%) %Vote
McMahon, M (Lab) 11,531 46.13 Lyle, R (SNP) 10,817 43.28 Brown, M (C) 2,117 8.47
Macgregor, F (LD) 530 2.12 May 2007 (Lab) 13,228 (49.62%); (SNP) 7,644 (28.67%);
(C) 2,736 (10.26%); (LD) 1,737 (6.52%); (Others) 1,314 (4.93%). PERTHSHIRE NORTH
SNP hold Electorate 53,412 Turnout 29,953 (56.08%) %Vote Swinney, J (SNP) 18,219
60.83 Fraser, M (C) 7,866 26.26 Cheema, P (Lab) 2,672 8.92 Clements, V (LD)
1,196 3.99 May 2007 (SNP) 15,318 (50.35%); (C) 8,776 (28.85%); (LD) 3,590
(11.80%); (Lab) 2,585 (8.50%); (Others) 155 (0.51%).

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

SCOTLAND HAS BEEN CHANGED FOREVER;
SNP TRIUMPH: NATION'S NEW DAWN ; Political landscape is transformed

BYLINE: ANDREW NICOLL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 457 words


A NEW day has dawned at Holyrood - and Scotland will now be changed forever.

No matter why people voted SNP, whether they back independence or not, people in
Scotland have FINALLY broken free of the dead hand of Labour.

Nobody could have expected the scale of the SNP win. Nobody expected an overall
majority.

After all, long before the Scottish Parliament was set up, Jack McConnell
boasted the voting system was designed to make an SNP win impossible.

But it was possible. It is possible. It makes you wonder what else might be
possible. But I'll tell you this - Scotland will never be the same again.

Flood Back at Holyrood yesterday they were already getting ready for the changed
landscape as guards on the doors flicked through booklets packed with pictures
of our new MSPs.

They have to get used to a flood of new faces. So will I. And, after all this
talk of electoral tidal waves, I will have to place them in a totally altered
landscape, swept clean by a torrent of SNP votes.

The results are simply staggering. It means the SNP are free to pass whatever
legislation they like, and that includes a referendum on independence.

As Iain Gray said: "There are changes at play in Scottish politics which go
quite deep." Professor Jim Mitchell of Strathclyde University put it rather
differently.

He said: "It's amazing. This is our Arab Spring.

"This is the proof that you can't take people for granted for ever. Eventually
they will bite back and, eventually, the people will always win."

The results are staggering. The SNP has 69 seats - four more than the majority
they need and 22 up on 2007.

Labour secured 37 - down nine - the Conservatives lost two to reach 15 while the
Lib Dems slumped by 11 seats to just five. The Greens stayed on two and
independent Margo Macdonald is back.

The SNP simply dwarfs every other group at Holyrood. Scotland has moved from a
Parliament with four competing parties to something like a two-party system -
with Labour a poor second.

The Greens have seen their dreams of eight seats pruned back like clematis.

And the Socialists have vanished completely.

It would be unfair to blame Tommy Sheridan but they trailed behind UKIP, the BNP
and the Christian Party. Nobody is listening any more.

There will be 39 women from 129 MSPs, down from 45 last time to its lowest-ever
number.

Labour's defeat has been so catastrophic that half their team of MSPs has come
from the top-up list.

They were makeweight candidates who never expected to see the inside of the
Scottish Parliament. Google them - nothing comes up.

But that's not true of Graham Pearson, former boss of the Scottish Crime and
Drugs Enforcement Agency. He's an interesting bloke.

I wonder if he's just too interesting to be Labour leader.

andrewnicoll@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 7, 2011 Saturday 8:12 PM GMT

The Scottish Tories are failing. Time for a Scottish Unionist Party to put real
pressure on Alex Salmond

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1538 words


Although the massive majority againstAV in the referendum was the most immediate
of all the political news on Friday, there was a lot else to digest.A southerner
like myself should be (and I am) cautious about explaining the SNP -or perhaps
the Alex Salmond - phenomenon and how different it was for the Welsh
Nationalists. In England, however, it seems to be more straightforward.

Within the Conservative fold, the Europhile, Cameronian, coalitionist wing and
the traditional Conservatives (probably including those who will vote UKIP in
2014) came out to dish the Lib Dems, when often at the end of a government's
first difficult year they would have stayed at home. As a result, not only was
AV massively defeated,but so too were Lib Dem council candidates. Labour did
quite well, but not really as well as it should at this stage of the economic
and political cycle.

All in all, it was a good day for the Conservative Party and the only private
griefwhich may have touched Mr Cameron is that his troops so thoroughly defeated
the Lib Dem enemy, not only on AV, but in the council chambers too.

The sorry tale of the Conservative Party in Scotland was another matter.With the
exception of men like Teddy Taylor and Micky Forsyth, it has failed to free
itself of the image of being either a lairds' party or an English party. Even
worse, the vast flow of cashfrom English taxpayers has shielded Scottish
taxpayers from the cost of Scotland's high-spending administrations. Even in
Thatcher's day the only thing that mattered to Scottish Secretaries was how much
more they could spend, year on year.

As a result many natural Conservative voters have simply played tactical voting
either for Labour to keep out the SNP, or SNP to keep out Labour, and there has
been little challenge to Alex Salmond, who skillfully poses as both a "small c"
conservative and a "small l" labour politican.

I think it is long overdue for him to be challenged by a Scottish Unionist Party
which would ask him if Scotland were to leave the United Kingdom whether it
would become independent or apply to join the EU, and whether it would use the
Pound Sterling, a Scottish Pound or, like Ireland, Potugal and Greece, be
imprisoned bythe euro.

In Wales, neither PlaidCymru nor the Lib Dems had much of a day.The AV vote was
lost and the Conservatives overtook PC intosecond place behind Labour, which did
rather well.

I remain of the view that the Lib Dems were the architects of their own
misfortune.The AV referendum backfired and they have no one but themselves to
blame. They have nowhere to go except to cross the floor into opposition. In the
ensuing election they would be wiped out.The more Cable and Clegg campaign
against the policies to which they have signed up, the worse things will get for
them.

At least if he loses his seat Mr Clegg will surely have a well-paid career in
Brussels to look forward to.For the rest it would be oblivion.It is time for Mr
Cameron to explain the political facts of life to his partners in this loveless
partnership called coalition. Neither his supporters in Westminster nor those in
the country would be impressed if he gave Mr Clegg and his friends another
booby-trap present which might blow not only the Lib Dems, but the Tories too,
out of office.These supporters want action on immigration, tax and the EU - and
if they do not get it the European elections of 2014 may leave the Prime
Minister a lot less happy than he is well entitled to be this weekend.

...

I hope readers will excuse me if I do not reply to the posts on my Saturday blog
on the outcome of the referendum, as today's postgoes over some of that same
ground as well as the election results. However, I must make an exception for
darkseid, if only to say that I do not regret having had a good gloat over the
defeat of AV. There is not a lot to gloat about these days unless one wants to
break up this Kingdom into provinces of the Euro State.And, of course to accept
darkseid's wager of a fiver that Clegg will outlast Cameron as leader of his
Party.

It was certainly interesting to scan through all the posts on my blog about the
killing of bin Laden.Of course there were some full of certainty and moral
rectitude, but many more wereas concerned as I am at the double, or even treble
standards, which seem to be rife in such matters.As I wrote, "consistency in
these matters is not easy.Hypocrisy is sometimes part of statecraft. What
matters are the interests of this Kingdom."

Indeed some contributors raised the matter of the lethalNato attack on Gaddafi's
bunker, contrasting it with our indignation that he failed to prevent attacks on
our embassy buildings in Tripoli. Then darkseid said he found my "'switching
from principle to pragmatism a bit disturbing".My goodness, he must be very,
very disturbed at the antics of the LibDemCon coalition.After all, I simply
raised the issues.

On the other hand I must thank him and henrietta for pointing out to some of the
wilder critics of the Monarch such as nolensvolens and easyoke as well as the
more thoughtful ones like Suboptimal Planet and Sable 35that they were simply
wrong and that I had already dealt with that matter.

A number of contributors, led by jono and cambridge elephant, were half amused
and half horrified at the thought that our "human rights" system might well have
enabled bin Laden to come here as an asylum seeker and live comfortably at our
expense. Indeed taxpayer (and taxfiddler)raised the issue of our taxpayers
contributing through our taxes to terrorism.Oddly enough, that was a matter
raised in the House of Lords on Wednesday by Lord Naseby, who was concerned at
the misuse of charities by those involved with terrorist groups.

There were a good number of posts agreeing in whole or part with most of what I
wrote, not least from jay from philly, busspassman, stevejacks, Richard Brace,
jfcooper, costaandroid, Suboptimal Planet, briank, henrietta, Damon, The Season,
the summer 2012and many others.

OnSinn Fein/IRA and Northern Ireland terrorism there were some divergent views.
Some like aileen 62, milroy666, lucipher, callum23 and james 01generally took my
view, whilst there were some who held that the resistanceof the Unionist
establishment to the recognition of the rights of the Catholic minority
justified the Sinn Fein/IRA terrorism.An interesting point of view, which would
seem to justify thoseBritish people who think we should enjoy self-governmentif
they weretostart a terrorist campaign in Brussels.

More sensibly, cadence 54 said that Sinn Fein/IRA had only limited demands and
could therefore be bought off more easily than bin Laden. On the same line The
Slog observed that some terrorists mellow with age (though not Islamists).In the
Northern Ireland context, I would prefer to put it a bit differently. Some
terrorists facing imminent arrest, trial and long years in jail decided to do a
deal, opting for immunity, well-paid jobs and a comfortable life bought at the
expense of the blood of both their victims and their ownfoot soldiers.
Responsible asked what is the best way to peace in Northern Ireland.Well, I
would not have chosen this way. Sinn Fein/IRA was on the run and pleading for a
ceasefire.I would have pressed home our advantage before agreeing to a
settlement from a position of strength.

However, a different course was taken and it is too late to change that now.We
can only hope that it will be successful. Peace with neither justice nor honour
is at least peace, unless the sons of Sinn Fein/IRA gain enough support to start
the fighting again.

On the matter of American supportfor Sinn Fein/IRA, it was annoying, but limited
and not critical. It was limited to the Bostonian Democrats anddubiousAmericans
from Irish Catholic backgrounds.

Somehow from the darker recesses of the Left, amegath introduced the sinking of
the Belgrano.I am always amazed that the pathological hatred of the Left for
Thatcher brings them to support a fascist military junta's attempt to rob the
Falklanders of their right to self-government.Let us be clear.The Belgrano was
an enemy warship. It was a danger to British servicemen. It was sunk in
accordance with the recognised rules of war.The regrettable loss of life was the
responsibility of the junta.

I was sorry that unionjackjackson still misunderstands the coal dispute,
although Peter J42, responsible and mysay put him right.The mines were closed
because the coal they produced was not competitive. It was not Thatcher who
picked a quarrel with Scargill.It was he who used the miners in an attempt to
overthrow, for the second time, an elected government by strike action.He failed
because the miners would not support him.Henever dared to call a national
ballot.No other union supported him. The damage he did forced the closure of
more mines earlier than there needed to be.

Wake up the world suggested that I should make my criticisms of the Coalition in
private.That would require a private meeting.The last one I was granted
wasbefore the election, when I explained why the Conservative Party's election
strategy would fail to win a majority. My helpful advicewas not taken.

It is, of course still available to myeditor, you,the readers, and anyone in No
10 connected to the internet.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 7, 2011 Saturday 6:55 PM GMT

Chris Huhne wrecked the Yes to AV campaign. Will he now wreck the Lib Dems?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 645 words


The Lib Dem leadership race was in its closing stages, the two candidates
thundering knee-to-knee along the final furlong. As can happen in such circs,
things turned nasty. The Huhne campaign put out a leaflet which attacked, in
personal terms, the man it called "Calamity Clegg". When Chris Huhne was
challenged over the leaflet, he suavely replied that, although it might have
been issued on his behalf, he had not written it himself.

As far as I know, no Cabinet minister threw Huhne's words back at him when the
he demanded that the Conservatives disown an anti-AV leaflet issued by someone
else. Still, it's hard to avoid the sense that, as far as he's concerned, it's
one rule for Huhne and another for everyone else.

Lib Dems haven't exactly covered themselves with glory over the past couple of
weeks. People are rarely angrier than when they secretly blame themselves for
something, and the petulant way in which "Yes" campaigners are lashing out
suggests that, deep down, they know they threw the campaign away. They got to
choose the question and the date (selected, over Tory protests, to coincide with
the Welsh and Scottish elections). They had oodles of money to spend. They began
with a comfortable lead. Yet, in the event, they crashed

Why? Mainly for the reasons which Ed West gives. In the current climate, victory
was always likely to go to the side which most convincingly presented itself as
anti-politician. On one level, "Yes" campaigners seemed to grasp this: their
television broadcast featured voters shouting at MPs through megaphones. Yet
their aperu was smothered by their far stronger prejudice anyone who actually
was anti-politician. If they had been cleverer, they would have allowed Nigel
Farage to front their campaign. When he purports to be against a closed
political Establishment, voters (including many of those who would never dream
of voting UKIP) believe him.

Instead, they relied largely on a group of right-on luvvies. Never mind the
question of why we should take advice from actors who, after all, earn their
living by feigning emotions they don't feel and reciting lines they didn't
write. The idea that anyone would see Tony Robinson or Eddie Izzard as anything
other than a paid-up member of the metropolitan elite was risible. The "Yes"
campaign made no attempt to deploy any arguments, or any personnel, with appeal
beyond a narrow slice of the soft Left - the one constituency whose support was
guaranteed in any case.

The liberal Left was, with pleasing karma, undone by its own narcissism. "Yes"
campaigners seemed genuinely not to understand that Caroline Lucas, Ed Miliband
and Benjamin Zephaniah do not, among them, cover the entire political spectrum.

Before the last election, a high-profile Conservative MP rang the Electoral
Reform Society to offer his support. He was subjected to a cross-examination by
its campaigns director, Carina Trimingham (coincidentally Huhne's mistress) who
took issue with a number of policy statements he had made in the past.
Understanding that there was no place for Rightists who might support electoral
reform for their own reasons, he dropped the issue. How different the Yes
campaign might have been if it had made use of him, and others like him.

Of course, I don't expect either the Lib Dems or the ERS (to the extent that
they are separate outfits) to see any of this. It's only human, I suppose, to
blame someone else - although whining because David Cameron actually campaigned
against a voting system which he had always opposed is slightly desperate.

There are decent Lib Dems, of course, who have reacted decently; Tim Farron, for
example, has been notably gracious in accepting the verdict. Sadly, Chris Huhne
has ensured that the lasting impression is of a party of peevish whingers. How I
hope he becomes Lib Dem leader. You think they're doing badly now? Just you
wait.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The chance to break the mould of British politics has been lost;
The Tories' dirty tactics in the AV campaign will cost them dear in the long run

BYLINE: JULIAN ASTLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 927 words


They accused each other of lying, helping the BNP, acting like Goebbels and
putting their own interests above those of sick babies and soldiers. By the end,
they confronted each other across the Cabinet table and even threatened court
action. Yesterday's referendum on the Alternative Vote (AV) was always likely to
strain relations between senior Liberal Democrats and Conservatives, but no one
predicted just how much bad blood it would produce.

It all started out politely enough. David Cameron, knowing AV to be nothing more
than a "baby step" away from the existing first past the post system (to use
Nick Clegg's description), had clearly made a strategic decision to soft-pedal
his support of the No campaign. The health of his Coalition Government was
judged more important than resisting a change that, if it damaged his party's
electoral prospects at all, would probably be offset by planned alterations to
parliamentary constituency boundaries. As the campaign began, the Prime Minister
left the Deputy Prime Minister in no doubt: as leader of the Conservative Party,
he would do what was expected of him, but no more. Clegg himself would not be
targeted; the No campaign would be instructed to play the ball, not the man.

According to senior Lib Dems, everything changed when early opinion polls showed
the Yes campaign in front, to the alarm of Conservative MPs and activists. It
was argued that Cameron had failed to win the general election and then been
suckered into offering the Lib Dems a referendum he should never have agreed to.
Were he now to be defeated, his party would see him as a serial loser.

Sensing danger, Cameron did what he always does when in trouble: he called in
George Osborne. He then did what he always does under Osborne's influence: he
switched from thinking strategically to thinking tactically. A decision was
taken to defeat AV come what may. Funds were raised, staff seconded and
political licence granted. The No campaigners could finally play their trump
card and attack Nick Clegg.

Judged on its own terms, the Cameron/ Osborne operation has been an astonishing
success. In the past month, Conservative voters moved from a 2:1 to a 9:1 split
in favour of retaining the current electoral system. And with Labour voters,
like Labour MPs, divided, the No campaign was able to turn a slight deficit into
a thumping majority.

So Cameron looks certain to have succeeded in his attempts to preserve the
current system for electing MPs - but at what price for his relationship with
Nick Clegg, for the stability of his government and for his modernising
ambitions for his party?

His relationship with Clegg is likely to prove the least of his worries. The
Deputy Prime Minister certainly feels let down by the Prime Minister, but is
determined to move quickly to re-establish a productive working relationship,
albeit on a more contractual, less informal basis. He, like Cameron, has too
much invested in the Coalition to allow it to fail.

The bigger worry for both men is the lasting effect recent hostilities may have
on the rest of the Government. In the early days of the Coalition, the
administration buzzed with the creativity of fusion politics as ministers and
advisers threw off the constraints of stale party orthodoxy to design something
genuinely different, genuinely new.

One side described the product of their endeavours as a softer, more
compassionate Conservatism, the other, a grittier, more grown-up Liberalism, but
both were agreed: they were building something they couldn't have built on their
own - something greater than the sum of its parts.

When Cameron decided to move against Clegg to appease his own party, however, he
didn't just weaken his deputy - he weakened himself. The in-fighting of recent
weeks, and the suspicion it has engendered, will ensure it is the "told-you-so"
Coalition-sceptics in both parties who emerge the stronger. Clegg remains
hopeful that some good could yet come of it; that having spent much of the past
year building up Coalition credibility rather than protecting his party's
identity, he can now spend more time talking up Lib Dem achievements. The danger
is that both sides come to view coalition politics as a zero-sum game, believing
that what is good for one partner must be bad for the other - a destructive
mindset that can only benefit the Labour Party.

The irony is that it could have been so different. There was a point, before
opinions hardened, when the Prime Minister could actually have embraced the
Alternative Vote, as Michael Gove, his modernising Education Secretary, wanted
to do. All that would have been required was for him to challenge the
pessimistic and self-fulfilling assumption that underpins his party's opposition
to AV - that Conservatives can never attract the second preference votes of
other parties' supporters. Had he done so, he could have finished what he began
when he put the Coalition together and initiated a significant realignment of
British politics, attracting support not only from Ukip supporters to his Right,
but from Liberal Democrats to his Left.

It would have been an audacious, "Clause Four" type move which would have
diminished, perhaps even removed, the existential threat to the Conservative
Party posed by Britain's non-Tory majority. Instead, he chose to view the
existing dividing lines as unchangeable, ensuring that his party's "us against
the world" mentality endures, and endures for good reason.

Julian Astle is a former adviser to Paddy Ashdown

Comment on Julian Astle's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Something has come between us: with early polls showing the Yes
campaign in front, the No camp decided to target Nick Clegg
GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I HEAR there was a [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 59 words


I HEAR there was a brief moment of confusion at the UK Independence Party's
spring conference in Scarborough this week as leader Nigel Farage appeared to
use his keynote speech to express his fondness for all things European.

"We're not anti-Europe. I love Europe!" he said. "I've drunk more rioja than
most people alive!"

E-mail me at: hickey@express.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 53  words


I HEAR there was a brief moment of confusion at the UK Independence Party's
spring conference in Scarborough this week as leader Nigel Farage appeared to
use his keynote speech to express his fondness for all things European.

"We're not anti-Europe. I love Europe!"

he said. "I've drunk more rioja than most people alive!"

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                         May 6, 2011 Friday 8:50 AM GMT

Poll bloodbath for Lib Dems

BYLINE: PA

SECTION: ALTERNATIVE VOTE

LENGTH: 802 words


Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg suffered a massive blow to his authority
today as his Liberal Democrat party fell victim to a bloodbath in elections   in
England, Scotland and Wales - and probable defeat on the totemic issue of
electoral reform.

The Lib Dems lost swathes of seats in former council strongholds in the north
of England to Labour, while haemorrhaging support to the Scottish National
Party north of the border.

A political earthquake in Scotland saw the SNP snatch at least 10 seats from
Labour, increasing its share of the vote by more than 13% in the first 25
constituencies to declare and putting Alex Salmond on course for an overall
majority in his second term as First Minister.

Declaring himself "delighted" with the results, Mr Salmond confirmed   he will
press ahead with a referendum on independence in the coming   four-year term at
Holyrood, saying: "Just as the people have bestowed   trust on us, we must trust
the people as well."

Labour gained overall control of eight councils, including Sheffield, Hull,
Bolton, Stoke and Telford. Some 12 Lib Dem wards fell to Labour in   Liverpool,
10 each in Manchester and Hull and nine in Sheffield - Mr Clegg's   hometown.

But the 204 seats gained by Labour by 5am did not appear to be enough for
leader Ed Miliband to claim a major breakthrough in his drive to steer the
party back into power nationally.

And he saw his leader in the Scottish Parliament, Iain Gray, scrape back in by
a wafer-thin majority of 151 as the SNP secured the bulk of the benefit of
protest votes against the Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition   Government.

Labour's best results came in the Welsh Assembly, where it took Llanelli from
Plaid Cymru and Blaenau Gwent from an Independent and increased its share of
the vote by 10.5% in the first 20 constituencies to declare.

Thursday's elections sparked a bitter war of words between the coalition
partners, with former Lib Dem leader Lord Ashdown accusing Prime Minister
David Cameron of a "breach of faith" by allowing the largely
Conservative-funded No campaign to turn their fire on Mr Clegg in the
referendum on electoral reform, where a result is due later today.

"You cannot fund a deeply vicious campaign to destroy the personality of   your
partner, who has been unmoved in his brave support of the coalition,   without
there being consequences," Lord Ashdown told The Times in an   interview before
any votes were counted.

"When it comes to the bonhomie of the Downing Street rose garden, it's   never
again glad confident morn."

There were no calls from prominent Lib Dems for their leader to go or to quit
the coalition, but a number of senior figures pressed for the party to take   a
more independent stance within the Government.

Deputy leader Simon Hughes said Lib Dem "trust" in the Tories had   been knocked
by their conduct of the referendum campaign and indicated the   party would
demand concessions on key issues like NHS reform where   Conservative ministers
have strayed beyond the terms of last year's   coalition agreement.

"From now on, we are very clear that we will keep to what the coalition   has
agreed in the Coalition Agreement," said Mr Hughes. "Other   stuff will not be
allowed in as policy unless our party has agreed to it."

Liberal Democrat MP Mike Hancock said the party had to "make our price   for
cooperation a lot harder than we have up to now" and make clear to   Mr Cameron
it will not go along with Mr Lansley's NHS reforms.

And former Lib Dem MP Evan Harris insisted the "strategy from the top   down,
including the Deputy Prime Minister, must change".

"We do not need to be so collegiate as we have been over the last year,"   said
Dr Harris, who sits on the party's Federal Policy Committee. "For   the next
four years we are entitled to show our differences in public."

Conservatives appeared to have escaped any voter backlash against their record
in the first year of coalition Government, gaining six councillors and   control
of West Somerset by the time the first 65 councils in England had   declared.
The party was also celebrating victory in the Welsh Assembly seat   of
Montgomeryshire.

Energy Secretary Chris Huhne said he was not surprised by the results.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I think it's inevitable that if   you
have mid-term elections, governments do badly and these are the first   mid-term
elections that the Liberal Democrats have had since 1945."

With results available from 104 councils, the state of parties is:

Party, Total, Change in Control, Councillors, Councillors change

C, 52, +1, 1,341, +28

Lab, 28, +12, 922, +314

LD, 4, -4, 329, -271

Green, 10, +2

R, 10, -2

Lib, 7, -1

BNP, 1, -6

Ind CHC, 1, -3

Ind, -1, 139, -64

Respect, -1

UKIP, 1, -1

Toad, -1

Boston, -1, 4, -14

Eng Dem, 2, +1

NOC, 20, -7

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Minister breaks ranks to attack Ashton

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 382 words


BELGIUM has broken ranks by making public unprecedented criticism of Baroness
Ashton as dissatisfaction over the Labour peer's performance as the European
Union's foreign minister spreads.

Steven Vanackere, Belgium's respected foreign minister, has previously been
regarded as a staunch supporter of Lady Ashton and her new diplomatic service.

But on Wednesday he made public his "impatience" with the EU's "high
representative" for foreign affairs, who is the best paid female politician in
the world.

Mr Vanackere said he accepted that Lady Ashton "cannot be everywhere at the same
time" in response to the pace and pressure of world events, but questioned her
track record.

"We can accept that some react faster than Ashton, but with the condition that
she can prove that she is working for the medium-term and long-term on very
important issues like energy, for example.

But I have not seen this either," he told Le Soir newspaper.

Lady Ashton, who has never been elected to public office, has been criticised
behind the scenes for failing to attend important meetings and for her lack of
political or diplomatic successes since taking the job, created by the Lisbon
Treaty, in November, 2009.

A growing number of countries, including France, are angry that her perceived
political failure has meant that her newly created European External Action
Service (EEAS) has not helped the EU "to speak with one voice", an objective she
set herself when taking the job.

Mr Vanackere lamented deep divisions that emerged within the 27-nation EU during
the "great test presented by the Arab awakening".

"We have always wanted the External Action Service to be the central axis around
which member states might organise," he said. "But in the absence of a central
player that reacts, makes analyses and conclusions quickly, it is the Germans
today, the French tomorrow or the English who take up this role. The result is
centrifugal, not centripetal."

Lady Ashton's spokesman rejected the criticism. "I think we have been up there
and have prioritised correctly," he said.

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said Lady Ashton's "incompetence" was a major
obstacle to the EU's attempts to develop foreign policy at the expense of
national sovereignty. "Ashton is not fit for purpose. She's so bad, it's good,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

One-party support means I will be voting 'No' to AV;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 148 words


HOW anybody could vote for AV, other than the supporters of the few political
parties who would benefit from it, is a mystery to me ("Lib Dems, dirty politics
and the AV referendum", May 4).

i have my political views, which support the conservative Party and i detest
almost everything that Labour stands for. so why should i have to prioritise the
other political parties when they are of no interest whatsoever to me? Deciding
whether UKIP should come higher than the Green Party or the Monster Raving
Loonies are placed higher than the other joke party, the Lib Dems, is a waste of
time as far as I am concerned.

With the Conservatives in first place and Labour a reluctant, distant last, why
should any other political party potentially benefit from ultimately being my
second choice when, in reality, I have no second choice and dislike them all for
various reasons?

Ann Field, By email

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clegg heads for double poll blow

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 641 words


NICK Clegg was braced last night for a crushing double defeat in today's
referendum on electoral reform and local elections.

The Deputy Prime Minister conceded that the Lib Dems were facing "tough times"
amid expectations of a heavy hammering in dozens of town hall polls.

His attempt to introduce the controversial Alternative Vote system for
Westminster elections was also expected to receive an overwhelming No from
voters.

On the campaign trail yesterday Mr Clegg said: "Clearly this is a tough time to
fight a local election when you're in government, having to take difficult
decisions."

And he admitted "the temperature is rising" within the coalition over the
referendum row.

He added: "Feelings are rising high as you would expect at this stage of a
referendum campaign but at the end of the day it isn't about what politicians
think or feel or even say to each other, it's about what people want."

Trailing

On the eve of voting, an ICM opinion poll suggested the No campaign will win the
referendum by a huge margin of 68 per cent to 32 per cent.

The phone survey of 1,035 voters found opposition to AV had grown among voters
of all ages, social backgrounds and political leanings.

It marks a huge turnaround for the No campaign, which was trailing behind
support for AV in February.

On share of the vote for the parties, the survey found 37 per cent support for
Labour, with Tories on 36 per cent and Lib Dems on 15 per cent. Ukip, the Greens
and other smaller parties had a combined total of 11 per cent.

Campaigners for and against replacing Westminster's traditional first past the
post system with AV continued to trade angry blows yesterday.

The bitter war within the coalition erupted in the Commons when a Lib Dem MP
compared the current voting system with political corruption in Zimbabwe under
dictator Robert Mugabe.

Backbencher Bob Russell told David Cameron: "In last year's General Election in
Essex 49 per cent of the votes cast went to the Conservatives, but 95 per cent
of the seats went to Conservative MPs. It was an outcome that would embarrass
Mugabe."

The outburst followed a furious row during a Cabinet meeting earlier this week
when Lib Dem Energy Secretary Chris Huhne confronted No supporters Mr Cameron
and Chancellor George Osborne over arguments used during the campaign. In
another row last night, the No camp warned that introducing AV could be a step
towards compulsory voting in Britain.

They pointed out that in Australia, the only major country in the world that
uses AV for parliamentary elections, people face swingeing fines if they fail to
vote.

This was introduced when the election turn-out fell after AV was introduced.

Tory Cabinet minister Eric Pickles claimed the move could mean a new "stealth
tax" raising up to £10million a year. He said: "The Alternative Voting system
led directly to the introduction of compulsory around CF Amsterdam. Shwrs 11 52
Athens. . .. Cloudy 21 70 Hong Istanbul.

"We do not want that here. Voting is a right, it isn't a cash cow for
Government."

Labour chiefs played down expectations that the party would do well in council
polls with one source dismissing a forecast of 1,000 extra council seats as
"unrealistic".

Leader Ed Miliband, an AV supporter, admitted that defeat in the referendum
would kill the issue of electoral reform for many years.

He said: "I don't think we are going to be coming back to this very quickly."

Council election results are expected from midnight. But counting in the
referendum will not begin until 4pm tomorrow, with the result announced later
that evening.

REJECT AV AND GET BACK TO REAL ISSUES: Page 12

Q Would voting reform be a disaster for Britain?

Yes: 0901 030 8344 Yes text DXTHURYes to 80088

No: 0901 030 8345 No text DXTHURNo to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No campaigners George Osborne and David Cameron are predicted to win
today's referendum

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU move risks UK's seat at UN

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 159  words


THE EU has seized the right to speak at the United Nations on behalf of its 27
member states, prompting fears that Britain may eventually lose its seat
altogether.

In the latest Brussels power grab the EU will be able to address UN meetings
through its own officials, rather than the country holding its rotating
presidency.

The decision, which does not give the EU voting rights, comes after years of
lobbying by the European bloc.

Baroness Ashton, the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security
Policy, told the UN's General Assembly they would now hear "a clearer voice"
from the EU.

But the move has sparked fears that the UK will eventually lose its seat at the
UN table.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "This is the next step along the road to Britain
being deprived of its permanent seat and its voice at the UN Security Council.
There can be no such thing as a 'British Foreign Policy' if there is an EU
'common foreign and security policy'."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

One-party support means I will be voting 'No' to AV;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 48

LENGTH: 147  words


HOW anybody could vote for AV, other than the supporters of the few political
parties who would benefit from it, is a mystery to me ("Lib Dems, dirty politics
and the AV referendum", May 4).

I have my political views, which support the Conservative Party and I detest
almost everything that Labour stands for. So why should I have to prioritise the
other political parties when they are of no interest whatsoever to me?

Deciding whether UKIP should come higher than the Green Party or the Monster
Raving Loonies are placed higher than the other joke party, the Lib Dems, is a
waste of time as far as I am concerned.

With the Conservatives in first place and Labour a reluctant, distant last, why
should any other political party potentially benefit from ultimately being my
second choice when, in reality, I have no second choice and dislike them all for
various reasons?

Ann Field, By email

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Clegg heads for double poll blow

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 600  words


NICK Clegg was braced last night for a crushing double defeat in today's
referendum on electoral reform and local elections.

The Deputy Prime Minister conceded that the Lib Dems were facing "tough times"
amid expectations of a heavy hammering in dozens of town hall polls.

His attempt to introduce the controversial Alternative Vote system for
Westminster elections was also expected to receive an overwhelming No from
voters.

On the campaign trail yesterday Mr Clegg said: "Clearly this is a tough time to
fight a local election when you're in government, having to take difficult
decisions."

And he admitted "the temperature is rising" within the coalition over the
referendum row.

He added: "Feelings are rising high as you would expect at this stage of a
referendum campaign but at the end of the day it isn't about what politicians
think or feel or even say to each other, it's about what people want."

On the eve of voting, an ICM opinion poll suggested the No campaign will win the
referendum by a huge margin of 68 per cent to 32 per cent.

The phone survey of 1,035 voters found opposition to AV had grown among voters
of all ages, social backgrounds and political leanings.

It marks a huge turnaround for the No campaign, which was trailing behind
support for AV in February.

On share of the vote for the parties, the survey found 37 per cent support for
Labour, with Tories on 36 per cent and Lib Dems on 15 per cent.

Ukip, the Greens and other smaller parties had a combined total of 11 per cent.

Campaigners for and against replacing Westminster's traditional first past the
post system with AV continued to trade angry blows yesterday. The bitter war
within the coalition erupted in the Commons when a Lib Dem MP compared the
current voting system with political corruption in Zimbabwe under dictator
Robert Mugabe.

Backbencher Bob Russell told David Cameron: "In last year's General Election in
Essex 49 per cent of the votes cast went to the Conservatives, but 95 per cent
of the seats went to Conservative MPs. It was an outcome that would embarrass
Mugabe."

The outburst followed a furious row during a Cabinet meeting earlier this week
when Lib Dem Energy Secretary Chris Huhne confronted No supporters Mr Cameron
and Chancellor George Osborne over arguments used during the campaign. In
another row last night, the No camp warned that introducing AV could be a step
towards compulsory voting in Britain.

They pointed out that in Australia, the only major country in the world that
uses AV for parliamentary elections, people face swingeing fines if they fail to
vote.

This was introduced when the election turn-out fell after AV was introduced.

Tory Cabinet minister Eric Pickles claimed the move could mean a new "stealth
tax" raising up to GBP 10million a year. He said: "The Alternative Voting system
led directly to the introduction of compulsory voting in Australia, including
GBP 50 fines if voters chose to stay at home.

"We do not want that here.

Voting is a right, it isn't a cash cow for Government."

Labour chiefs played down expectations that the party would do well in council
polls with one source dismissing a forecast of 1,000 extra council seats as
"unrealistic".

Leader Ed Miliband, an AV supporter, admitted that defeat in the referendum
would kill the issue of electoral reform for many years.

He said: "I don't think we are going to be coming bac k to this very quickly."

Polling stations will be open from 7am to 10pm.

Council election results are expected from midnight. But counting in the
referendum will not begin until 4pm tomorrow, with the result announced later
that evening.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No campaigners George Osborne and David Cameron are predicted to win
today's referendum

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

AV referendum - your view

BYLINE: James Walshguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2040 words

ABSTRACT

The AV referendum debate has been vigorously argued by our regular Politics live
blog commenters. Here is a selection of their views.

FULL TEXT

The lead-up to the referendum has been marred by negative campaigning and bitter
coalition in-fighting. The polls suggest a low voter turnout and a crushing
defeat for the 'Yes' campaign. It's not hard to see why the AV referendum debate
. A third camp has arisen - , for those struggling to gather the enthusiasm to
care about voting reform in an era of cuts and disillusionment.

Yet in the comments section of our , debate has been animated, nuanced, and well
argued. Here is a selection of some of the best discussion.

Perhaps unsurprisingly for a liberal paper like the Guardian, the majority of
posters - however grudgingly - have been supportive of AV. Yet we saw good
argument for maintenance of the status quo. 's reasoning for a No Vote attempts
to steer clear of partisan justifications.

I have tried to debate the pros and cons of AV without resorting to party
politics.

[Another guardian.co.uk commenter] said the choice is AV or FPTP, but then asked
me for my preferred alternative which is not on the table and so rather
academic.

Basically my argument is:

1. It is not proportional. Both AV and FPTP are poor at actually transforming
votes cast into representative power.

2. In some instances it may distort results. The Jenkins Commission found that
the 1997 election result, if run under AV, would have produced a larger majority
for New Labour...whatever your politics I think this is not a good thing. It
also concluded that the system is "disturbingly unpredictable."

3. It will not eliminate tactical voting or safe seats.

So whilst I am no supporter of FPTP I think AV does not move us forward. An
analysis on Newsnight recently found that it would not have changed the result
of the elections since 1983.

If we are going to change the system then it needs to have much more regard to
proportionality, otherwise I see no advantage to the electorate. It also seems
rather strange we are being asked to approve a system that neither party to the
coalition would implement as an acceptable change.

is also anti-AV but justifies this on a party political basis. Blaming the Lib
Dems for the worst of the present government's excesses, this user suggests AV
would lead to incessant principle-shredding coalitions:

Under FPTP coalitions are unlikely. So the benefit to a minor party of telling
porkies at election time is minimal because they are unlikely to be called on
them.

Under AV coalitions are very likely, so minor parties like the Lib Dems will be
ecouraged to campaign tactically for a place in the coalition. With no hope of
ever being the dominant party in a coalition these parties will see it as in
their interests to say whatever they can to score points off of their nearest
rivals. The game will be to split the vote of parties seen as similar to the
minor party in question. When it comes to "progressive" minor parties there will
be a race to appear more left wing than the next party. Of course all of this
posturing will be immediately jettisoned should such a minor party get lucky on
the coalition lottery. As we have seen with the Lib Dems, all principles will be
sold out for government limos.

The Point is that Clegg's style of wholesale lying at elections will be
institutionalised under AV. They'll all be doing it. Ultimately it means that
the establishment can more easily manage elections to get the government it
wants, as rehearsed very successfully at the last election.

In the lukewarm Yes category comes , who is leaning towards voting yes while
remaining unconvinced that the proposed new system will make a huge different to
the current political landscape:

I don't want to vote 'Yes' to AV. However I'm unable to vote 'No' to FPTP, so
I'm using my 'Yes' vote instead. FPTP, particularly under the new more equal
boundaries, shouldn't work with a multi-party system. Votes should, if everyone
votes, carry an equal weight and be counted proportionally. All FPTP does is
ensure that a minority interest will always win. With AV the only real
difference is that the majority of people will at least be not entirely
disengaged with the person that wins the seat. It's better than nothing. It's
also better than 66% of MPs having the support of less than half their voting
constituents.

Of course we may not have a multi-party system soon anyway. The Lib Dems may
have compromised themselves out of existence for a referendum that, when offered
by Brown, was 'a miserable little compromise'. We'll have UKIP and The Greens
and a few little liberal pockets, but essentially we may be heading back to
Conservative vs Labour, Whigs vs Liberal, Cavalier vs Roundhead, etc and so on.
Even if we get AV, the results will be the same as FPTP

So in many ways there's little difference. The status will keep on quo-ing or
whatever it is that it does. So what does my 'Yes' vote really boil down to?
Essentially, I have many problems with both AV and FPTP as electoral systems.
However, I dislike the 'No' campaign more. I find their constant spewing of
disingenuous lies offensive. I'm not making a positive vote. I'll be making a
negative one. And the fact that I, and far more informed people than me, will be
choosing how to vote out of spite rather than out of a genuine desire for change
shows what a shambles this referendum really is.

is also voting yes, though again without a large amount of enthusiasm for AV,
more than it has fewer flaws than the current system.

I'll be voting 'yes' because anything is better than things trotting along in
the same way forever.

So some seats will change hands? So what? It's going to happen anyway -
especially when the Tories change the constituency boundaries.

In anything other than a two-party state, FPTP is a monstrous distortion of the
will of the people.

The user known as  is more enthusiastic about AV in of itself, with the hope
that the system of prefences will lead to a more grown-up brand of politics

The key point about AV is that it allows all of us to vote for exactly the shade
of government which we prefer.

Under FPTP, if you are not A you are B, and that is generally the limit of the
simplistic choice on offer - it reduces us all to electoral cannon fodder.

Under AV, it's a given that you can apply your personal preferences, whatever
they might be, with some subtlety, and with due distinction as to just how much
you support any particular political standpoint in relation to all of the
others.

It is a grown-up electoral system and it will finally lead to grown-up politics
in this country.

Whatever the underlying political tensions, let's hope that sufficient people
choose that grown-up politics.

Similarly  says they are still going to vote for AV in the referendum, but is
disappointed with the way in which campaigners have sought to "to alienate the
Tory vote":

Like it or not, the Tories received 36% of the vote at the last GE. Also like it
or not, their voters are older and more likely to turn out in England where the
only elections are locals and/or the referendum. With Tories solidly voting
against, YES no longer needs 50% to win the referendum, but more than 75% of the
remaining 64% of the electorate. Ooops.

Changing the voting system should not be about favouring one side against the
other - like it or not voters who vote Tory also deserve to have their voice
heard, however misguided one might think them to be.

Partisan arguments can and have been used very effectively by the NO campaign to
split the Labour vote. This is because AV will probably benefit the Lib Dems
more than any other party, and understandably many Labour voters are a bit sore
about the Lib Dems joining a Coalition with the Tories. Making this a partisan
argument gives the NO campaign about 65% of the vote [Tories + Labour] if
everyone votes on partisan lines.

I'm still going to vote YES, out of sheer bloodymindedness if nothing else, but
to be perfectly honest the YES campaign has been so half-hearted, inept and
stupid that it deserves to be buried by the landslide that is heading its way.

Some readers have also expressed disappointment with the AV debate along these
lines, suggesting it has been a lost opportunity for real engagement around
political reform, as  writes:

The whole AV debate has been shamefully conducted from beginning to end (and no
doubt the recriminations will ripple outwards for years to come). It is telling
that Cameron told the Today programme that he had accepted that he would not end
"Punch and Judy" politics (a completely facile statement to make in the first
place), which to me was a tacit endorsement of the behaviour of some "no"
campaign members, where half-truths and sleight of hand have been used to
rubbish the "yes" campaign (and vice-versa in some cases). It has been
bad-tempered and has made me cringe at times - embarrassing to hear these stupid
statements coming out of the mouths of the people who run our country.

I don't think (sadly) that the "yes" campaign has a snowball's chance. But the
next best outcome would be for Cameron to "lose" the next election with a FPTP
system, especially if the maths predicts he could have held onto some power with
AV.

For some commenters the options just aren't providing a real choice, as  adds:

As AV is little better than FPTP I am frankly ambivalent on the result. I want
to see a properly proportional system adopted, so not minding on this one either
way I'm entertained by the ludicrous claims being made on both sides.

The fundamental thing people don't seem to understand is the difference between
national votes cast and national seats won. Unless we move to a system which
brings in proportionality - so not AV - the large disconnect between these two
sets of statistics will remain in place. Under AV we still run 600 seperate
elections where national votes tallies are utterly meaningless. Its all about
winning one seat at a time, and if you're in a safe seat and don't like the
likely winner, or its a close seat and you want to ensure you unseat the MP or
shut out the challenger, you're still going to vote tactically to try and
achieve the result you want. And if you lose you lose - your vote counts for
nothing nationally.

So AV smayvee. It doesn't matter. My view is that the quest for PR will be
damaged by delivering AV which patently doesn't deliver on its promises - how to
then motivate punters again for another change when the last one did little? No,
its all about the political fall-out now. A no vote will force Clegg to demand
more concessions to save his skin, probably the death of the NHS privatisation
bill. A yes vote will probably force David Davis to launch his putch against
Cameron. Either way, pass the popcorn.

says both campaigns are at fault:

For me the sadness is that what should have been a golden opportunity to
persuade the voting public to re-engage with politics and the political system
has been completely squandered. Yet we shall still here from all of the
"leaders' at the next general election how important it is to our democracy that
people are engaged.

is in agreement:

I know there has been a lot of comment on here saying it's simply a matter of
voting for what system you prefer. I think that's naive - the result will have
significant wider political consequences that need to be taken into account.

It's worth saying as well, repeating again and again, that the standard of
debate has been awful. It's shameful that leading politicians can stand up and
say that a system used for all sorts of elections all around the world and here
is too complicated for voters to understand. It's shameful for them to peddle
these lies about costs. It's shameful for them to lie about the kind of direct
influence the outcome might give to minor parties. It's shameful for them to
argue on the basis of who else on on each side. It's been a terrible advert for
political discourse here.

You can share your thoughts in the comments below or  to help decide how you
should vote.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 5, 2011 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Saunders relishes Wrexham's high-stakes game;
The troubled Welsh club face Luton this evening needing a return to League
football more than most

BYLINE: By Ian Herbert, Northern Football Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS & COMMENT

LENGTH: 491 words


It has been two and a half years since Dean Saunders gazed across at his Wrexham
players training and told The Independent that he simply must get immediate
promotion out of non-league football. "I mean, they are not proper players," he
said. "They are non-league players. I'm a non-league manager. I've said to them:
'I don't want to be known as a non-league manager.'"

It has proved to be a struggle like none he has known. Saunders' charges finally
have the chance to get back to what he considers to be the real world, in the
first leg of their Conference play-off semi-final with Luton Town at The
Racecourse Ground tonight, but have reached that threshold against the backdrop
of the same kind of financial turmoil that pushed the club out of the Football
League in the first place. Even the play-off berth was in jeopardy until last
Friday after a £200,000 tax bill came to light, with a £50,000 loan from Welsh
Assembly member John Marek, who is up for election today, proving decisive when
the Conference threatened expulsion from the knockout and the club's owner,
Geoff Moss, said he still could not afford to pay up.

None of the four play-off clubs - AFC Wimbledon and Fleetwood Town contest the
other tie tomorrow - have as much on the line as Wrexham, who, having been put
up for sale in mid-season by Moss, know that promotion could be critical to
finding a saviour with money. The wage bill, which was £1.99m on a £1.85m
turnover in late 2008, is likely to be cut if Wrexham stay down and Saunders may
receive better offers elsewhere. Moss said the money had run out, having
injected £4.9m after taking Wrexham out of administration in 2006 and taking £5m
back in 2009. The club will enter community ownership if the Wrexham Supporters'
Trust has its way. The trust plans to talk Stephanie Booth, a local hotelier, a
London-based businessman and a former UKIP candidate, Stephen Cleeve, about
taking stakes in the club.

It is difficult to know whether these traumas will galvanise the side. The lack
of money didn't help when Saunders' players were forced to make the coach trip
to Gateshead on the day of their third-last game after waiting for their
Llandudno-based contingent to travel to Wrexham by car. Little wonder key
striker Andy Morrell pulled up 15 minutes into the game with a hamstring injury.

But as bookies' outsiders to triumph in the play-off final at Eastlands on 21
May, they carry no weight of expectation. Saunders has also revealed that
Morrell and co-striker Mathias Pogba are both winning fitness battles, while key
scoring asset Andy Mangan, who has 15 goals this season, is raring to go.
Saunders' hopes are based on the 1-0 league win in November and last Saturday's
1-1 draw at Kenilworth Road, where he fielded a virtual youth team. "The boys
are ready for it," Saunders said yesterday. "You need the ball to bounce your
way and the referee to be good. But we will work hard. We can only give it our
best."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 5, 2011 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Armando Iannucci: Why do I want to change the system? The answer really is as
simple as 1, 2, 3;
AV is not complicated unless you call counting to three complicated. It's more
modern and sophisticated

SECTION: ALTERNATIVE VOTE

LENGTH: 833 words


I've tried to keep out of the political debate about AV in case my appearance
cheapened it any further. There's been such a proliferation of D-list
celebrities in these discussions that at one point it looked like we were being
asked to choose between voting Yes for Eddie Izzard or No for Rik Mayall. Alas,
the media is hungry for fresh angles. In the last few weeks the same news
outlets running stories about how ridiculous it is that politics is being run by
celebs have been the very ones refusing to print or broadcast arguments for Yes
or No unless they're given by non-politicians.

And so here I am. I still feel it's rude of me to harangue you into telling you
how to vote. That's your decision, and I hope you go out and make it. All I can
do is outline the reasons why I'll be voting Yes to AV and be done with it.

First past the post did work, once. In the 1950s and 60s, when up to 95 per cent
of people voted either Labour or Conservative, it was the perfect, most
effective way to get strong government. But for the past 40 years, that 95 per
cent figure has declined. Nowadays, probably not much more than 60 per cent of
the electorate votes for the two largest parties, with the rest fragmented among
Green, Liberal Democrat, Ukip, nationalist and the like. Add to that the steady
decline in the number who vote at all (possibly because fewer people feel
there's a party that fully reflects their views) and we as an electorate now
have a system that cannot cope.

The No campaign says that under AV we'll get more coalitions: the truth is,
under first past the post, we're going to get more coalitions anyway. Most
current opinion polls point to further hung parliaments. Would it not be best,
in that situation, to at least have a modern voting system that can cope with
that, and that can, at least, return MPs who have won the support of at least 50
per cent of their constituents?

David Cameron says we should keep first past the post because it's "fair,
simple, and decisive". But in the past 40 years it has not been fair: twice we
have had parties come second in the vote but first in the number of seats. And
remember how first past the post gave America and the world George W Bush in
2002 even though he polled a million fewer votes than Al Gore.

First past the post is also NOT decisive. Cameron claims it gives us the ability
to kick out unpopular governments. Wrong again: we've just come through 18 years
of unpopular Conservative government supported by on average 38 per cent of the
population, followed by 13 years of increasingly unpopular Labour government
supported by 35 per cent. First past the post makes it more difficult to get rid
of unpopular government.

Ah, but it's simple, says Cameron. Try explaining that to anyone on election
nights, when complex swingographics show us how tiny 1 per cent swings in either
direction can lead to huge majorities or hung parliaments. The implication is
that AV is complicated. It's not. Unless you call counting to three complicated.
That's all it is. You list your candidates in order of preference, and only as
many candidates as you want. You can just list one if you want. AV is not
complicated; it's sophisticated. There's a difference. It's more modern.

AV determines more accurately which is the strongest candidate by selecting the
candidate who is first to get over 50 per cent. When so many of us feel
powerless, when we feel real anger and frustration over issues such as NHS
reform or tuition fees, when we nurture resentment that we're just not being
listened to, isn't it better to have a system of electing our MPs that means our
MP knows he or she will have to win the support and trust of at least 50 per
cent of their constituents?

For too long, MPs, knowing they just have to get one vote more than their
nearest rival, have concentrated on their core support: those housing estates in
one district of their constituency, those suburbs in another, but not both.
Under AV, an MP has to get to know their whole constituency, and learn to keep
their support. An MP becomes more answerable to more of the electorate under AV.

But don't take my word for it; take David Cameron's. He was elected under AV.
All party leaders were. Cameron is drawing up legislation to elect police
commissioners under it. He has troops in Afghanistan fighting to maintain a
democracy where voters list their candidates in order of preference. We list
candidates in order of preference in Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, London
and European elections. It is actually a profoundly British thing to do.

From 1832 onwards, British history has seen small but significant changes to our
voting system, each one opposed by the establishment at the time, and each one
proving popular once in place. I'll be voting Yes to AV to keep that modernising
going. After all, we prefer houses to caves and cars to penny-farthings. Is it
too much to ask for a more-up-to-date voting system as well?

Armando Iannucci is the creator of 'The Thick Of It'

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Saunders relishes Wrexham's high-stakes game;
The troubled Welsh club face Luton this evening needing a return to League
football more than most

BYLINE: Ian Herbert Northern Football Correspondent

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 492 words


IT HAS been two and a half years since Dean Saunders gazed across at his Wrexham
players training and told The Independent that he simply must get immediate
promotion out of non-league football. "I mean, they are not proper players," he
said. "They are non-league players. I'm a non-league manager. I've said to them:
'I don't want to be known as a non-league manager.'"

It has proved to be a struggle like none he has known. Saunders' charges finally
have the chance to get back to what he considers to be the real world, in the
first leg of their Conference play-off semi-final with Luton Town at The
Racecourse Ground tonight, but have reached that threshold against the backdrop
of the same kind of financial turmoil that pushed the club out of the Football
League in the first place. Even the play-off berth was in jeopardy until last
Friday after a £200,000 tax bill came to light, with a £50,000 loan from Welsh
Assembly member John Marek, who is up for election today, proving decisive when
the Conference threatened expulsion from the knockout stage and the club's
owner, Geoff Moss, said he still could not afford to pay up.

None of the four play-off clubs - AFC Wimbledon and Fleetwood Town contest the
other tie tomorrow - have as much on the line as Wrexham, who, having been put
up for sale in mid-season by Moss, know that promotion could be critical to
finding a saviour with money. The wage bill, which was £1.99m on a £1.85m
turnover in late 2008, is likely to be cut if Wrexham stay down and Saunders may
receive better offers elsewhere. Moss said the money had run out, having
injected £4.9m after taking Wrexham out of administration in 2006 and taking £5m
back in 2009. The club will enter community ownership if the Wrexham Supporters'
Trust has its way. The trust plans to talk Stephanie Booth, a local hotelier, a
London-based businessman and a former UKIP candidate, Stephen Cleeve, about
taking stakes in the club.

It is difficult to know whether these traumas will galvanise the side. The lack
of money didn't help when Saunders' players were forced to make the coach trip
to Gateshead on the day of their third-last game after waiting for their
Llandudno-based contingent to travel to Wrexham by car. Little wonder key
striker Andy Morrell pulled up 15 minutes into the game with a hamstring injury.

But as bookies' outsiders to triumph in the play-off final at Eastlands on 21
May, they carry no weight of expectation. Saunders has also revealed that
Morrell and co-striker Mathias Pogba are both winning fitness battles, while key
scoring asset Andy Mangan, who has 15 goals this season, is raring to go.
Saunders' hopes are based on the 1-0 league win in November and last Saturday's
1-1 draw at Kenilworth Road, where he fielded a virtual youth team. "The boys
are ready for it," Saunders said yesterday. "You need the ball to bounce your
way and the referee to be good. But we will work hard. We can only give it our
best."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 5, 2011 Thursday 7:16 PM GMT

David Cameron has blown his chance torealign British politics for good

BYLINE: By Julian Astle

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 908 words


They accused each other of lying, helping the BNP, acting like Goebbels and
putting their own interests above those of sick babies and soldiers. By the end,
they confronted each other across the Cabinet table and even threatened court
action. Yesterday's referendum on the Alternative Vote (AV) was always likely to
strain relations between senior Liberal Democrats and Conservatives, but no one
predicted just how much bad blood it would produce.

It all started out politely enough. David Cameron, knowing AV to be nothing more
than a "baby step" away from the existing first past the post system (to use
Nick Clegg's description), had clearly made a strategic decision to soft-pedal
his support of the No campaign. The health of his Coalition Government was
judged more important than resisting a change that, if it damaged his party's
electoral prospects at all, would probably be offset by planned alterations to
parliamentary constituency boundaries. As the campaign began, the Prime Minister
left the Deputy Prime Minister in no doubt: as leader of the Conservative Party,
he would do what was expected of him, but no more. Clegg himself would not be
targeted; the No campaign would be instructed to play the ball, not the man.

According to senior Lib Dems, everything changed when early opinion polls showed
the Yes campaign in front, to the alarm of  Conservative MPs and activists. It
was argued that Cameron had failed to win the general election and then been
suckered into offering the Lib Dems a referendum he should never have agreed to.
Were he now to be defeated, his party would see him as a serial loser.

Sensing danger, Cameron did what he always does when in trouble: he called in
George Osborne. He then did what he always does under Osborne's influence: he
switched from thinking strategically to thinking tactically. A decision was
taken to defeat AV come what may. Funds were raised, staff seconded and
political licence granted. The No campaigners could finally play their trump
card and attack Nick Clegg.

Judged on its own terms, the Cameron/Osborne operation has been an astonishing
success. In the past month, Conservative voters moved from a 2:1 to a 9:1 split
in favour of retaining the current electoral system. And with Labour voters,
like Labour MPs, divided, the No campaign was able to turn a slight deficit into
a thumping majority.

So Cameron looks certain to have succeeded in his attempts to preserve the
current system for electing MPs - but at what price for his relationship with
Nick Clegg, for the stability of his government and for his modernising
ambitions for his party?

His relationship with Clegg is likely to prove the least of his worries. The
Deputy Prime Minister certainly feels let down by the Prime Minister, but is
determined to move quickly to re-establish a productive working relationship,
albeit on a more contractual, less informal basis. He, like Cameron, has too
much invested in the Coalition to allow it to fail.

The bigger worry for both men is the lasting effect recent hostilities may have
on the rest of the Government. In the early days of the Coalition, the
administration buzzed with the creativity of fusion politics as ministers and
advisers threw off the constraints of stale party orthodoxy to design something
genuinely different, genuinely new. One side described the product of their
endeavours as a softer, more compassionate Conservatism, the other, a grittier,
more grown-up Liberalism, but both were agreed: they were building something
they couldn't have built on their own - something greater than the sum of its
parts.

When Cameron decided to move against Clegg to appease his own party, however, he
didn't just weaken his deputy - he weakened himself. The in-fighting of recent
weeks, and the suspicion it has engendered, will ensure it is the "told-you-so"
Coalition-sceptics in both parties who emerge the stronger. Clegg remains
hopeful that some good could yet come of it; that having spent much of the past
year building up Coalition credibility rather than protecting his party's
identity, he can now spend more time talking up Lib Dem achievements. The danger
is that both sides come to view coalition politics as a zero-sum game, believing
that what is good for one partner must be bad for the other - a destructive
mindset that can only benefit the Labour Party.

The irony is that it could have been so different. There was a point, before
opinions hardened, when the Prime Minister could actually have embraced the
Alternative Vote, as Michael Gove, his modernising Education Secretary, wanted
to do. All that would have been required was for him to challenge the
pessimistic and self-fulfilling assumption that underpins his party's opposition
to AV - that Conservatives can never attract the second preference votes of
other parties' supporters. Had he done so, he could have finished what he began
when he put the Coalition together and initiated a significant realignment of
British politics, attracting support not only from Ukip supporters to his Right,
but from Liberal Democrats to his Left. It would have been an audacious, "Clause
Four" type move which would have diminished, perhaps even removed, the
existential threat to the Conservative Party posed by Britain's non-Tory
majority. Instead, he chose to view the existing dividing lines as unchangeable,
ensuring that his party's "us against the world" mentality endures, and endures
for good reason.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's payback time for those cuts, says Labour in appeal to southern voters;
Election day

BYLINE: Jill Sherman, Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 855 words


Ed Miliband urged voters yesterday to "deliver a verdict" on the Government's
cuts as he made a last-minute visit to a key election battleground in the South
East.

; Labour needs to recapture hundreds of seats across the region in today's
council elections if it is to convince critics that it can appeal to Middle
England.Mr Miliband was canvassing voters in Gravesham, his party's top target
in the South East, which it is quietly confident of taking. Other possible gains
are Dover, Thanet, Thurrock and possibly Dartford, while hopes are high that it
can take control of Reading.

; "All round this country, we see people's living standards squeezed, the next
generation being betrayed and communities being undermined," Mr Miliband told
voters.

; Labour will almost certainly win seats and councils from the Liberal Democrats
in the North. Newcastle upon Tyne, Hull and Sheffield are all likely to go to
Labour and it may snatch Bristol from the Lib Dems as it aims to gain 1,300
seats across the country.

; Last night, senior party sources were playing down expectations, saying that
anything above 600 gains would be a good result. Kent, however, has taken on a
special significance as Mr Miliband tries to show that he can regain a proper
foothold in the Tory-dominated South, where his party has all but disappeared in
recent council elections.

Labour now only holds only three local authorities out of sixty-seven in the
South and South East - Oxford, Slough and Hastings. In last May's general
election it suffered a 10 per cent swing to the Tories, losing Dover and South
Thanet. On the doorstep, Labour activists have been focusing on spending cuts.
"Police cuts are a huge issue in Kent as there will be 1,500 job losses and
people fear there will be an increase in crime," a Labour source said. The
decision by the Pfizer drug company to close a plant employing 2,400 is another
key issue locally.

; Mr Miliband's plea to voters to give David Cameron a bloody nose has been a
widely used tactic. "You should see Thursday's vote as a chance to give this
coalition Government a kicking," Gordon Cowan, the Labour group leader on Dover
council advised one Conservative voter this week.

; Some voters say they are backing Labour now, but with little enthusiasm.
Sharon Madden, 40, deserted Labour last time, but the raising of university fees
has prompted her to back the party again. "No party is perfect," she said. "But
it's better the devil you know."

; Paul Watkins, Tory leader of Dover council, said he was confident that his
party's vote was holding up. "Labour are working from a very low base and need
to win several middle-class wards from us to win the council," he said. "On the
doorstep, we are not picking up any signs they are managing that."

"You're only my fifth preference but it could go to a second round"

Good night

Conservatives

Lose only 700 seats and keep control of key councils in the South East such as
Dover, Thanet and Gravesham, and those in the Midlands such as Walsall

Liberal Democrats

Lose only 250 seats and keep control of Bristol, Newcastle, Sheffield and Hull

Labour

Gain more than 1,300 seats from the Tories in the South East, take control of
Reading, Ipswich, Bolton and Forest of Dean

Bad night

Lose 1,000 or more seats and lose string of councils in the South East,
including Dartford, and those farther north such as Dudley, Trafford and
Blackpool

Lose more than 400 seats and lose control of northern cities and Vale of White
Horse, Winchester and St Albans

Gain fewer than 1,000 seats and fail to take control of Newcastle, Sheffield,
Hull and Dover

How AV works

Voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of preference. A
candidate getting more than 50 per cent of all first-preference votes is
elected. If no one wins a majority on the first count, the last-placed candidate
is eliminated and his or her second- preference votes are allocated to the
survivors. If there is still no winner, the process is repeated, and
re-repeated, until a victor is identified. In the last tally, a candidate who
originally topped the vote can fall to second or third in the final calculations

2010 general election Conservative Candidate Votes 360 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220
Green 100 MPs elected under first-past-the-post 258 307 57 seats 28 2010
election remodelled under AV 262 281 79 seats 28 COUNT 2 Conservative Candidate
Votes 340 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 UKIP 20 COUNT 1 Lib Dem Candidate
Votes 510 Conservative 490 tive 50%+ Winner! Conservative Candidate Votes 380
Lib Dem 380 Labour 240 COUNT 3 COUNT 4 Sources: Rallings & Thrasher, Times
database

Elections tonight mayoral elections in England: Leicester, Torbay, Bedford,
Mansfield and Middlesbrough 9,390council seats up for election seats in Welsh
Assembly 60 council elections 26 seats in Northern Ireland Assembly picked from
18 constitituencies MSP seats in Scottish Parliament 129 108 English regions,
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland 9 Parliamentary by-election at Leicester
South AV referendum Tories 5,026 Labour 1,620 Lib Dems 1,866 Others 878 279
councils in England Tories 156 Others 71 Labour 30 Lib Dems 22 5

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Coalition is scarred by mud-slinging and bad blood over voting reform;
Election day

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 851 words


Britain decides today whether to change the voting system in an historic
referendum with rival camps predicting that a "no" vote will bury the issue of
electoral reform for a generation.

Ed Miliband, who has championed the alternative vote (AV), said that the country
would not get another chance to change the way that it elects MPs for many
years. Senior Conservatives, fighting to keep the current first-pastthe-post
system, said that today's result would settle the question for the foreseeable
future.

Last-minute polls pointed to a substantial win for the No to AV campaign, with a
Guardian/ICM survey giving it a 36-point lead and YouGov in The Sun suggesting a
20-point margin.

Whichever way Britain votes in its first referendum for 36 years the mud
slinging and bad blood of the campaign have consequences for the future of the
coalition. The deep resentment felt by Liberal Democrats at the conduct of the
No camp is likely to linger long after the polls close this evening, after the
admission by David Blunkett, a leading opponent of change, that one of the
campaign's key claims was a fiction.

The former Labour Home Secretary described the figure of £250 million, used by
the No campaign to define the extra cost of AV, as "made up".

Mr Blunkett said: "We are in the middle of an election campaign. People in
elections use made-up figures. I have never used the £250 million figure. It
[AV] would undoubtedly cost more but I have used an extra £90 million."

The admission is likely to inflame the coalition tensions that boiled over in
Cabinet this week when Chris Huhne, the Lib Dem Energy Secretary, challenged
David Cameron and George Osborne to disown claims that costly electronic voting
machines would be required under AV.

Today's referendum was the largest prize for Nick Clegg from last year's
coalition talks. But the stakes for the Lib Dems were underlined when senior
Labour and Tory figures said that a "no" vote would kill the issue for many
years.

The conduct of the referendum campaign, marked more by low blows than by lofty
debate, has raised concerns about a poor turnout.

About 65 per cent voted in 1975 when Britain elected to remain in the European
Economic Community. Estimates suggest that the turnout today could be as little
as half that figure, even though much of England is voting in town hall
elections, Scotland is electing the Edinburgh Parliament, Wales the Cardiff
Assembly and Northern Ireland the Stormont Assembly. Despite polls showing a
huge lead for the No campaign, Mr Clegg declined to give up. A higher turnout in
Scotland and London, would be likely to boost the "yes" vote. The Deputy Prime
Minister conceded that relations in the coalition were strained. "Temperatures
of course run high in the final stages of a referendum campaign," he said. But
he insisted that the Lib Dems were in the coalition for the long haul.

Good night

Conservatives

Lose only 700 seats and keep control of key councils in the South East such as
Dover, Thanet and Gravesham, and those in the Midlands such as Walsall

Liberal Democrats

Lose only 250 seats and keep control of Bristol, Newcastle, Sheffield and Hull

Labour

Gain more than 1,300 seats from the Tories in the South East, take control of
Reading, Ipswich, Bolton and Forest of Dean

Bad night

Lose 1,000 or more seats and lose string of councils in the South East,
including Dartford, and those farther north such as Dudley, Trafford and
Blackpool

Lose more than 400 seats and lose control of northern cities and Vale of White
Horse, Winchester and St Albans

Gain fewer than 1,000 seats and fail to take control of Newcastle, Sheffield,
Hull and Dover

How AV works

Voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of preference. A
candidate getting more than 50 per cent of all first-preference votes is
elected. If no one wins a majority on the first count, the last-placed candidate
is eliminated and his or her second - preference votes are allocated to the
survivors. If there is still no winner, the process is repeated, and
re-repeated, until a victor is identified. In the last tally, a candidate who
originally topped the vote can fall to second or third in the final calculations

2010 general election

MPs elected under first-past-the-post

2010 election remodelled under AV

Sources: Rallings & Thrasher, Times database

Elections tonight mayoral elections in England: Leicester, Torbay, Bedford,
Mansfield and Middlesbrough 9,390council seats up for election seats in Welsh
Assembly 60 council elections 26 seats in Northern Ireland Assembly picked from
18 constitituencies MSP seats in Scottish Parliament 129 108 English regions,
Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland 9 Parliamentary by-election at Leicester
South AV referendum Tories 5,026 Labour 1,620 Lib Dems 1,866 Others 878 279
councils in England Tories 156 Others 71 Labour 30 Lib Dems 22 5

Conservative Candidate Votes Lib Dem Labour Green COUNT 2 Conservative Candidate
Votes 340 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 UKIP 20 COUNT 1 Lib Dem Candidate
Votes Conservative 490 tive 50%+ Winner! Conservative Candidate Votes 380 Lib
Dem 380 Labour 240 COUNT 3 COUNT 4

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "You're only my fifth preference but it could go to a second round"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

The AV decision: to vote with the prigs or the brutes?

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1398 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: While both sides in the AV debate know they are right, the truth
is such electoral reform will neither revitalise nor destroy our democracy

FULL TEXT

In my suburban corner of London I chaired a local meeting to air the AV
referendum issues last night, hoping it would help me decide which way to vote:
with the prigs or the brutes? I'd like to join many friends in voting yes with
the former, but keep being drawn towards the nos.

The prigs may earnestly extol the public benefits which may flow from AV and -
coincidentally - boost their own prospects. The brutes may mock the
sensibilities of their opponents (the kind of people who would have brought
Osama bin Laden to trial !) and extol harsh realities which - coincidentally -
reinforce their own position.

Never mind. There has been virtue and villainy on both sides in this thoroughly
uninspiring campaign, which has failed to inspire most voters. And as expert
opinion -  - confirms, both camps are exaggerating the likely impact of a change
to AV.

It can't be emphasised too often that we really don't know how it would work out
in practice or who would most benefit - but it will neither revitalise nor
destroy our democracy. It is another "leap in the dark" - to use a phrase
invoked about the 1867 voting reform bill - but only into a very shallow hole.

Today's urging the paper's progressive readers who may feel no-ish like me to
think again.  while  between George Osborne and Chris "Paxman" Huhne.

I provide  while  Ed Miliband's performance - rather good, I thought - on Radio
4's Today programme. He (Ed, not Andy) also  .

In west London our suburban meeting was attended by about 60 people (none of
them Colin Firth, the neighbourhood's most famous yes), mostly
middle-aged-to-elderly concerned citizens of all classes, colours and creeds,
with (we counted) a slight pro-yes majority which the discussion did not
reverse.

Yet again I was struck by the confident certainty of many of those asking
questions: they KNOW they are right. Not much anger, but certainly strong
feelings. Right at the end the last but one questioner warned against ignoring
disaffected minorities only to have the final questioner ask what exactly is
wrong with majorities?

The four panellists, two Lib Dem, two Tory, all elected as councillors, London
assembly members and one MP, conscientiously gave what are now - I hope -
familiar arguments to you. One candid Lib Dem yes called AV "a small change
which will make a big difference". A cunning Tory no man said that he can see
the case for full-blooded PR voting, but not for AV.

Creditably, speakers mostly stuck to the issue, not to the result's impact on
the dynamics of the coalition: the absence of a Labour speaker (I didn't pick
the panel) may have eased any awkwardness about the love that dare not speak its
name.

As I have written here before, the yes camp's most powerful case is greater
pluralism: that 95% voters no longer divide Labour/Tory as they did 60 years ago
or Liberal/Tory as they did in the 19th century before universal suffrage.
Voters nowadays want to vote for lots of different parties - from socialist and
Green to Ukip and BNP via the Celtic nationalists who, between them, share some
features of all four.

It is the job of a political system to reflect realities on the ground, isn't
it? Well, yes. But another reality is that the political system is also required
to elect governments which can stay in power long enough and take decisions
effectively enough to keep the ship of state afloat. That usually means two
parties or blocs of parties which AV may actually deliver. The alternative is
chronic instability, Israeli-style. That's unlikely here.

Westminster's system, whereby the executive (government) is chosen by the
legislature (the Commons) from among its own members simply complicates matters.
Around the world AV is widely used to pick leaders and winners - from mayors and
party leaders to Colin Firth's 2011 Oscar - but that is not the issue tomorrow.
It's about electing a parliament that can handle sovereign matters of life,
liberty and taxes.

But here I go, falling into the campaign's main trap, namely rival claims that
AV will change politics in fundamental ways which expert analysis of AV around
the world says it won't. More coalitions? Not necessarily. Harder working and
more honest MPs? Not likely. No more tactical voting? Nonsense. And end to
seats-for-life? Ditto. Greater proportionality? Sometimes. Higher turnout? No
conclusive evidence. Calmer, more grown-up politics? Not on the evidence of this
coalition. Etc. Etc.

Does all of the above matter if disaffected voters feel the system listens to
them more, even if their second and third preference votes don't change much? It
might do, though I suspect many disaffected voters are just that, unhappy with
their own lives and inclined to vote against the system - or not at all.

As I say, both sides have been making spurious claims as well as solid points
about fairness or stability. But at bottom the onus is always on advocates of
change to justify a change which may only serve to heighten disaffection if it
fails to deliver the benefits it promises. One man's fairness, after all, is
another's injustice and they cannot always be reconciled.

That's where the prigs strike me as doing little better than crossing their
fingers and hoping that - for instance - AV will sustain the anti-Tory
"progressive" majority which they claim to exist in the British electorate. I'm
not convinced by that claim either, by the way. There is probably a majority for
spending money on better public services paid for by other people's taxes, but
that's as far as I'd go.

We all know there are reactionaries and progressives in all parties - across a
host of issues - and how they end up voting on AV is hard to predict. Will
Lib-Labs rule for ever - as Ed Miliband clearly hopes - or will Ukip assert
greater leverage on the Tories via second preferences (the new name for tactical
voting?) and deliver a right-leaning majority bloc?

Or will voters split their allegiances in all sorts of cunning ways to keep the
politicians on their toes? We don't know. But we do know that, at the end of the
day, we need some people to govern and others to hold them to account on our
behalf, ready to govern themselves.

Today's editorial says that AV "would take democracy back to its grassroots".
It's a nice thought and it would certainly allow voters greater scope to
differentiate between candidates. But once all those fair votes have been
transferred and counted politics returns to closed doors and deal-making, all
the compromises we know in our own lives.

I can live with that; it's a world I know well. And it would not change much
under AV. What's more we can all see how it might work because - just a year ago
- we witnessed the hasty closed-door formation of a coalition in unlikely
circumstances.

I happen to think it was probably the best available outcome for the country at
the time, a fairly stable government capable of taking strong decisions - even
wrong ones - during a global economic crisis. I'm still not clear what's in it
long-term for the Lib Dems, even if they win a yes vote tomorrow which they
might, despite those negative polls, on a differential turnout.

So this morning we heard the enjoyable sound of Ed Miliband - whose sincerity on
this issue I do not doubt - saying he wants to reach out to other parties and
end the "hate each other" culture (I fear AV has not cured that in Australia)
while solemnly explaining why he couldn't share a yes platform with Nick Clegg
because he'd posed as the poster boy of the new politics, then shockingly sold
out. As the Yanks say, go figure.

So I will vote no tomorrow with no great enthusiasm in the knowledge that I am
helping - I hope - to save us all from another panacea which will disappoint. On
a more trivial level it reminds me of the euro debate, another panacea which
simply swopped one set of problems for another.

Come to think of it, the brutes were, by and large, for sterling and the prigs
for the euro. Check it out - and ponder.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 4, 2011 Wednesday 11:28 AM GMT

Nigel Farage could have saved the Yes campaign - so why didn't they ask him
until it was too late?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 492 words


My wife said she's going to vote Yes to AV because she feels sorry for Nick
Clegg and wants to see him smiling for once, rather than mooching around
blubbing just because everyone hates his guts. Perhaps the Yes campaign could
have, in their desperation, gone for the pity angle; I think lots of women feel
sorry for Clegg.

But in all seriousness, a far more glaring mistake was the Yes campaign's
failure to use Nigel Farage until about ten days ago.

For the past few weeks the Yes campaign have run a campaignaimed almost entirely
at the soft Left, metro Labour supporters and the chippy SDP wing of the Liberal
Democrats. Their campaign leaflets have asked us to vote yes because Tony
Robinson, Eddie Izzard, Colin Firth, Stephen Fry and Benjamin Zephaniah will.
I've got great respect for all these people in their chosen field, but why
should I particularly care about their political views, especially as I happen
to know they're all almost identical? The No campaign has played rough, using
soldiers and babies, and making some bizarre claims. But the Yes campaign have
only themselves to blame for trying to appeal to such a narrow segment of
society.

Lots of small-c conservatives support, or are sympathetic to, a change in the
system, but the leaflets were almost perfectly designed to repulse them. This is
a crazy strategy; the metro left are far from being a majority of the
population, and the older, more tribal Labour voters are already in the bag for
the No campaign.

So ten days ago, with the campaign already over, the No campaign finally
contacted Farage and asked him to appear at a couple of debates, with almost no
notice. He managed to appear at one, but he is fighting his own campaigns, with
UKIP poised to make gains in Wales and Northern Ireland, where it is campaigning
as a non-sectarian Unionist party, and also fighting a by-election in Leicester.

Today Farage appears in a Yes campaign advert alongside the leaders of Labour,
the Liberal Democrats, SNP, the Green Party, Plaid, SDLP and the Alliance party,
signed by over 150 MPs, MEPs and Lords (it appears in the Guardian, but not
online). This is the advert that should have appeared weeks ago, displaying the
broad range of political representatives who support a change - not an echo
chamber of luvvies.

UKIP won 16.5 per cent of the vote at the last European election, and are
currently not far behind the Liberal Democrats in opinion polls. So why did the
Yes campaign not bother to ask for his help until now? UKIP supporters have no
doubt that it was down to the prejudice of the Yes campaigners, for whom anyone
who does not share their narrow set of beliefs is outside of the communion of
decency. It's the perennial mental disorder of the metro-Left - a failure to
understand that decent, intelligent people might have different opinions to
them. In this case it has proved fatal; had they brought Farage on board earlier
they could have stood a chance tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's a catastrophe (but do the Lib Dems know?);
The party is suffering from an identity crisis. There is only one responsible
course for Nick Clegg to take

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1079 words


Ishould have been more sensitive, I suppose. The other day I bumped into a
couple of Liberal Democrat friends as they were walking out of Downing Street,
and I elected to make a mild alternative vote joke.

I can't recall exactly what it was (I think I may have asked them if they were
intending to run one of those Lib Dem "it's a two-horse race" campaigns in the
final days of the referendum), but while it wasn't a great rib-tickler, it was
passably funny. And I'd made it up myself. I hadn't got it out of the Bumper
Book of Electoral Reform Jokes, so there was no chance they'd heard it before.
Despite this, my remark was greeted with stony faces. I should have realised.
For them it's not a laughing matter.

You may be, how shall I put this, relaxed about tomorrow's referendum. Capable,
I guess, of putting the whole thing into context and ranking it alongside other
important activities, such as cleaning the oven and ensuring that you don't run
out of eggs. Liberal Democrats do not see it that way.

They will be standing outside Pinner Tube station with a banner, putting the
finishing touches to their AV election count party, getting the kids to stick
tiny Yes flags into pieces of cheese and pineapple to be consumed while mulling
over the referendum returns from Wales, and ticking the box saying "Yes, I can
attend" to a seminar to be held next month entitled "Electoral reform: where to
now?" featuring a Professor of Comparative Politics at the University of
Reading.

Because the thing is, electoral reform has long been everything to Liberal
Democrats. The solution to every problem, the title to every policy paper, the
chorus to every song. I promise you. You have to have seen it to believe it.

Thus for Liberal Democrats, finally - after all that talking, all those motions,
all that work - getting a referendum on electoral reform and losing it is a
catastrophe. A total and complete catastrophe. It would be something like the
impact on the UK Independence Party of finally forcing a referendum on
membership of the European Union and then having the other side win. It wouldn't
be a passing nuisance, it would be an historic setback.

Now, it isn't over. Unpredictable turnout makes the result unpredictable. But I
think it is fair to say that my friends' countenance reflects the expectations
among Lib Dems in the Government that they are highly likely to lose. And that
this would be, for them, a bad thing.

Yet, oddly, I think that should they indeed lose the vote, the problem for Lib
Dems will not be that they take the defeat too seriously. It will be that they
do not take it seriously enough.

For the past quarter of a century or so, there have been two possible strategies
for the Liberal Democrats. And they were often criticised, by me among others,
for failing to chose between them.

One strategy was to build up their base in local government and to try to break
through under the current electoral system. The idea was to replace or equal
Labour as a serious party of the Left. The alternative was to try to become a
party of the Centre, championing a new, reformed politics employing a more
proportional voting system as part of a transformed constitution.

A year ago, both were plausible. It is quite possible that by the weekend
neither of them will be. And it is also quite possible that the Lib Dems will
not realise it.

The failure to make the breakthrough in Labour seats that was promised by Nick
Clegg's TV debate performance doomed the strategy of becoming the main Left
party.

Choosing (correctly) to work with the Conservatives means that the strategy is
one that they cannot successfully return to for years, possibly decades.

Yet if AV is lost, it also dooms the alternative strategy - the "new political
party in a new politics" strategy - for years, again possibly for decades.

Talking to senior Liberal Democrats, and observing their behaviour, it is
obvious, however odd it may seem to everyone else, that they do not accept this.
They think that they have vastly more freedom of manoeuvre than they do. Some
clearly harbour thoughts of shifting their party back to the Left, as if that
could possibly work. What they had has gone, and it's not coming back in a
hurry. They may as well get used to it.

Leaving the coalition now, or soon, would be suicidal and most Lib Dems, to be
fair, can see this. But they believe that making the coalition more turbulent
might make left-wing voters return. This feeling even makes Mr Clegg fear for
his position. What would actually happen, of course, is that it would make the
Lib Dems seem unreliable even to the last group of people - supporters of the
coalition - who trust them.

Mr Clegg himself, angry at David Cameron for his conduct during the AV campaign
(feeling he breached a gentlemen's agreement not to get too involved), will try
his own version of the distancing strategy.

He will, for instance, become desperate to show progress on the House of Lords,
the other part of the "new politics" programme. But whatever its desirability in
policy terms, the AV campaign (and this is true whatever the result) shows that,
politically, this doesn't offer much. Voters just aren't interested in
constitutional meddling and they never will be. The best you'll ever get is mild
assent.

So the Liberal Democrats should realise that they haven't any (sensible) choices
remaining. There is only one. They have got to show that they can make a
government work. They have to prove that they are serious people of office,
reliable allies, responsible stewards of the economy, competent administrators
of public services. They must demonstrate that coalitions are not weak and
fractious.

Mr Clegg should turn his attention away from things that matter only to his
party and towards things that matter to voters. He should insist that as part of
any reshuffle he is allowed to combine his job as Deputy Prime Minister with a
proper portfolio. And he should think - hard - about the nature of his party's
appeal if its central policy idea, electoral reform, is off the table.

There will be a good deal of speculation in the next few days about what the Lib
Dems will choose to do. A good starting point for them is to accept that
choosing is not something they will be in a position to do at all.

daniel.finkelstein@thetimes.co.uk OpEd Live, from 1pm Philip Collins and Daniel
Finkelstein debate the case for and against AV thetimes.co.uk/opinion

What they had is gone - and it's not coming back in a hurry

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Having got a referendum on electoral reform, they simply can't afford
to lose it
TRISTAN GREGORY/CAMERA PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AV could offer better representation through American-style primaries;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 449 words


SIR - Assuming that apathy and deception can be overcome, AV will offer us some
interesting possibilities. Once we have consigned to history the first past the
post (FPTP) effect, whereby similar candidates mutually destruct, we could have
US-style primaries within a general election. On the candidate list for one
constituency, we could see two Conservatives, as well as multiple Labour
candidates who take opposing positions on some great issue of the day. This
would give the public greater choice, and let each party resolve potentially
damaging disputes.

The desirable "non-fratricidal" quality of AV allows this, but, curiously, it is
used as an argument against the system, because it is said to lead to more
coalitions. We lived through the John Major years of struggling by with an
inadequate majority. That is the reality of FPTP.

Those who want effective government by one party at a time will need to change
something to ensure this, whatever the outcome of Thursday's referendum. One
possibility would be to use the nationwide vote count to decide the party of
Government and, if it lacks a majority, give it sufficient top-up seats.
Incidentally, this nationwide winner would have far greater credibility under AV
than under FPTP.

But, whatever our views of coalition, if we have one, it is better that the
partners can coexist harmoniously than that they are set at each other's throats
by the inadequacies of the voting system.

John Riseley Harrogate, North Yorkshire

SIR - First past the post may not be perfect, but it is uncomplicated. Even so,
at the last general election in Plymouth, where I was a counter, it was apparent
that even FPTP was beyond some voters. The Green candidate was a Mr Brown. There
were a number of ballot papers on which the first mark was for Mr Brown. It was
then crossed out, and put in the Labour box. These were spoilt papers, and those
people lost their votes. Most of the electorate are not political anoraks, and
an order of preference of candidates is more than they can be bothered with.

Peter Meikle Tavistock, Devon

SIR - The coming referendum is, to me, the best way to get Britain out of the
EU. Labour and the Conservatives will never have the inclination or courage to
grant a referendum on our membership of the EU.

Under AV, and with an estimated half the population against our membership,
second preference votes will go to smaller parties like Ukip, which will grant a
referendum if represented in Parliament.

Mike Bridgeman Market Lavington, Wiltshire

SIR - Surely the point that the Alternative Vote No campaign is missing is that,
under an AV system, the Liberal Democrats will hold the balance of power for
ever.

Peter Watson Dorchester

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU WANTS TO MERGE UK WITH FRANCE;
Fury as millions wasted on crazy idea Outcry at EU 'merger' for Britain and
France

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 780 words


FURY erupted last night after a European Union plot to "carve up Britain" by
setting up a cross-Channel region was exposed.

Senior Tories condemned plans to merge southern England and northern France into
a territory called "Arc Manche" complete with its own flag.

Brussels chiefs have already earmarked millions of pounds for lavish projects
designed to give the zone its own "identity".

Schemes include a £7.6million "cross-Channel" network of cycle paths, a
£2million travelling exhibition of "contemporary" artworks and even a bizarre
international tour by circus clowns costing £5.5million.

Tory Cabinet Minister Eric Pickles yesterday revealed details of the plan
inherited by his Whitehall department from the previous Labour government.

The Communities Secretary said: "Labour ministers have been caught red-handed
conspiring with European bureaucrats to wipe England off the map and replace our
historic boroughs, counties and cities with transnational Euro-regions.

"Massive amounts of taxpayers' money are being wasted on vanity projects. I
intend to fight these plans, stop this waste and protect England's national and
local identities from EU empire building." There are fears the outrageous plan
could spread to affect other parts of Britain.

Meanwhile, the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the EU has won
massive support. We delivered a petition of 373,000 signatures from readers
demanding a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU to 10 Downing Street
earlier this year.

Reacting to yesterday's news, Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell, MP for Clacton,
said: "This is quite simply an attempt to carve up Britain.

As long as the country remains a member of the EU, we will never be free of this
nonsense."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "The Arc Manche is the perfect
Euro project. Nobody wants it, nobody called for it and nobody knows what it's
for.

"Its proudest boast is a logo that wouldn't have won a Blue Peter badge, and
cross-Channel cycle routes."

Charlotte Linacre, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, added: "This billion pound vanity
project is a complete waste of taxpayers' money. It's madness that the EU keep
dreaming up ways to spend, given the economic disasters some countries are
facing and the UK is trying to avoid."

Arc Manche was formally launched six years ago to forge closer links between
local councils in southern English counties with their counterparts in northern
France.

It is one of 12 cross-border regions set up under the EU's "Interreg" initiative
- criticised as an attempt to erode national identities.

The name "Manche" - meaning sleeve - was taken from the French name for the
English Channel.

EU chiefs have been quietly pouring around £1billion a year of taxpayers' money
into the regions. Now they want to significantly raise the profile of Arc
Manche, which already has a ruling "assembly" of councillors and bureaucrats
headed by a French Socialist Party "president", Alain Le Vern. At a cost of
thousands of pounds, EU officials have commissioned a new "transnational emblem"
to be rolled out across southern England. Designers describe the emblem as a
"series of concentric circles symbolising the flow of projects and stakeholders"
and to "represent so many bridges between territories".

However, one Whitehall aide yesterday rubbished the emblem as "a bid to subvert
the St George's flag and the Union Jack".

Among the projects designed to promote the Arc Manche is a series of cycle
routes seeking to link northern France and southern England. Maps of the
proposed routes show cycle lanes stopping at the Channel and re-starting at the
French side. And in an even more surreal twist, a troupe of acrobatic circus
clowns is due to spend up to a year touring the Arc Manche region in a
"transnational street theatre".

Details emerged just days after Eurocrats pleaded for more taxpayers' cash for
Brussels coffers. Under a proposed new EU budget, Britain's annual contribution
to Brussels will rise by £682million next year.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should parts of Britain be merged with France?

YES: 0901 030 8338

NO: 0901 030 8339

Yes text DXMONYES to 80088

No text DXMONNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts

cost 25p plus network operator rates

£7.6m for a nework of cross-Channel cycle paths

£2m for a travelling exhibition of 'contemporary' artworks

£5.5m to fund an international tour of circus clowns

REGION PROPOSED BY EUROCRATS Cornwall & Isles of Scilly Devon Dorset Hampshire
Portsmouth Southampton Bretagne Basse-Normandie Haute-Normandie Picardie
Nord-Pas-De-Calais West Sussex East Sussex Kent Essex LONDON BRUSSELS PARIS 50 0
miles ARC MANCHE The Channel (La Manche)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eric Pickles has vowed to fight EU's empire building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Hospital with just 1 in 5 births to British mothers

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 355 words


JUST one baby in five born in an NHS hospital has a British mother, new figures
have revealed.

Of the 3,289 children born at Ealing Hospital, West London, in the past year,
just 625 were born to English mothers.

Midwives in the maternity unit have dealt with a total of 104 different
nationalities in the last year.

The largest ethnic group that had babies were Indians, who gave birth to 537
children in the 12 months to February. Second were Poles with 389 births, then
Sri Lankans, Somalis, Afghans and Pakistanis. Of the 634 babies with British
mothers, three were Welsh and six Scottish.

Gerard Batten, MEP and immigration spokesman for Ukip, said: "This just proves
that Britain's health service is no longer a national service and is an
international one. It is being used by people who have not paid one penny into
the system.

"The figures show the sheer extent of mass uncontrolled immigration and the
effect it is having on public services here."

World Health Organisation statistics show that while the birth rate among UK
nationals is 1.84 per woman, in the rest of the world the rate rises to an
average of 2.5.

The London borough of Ealing is one of Britain's most ethnically diverse areas.
The hospital has seen a 20 per cent rise in births since 2006, almost twice the
national average. Bosses have taken on 32 extra midwives to cope with the boom.

The ethnicity figures are derived from how mothers declared their nationality,
so the British category also covers foreign-born mothers granted British
passports and second-generation immigrants who were born British citizens.

GET US OUT OF THE EU Nationally, one baby in four is born to a foreign mother,
twice the level of 1997, when Labour came to power.

Ealing Hospital NHS Trust said: "The maternity services are not under strain and
the trust has achieved and maintains good staff-to-mother ratios in the
maternity department."

CRUSADE Despite Ealing Hospital denying its maternity services are under strain,
GET US OUT the Royal College of Midwives has warned other units across the
country were "teetering on the brink" under the pressure of rising birth rates.

OF THE EU

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NHS warning from Mr Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU WANTS TO MERGE UK WITH FRANCE

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 673  words


Fury as millions wasted on crazy idea

FURY erupted last night after a European Union plot to "carve up Britain" by
setting up a cross-Channel region was exposed.

Senior Tories condemned plans to merge southern England and northern France into
a territory called "Arc Manche" complete with its own flag.

Brussels chiefs have already earmarked millions of pounds for lavish projects
designed to give the zone its own "identity".

Schemes include a GBP 7.6million "cross-Channel" network of cycle paths, a GBP
2million travelling exhibition of "contemporary" artworks and even a zarre
international tour by rcus clowns costing GBP 5.5million.

Tory Cabinet Minister Eric Pickles yesterday revealed details of the plan
inherited by his Whitehall department from the previous Labour government.

The Communities Secretary said:

"Labour ministers have been caught red-handed conspiring with European
bureaucrats to wipe England off the map and replace our historic boroughs,
counties and cities with transnational Euro-regions.

"Massive amounts of taxpayers' money are being wasted on vanity projects. I
intend to fight these plans, stop this waste and protect England's national and
local identities from EU empire building."

There are fears the outrageous plan could spread to affect other parts of
Britain.

Meanwhile, the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the EU has won
massive support. We delivered a petition of 373,000 signatures from readers
demanding a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU to 10 Downing Street
earlier this year.

Reacting to yesterday's news, Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell, MP for Clacton,
said: "This is quite simply an attempt to carve up Britain. As long as the
country remains a member of the EU, we will never be free of this nonsense."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "The Arc Manche is the perfect
Euro project. Nobody wants it, nobody called for it and nobody knows what it's
for.

"Its proudest boast is a logo that wouldn't have won a Blue Peter badge, and
cross-Channel cycle routes."

Charlotte Linacre, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, added: "This billion pound vanity
project is a complete waste of taxpayers' money. It's madness that the EU keep
dreaming up ways to spend, given the economic disasters some countries are
facing and the UK is trying to avoid."

Arc Manche was formally launched six years ago to forge closer links between
local councils in southern English counties with their counterparts in northern
France.

It is one of 12 cross-border regions set up under the EU's "Interreg" initiative
- criticised as an attempt to erode national identities.

The name "Manche" - meaning sleeve - was taken from the French name for the
English Channel.

EU chiefs have been quietly pouring around GBP 1billion a year of taxpayers'
money into the regions.

Now they want to significantly raise the profile of Arc Manche, which already
has a ruling "assembly" of councillors and bureaucrats headed by a French
Socialist Party "president", Alain Le Vern. At a cost of thousands of pounds, EU
officials have commissioned a new "transnational emblem" to be rolled out across
southern England. Designers describe the emblem as a "series of concentric
circles symbolising the flow of projects and stakeholders" and to "represent so
many bridges between territories".

However, one Whitehall aide yesterday rubbished the emblem as "a bid to subvert
the St George's flag and the Union Jack".

Among the projects designed to promote the Arc Manche is a series of cycle
routes seeking to link northern France and southern England.

Maps of the proposed routes show cycle lanes stopping at the Channel and
re-starting at the French side.

And in an even more surreal twist, a troupe of acrobatic circus clowns is due to
spend up to a year touring the Arc Manche region in a "transnational street
theatre".

Details emerged just days after Eurocrats pleaded for more taxpayers' cash for
Brussels coffers. Under a proposed new EU budget, Britain's annual contribution
to Brussels will rise by GBP 682million next year.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eric Pickles has vowed to fight EU's empire building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Express EU 'scoop' that the Mail ran two days before

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 280 words

ABSTRACT

Paper suddenly discovers the existence of a 15-year-old cross-border initiative


FULL TEXT

Today's Daily Express appears to be convinced that it has obtained a scoop that
has eluded the rest of Britain's national press.

Its splash, , reveals that "southern England and northern France are to form a
single territory called 'Arc ­Manche' complete with its own flag."

According to the paper - which is campaigning to take Britain out of the
European Union - the communities minister Eric Pickles "yesterday" unveiled
details of the plan deviously devised by the previous Labour government.

He is quoted as saying: "Labour ministers have been caught red-handed conspiring
with European bureaucrats to wipe England off the map and replace our historic
­boroughs, counties and cities with transnational Euro-regions."

There are obligatory quotes of outrage from a Tory backbencher and the UKIP
leader Nigel Farage.

As a "news" story, however, it lacks some credibility. A quick check on
Wikipedia shows that Arc Manche was .

It was aimed at improving the integration of Channel coastal regions within
Europe through the EU's , and is one of 12 such cross-border regions.

And the "revelation" should be credited anyway to the Daily Mail two days ago, .

It also quoted Pickles as its source. But it did concede that the initiative
dates back 15 years "as part of a Europe-wide attempt by Brussels to break down
national barriers."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 2, 2011 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Revealed: the 29 anti-reform MPs who would lose their seats under the AV system

BYLINE: By Andrew Grice and Nigel Morris

SECTION: ALTERNATIVE VOTE

LENGTH: 870 words


For 29 MPs, opposition to scrapping the first-past-the-post voting system is a
matter of raw political survival, an analysis by The Independent has found.

Eight Labour MPs and 21 Tories campaigning against the alternative vote would
not have been elected in last year's general election had AV been in operation.
They include the Tory MP George Eustice, one of the key spokesmen for the No to
AV campaign, who won his Camborne and Redruth seat with barely 38 per cent
support.

Researchers at Essex University, who analysed every constituency, suggested that
the Tories would still have been the largest party at the last election under
AV. But the Commons would have looked significantly different: David Cameron's
forces would have won overall 23 fewer seats; Labour would have had 10 fewer
MPs; and the Liberal Democrats' ranks would have been bolstered by 32 extra MPs.

Among the current crop of Labour MPs, 20 would not have been in the Commons
under the system which is being put to the public in Thursday's referendum;
eight of those 20 have signed up to the No to AV campaign. Among them is Ian
Austin, Gordon Brown's former parliamentary private secretary, who clung on by
just 649 votes last year in Dudley North. The researchers at Essex University
have calculated that the second-preference votes of Ukip and BNP supporters
would have handed it to the Tories.

Emily Thornberry, the Labour MP for Islington South and Finsbury, would have
seen her seat fall to her bitter Liberal Democrat local rivals. Jim Dowd, the
long-standing MP for Lewisham West and Penge, would also have been ousted by the
Liberal Democrats. Other No to AV Labour supporters who would have lost out are:

* Toby Perkins, who beat the Liberal Democrats in Chesterfield by 549 votes.

* Simon Danczuk, who managed to capture Rochdale from the Liberal Democrats
despite Gillian Duffy's infamous monstering of Gordon Brown when the prime
minister visited the town during the election campaign.

* Ian Murray, who picked up Edinburgh South with less than 35 per cent support,
and a majority of just 316.

* Diana Johnson, a former minister, who just managed to beat a Liberal Democrat
challenge in Hull North by 641 votes.

* Geraint Davies, whose return to Parliament as MP for Swansea West succeeded by
only 504 votes.

For the Tories, in addition to Mr Eustice, 20 current Tory MPs - all of whom
favour first past the post - would have lost under AV in 2010.  Guto Bebb
(Aberconwy), Mary Macleod (Brentford and Isleworth), Anna Soubry (Broxtowe),
Matthew Offord (Hendon), Mike Weatherley (Hove), Eric Ollerenshaw (Lancaster
&#38; Fleetwood), Mark Spencer (Sherwood) and James Wharton (Stockton South)
would have lost their seats to Labour.

Charlotte Leslie (Bristol North West), Jason McCartney (Colne Valley), Andrew
Jones (Harrogate &#38; Knaresborough), Glyn Davies (Montgomeryshire), Anne Marie
Morris (Newton Abbot), Nicola Blackwood (Oxford West and Abingdon), Rob Wilson
(Reading East), Anne Main (St Albans), Sarah Newton (Truro &#38; Falmouth),
Richard Harrington (Watford), John Penrose (Weston-super-Mare) and Julian Sturdy
(York Outer) would have lost their seats to the Liberal Democrats.

Two other Tories who would have lost their seats have a more ambiguous attitude
to reform. Jonathan Evans, the MP for Cardiff North, has previously backed
electoral reform but has not intervened in the AV debate. And David Mowat, the
MP for Warrington South, said he is "agnostic" on the issue.

Survival instinct kicks in

The 29 'No to AV' MPs who, based on research by Essex University and 'The
Independent', most likely would not have won their seats at the 2010 general
election had AV been in operation

Constituency

Aberconwy

Brentford and Isleworth

Brixtowe

Hendon

Hove

Lancaster and Fleetwood

Sherwood

Stockton South

Camborne and Redruth

Oxford West and Abingdon

Bristol North West

Colne Valley

Harrogate and Knaresborough

Montgomeryshire

Newton Abbot

Reading East

St Albans

Truro and Falmouth

Watford

Weston-super-Mare

York Outer

Dudley North

Islington South and Finsbury

Lewisham West and Penge

Chesterfield

Rochdale

Edinburgh South

Hull North

Swansea West

2010 winner under first-past-the-post

Gusto Bebb (Con)

Mary Macleod (Con)

Anna Soubry (Con)

Matthew Offord (Con)

Mike Weatherley (Con)

Eric Ollerenshaw (Con)

Mark Spencer (Con)

James Wharton (Con)

George Eustice (Con)

Nicola Blackwood (Con)

Charlotte Leslie (Con)

Jason McCartney (Con)

Andrew Jones (Con)

Glyn Davies (Con)

Anne Marie-Morris (Con)

Rob Wilson (Con)

Anne Main (Con)

Sarah Newton (Con)

Richard Harrington (Con)

John Penrose (Con)

Julian Sturdy (Con)

Ian Austin (Lab)

Emily Thornberry (Lab)

Jim Dowd (Lab)

Tony Perkins (Lab)

Simon Danczuk (Lab)

Ian Murray (Lab)

Diana Johnson (Lab)

Geraint Davies (Lab)

Likely winner under AV

Ronald Hughes (Lab)

Ann Keen (Lab)

Nick Palmer (Lab)

Andrew Dismore (Lab)

Celia Barlow (Lab)

Clive Grunsha (Lab)

Emilie Oldknow (Lab)

Dari Taylor (Lab)

Julia Goldsworthy (LD)

Evan Harris (LD)

Paul Harrod (LD)

Nicola Turner (LD)

Claire Kelley (LD)

Lembit Opik (LD)

Richard Younger-Ross (LD)

Gareth Epps (LD)

Sandy Walkington (LD)

Terrye Teverson (LD)

Sal Brinton (LD)

Mike Bell (LD)

Madeline Kirk (LD)

Graeme Brown (Con)

Bridget Fox (LD)

Alex Feakes (LD)

Paul Holmes (LD)

Paul Rowen (LD)

Fred Mackintosh (LD)

Denis Healy (LD)

Peter May (LD)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 2, 2011 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Saints go marching into the final after Perpignan self-combust;
Northampton 23 Perpignan 7

BYLINE: By Chris Hewett at Stadium MK

SECTION: CLUB RUGBY

LENGTH: 1119 words


When Jacques Brunel, the Italy-bound coach of Perpignan, predicted in the
build-up to this Heineken Cup semi-final that the occasion would have a
"perfume" all of its own, those Northampton followers fearing that the myths and
legends surrounding the Catalans' forward strength might turn out to be true
assumed the smell in Brunel's nostrils was one of purest sulphur.

Actually, it was one of stereotype. The visitors' performance yesterday could
not have been more hackneyed if it had been scripted by the UKIP leader Nigel
Farage.

They fell out with the Irish referee, George Clancy, early in the piece; they
lost their focus, their discipline and their collective temper at one and the
same time; and when they failed to start a decent argument with their opponents,
they argued among themselves instead.

This was French rugby, UKIP-style. There was barely a cliché they did not
fulfil, short of cycling on to the field with strings of onions on their
handlebars.

For long periods, Northampton were not so much the better side as the only side.
Perry Freshwater, the occasional England front-rower who has been playing his
rugby on the Franco-Spanish border for the best part of a decade and started
this contest at loose-head prop, was honest enough at the final whistle. "I
don't know whether that's the best pack of forwards around, but credit to them:
they were smart and they were very intense. I don't mind admitting that I found
it hard going out there."

Hard going? He could say that again, and probably did. Freshwater was not the
only Perpignan big-shot to find himself firing blanks as the Midlanders took
charge of the scrums, the rucks, the edges, the midfield tackle zone and just
about everything else.

Nicolas Mas, considered by some to be the best tight-head prop in the game,
spent most of the afternoon in retreat, and when he left the field three minutes
from time, he looked atomised. Guilhem Guirado, the brilliant young hooker, was
a lot less brilliant than his opposite number, Dylan Hartley, while Damien
Chouly, a hot tip for the French World Cup squad, was barely visible.

Only Bertrand Guiry, the wild-eyed bandit in the back row, and Robins
Tchale-Watchou, the huge West African lock, showed anything at all in what rugby
players politely describe as the "shit-fight".

What naked aggression the Catalans offered was largely to be found outside the
scrum. David Mele, the scrum-half, was in a fearful strop for much of the first
half, and when Julien Candelon took out the Northampton half-back Lee Dickson in
mid-air from a restart, he might easily have had a red card flourished in his
direction. Instead, Clancy took the tolerant approach and settled for yellow.
Perhaps he knew, half an hour in, that the outcome was beyond dispute.

The miscreant on the left wing had a rough old day, one way or another. Before
his sin-binning, he committed the butter-fingered error that presented
Northampton with the position from which they scored their second, game-breaking
try. After his return from the cooler, he conceded the penalty that yielded the
only points of a flat second half. If you really wanted to rub it in, you might
say Candelon got on Clancy's wick.

At no point did Northampton need help from the officials to reach their second
Heineken Cup final, 11 years after winning the trophy through the efforts of
Paul Grayson and Garry Pagel, Budge Pountney and Pat Lam. They received plenty,
all the same.

The Saints were nicely in control after a smart finish from Ben Foden on 14
minutes and a penalty from Stephen Myler on 24 minutes when the goal-kicker's
opposite number, Nicolas Laharrague, chipped dangerously for David Marty behind
the defensive line.

The move had "try" written all over it, but the referee decided at least one
Perpignan back had mistimed his rush and fallen offside. He was wrong, and the
furious Frenchmen knew it. What could they do about it? Nada.

From that point on, leaving aside Guirado's mauling try at the end of the first
half, Northampton had it all their own way. When Tchale-Watchou, hardly the
least visible man on the field, was penalised for slipping in the side of a ruck
- Brunel did not agree with this decision, either - Myler had a long kick for a
13-point lead. He sliced it horribly, and the ball drifted towards Candelon,
stationed near the corner flag. Embarrassingly, the wing fumbled his gather
under pressure from the pumped-up Phil Dowson, and from the subsequent scrum and
line-out, Jon Clarke waltzed through some kindergarten tackling to touch down at
the sticks.

If Clarke ever scores an easier try at this exalted level of rugby - highly
unlikely, it has to be said - it will not be against the Leinster centres Brian
O'Driscoll and Gordon D'Arcy in the final at the Millennium Stadium on Saturday
week.

Jim Mallinder, the Northampton rugby director, hinted at this during the
post-match discussion when he said: "Leinster have world-class players running
through their side, players who are used to playing big-occasion matches and are
used to winning trophies."

It was a comment that underpinned Hartley's public assumption of underdog
status, yet Mallinder was in no sense down-playing his side's chances. "We've
been criticised a little bit for being one-dimensional," he said, "but I think
we played an all-round game out there. Anyway, the fundamentals don't change.
You win rugby matches with a top-notch pack of forwards, a mix of power and
creativity in midfield, finishers in the back three and a strong defence. We
think we can bring those things to the final."

Or as the increasingly impressive Hartley put it, a little more succinctly:
"When we turn up with the right mindset, we can beat anyone."

Leinster will indeed start as favourites, but this 16th Heineken Cup tournament
is far from a done deal. Since the change to a home-and-away pool format in the
1997-98 season, no team has reached the final unbeaten. Until now. And we're not
talking about the Dubliners.

Scorers: Northampton: Tries: Foden, Clarke. Conversions: Myler 2. Penalties:
Myler 3. Perpignan: Try: Guirado. Conversion: Porical.

Northampton: B Foden; C Ashton, J Clarke (J Ansbro, 81), J Downey, P Diggin; S
Myler, L Dickson (S Commins, 83); S Tonga'uiha (A Waller, 83), D Hartley (capt,
B Sharman, 83), B Mujati (T Mercey, 81), C Lawes, C Day (M Sorenson, 77), C
Clark (M Easter, 83) P Dowson, R Wilson.

Perpignan: J Porical (J Michel, 72); A Plante, D Marty, G Hume, J Candelon; N
Laharrague (M Edmonds, 75), D Mele (K Boulogne, 75); P Freshwater (J Schuster,
61), G Guirado (C Geli, 77), N Mas (capt, K Pulu, 77), R Alvarez Kairelis (G
Vilaceca, 70), R Tchale-Watchou, G Le Corvec (H Tuilagi, 50), B Guiry, D Chouly.

Referee: G Clancy (Ireland).

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                  May 2, 2011
                                 First Edition

Saints go marching into the final after Perpignan self-combust;
northampton 23 perpignan 7

BYLINE: Chris Hewett at Stadium MK

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1119 words


when jacques Brunel, the Italy-bound coach of Perpignan, predicted in the
build-up to this Heineken Cup semi-final that the occasion would have a
"perfume" all of its own, those Northampton followers fearing that the myths and
legends surrounding the Catalans' forward strength might turn out to be true
assumed the smell in Brunel's nostrils was one of purest sulphur.

Actually, it was one of stereotype. The visitors' performance yesterday could
not have been more hackneyed if it had been scripted by the UKIP leader Nigel
Farage.

They fell out with the Irish referee, George Clancy, early in the piece; they
lost their focus, their discipline and their collective temper at one and the
same time; and when they failed to start a decent argument with their opponents,
they argued among themselves instead.

This was French rugby, UKIP-style. There was barely a cliché they did not
fulfil, short of cycling on to the field with strings of onions on their
handlebars.

For long periods, Northampton were not so much the better side as the only side.
Perry Freshwater, the occasional England front-rower who has been playing his
rugby on the Franco-Spanish border for the best part of a decade and started
this contest at loose-head prop, was honest enough at the final whistle. "I
don't know whether that's the best pack of forwards around, but credit to them:
they were smart and they were very intense. I don't mind admitting that I found
it hard going out there."

Hard going? He could say that again, and probably did. Freshwater was not the
only Perpignan big-shot to find himself firing blanks as the Midlanders took
charge of the scrums, the rucks, the edges, the midfield tackle zone and just
about everything else.

Nicolas Mas, considered by some to be the best tight-head prop in the game,
spent most of the afternoon in retreat, and when he left the field three minutes
from time, he looked atomised. Guilhem Guirado, the brilliant young hooker, was
a lot less brilliant than his opposite number, Dylan Hartley, while Damien
Chouly, a hot tip for the French World Cup squad, was barely visible.

Only Bertrand Guiry, the wild-eyed bandit in the back row, and Robins
Tchale-Watchou, the huge West African lock, showed anything at all in what rugby
players politely describe as the "shit-fight".

What naked aggression the Catalans offered was largely to be found outside the
scrum. David Mele, the scrum-half, was in a fearful strop for much of the first
half, and when Julien Candelon took out the Northampton half-back Lee Dickson in
mid-air from a restart, he might easily have had a red card flourished in his
direction. Instead, Clancy took the tolerant approach and settled for yellow.
Perhaps he knew, half an hour in, that the outcome was beyond dispute.

The miscreant on the left wing had a rough old day, one way or another. Before
his sin-binning, he committed the butter-fingered error that presented
Northampton with the position from which they scored their second, game-breaking
try. After his return from the cooler, he conceded the penalty that yielded the
only points of a flat second half. If you really wanted to rub it in, you might
say Candelon got on Clancy's wick.

At no point did Northampton need help from the officials to reach their second
Heineken Cup final, 11 years after winning the trophy through the efforts of
Paul Grayson and Garry Pagel, Budge Pountney and Pat Lam. They received plenty,
all the same.

The Saints were nicely in control after a smart finish from Ben Foden on 14
minutes and a penalty from Stephen Myler on 24 minutes when the goal-kicker's
opposite number, Nicolas Laharrague, chipped dangerously for David Marty behind
the defensive line.

The move had "try" written all over it, but the referee decided at least one
Perpignan back had mistimed his rush and fallen offside. He was wrong, and the
furious Frenchmen knew it. What could they do about it? Nada.

From that point on, leaving aside Guirado's mauling try at the end of the first
half, Northampton had it all their own way. When Tchale-Watchou, hardly the
least visible man on the field, was penalised for slipping in the side of a ruck
- Brunel did not agree with this decision, either - Myler had a long kick for a
13-point lead. He sliced it horribly, and the ball drifted towards Candelon,
stationed near the corner flag. Embarrassingly, the wing fumbled his gather
under pressure from the pumped-up Phil Dowson, and from the subsequent scrum and
line-out, Jon Clarke waltzed through some kindergarten tackling to touch down at
the sticks.

If Clarke ever scores an easier try at this exalted level of rugby - highly
unlikely, it has to be said - it will not be against the Leinster centres Brian
O'Driscoll and Gordon D'Arcy in the final at the Millennium Stadium a fortnight
on Saturday.

Jim Mallinder, the Northampton rugby director, hinted at this during the
post-match discussion when he said: "Leinster have world-class players running
through their side, players who are used to playing big-occasion matches and are
used to winning trophies."

It was a comment that underpinned Hartley's public assumption of underdog
status, yet Mallinder was in no sense down-playing his side's chances. "We've
been criticised a little bit for being one-dimensional," he said, "but I think
we played an all-round game out there. Anyway, the fundamentals don't change.
You win rugby matches with a top-notch pack of forwards, a mix of power and
creativity in midfield, finishers in the back three and a strong defence. We
think we can bring those things to the final."

Or as the increasingly impressive Hartley put it, a little more succinctly:
"When we turn up with the right mindset, we can beat anyone."

Leinster will indeed start as favourites, but this 16th Heineken Cup tournament
is far from a done deal. Since the change to a home-and-away pool format in the
1997-98 season, no team has reached the final unbeaten. Until now. And we're not
talking about the Dubliners.

Scorers: Northampton: Tries: Foden, Clarke. Conversions: Myler 2. Penalties:
Myler 3. Perpignan: Try: Guirado. Conversion: Porical.

Northampton: B Foden; C Ashton, J Clarke (J Ansbro, 81), J Downey, P Diggin; S
Myler, L Dickson (S Commins, 83); S Tonga'uiha (A Waller, 83), D Hartley (capt,
B Sharman, 83), B Mujati (T Mercey, 81), C Lawes, C Day (M Sorenson, 77), C
Clark (M Easter, 83) P Dowson, R Wilson.

Perpignan: J Porical (J Michel, 72); A Plante, D Marty, G Hume, J Candelon; N
Laharrague (M Edmonds, 75), D Mele (K Boulogne, 75); P Freshwater (J Schuster,
61), G Guirado (C Geli, 77), N Mas (capt, K Pulu, 77), R Alvarez Kairelis (G
Vilaceca, 70), R Tchale-Watchou, G Le Corvec (H Tuilagi, 50), B Guiry, D Chouly.

Referee: G Clancy (Ireland).

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 2, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Revealed: the 29 anti-reform MPs who would lose their seats under the AV system

BYLINE: Andrew Grice and Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 880 words


For 29 MPs, opposition to scrapping the first-past-the-post voting system is a
matter of raw political survival, an analysis by The Independent has found.

Eight Labour MPs and 21 Tories campaigning against the alternative vote would
not have been elected in last year's general election had AV been in operation.
They include the Tory MP George Eustice, one of the key spokesmen for the No to
AV campaign, who won his Camborne and Redruth seat with barely 38 per cent
support.

Researchers at Essex University, who analysed every constituency, suggested that
the Tories would still have been the largest party at the last election under
AV. But the Commons would have looked significantly different: David Cameron's
forces would have won overall 23 fewer seats; Labour would have had 10 fewer
MPs; and the Liberal Democrats' ranks would have been bolstered by 32 extra MPs.

Among the current crop of Labour MPs, 20 would not have been in the Commons
under the system which is being put to the public in Thursday's referendum;
eight of those 20 have signed up to the No to AV campaign. Among them is Ian
Austin, Gordon Brown's former parliamentary private secretary, who clung on by
just 649 votes last year in Dudley North. The researchers at Essex University
have calculated that the second-preference votes of Ukip and BNP supporters
would have handed it to the Tories.

Emily Thornberry, the Labour MP for Islington South and Finsbury, would have
seen her seat fall to her bitter Liberal Democrat local rivals. Jim Dowd, the
long-standing MP for Lewisham West and Penge, would also have been ousted by the
Liberal Democrats. Other No to AV Labour supporters who would have lost out are:

* Toby Perkins, who beat the Liberal Democrats in Chesterfield by 549 votes.

* Simon Danczuk, who managed to capture Rochdale from the Liberal Democrats
despite Gillian Duffy's infamous monstering of Gordon Brown when the prime
minister visited the town during the election campaign.

* Ian Murray, who picked up Edinburgh South with less than 35 per cent support,
and a majority of just 316.

* Diana Johnson, a former minister, who just managed to beat a Liberal Democrat
challenge in Hull North by 641 votes.

* Geraint Davies, whose return to Parliament as MP for Swansea West succeeded by
only 504 votes.

For the Tories, in addition to Mr Eustice, 20 current Tory MPs - all of whom
favour first past the post - would have lost under AV in 2010. Guto Bebb
(Aberconwy), Mary Macleod (Brentford and Isleworth), Anna Soubry (Broxtowe),
Matthew Offord (Hendon), Mike Weatherley (Hove), Eric Ollerenshaw (Lancaster &
Fleetwood), Mark Spencer (Sherwood) and James Wharton (Stockton South) would
have lost their seats to Labour.

Charlotte Leslie (Bristol North West), Jason McCartney (Colne Valley), Andrew
Jones (Harrogate & Knaresborough), Glyn Davies (Montgomeryshire), Anne Marie
Morris (Newton Abbot), Nicola Blackwood (Oxford West and Abingdon), Rob Wilson
(Reading East), Anne Main (St Albans), Sarah Newton (Truro & Falmouth), Richard
Harrington (Watford), John Penrose (Weston-super-Mare) and Julian Sturdy (York
Outer) would have lost their seats to the Liberal Democrats.

Two other Tories who would have lost their seats have a more ambiguous attitude
to reform. Jonathan Evans, the MP for Cardiff North, has previously backed
electoral reform but has not intervened in the AV debate. And David Mowat, the
MP for Warrington South, said he is "agnostic" on the issue.

SURVIVAL INSTINCT KICKS IN

The 29 'No to AV' MPs who, based on research by Essex University and 'The
Independent', would almost certainly not have won their seats at the 2010
general election had AV been in operation

Constituency

Aberconwy

Brentford and Isleworth

Brixtowe

Hendon

Hove

Lancaster and Fleetwood

Sherwood

Stockton South

Camborne and Redruth

Oxford West and Abingdon

Bristol North West

Colne Valley

Harrogate and Knaresborough

Montgomeryshire

Newton Abbot

Reading East

St Albans

Truro and Falmouth

Watford

Weston-super-Mare

York Outer

Dudley North

Islington South and Finsbury

Lewisham West and Penge

Chesterfield

Rochdale

Edinburgh South

Hull North

Swansea West

2010 winner under first-past-the-post

Gusto Bebb (Con)

Mary Macleod (Con)

Anna Soubry (Con)

Matthew Offord (Con)

Mike Weatherley (Con)

Eric Ollerenshaw (Con)

Mark Spencer (Con)

James Wharton (Con)

George Eustice (Con)

Nicola Blackwood (Con)

Charlotte Leslie (Con)

Jason McCartney (Con)

Andrew Jones (Con)

Glyn Davies (Con)

Anne Marie-Morris (Con)

Rob Wilson (Con)

Anne Main (Con)

Sarah Newton (Con)

Richard Harrington (Con)

John Penrose (Con)

Julian Sturdy (Con)

Ian Austin (Lab)

Emily Thornberry (Lab)

Jim Dowd (Lab)

Tony Perkins (Lab)

Simon Danczuk (Lab)

Ian Murray (Lab)

Diana Johnson (Lab)

Geraint Davies (Lab)

Likely winner under AV

Ronald Hughes (Lab)

Ann Keen (Lab)

Nick Palmer (Lab)

Andrew Dismore (Lab)

Celia Barlow (Lab)

Clive Grunsha (Lab)

Emilie Oldknow (Lab)

Dari Taylor (Lab)

Julia Goldsworthy (LD)

Evan Harris (LD)

Paul Harrod (LD)

Nicola Turner (LD)

Claire Kelley (LD)

Lembit Opik (LD)

Richard Younger-Ross (LD)

Gareth Epps (LD)

Sandy Walkington (LD)

Terrye Teverson (LD)

Sal Brinton (LD)

Mike Bell (LD)

Madeline Kirk (LD)

Graeme Brown (Con)

Bridget Fox (LD)

Alex Feakes (LD)

Paul Holmes (LD)

Paul Rowen (LD)

Fred Mackintosh (LD)

Denis Healy (LD)

Peter May (LD)

Clegg braced for town-hall backlash at Coalition

Local elections, page 12

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                  May 1, 2011
                                 3 Star Edition

CONDEM NATION;
THE PEOPLE poll reveals just 2% believe coalition is success

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1286 words


ONLY a tiny handful of Brits think David Cameron's coalition government is a
triumph, a new poll for The People reveals today.

A paltry 2 per cent of voters describe it as a "rip-roaring" success.

But almost half say they are disappointed with Mr Cameron's troops after almost
a year in power.

One in five describes the Tories' link-up with the Lib Dems as an "absolute
disaster".

A third simply shrug their shoulders, branding the coalition no better than OK.

And in the North East - where cuts in public spending have hit hard - nobody
thought the government was fantastic.

The findings of our OnePoll survey will also be bad news for Labour leader Ed
Miliband.

It reveals his big brother David is way out in front as the man most voters
would prefer to head the Opposition.

Ed trails the former Foreign Secretary by eight points.

And he is only five points ahead of his archrival, Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls.

Ed Miliband is second in the popularity stakes in every English region except
Yorkshire and the Humber, where he's a point ahead.

The brothers run neck-a-neck in Northern Ireland - and Miliband junior is one
point in front in Wales.

Our poll offers no solace to Deputy PM Nick Clegg as he tries to persuade the
electorate to back a change in Britain's voting system in this Thursday's
referendum.

The survey found his dream of replacing the nation's first-past-the-post system
with the Alternative Vote will be crushed by nearly two to one.

Just under a quarter of us are set to opt for AV, while 44 per cent want to
stick with what we already have. AV - which ranks candidates in order of
preference - is most popular with younger age groups.

But nearly six out of 10 over-55s want to keep the present winner-takes-all
system.

They are also least keen on Proportional Representation.

A majority of voters in the East Midlands and the North West say they don't want
to see any change.

And more than 5 per cent of voters aged between 18 and 24 say they will spoil
their ballot papers because the PR option is not included in the referendum.

AV is supported by nearly four out of 10 voters in Northern Ireland, where the
single transferable vote used under PR is already in force.

Depress

A pro-AV insider said last night: "The polls have not been in our favour - but
our supporters are the ones more likely to get out to vote so we're not letting
the polls depress us."

But Ed Staite, of the No to AV campaign, said: "The People's poll is a positive
result for us. Now it is essential we get our vote out on the day."

Despite facing defeat on the issue, Mr Clegg is still favourite to continue
leading the Lib Dems. He gets a 26 per cent approval rating, with Business
Secretary Vince Cable second on 15 per cent.

Mr Clegg is most popular with voters aged between 35 and 44.

A quarter of voters say they would prefer to have a Labour government.

And a third say they wish Mr Cameron's Tories were able to govern on their own
without Lib Dem help.

The ratio rises to more than four out of 10 among over-55s - twice as many as in
the 18-24 age group.

Mr Cameron is way out in front as boss of the Conservative Party.

More than a third of voters say they would welcome him back if the Tories had a
leadership contest tomorrow.

He is most popular with the over-45s and with voters in London, the South East
and the South West.

Foreign Secretary William Hague is second with 13 per cent.

And Chancellor George Osborne limps in on just 5 per cent - two points behind
Justice Secretary Ken Clarke.

The PM will be pleased to see there is only a whisker between Tories and Labour
in next week's local elections.

Both parties are set to win about a quarter of the vote.

But the Lib Dems will be disappointed to learn they enjoy the support of only
five in 100 voters in Scotland.

The far-right BNP could get a boost from younger voters, with 3 per cent of
those aged between 18 and 34 ready to support them.

Meanwhile, UKIP has the backing of five in 100 over-55s.

Margaret Thatcher is rated the best PM of the past 30 years by nearly a third of
voters, rising to 44 per cent among over-55s.

Nearly a third of men think Labour's Tony Blair made a better Premier.

Mr Cameron comes top with a mere one in 10 of the electorate - only just beating
Gordon Brown.

Two per cent of women and seven in 100 men think Russian tough guy Vladimir
Putin would make a better British PM than American President Barack Obama.

Amazingly, nearly 2 per cent back Libya's Colonel Gaddafi.

nigel.nelson@people.co.uk

We Say: Page 14

More power, more choice

WE need a fairer voting system giving people more power and choice over their
MPs, writes Lib Dem Vince Cable.

The No campaign is led by Tories who want to keep a system that gave them power
for most of the last century - only rarely with a majority of votes. But now is
the time for progressive people to work together to improve the system.

Critics say AV is complicated. But that's insulting. What's complicated about
voting 1, 2, 3? And AV ensures every vote counts. Critics also say AV isn't
British. Nonsense - the parties use it to choose their own leaders.Like David
Cameron. But he denies it to you, the people.

There is a progressive majority in Britain. It should vote for AV.

A double disaster

One in five voters thinks the coalition masterminded by David Cameron and Nick
Clegg has been a disaster - 10 times more than those who think it's been a
success

Do you think that nearly a year of coalition government has been a...?

Choice %

Rip-roaring success 2.09

Better than expected 16.54

Ok but not great 32.87

Disappointing 24.25

It's been an absolute disaster 20.50

Don't know 3.75

Would you have preferred a..?

Choice %

A Lib Dem/Labour coalition 12.96

Labour governing on its own 24.79

Tories governing on their own 31

Lib Dems governing on their own 10.28

I like the Tory/Lib Dem coalition we have 7.33

Don't know 13.65

Which coalition politician has stood out most in the last year?

Choice %

David Cameron 38.17

Nick Clegg 11.78

George Osborne 6.80

Vince Cable 11.83

William Hague 7.12

Don't know 24.30

In the referendum to change the voting system will you opt for?

Choice %

The Alternative Vote 24.36

First Past the Post 44.11

I do not plan to vote on the issue 11.03

I plan to spoil my ballot paper because PR should be on the agenda 3.37

Don't know 17.13

If there was a leadership election tomorrow in the Tory Party who would you like
to see win?

Choice %

David Cameron 35.65

George Osborne 5.25

William Hague 12.58

Kenneth Clarke 7.66

Theresa May 5.46

Don't know 33.40

If there was a leadership election in the Liberal Democrat Party who would you
like to see win?

Choice %

Nick Clegg 26.18

Vince Cable 14.88

Chris Huhne 5.94

Sarah Teather 5.41

Charles Kennedy 11.51

Don't know 36.08

If there was a leadership election in the Labour Party who would you like to see
win?

Choice %

Ed Miliband 15.52

David Miliband 23.77

Ed Balls 10.76

Yvette Cooper 3.96

Diane Abbott 7.44

Don't know 38.54

At the local elections on Thursday will you vote...?

Choice %

Tory 25.55

Labour 23.77

Lib Dem 11.46

Independent 3.53

BNP 2.52

Green 3.85

UKIP 3.80

Other 3.96

Don't know 10.97

I will not be voting 12.58

Which of the following made the best Prime Minister?

Choice %

David Cameron 9.53

Gordon Brown 9.37

Tony Blair 26.07

John Major 6.85

Margaret Thatcher 31.42

Don't know 16.76

If you were electing a foreign leader to be Prime Minister who would it be?

Choice %

America's Barack Obama 36.72

France's Nicolas Sarkozy 9.48

Germany's Angela Merkel 21.36

Russia's Vladimir Putin 4.98

Libya's Colonel Gaddafi 1.82

Don't know 25.64

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PROGRESSIVE: Cable's backing AV 'WRONG MILIBAND' You want David not Ed
TOPS: Margaret Thatcher wins third term in 1987 ALSO-RANS: Tony Blair and Gordon
Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 1, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Royal no-go for miffed Barosso;
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: TED JEORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 117 words


WHILE much fuss has been made about the Royal Wedding snub to Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown little attention has been paid to the great sulk of Brussels's top
bureaucrat Jose Manuel Barroso, the President of the European Commission.

He was also ignored by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, who also failed to
invite a single representative of the European Union to their great occasion.

Mr Barroso's spokesman insisted his boss was not upset but couldn't resist a
little dig, adding: "It seems that royal protocol today is not to invite the EU
institution leaders."

Just last week it emerged that the Queen believes the EU is too large.

Yet more evidence that the Royal Family are all secret UKIP supporters.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Calamity Clegg faces crippling defeat;
A no vote on AV could put the coalition in danger. Marie Woolf and Simon McGee
write

BYLINE: Marie Woolf ; Simon McGee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1635 words


When the comedian Eddie Izzard bounds on to a stage in Southampton this morning
to kick off a last-ditch attempt to drum up support for the alternative vote
ahead of Thursday's referendum, he will be doing so despite every indication
that the yes campaign has already lost.

Izzard, a supporter of Labour, the European Union and all things progressive, is
passionate about politics and will perform a whirlwind tour of 16 towns and
cities in the next four days, and maintains that the race is not lost. "It's the
first time ever that we've had a chance to choose how politics in this country
is done, and we may never get the chance again," he said.

"I think it's what we as voters deserve: a fairer system that allows us to be
honest about our preferences and puts the power back in our hands."

Izzard is putting a brave face on it but the truth is that for many seeking a
yes vote their campaign is already looking like a bad joke - and the person
being blamed is the Liberal Democrat leader, Nick Clegg.

A year ago Clegg was able to trumpet the referendum as a key reason for joining
the Tories in a coalition - and for quite a long time it all looked rather
promising for AV.

For most of this year the yes campaign was comfortably ahead in the polls.
Discontent with the status quo and broad messages about choosing MPs in a fresh
and interesting way gave AV a fair wind.

Throughout most of March the polls suggested the yes vote remained ahead, albeit
more narrowly, but last month the tide turned. A series of setbacks left the yes
campaign floundering, and a narrow no lead soon became a substantial one.

Today's YouGov/Sunday Times poll confirms that the trickle away from AV has
turned into a torrent. With detailed data from across the regions of the UK, it
shows the no campaign as clear leader throughout the whole of England, most
notably in London - which had previously been characterised as sympathetic to
the yes campaign - where there is a 22% lead for the noes.

Only in Scotland and Wales does the yes campaign maintain a lead, and though
those areas can expect higher turnouts because the referendum coincides with
their national assembly elections, it will not be enough to stop a no victory by
as much as 1.6m votes.

How has the yes campaign become so badly derailed? And what will failure mean
for Clegg - and the coalition? Asked about AV shortly before last year's general
election, Clegg called it "a miserable little compromise" that would be only "a
baby step in the right direction". But that baby step did not seem so bad when
Tories and Lib Dems sat down a year ago next week to thrash out the coalition
agreement.

Clegg trumpeted AV as a significant coalition concession by the Tories,
portraying it to rank-and-file members as the decisive deal-making step that
justified working alongside sworn enemies. It meant that, while the Lib Dems
would have to wait longer for their holy grail of proportional representation,
there might at least be an electoral system that would make it easier for them
to turn votes into MPs and a concrete achievement for Clegg one year into the
coalition.

Put simply, AV is good for smaller parties because preferential voting
eliminates the fear of electors "wasting" a vote on a minority party: it allows
them to vote for smaller parties in the knowledge that they can still affect the
outcome with their second or third preferences.

That is why the Greens and the UK Independence party (Ukip) back it.

The Lib Dems like AV but do not love it. The Tories dislike it, but not so much
as to rule it out as the price of the coalition agreement. Cameron was
reportedly relaxed about offering AV in the private coalition stitch-up,
although he later informed his MPs he had had little choice but to agree to a
referendum because Labour had apparently offered Clegg AV without a referendum.

As the opposing campaign groups revved their engines for the slogathon ahead,
Cameron and Clegg agreed two things. First, that they would both take a back
seat on the issue so as to keep the coalition steady. Second, that a small
amount of politicking would be allowed on the issue, given it would play well to
the Tory and Lib Dem grass roots in the lead-up to local government and devolved
assembly elections.

But those agreements were quickly forgotten as the campaign became more
competitive. Cameron got on a stage with John Reid, the former Labour cabinet
minister, to condemn AV, and it appeared that the yes camp was rapidly losing
its opinion poll lead to the noes' messaging about the simplicity of
first-past-the-post.

Chris Huhne, the energy secretary, lit the touch paper at the end of March when
he accused his fellow cabinet minister Baroness Warsi, the Conservative party
chairman, of running a "Goebbels-like campaign" for suggesting that the BNP
would benefit from AV.

Paddy Ashdown then piled in with his own political hand grenade, attacking what
he called the "stinking" no campaign of "scaremongering" and employing "the
politics of the gutter" to smear Clegg.

Last weekend Huhne lashed out again, accusing George Osborne, the chancellor,
and others of lying over the possibly high cost of implementing AV; and Clegg
portrayed the fight as a showdown between the "progressive majority" and an
"unholy alliance" of a rightwing clique and Labour "dinosaurs" such as John
Prescott and David Blunkett.

A Tory adviser illustrated the ill-will generated when he called the Lib Dems "a
bunch of sanctimonious bastards". A Tory MP on the government payroll said: "I
hope we can put the whole AV thing behind us after next week's vote. It's gotten
completely out of hand."

WITH just five days to go, many Lib Dems are already in mourning for the loss of
their once-in-a-generation opportunity to seize their crumb of electoral reform.

While the public finger-wagging is aimed at the Tories, the real bitterness and
frustration are reserved for the party leader and the Yes to Fairer Votes
campaign.

Senior Lib Dem figures are furious that the campaign failed so dismally to
generate a robust and engaging narrative.

Mark Textor, the Australian polling guru whose consultancy Crosby Textor has run
polls for the no campaign, said: "Yes failed to explain what the practical
benefits of AV would be, other than theoretical benefits like fairness. Britons
consider AV confusing and, given all the political and economic uncertainty out
there, an uncertainty too many."

The no campaign, comprising seasoned Tory and Labour activists and a core
secretariat drawn from the combative low-tax lobby, The Tax-Payers' Alliance,
ran rings around their opponents by exploiting possible conflicts of interest
relating to one of the groups bankrolling the yes side and making the most of
silly mistakes, such as the removal of a picture of Benjamin Zephaniah, the
Rastafarian poet, from pro-AV leaflets outside London.

When it came to broadcasts, the noes deployed Rik Mayall's outrageous politician
Alan B'Stard to lampoon AV effectively, while the yes camp used a much
criticised broadcast of voters shouting through megaphones at cowering MPs.

Huhne, who will attend today's yes rally in Southampton alongside Izzard, and
his Lib Dem colleague Vince Cable are said to have taken personal charge of the
campaign to try to turn it around; but for many on their side it seems too
little too late. "It's hopeless," said one senior peer. "We are having to come
up with [campaign ideas] ourselves." Yet the greatest frustration is aimed at
Clegg himself, deeply unpopular following the tuition fees debacle, for refusing
to stay out of the yes campaign.

Defeats on AV and in the local elections threaten to blow wide open simmering
discontent over the direction of the party among its left-wing grass roots and
on the backbenches, and could spark a leadership contest. And if Clegg is
toppled, the coalition could be over.

Possible challengers such as Huhne and Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president, are
poised, while the Tories and Labour are on standby for an early general
election.

In an interview in today's Sunday Times Magazine, Ed Miliband, the Labour leader
who, unlike most of his MPs, supports AV, blames Clegg for the impending AV
loss, calling his association with the campaign "a massive hindrance". The view
was endorsed by a senior Lib Dem parliamentary figure, who said: "The last thing
we need in the last push is him [Clegg] getting involved."

Privately Lib Dem MPs are distraught. "If we lose, Clegg will have managed to
destroy the reputation of the party, thanks to tuition fees, and to have lost us
our once-in-a-generation opportunity to get electoral reform, said one. "If we
lose AV, that's it. It will be off the agenda for decades. Labour won't want it
and the only way we could get it is in a coalition deal with Labour. The whole
thing has been a disaster."

Unfortunately for Clegg, giving his party its first taste of government since
the wartime coalition and its first national referendum on electoral reform may
not be enough to save him. "Nothing will happen right away," said one Lib Dem
MP, "but people are starting to wonder who our next leader will be."

Labour expect gains The Labour party is on course to gain as many as 1,300 seats
in the local council elections on Thursday, according to the latest Sunday Times
survey of expected by-election results.

The survey shows Labour on 38%, an increase of 12% on 2007, the last time these
seats were contested. The Tories are on 35% - down five points from four years
ago. The Liberal Democrats' rating of 17% is seven points down on 2007. They
would lose about 400 seats on these figures.

There are no local elections in Scotland and Wales, but as well as the AV
referendum, the countries' voters will be choosing their new parliament and
assembly.

'' THE LAST THING WE NEED IN THE FINAL PUSH IS CLEGG GETTING INVOLVED

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Calamity Clegg faces crippling defeat;
With the AV campaign set to fail, the coalition may be at risk. By Simon McGee,
Marie Woolf

BYLINE: Simon McGee; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1709 words


When the comedian Eddie Izzard bounds onto a stage in Southampton this morning
to kick off a last-ditch attempt to drum up support for the alternative vote
ahead of Thursday's referendum, he will be doing so despite every indication
that the yes campaign has already lost.

Izzard, a supporter of Labour, the European Union and all things progressive, is
passionate about politics. Famous for his whimsical style of comedy and wearing
frocks, his whirlwind tour of 16 towns and cities in the next four days will see
him launching Chinese lanterns at 5.30am in Nottingham, canvassing Oxford by
bike, standing on a soapbox in York and rowing on the river Cam in Cambridge.

Even at this late stage, Izzard maintains that the race is not lost. "It's the
first time ever that we've had a chance to choose how politics in this country
is done, and we may never get the chance again," he said.

"I think it's what we as voters deserve: a fairer system that allows us to be
honest about our preferences and puts the power back in our hands."

Izzard is putting a brave face on it but the truth is that for many seeking a
yes vote their campaign is already looking like a bad joke - and the person
being blamed is the Liberal Democrat leader, Nick Clegg.

A year ago Clegg was able to trumpet the referendum as a key reason for joining
the Tories in a coalition - and for quite a long time it all looked rather
promising for AV.

For most of this year, and the months of phoney war last year, the yes campaign
was comfortably ahead in the polls. Discontent with the status quo and broad
messages about choosing MPs in a fresh and interesting way gave AV a fair wind.

Throughout most of March the polls suggested the yes vote remained ahead, albeit
more narrowly, but come April the tide turned. A series of setbacks left the yes
campaign floundering, and a narrow no lead soon became a substantial one.

Today's YouGov/Sunday Times poll confirms that the trickle away from AV has
turned into a torrent. With detailed data from across the regions of the UK, it
shows the no campaign as clear leader throughout the whole of England, most
notably in London - which had previously been characterised as sympathetic to
the yes campaign - where there is a 22% lead for the noes.

Only in Scotland and Wales does the yes campaign maintain a lead, and though
those areas can expect higher turnouts because the referendum coincides with
their national assembly elections, it will not be enough to stop a no victory by
as much as 1.6m votes.

How has the yes campaign become so badly derailed? And what will failure mean
for Clegg - and the coalition? Asked about AV shortly before last year's general
election, Clegg called it "a miserable little compromise" that would be only "a
baby step in the right direction". But that baby step did not seem so bad when
Tories and Lib Dems sat down a year ago next week to thrash out the coalition
agreement.

Clegg trumpeted AV as a significant coalition concession by the Tories,
portraying it to rank-and-file members as the decisive deal-making step that
justified working alongside sworn enemies. It meant that, while the Lib Dems
would have to wait longer for their holy grail of proportional representation,
there might at least be an electoral system that would make it easier for them
to turn votes into MPs and a concrete achievement for Clegg one year into the
coalition.

PUT simply, AV is good for smaller parties because preferential voting
eliminates the fear of electors "wasting" a vote on a minority party: it allows
them to vote for smaller parties in the knowledge that they can still affect the
outcome with their second or third preferences.

That is why the Greens and the UK Independence party (Ukip) back it.

The Lib Dems like AV but do not love it. The Tories dislike it, but not so much
as to rule it out as the price of the coalition. Cameron was reportedly relaxed
about offering AV in the private coalition stitch-up, although he later told his
MPs he had had little choice but to agree to a referendum because Labour had
offered Clegg AV without a referendum.

As the opposing campaign groups revved their engines for the slogathon ahead,
Cameron and Clegg agreed two things. First, that they would both take a back
seat on the issue so as to keep the coalition steady.

Second, that a small amount of politicking and mud-slinging would be allowed on
the issue, given it would play well to the Tory and Lib Dem grass roots in the
lead-up to the referendum and local government and devolved assembly elections.

But those agreements were quickly forgotten as the campaign became more
competitive. Cameron got on a stage with John Reid, the former Labour cabinet
minister, to condemn AV, and it appeared that the yes camp was rapidly losing
its opinion poll lead to the noes' messaging about the simplicity of
first-past-the-post.

Chris Huhne, the energy secretary, lit the touch paper at the end of March when
he accused his fellow cabinet minister Baroness Warsi, the Conservative party
chairman, of running a "Goebbels-like campaign" for suggesting that the BNP
would benefit from AV.

Paddy Ashdown then piled in with his own political hand grenade, attacking what
he called the "stinking" no campaign of "scaremongering" and employing "the
politics of the gutter" to smear Clegg.

Last weekend Huhne lashed out again, accusing George Osborne, the chancellor,
and others of lying over the possibly high cost of implementing AV; and Clegg
portrayed the fight as a showdown between the "progressive majority" and an
"unholy alliance" of a rightwing clique and Labour "dinosaurs" such as John
Prescott and David Blunkett.

A Tory adviser illustrated the ill-will generated when he called the Lib Dems "a
bunch of sanctimonious bastards". A Tory MP on the government payroll said: "I
hope we can put the whole AV thing behind us after next week's vote. It's gotten
completely out of hand."

With just five days to go, many Lib Dems are already in mourning for the loss of
their once-in-a-generation opportunity to seize their crumb of electoral reform.

While the public finger-wagging is aimed at the Tories, the real bitterness and
frustration are reserved for the party leader and the Yes to Fairer Votes
campaign.

Senior Lib Dem figures are furious that the campaign failed so dismally to
generate a robust and engaging narrative.

Mark Textor, the Australian polling guru whose consultancy Crosby Textor has run
polls for the no campaign, said: "Yes failed to explain what the practical
benefits of AV would be, other than theoretical benefits like fairness. Britons
consider AV confusing and, given all the political and economic uncertainty out
there, an uncertainty too many."

THE no campaign, comprising seasoned Tory and Labour activists and a core
secretariat drawn from the combative low-tax lobby The TaxPayers' Alliance, ran
rings around their opponents by exploiting possible conflicts of interest
relating to one of the groups bankrolling the yes side and making the most of
silly mistakes, such as the removal of a picture of Benjamin Zephaniah, the
Rastafarian poet, from pro-AV leaflets outside London.

When it came to broadcasts, the noes deployed Rik Mayall's outrageous politician
Alan B'Stard to lampoon AV effectively, while the yes camp used a much
criticised broadcast of voters shouting through megaphones at cowering MPs.

Huhne, who will attend today's yes rally in Southampton alongside Izzard, and
his Lib Dem colleague Vince Cable are said to have taken personal charge of the
campaign to try to turn it around; but for many on their side it seems too
little too late. "It's hopeless," said one senior peer. "We are having to come
up with [campaign ideas] ourselves." The Tories are also astonished that the yes
group has failed to use Ukip's well-known pro-AV leader Nigel Farage to spike
the Tories' anti-AV guns. Yet the greatest frustration is aimed at Clegg
himself, deeply unpopular following the tuition fees debacle, for refusing to
stay out of the yes campaign.

Defeats on AV and in the local elections threaten to blow wide open simmering
discontent over the direction of the party among its left-wing grass roots and
on the backbenches, and could spark a leadership contest. And if Clegg is
toppled, the coalition could be over.

Possible challengers such as Huhne and Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president, are
poised, while the Tories and Labour are on standby for an early general
election.

In an interview in today's Sunday Times Magazine, Ed Miliband, the Labour leader
who, unlike most of his MPs, supports AV, blames Clegg for the impending AV
loss, calling his association with the campaign "a massive hindrance". The view
was endorsed by a senior Lib Dem parliamentary figure, who said: "The last thing
we need in the last push is him [Clegg] getting involved."

Privately Lib Dem MPs are distraught. "I don't know what will happen next week
but, if we lose, Clegg will have managed to destroy the reputation of the party,
thanks to tuition fees, and to have lost us our once-in-a-generation opportunity
to get electoral reform, said one. "If we lose AV, that's it. It will be off the
agenda for decades. Labour won't want it and the only way we could get it is in
a coalition deal with Labour. The whole thing has been a disaster."

Unfortunately for Clegg, giving his party its first taste of government since
the wartime coalition and its first national referendum on electoral reform may
not be enough to save him. "Nothing will happen right away," said one Lib Dem
MP, "but people are starting to wonder who our next leader will be."

Predicted turnout 53% Scotland No 0.9m Yes 1.1m Yes-No: 54-46 Predicted turnout
37% North No 2.2m Yes 1.8m Yes-No: 45-55 Predicted turnout 38% Midlands No 1.5m
Yes 1.3m Yes-No: 45-55 Predicted turnout 30% London Yes 0.6m No 1m Yes-No: 39-61
Predicted turnout 62% Northern Ireland No 0.4m Yes 0.4m Yes-No: 50-50 Predicted
turnout 44% Wales No 0.5m Yes 0.5m Yes-No: 52-48 Predicted turnout 39% South No
3.2m Yes 2.5m Yes-No: 43-57 Predicted turnout 39% Overall No 9.8m Yes 8.2m
Yes-No: 45-55 Predicted votes cast Sources: YouGov poll of 2,280 adults on April
28-29. Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher, Elections Centre, University of
Plymouth No campaign on course for victory

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cameron's no is surging past Clegg's yes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

AV will boost UKIP;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 63

LENGTH: 125  words


I THINK we all should vote for the AV system, for the simple reason that if you
are a Conservative voter you will put your first, main vote for the Tories and
no vote for either Labour or Lib Dem. Conversely if you are a Labour voter you
will rate your candidate first but will not give a rating to either of the other
main parties.

This is no different to how things work now. However, having been given a chance
to vote for another candidate you would probably exercise that opportunity and
vote for someone such as the UKIP candidate.

I can see parties such as UKIP receiving a large number of votes under this
system and as most Express readers will be aware, UKIP will pull us out of the
EU or at least give us the promised referendum.

John Davey, Leeds

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Royal no-go for miffed Barosso;
Cross Bencher

BYLINE: TED JEORY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 37

LENGTH: 117  words


WHILE much fuss has been made about the Royal Wedding snub to Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown little attention has been paid to the great sulk of Brussels's top
bureaucrat Jose Manuel Barroso, the President of the European Commission.

He was also ignored by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, who also failed to
invite a single representative of the European Union to their great occasion.

Mr Barroso's spokesman insisted his boss was not upset but couldn't resist a
little dig, adding: "It seems that royal protocol today is not to invite the EU
institution leaders."

Just last week it emerged that the Queen believes the EU is too large.

Yet more evidence that the Royal Family are all secret UKIP supporters.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
