
                               1 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday

BRUSSELS 'HUMAN RIGHTS' DIKTAT COULD COST US 62.5BILLION A YEAR

LENGTH: 665 words


NOW THE EU ORDERS BRITAIN: LET MIGRANTS CLAIM BENEFITS AS SOON AS THEY ARRIVE IN
UK

BY DANIEL MARTIN WHITEHALL CORRESPONDENT

EUROPE has given Britain two months to scrap policies preventing benefit
tourists claiming billions of pounds in handouts.

Last night the European Commission said it would take the Government to court
unless it draws up plans to axe restrictions on claims by immigrants, saying
they are against the law and must be scrapped.

Brussels bureaucrats acted after receiving a complaint that the rules infringed
the human rights of EU citizens. It is feared the change could open the door to
tens of thousands of Eastern Europeans who are currently deterred from coming to
Britain Z costing taxpayers up to 62.5billion a year in extra welfare payments.

At present a habitual residency test is used to establish whether EU migrants
are eligible for benefits. To qualify for jobseekers' allowance, employment
support allowance, pension credit and income support, they must demonstrate they
have either worked here previously or have a good opportunity to get a job.

But the European Commission said this right to reside test indirectly
discriminates against nationals from other EU states by enforcing a set of
conditions that effectively 'tests' their right to state handouts.

Yesterday members announced they were considering taking the UK to the EU's
Court of Justice if it does not scrap the test.

And they gave the Government two months to inform them of the measures it takes
to enforce the rules.

Officials in the Department for Work and Pensions warn it would cost anything
from 6620million a year to 62.46billion if they have to scrap the test Z
seriously hampering plans to rein in public spending.

Employment minister Chris Grayling said: 'This is a very unwelcome development.

'It's obviously right that we support those who work and pay their taxes here,
but it's clearly completely unacceptable that we should open our doors to
benefit tourism.

'I'm really surprised the European Commission has chosen to go into battle on
this very sensitive issue, when there are clearly far more pressing problems to
solve in Europe.'

A source at the DWP added: 'This could open the doors of the benefits system to
anyone from the EU, even if they have no intention of working.

'That would be bad enough if we were in good economic times, but we are not in
good economic times.'

'We will fight this tooth and nail. This is a battle we will win.'

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'Once again we see
the EC telling us how to run our country and people are becoming sick and tired
of it.

'The UK is perfectly within its rights to require EU nationals to fulfill
certain conditions before taking advantage of our generous benefits system.

'If the EC gets its way then there will be a far greater burden on the British
taxpayer as more money will need to be found for the social security system.

'The "right to reside" test should stay. It is not discrimination, but simply a
system to ensure that benefits are only paid to those who are entitled to them.'

Stephen Booth, research director of think-tank Open Europe, said: 'Freedom of
movement within the EU has largely been positive for the UK but issues
surrounding benefits and social security are understandably very sensitive.

'For the freedom of movement within the EU to work, governments have to be able
to assure their citizens that welfare systems won't be abused.

'At a time when people are concerned about the pressures of immigration, the
Commission is playing a dangerous game by trying to overrule the UK on its
"right to reside" test.'

The European Commission first set out its stall last year when it wrote: 'EU law
leaves it to member states to determine the details of their social security
schemes and social assistance schemes, including the conditions on awarding
benefits.

'Having examined the "right to reside" test, it is not compatible with diferent
legal provisions of EU law.'

d.martin@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Suspected fraud of £1.6bn in EU budget

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 442 words


REPORTED levels of suspected fraud and other "irregularities" in the European
Union budget have risen by 25 per cent to £1.6 billion.

That represents a cost to British taxpayers of £233million.

Using reports from national authorities, EU officials calculated that fraudsters
stole at least £415million from Brussels projects in 2010, a figure that is
thought to be the tip of the iceberg.

The findings come amid a politically heated debate over a demand from the
European Commission to increase spending by 11 per cent in the next EU financing
period, 2014 to 2020, at a time of national austerity programmes.

Algirdas Semeta, the European commissioner responsible for tackling fraud,
claimed that the rise was due to new systems for reporting problems and that the
EU was getting better at detecting wrongdoing in the administration of funds
totalling more than £100billion a year.

"More irregularities are detected by member states so more misused money can be
returned to the EU budget," he said.

"We urge member states that report exceptionally low levels of suspected fraud
to explain how they control the spending of EU funds."

Theft of EU funds is highest in Italy, Poland, Latvia and Luxembourg, countries
that do not necessarily report irregularities for investigation, leaving fraud
undetected.

Countries with low levels of fraud, such as Britain and Spain, report more cases
of irregularities, usually badly filled out forms, indicating tighter controls
over EU funds.

But last year the European Court of Auditors estimated that nine tenths of the
2009 budget, spending that totalled £94billion, was "materially affected" by
irregularities, a much bigger figure than that reported to the EU authorities in
Brussels.

Active audits of EU-funded projects, rather than the commission's figures
relying on reports from officials administering the money, also uncovered
"quantifiable errors" affecting £9.5billion of spending, with "non-respect of
public procurement rules" calling into question contracts totalling £4billion.

Marta Andreasen, a former chief accountant at the commission and a member of the
European Parliament's budgetary control committee, said the difference between
audited and officially reported figures showed that the EU was still failing.

"This is the worst kind of spin from the commission. It seeks to dress up
failure in a mantle of success," said the Ukip MEP.

"Irregularities - or fraud to give it its proper title - is on the rise because
the commission still does not have adequate checks in place to prevent it. Not
all their money can be properly accounted for. It is the worst sort of deception
to try and pretend otherwise."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Clegg: EU is facing disastrous break-up TURKEY TO SHAPE BRITISH LAWS

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words


NICK Clegg admitted yesterday that the European Union is facing a "disaster" and
is in danger of breaking up.

The Deputy Prime Minister warned that the eurozone debt crisis could lead to the
"fragmentation" of the entire 27-nation union.

His remarks in a speech in Poland were the closest that the previously
eurofanatic Lib Dem leader has come to conceding that the EU is deeply flawed.

His warning came as the EU narrowly avoided another crisis when the German
Parliament backed the latest massive euro bail-out fund.

"Europe is clearly embarking on a period of change," Mr Clegg said.

Gruelling

"The danger we face is of change leading to fragmentation.

That we become divided, turning away from each other, both within the European
Union and with our partners who are not, or not yet, members of it. That would
be a disaster."

Above all, Mr Clegg said, the euro-zone states cannot be allowed to act against
the interests of the full 27 EU members.

"That is the surest way to rupture our union, undermining the huge strides that
have been taken to secure co-operation between us, allowing walls to spring up
even though we spent years knocking them down," he said.

His speech came a day after Tory Foreign Secretary William Hague likened the
euro currency system to a "burning building with no exits."

In Germany yesterday, Chancellor Angela Merkel survived a gruelling
Parliamentary battle over her support for the European Financial Stability Fund
of 440billion euros (£380 billion).

The Bundestag voted overwhelming to give the EU sweeping powers to make
precautionary loans, help recapitalise banks and buy bonds from debt-laden
countries like Greece. Despite a rebellion by 15 backbench eurosceptics, Merkel
won 315 votes from her own conservative-liberal coalition.

"The result of the vote is a strong signal for Europe. The broad majority in
parliament clearly shows that Germany is committed to the euro," said Hermann
Groehe, general secretary of her Christian Democratic party.

TURKISH TO SHAPE BRITISH LAWS

TURKISH officials are to have a hand in drafting EU laws governing Britain.

Civil servants from Ankara are being sent to work on policy matters alongside
Eurocrats in Brussels.

The development suggests that Turkey is moving closer to becoming a full member
of the European Union.

It was revealed in a statement released to the European Parliament setting out
details of the "milestone" agreement signed by the European Commission.

Turkey's EU minister Egemen Bagis proudly told MEPs: "Turks will have a role in
shaping EU's future politics and legislation." Last night there was outrage that
a non-EU country was being handed powers to create laws affecting the UK.

UK Independence Party MEP John Bufton said: "The European Commission makes
upwards of 75 percent of our laws. We now learn that some of them are to be
written by Turks despite them not having membership of the Union.

"It is outrageous that laws affecting everybody in Britain can be written by
Turkish officials who have absolutely no accountability to the public and won't
reflect the interests of the UK.

"The British government must demand that this utterly ridiculous plan be
halted."

Is it time to scrap the EU? Q

YES: 0901 030 8346

NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Deputy PM Nick Clegg warns over EU in Poland yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TURKEY TO SHAPE BRITISH LAWS

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 191  words


TURKISH officials are to have a hand in drafting EU laws governing Britain.

Civil servants from Ankara are being sent to work on policy matters alongside
Eurocrats in Brussels.

The development suggests that Turkey is moving closer to becoming a full member
of the European Union.

It was revealed in a statement released to the European Parliament setting out
details of the "milestone" agreement signed by the European Commission.

Turkey's EU minister Egemen Bagis proudly told MEPs: "Turks will have a role in
shaping EU's future politics and legislation." Last night there was outrage that
a non-EU country was being handed powers to create laws affecting the UK.

UK Independence Party MEP John Bufton said:

"The European Commission makes upwards of 75 percent of our laws. We now learn
that some of them are to be written by Turks despite them not having membership
of the Union.

"It is outrageous that laws affecting everybody in Britain can be written by
Turkish officials who have absolutely no accountability to the public and won't
reflect the interests of the UK.

"The British government must demand that this utterly ridiculous plan be
halted."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 30, 2011 Friday

UK faces GBP 2.5bn benef its bill rise for EU migrants

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 540  words


EUROCRATS have ordered Britain to pay up to GBP 2.5billion more a year in
handouts to people from across the EU, sparking fears of an explosion in
"benefit tourism".

The European Commission has accused the UK of break ng EU laws giving foreigners
access to our multi-billion-pound welfare system - and has set a two-month
deadline for Britain to open up access or face court action.

If the commission gets its way, people from the 26 other EU states will be able
to travel to Britain, claim they are now living here and immediately qualify for
a range of benefits without ever having paid into the system.

The Eurocrats' "reasoned opinion", issued yesterday, said: "The UK has two
months to inform the Commission of measures it has taken to bring its
legislation into line with EU law.

"Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the UK to the EU's Court of
Justice."

Estimates of the cost to British taxpayers of the extra benefits have ranged
between GBP 700million and GBP 2.5billion a year.

But critics savaged the latest intrusion into Britain's domestic affairs by
unelected bureaucrats.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said:

"Once again we see the European Commission telling us how to run our country and
people are becoming sick and tired of it. If the EC gets its way then there will
be a far greater burden on the British taxpayer as more money will need to be
found for the social security system.'' The controversy is over the "right to
reside" test which Britain applies to nationals from other EU countries living
in the UK before they can qualify for certain benefits.

Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith said last night: "These new
proposals pose a fundamental challenge to the UK's social contract.

"They could mean the British taxpayer paying out over GBP 2billion extra a year
in benefits to people who have no connection to our country and who have never
paid in a penny in tax. This threatens to break the vital link which should
exist between taxpayers and their own government." He said he believed it formed
part of a "wider movement" by the "unelected" European authorities to grab
power.

He added: "There is growing concern being heard from a number of member states
that the European Commission has overstepped the mark, basin g decisions more on
ideology than on the fundamental rules governing the European settlement."

Child benefit, child tax credit, pension credit, Jobseeker's Allowance and the
Employment and Support Allowance - replacing Incapacity Benefit - are granted
only to those who pass the test.

It is designed to ensure that only people in work or genuinely seeking work, and
therefore trying to contribute to the British economy, can get the payments.

But Brussels says the UK cannot put extra conditions on foreign citizens and our
rules amount to "indirect discrimination".

Employment Minister Chris Grayling said: "It's obviously right that we support
those who work and pay their taxes here, but it's clearly completely
unacceptable that we should open our doors to benefit tourism."

The Daily Express, which is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, has
highlighted how it has tried to put pressure on governments to pay benefits to
foreign nationals who never paid taxes in their adopted countries.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Farage: Britons are 'sick of it'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UK faces GBP 2.5bn benefits bill rise for EU migrants

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 538  words


EUROCRATS have ordered Britain to pay up to GBP 2.5billion more a year in
handouts to people from across the EU, sparking fears of an explosion in
"benefit tourism".

The European Commission has accused the UK of break ng EU laws giving foreigners
access to our multi-billion-pound welfare system - and has set a two-month
deadline for Britain to open up access or face court action.

If the commission gets its way, people from the 26 other EU states will be able
to travel to Britain, claim they are now living here and immediately qualify for
a range of benefits without ever having paid into the system.

The Eurocrats' "reasoned opinion", issued yesterday, said: "The UK has two
months to inform the Commission of measures it has taken to bring its
legislation into line with EU law.

"Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the UK to the EU's Court of
Justice."

Estimates of the cost to British taxpayers of the extra benefits have ranged
between GBP 700million and GBP 2.5billion a year.

But critics savaged the latest intrusion into Britain's domestic affairs by
unelected bureaucrats.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said:

"Once again we see the European Commission telling us how to run our country and
people are becoming sick and tired of it.

"If the EC gets its way then there will be a far greater burden on the British
taxpayer as more money will need to be found for the social security system.''
The controversy is over the "right to reside" test which Britain applies to
nationals from other EU countries living in the UK before they can qualify for
certain benefits.

Child benefit, child tax credit, pension credit, Jobseekers Allowance and the
Employment and Support Allowance - replacing Incapacity Benefit - are granted
only to those who pass the test.

It is designed to ensure that only people in work or genuinely seeking work, and
therefore trying to contribute to the British economy, can get the payments.

But Brussels says the Government cannot put extra conditions on citizens from
other countries and that our rules amount to "indirect discrimination".

Ministers yesterday vowed to fight the challenge which they fear will pave the
way for an explosion in "benefit tourism".

Employment Minister Chris Grayling said: "It's obviously right that we support
those who work and pay their taxes here, but it's clearly completely
unacceptable that we should open our doors to benefit tourism."

The Daily Express, which is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, told
earlier this year how the EC had sent the Government a "threatening" letter over
conditions it sets on benefit claims by people from other EU states.

We also highlighted growing concern at how the EU was trying to put pressure on
governments to pay benefits to foreign nationals who had never paid taxes in
their adopted countries.

Britain had led a group of 13 governments to protest to the Commission and
demand a proper debate.

Conservative MEP Julie Girling said: "British taxpayers will want to know why
their hard-earned money should now be directed straight into the pockets of any
EU national who chooses to come here and make a claim.

"This can only lead to a boom in benefits tourism. And with our generous system,
Britain will be destination of choice.''

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Farage: Britons are 'sick of it'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 30, 2011
                                 First Edition

Eurosceptic True Finn speaker to push fewer ties to EU;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 266 words


Tory Eurosceptics demanding that David Cameron adopt a more hostile attitude to
Brussels will be rallied by the leader of a Finnish anti-immigration party next
week.

Conservative Party activists are seizing on the crisis in the eurozone to step
up calls for the Prime Minister to loosen Britain's ties with the European
Union. The Eurosceptic message, in defiance of the leadership's position, will
be delivered at the Manchester conference which begins on Sunday.

The most controversial meetings are being organised by the Bruges Group, the
Eurosceptic think tank whose honorary president is Baroness Thatcher. They will
be addressed by Timo Soini, pictured, the leader of the True Finns, a
nationalist party which polled strongly in the general election.

The True Finns have described immigrants as "parasites on taxpayers' money" and
suggested ethnically Finnish women should study less and spend more time having
babies. Mr Soini, who also appeared at the UK Independence Party conference, has
been invited because of his party's fiercely Eurosceptic outlook. Robert Oulds,
director of the Bruges Group, said the invitation did not mean the think tank
endorsed all of the True Finns' views. He said: "Domestic matters in Finland are
a matter for the Finnish people."

A meeting organised by the Daily Express and the TaxPayers' Alliance will hear
demands from Douglas Carswell, MP for Clacton, to pull out of the EU entirely.

It will also be addressed by Priti Patel, MP for Witham, who supports a
referendum on EU membership. Organisers believe it will be one of the
best-attended fringes of the week.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 30, 2011 Friday 3:56 PM GMT

Immigration policy 'under threat'

BYLINE: By Wesley Johnson

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 825 words


The threat of legal action by the European Commission over Britain's
restrictions on benefits for migrants risks "blowing the Government's
immigration policy out of the water", campaigners said today.

The ruling that the UK's "right to reside" test on EU nationals   based in the
country is a breach of EU law is "an open invitation to   benefit tourism", the
campaign group Migration Watch UK said.

It comes as Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith warned the move
could leave taxpayers facing a £2 billion bill.

He told the Daily Telegraph the move threatened to break the "vital link"
which should exist between taxpayers and their own government.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of Migration Watch, added: "This ruling is an   open
invitation to benefit tourism.

"A three-child family would receive £29,000 in benefits.

"Clearly this risks blowing the Government's immigration policy out of   the
water. It must be vigorously opposed."

Brussels threatened it will take legal action unless the test - which
determines who qualifies for specific social security benefits - is dropped.

A Commission statement said the Government has two months to advise Brussels
what it is doing to bring domestic social security rules in line with EU
requirements.

"Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the UK to the EU's Court   of
Justice," it said in a statement.

Mr Duncan Smith is currently spearheading reforms to the country's benefits
system, bringing in the Universal Credit.

He said: "The EU settlement is supposed to protect the right of member   states
to make their own social security arrangements.

"But we are now seeing a rising tide of judgments from the European
institutions using other legal avenues to erode away these rights, and we
should be gravely concerned.

He added: "As if this week's decision was not bad enough, we are also   fighting
increasing demands for the UK to pay benefits to those who have   long since
moved abroad, and who may never have made more than a token   contribution to UK
society."

Yesterday, Employment Minister Chris Grayling said the ruling was a "a   very
unwelcome development".

"It's obviously right that we support those who work and pay their taxes   here,
but it's clearly completely unacceptable that we should open our doors   to
benefit tourism," he said.

"I'm really surprised that the European Commission has chosen to go into
battle on this very sensitive issue, when there are clearly far more   pressing
problems to solve in Europe."

Under UK rules a range of benefits - child benefit, child tax credit, state
pension credit, jobseekers' allowance and unemployment support allowance -   are
only given to those with a "right to reside".

That is automatic for UK nationals , but residents from other EU countries
have to pass a "right to reside" test.

The Commission said this means the UK is indirectly discriminating against
nationals of another member state, in breach of EU social security
co-ordination rules under which EU citizens have the same rights and
obligations as nationals of their host country.

It added that EU-level rules on who qualifies as a resident of a different
member state are strict enough to make sure that "only those persons   who have
actually moved their centre of interest to a member state (other   than their
own) are considered habitually resident there".

But Conservative MEP Julie Girling criticised the move as an interference by
"unelected   bureaucrats" in UK domestic policy.

Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said Britain "can't
afford to be exporting benefits to the rest of Europe".

He said: "It's already far too easy to take advantage of a welfare system that
is meant to be there to help the most vulnerable in society.

"Opening up benefits to those without proper ties to the UK will only increase
the cost of the system and the amount of money lost to fraud."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage added: "It is no longer the case that an elected
British Government can decide where and to whom British taxpayers' money is
sent or for that matter who may or may not live here.

"That decision is now in the hands of foreign politicians and unelected
foreign judges.

"The only way that is available to us to make decisions on behalf of British
people is to set laws at home. And to do that we need to govern ourselves."

Mr Grayling condemned the timing of the commission's action ahead of a meeting
of EU ministers in three weeks' time to discuss how the rules are being
implemented across the union.

"Just at the moment when we are starting a proper debate within the EU about
sorting out rules that are currently all over the place, they have sought to
launch a formal legal process which I think is ill-timed, it is ill-judged,
and is simply going to prompt controversy at a time of great sensitivity for
the European Union," he told BBC Radio 4's The World At One.

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 30, 2011 Friday 12:06 AM GMT

Finn who believes that migrants are 'parasites' to be guest at Tory conference;

The True Finns have suggested ethnically Finnish women should study less and
spend more time having babies

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 577 words


Tory Eurosceptics demanding that David Cameron adopts a more hostile attitude to
Brussels will be rallied by the leader of a Finnish anti-immigration party next
week.

Conservative Party activists are seizing on the crisis in the eurozone to step
up calls for the Prime Minister to loosen Britain's ties with the European
Union. The Eurosceptic message, in defiance of the leadership's position, will
be delivered at the Manchester conference which begins on Sunday.

The most controversial meetings are being organised by the Bruges Group, the
Eurosceptic think tank whose honorary president is Baroness Thatcher. They will
be addressed by Timo Soini, the leader of the True Finns, a nationalist party
which polled strongly in the general election. The True Finns have described
immigrants as "parasites on taxpayers' money" and suggested that ethnically
Finnish women should study less and spend more time having babies.

Mr Soini, who also appeared at the UK Independence Party conference, has been
invited because of his party's fiercely Eurosceptic outlook.

Robert Oulds, director of the Bruges Group, said the invitation did not mean the
think tank endorsed all of the True Finns' views. He said: "Domestic matters in
Finland are a matter for the Finnish people."

Mr Oulds added: "He has become an important European politician and represents
concern in the country about the way the EU has developed and the cost to the
Finnish taxpayer."

He said the Conservative grassroots were continually moving towards
Euroscepticism and added: "What we need from the leadership is a recognition of
that - it has traditionally been far behind where the membership of the party
is."

A meeting organised by the Daily Express and the TaxPayers' Alliance will hear
demands from Douglas Carswell, MP for Clacton, to pull out of the EU entirely.
It will also be addressed by Priti Patel, MP for Witham, who supports a
referendum on EU membership. Organisers believe it will be one of the
best-attended fringes of the week.

David Cameron, who has carved out a pragmatic approach to Brussels in his 16
months as Prime Minister, faces an acute dilemma as he tries to balance the Tory
grassroots' instinctive - and growing - Euroscepticism with the pro-European
outlook of his Liberal Democrat coalition partners.

The conflicting views were demonstrated yesterday by the Foreign Secretary
William Hague, who described the eurozone as "a burning building with no exits"
and echoed Tory right-wingers' calls for Britain to repatriate powers from the
EU.

By contrast, Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, struck a different note as
he called for further integration of the 17 eurozone countries.

"Europe is clearly embarking on a period of change," he said. "The danger we
face is of change leading to fragmentation, that we become divided, turning away
from each other, both within the European Union and with our partners who are
not, or not yet, members of it. That would be a disaster."

Meanwhile, the Government faces a clash with the European Commission over its
calls for a financial services tax as a way of making banks contribute to the
huge cost of eurozone bailouts. Mr Cameron will oppose the scheme at a
forthcoming meeting of European leaders - a message he is bound to reiterate at
next week's party conference. The Government believes the scheme could drive
business away from the City.

One Brussels-based UK official said: "It's a bonkers proposal that undermines
jobs and growth."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Finn who believes that migrants are 'parasites' to be guest at Tory conference

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 577 words


TORY EUROSCEPTICS demanding that David Cameron adopts a more hostile attitude to
Brussels will be rallied by the leader of a Finnish anti-immigration party next
week.

Conservative Party activists are seizing on the crisis in the eurozone to step
up calls for the Prime Minister to loosen Britain's ties with the European
Union. The Eurosceptic message, in defiance of the leadership's position, will
be delivered at the Manchester conference which begins on Sunday.

The most controversial meetings are being organised by the Bruges Group, the
Eurosceptic think tank whose honorary president is Baroness Thatcher. They will
be addressed by Timo Soini, the leader of the True Finns, a nationalist party
which polled strongly in the general election. The True Finns have described
immigrants as "parasites on taxpayers' money" and suggested that ethnically
Finnish women should study less and spend more time having babies.

Mr Soini, who also appeared at the UK Independence Party conference, has been
invited because of his party's fiercely Eurosceptic outlook.

Robert Oulds, director of the Bruges Group, said the invitation did not mean the
think tank endorsed all of the True Finns' views. He said: "Domestic matters in
Finland are a matter for the Finnish people."

Mr Oulds added: "He has become an important European politician and represents
concern in the country about the way the EU has developed and the cost to the
Finnish taxpayer."

He said the Conservative grassroots were continually moving towards
Euroscepticism and added: "What we need from the leadership is a recognition of
that - it has traditionally been far behind where the membership of the party
is."

A meeting organised by the Daily Express and the TaxPayers' Alliance will hear
demands from Douglas Carswell, MP for Clacton, to pull out of the EU entirely.
It will also be addressed by Priti Patel, MP for Witham, who supports a
referendum on EU membership. Organisers believe it will be one of the
best-attended fringes of the week.

David Cameron, who has carved out a pragmatic approach to Brussels in his 16
months as Prime Minister, faces an acute dilemma as he tries to balance the Tory
grassroots' instinctive - and growing - Euroscepticism with the pro-European
outlook of his Liberal Democrat coalition partners.

The conflicting views were demonstrated yesterday by the Foreign Secretary
William Hague, who described the eurozone as "a burning building with no exits"
and echoed Tory right-wingers' calls for Britain to repatriate powers from the
EU.

By contrast, Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, struck a different note as
he called for further integration of the 17 eurozone countries.

"Europe is clearly embarking on a period of change," he said. "The danger we
face is of change leading to fragmentation, that we become divided, turning away
from each other, both within the European Union and with our partners who are
not, or not yet, members of it. That would be a disaster."

Meanwhile, the Government faces a clash with the European Commission over its
calls for a financial services tax as a way of making banks contribute to the
huge cost of eurozone bailouts. Mr Cameron will oppose the scheme at a
forthcoming meeting of European leaders - a message he is bound to reiterate at
next week's party conference. The Government believes the scheme could drive
business away from the City.

One Brussels-based UK official said: "It's a bonkers proposal that undermines
jobs and growth."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EURO DOLE GRAB;
EC rules jobless migrants should get UK benefits

BYLINE: EMILY ASHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 204 words


MINISTERS went to war with EU chiefs last night over a decision to let jobless
Europeans claim benefits in Britain.

The handouts could cost an extra £2.5billion a year.

Employment Minister Chris Grayling vowed to oppose the European Commission's
ruling and warned it would lead to "benefit tourism".

UK rules say benefits such as child benefit, child tax credit and state pension
credit should go only to EU nationals who pass a "right to reside" test.

They must be in work or actively seeking a job. Brussels bureaucrats say the
test breaks EU law - and have given ministers two months to drop it.

The dispute may now go to the European Court of Justice.

Employment Minister Chris Grayling said: "This is a very unwelcome development.

"It's right to support those who work and pay their taxes here, but it's
completely unacceptable that we should open our doors to benefit tourism. I'm
really surprised that the European Commission has gone into battle on this very
sensitive issue when there are far more pressing problems to solve."

It follows a move to raid City profits to fund EU bailouts.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said people are "sick and tired" of EU
rulings.

e.ashton@the-sun.co.uk The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Battle ... Chris Grayling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 30, 2011 Friday 12:36 AM GMT

EU fraud and 'irregularities' hit £1.6 billion;
Reported levels of suspected fraud and other "irregularities" in the European
Union budget increased to £1.6 billion, up by 25 per cent from last year.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 430 words


The cost of the unaccounted for funding to British taxpayers is £233 million,
according to new figures.

Using reports from national authorities, EU officials have calculated that
fraudsters stole at least £415 million from Brussels projects in 2010, a figure
that is thought to be the tip of the iceberg.

The latest findings come amid a politically heated debate over a demand from the
European Commission to increase spending by 11 per cent in the next EU financing
period, 2014 to 2020, at a time of national austerity programmes.

Algirdas Semeta, the European commissioner responsible for tackling fraud,
claimed that the rise was due to new systems for reporting problems and that the
EU was getting better at detecting wrongdoing in the administration of funds
worth more than £100 billion a year.

"More irregularities are detected by member states so more misused money can be
returned to the EU budget," he said.

"We urge member states that report exceptionally low levels of suspected fraud
to explain how they control the spending of EU funds."

Theft of EU funds is highest in Italy, Poland, Latvia and Luxembourg, countries
that do not necessarily report irregularities for investigation leaving fraud
undetected.

Countries with low levels of fraud, such as Britain and Spain, report more cases
of irregularities, usually badly filled out forms, indicating tighter controls
over EU funds.

But last year the European Court of Auditors estimated that than nine tenths of
the 2009 budget, spending that totalled £94 billion, was "materially affected"
by irregularities, a much bigger figure than that reported to the EU authorities
in Brussels.

Active audits of EU funded projects, rather than the commission's figures
relying on reports from officials administering the money, also uncovered
"quantifiable errors" affecting £9.5 billion of spending, with "non-respect of
public procurement rules" calling into question contracts worth £4 billion.

Marta Andreasen, a former chief accountant at the commission and a member of the
European Parliament's budgetary control committee, said that the difference
between audited and officially reported figures showed the EU was still failing.

"This is the worst kind of spin from the commission. It seeks to dress up
failure in a mantle of success," said the Ukip MEP.

"Irregularities - or fraud to give it it's proper title - is on the rise because
the commission still does not have adequate checks in place to prevent it. Not
all their money can be properly accounted for. It is the worst sort of deception
to try and pretend otherwise."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 29, 2011 Thursday 6:44 PM GMT

UK benefits test 'breaches EU law'

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 621 words


A UK "right to reside" test on EU nationals based in the country is a breach
of EU law, the European Commission warned today.

Brussels threatened it will take legal action unless the test - which
determines who qualifies for specific social security benefits - is dropped.

A Commission statement said the Government has two months to advise Brussels
what it is doing to bring domestic social security rules in line with EU
requirements.

"Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the UK to the EU's Court   of
Justice," said a statement.

Conservative MEP Julie Girling slammed the move as an interference by "unelected
bureaucrats" in UK domestic policy.

Ms Girling, the Tory spokesman on employment and social affairs in the
European Parliament, went on: "British taxpayers will want to know why   their
hard-earned money should now be directed straight into the pockets of   any EU
national who chooses to come here and make a claim.

"This can only lead to a boom in benefits tourism. And with our generous
system, Britain will be destination of choice."

Under UK rules a range of benefits - child benefit, child tax credit, state
pension credit, jobseekers' allowance and unemployment support allowance -   are
only given to those with a "right to reside".

That is automatic for UK nationals , but residents from other EU countries
have to pass a "right to reside" test.

This, says the Commission, means the UK is indirectly discriminating against
nationals of another member state, in breach of EU social security
co-ordination rules under which EU citizens have the same rights and
obligations as nationals of their host country.

And, insists the Commission, EU-level rules on who qualifies as a resident of
a different member state are strict enough to make sure that "only   those
persons who have actually moved their centre of interest to a member   state
(other than their own) are considered habitually resident there".

The Commission cites the example of a worker who moved to the UK from Italy in
2009 after living in Italy for 20 years. She worked in the UK for an Italian
company for two years until April 2009, paying taxes and national insurance
contributions until she was made redundant.

And yet, said the Commission, her claim for income-based jobseekers' allowance
was refused on the grounds that she did not have a right to reside in the   UK.

"If the UK had applied EU social security co-ordination rules, those   citizens
confirmed as habitually resident in the UK would enjoy the same   protection as
habitual resident in other EU member states," the   Commission said.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Once again we see the
Commission telling us how to run our country and people are becoming sick   and
tired of it.

"The UK is perfectly within its rights to require EU nationals to fulfil
certain conditions before taking advantage of our generous benefits system.

"If the EC gets its way then there will be a far greater burden on the   British
taxpayer as more money will need to be found for the social security   system."

He added: "The 'right to reside' test should stay. It is not   discrimination,
but simply a system to ensure that benefits are only paid to   those who are
entitled to them."

Employment Minister Chris Grayling said: "This is a very unwelcome
development. It's obviously right that we support those who work and pay   their
taxes here, but it's clearly completely unacceptable that we should   open our
doors to benefit tourism.

"I'm really surprised that the European Commission has chosen to go into
battle on this very sensitive issue, when there are clearly far more   pressing
problems to solve in Europe."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 29, 2011 Thursday 4:21 PM GMT

UK benefits test 'breaches EU law'

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 545 words


A UK "right to reside" test on EU nationals based in the country is a breach
of EU law, the European Commission warned today.

Brussels threatened it will take legal action unless the test - which
determines who qualifies for specific social security benefits - is dropped.

A Commission statement said the Government has two months to advise Brussels
what it is doing to bring domestic social security rules in line with EU
requirements.

"Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the UK to the EU's Court of
Justice," said a statement.

Conservative MEP Julie Girling slammed the move as an interference by
"unelected bureaucrats" in UK domestic policy.

Ms Girling, the Tory spokesman on employment and social affairs in the
European Parliament, went on: "British taxpayers will want to know why their
hard-earned money should now be directed straight into the pockets of any EU
national who chooses to come here and make a claim.

"This can only lead to a boom in benefits tourism. And with our generous
system, Britain will be destination of choice."

Under UK rules a range of benefits - child benefit, child tax credit, state
pension credit, jobseekers' allowance and unemployment support allowance -   are
only given to those with a "right to reside".

That is automatic for UK nationals , but residents from other EU countries
have to pass a "right to reside" test.

This, says the Commission, means the UK is indirectly discriminating against
nationals of another member state, in breach of EU social security
co-ordination rules under which EU citizens have the same rights and
obligations as nationals of their host country.

And, insists the Commission, EU-level rules on who qualifies as a resident of
a different member state are strict enough to make sure that "only those
persons who have actually moved their centre of interest to a member state
(other than their own) are considered habitually resident there".

The Commission cites the example of a worker who moved to the UK from Italy in
2009 after living in Italy for 20 years. She worked in the UK for an Italian
company for two years until April 2009, paying taxes and national insurance
contributions until she was made redundant.

And yet, said the Commission, her claim for income-based jobseekers' allowance
was refused on the grounds that she did not have a right to reside in the UK.

"If the UK had applied EU social security co-ordination rules, those citizens
confirmed as habitually resident in the UK would enjoy the same protection   as
habitual resident in other EU member states," the Commission said.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Once again we see the
Commission telling us how to run our country and people are becoming sick   and
tired of it.

"The UK is perfectly within its rights to require EU nationals to fulfil
certain conditions before taking advantage of our generous benefits system.

"If the EC gets its way then there will be a far greater burden on the British
taxpayer as more money will need to be found for the social security system."

He added: "The 'right to reside' test should stay. It is not discrimination,
but simply a system to ensure that benefits are only paid to those who are
entitled to them."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 28, 2011 Wednesday 5:34 PM GMT

Very difficult to leave euro, says Hague

BYLINE: By James Tapsfield

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 561 words


William Hague has branded the eurozone a "burning building with no exits" amid
frantic efforts to control the sovereign debt crisis.

The Foreign Secretary said he believed Germans would have to subsidise weaker
members such as Greece for "the rest of their lifetimes".

Delivering the starkest comments so far by a senior British minister, Mr Hague
also claimed the single currency was set to become an "historical   monument to
collective folly".

The intervention emerged as the president of the European Commission, Jose
Manuel Barroso, warned that the EU faced its "greatest challenge".

However, Mr Barroso insisted Greece would remain in the eurozone despite fears
that it will default on huge debts.

Interviewed for The Spectator magazine, Mr Hague referred to a remark he made
as Tory leader in 1998 while running a campaign to 'Keep the Pound'.

"I described the euro as a burning building with no exits and so it has   proved
for some of the countries in it. But there are no exits," he   said.

He went on: "You can have burning buildings where they manage to put out   the
fire or control it or get more room or something.

"I might take the analogy too far but the euro wasn't built with exits so   it
is very difficult to leave it."

Mr Hague warned that eurozone countries had to take difficult choices, without
exchange rate flexibility to ease the pain.

He suggested that "Greeks, or Italians or Portuguese have to accept some   very
big changes in what happens in their country, even bigger than if they   weren't
in the euro, and Germans will have to accept that they are going to   subsidise
those countries for a long time to come really, for the rest of   their
lifetimes".

The Cabinet minister said the continent was now having to deal with the
fallout from the creation of the euro.

"It was folly to create this system, it will be written about for   centuries as
a kind of historical monument to collective folly. But it's   there and we have
to deal with it," he said.

Mr Hague also reiterated his desire for Britain to take back powers from
Europe - a key demand of many Conservative right-wingers.

"The EU does have too much power," he said. "I haven't changed   that view since
being in government, in fact if anything, being in   government has reinforced
that view. There should be powers that are   returned to this country.

"I think we should be clear in the Conservative party that that is where   we
are heading."

He appeared to play down the prospect of making progress on the issue while
the Tories were in government with the pro-Europe Liberal Democrats.

The "answer to any hypothetical question about what the coalition would   do is:
we'll have to discuss it in coalition", he said.

Europe was likely to be "one of the dividing lines between the coalition
parties, put forward at the next election", Mr Hague added.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "William Hague thinks the euro is awful, he
thinks the EU is awful, but he wants the people of Britain to wait for four
years before he will do anything about it. This he blames on the Lib Dems.

"If the euro is a burning house, we are in the conservatory. He won't even
make a move towards the exit, despite the flames licking around the   country's
legs.

"At the moment it is clear that the singed trousers in this relationship are
worn by Nick Clegg."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

CAMERON AIDE: LEAVING EUROPE IS AN 'ILLUSION'

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 494 words


A CLOSE aide of David Cameron has warned that those who want to see Britain
withdraw from the EU are 'living in a world of illusion'.

Tory MP Desmond Swayne risked angering Eurosceptics within his party by ruling
out the prospect of Britain leaving the EU in a letter to one of his
constituents.

Mr Swayne, who is Mr Cameron's private parliamentary secretary, went on to blame
the influence of Nick Clegg's Liberal Democrats in the Coalition.

In an exchange of emails with local businessman David Pitman, the New Forest
West MP wrote how he understood the 'frustration' of Eurosceptics after spending
18 years campaigning to leave the EU.

However, he denied that Mr Cameron had broken his promise to hold a referendum
on Britain's withdrawal, describing it as a 'figment' of Mr Pitman's
imagination.

Mr Swayne wrote: 'An undelivered promise of a vote on the EU is, however, a
figment of your imagination. What was promised was a vote on the Lisbon Treaty
if that treaty remained unratified when a Conservative government was elected.

'The Treaty was ratified in December 2009 and that promise was therefore
withdrawn well before the election. I cannot believe that anyone could have
missed the front-page treatment this was given at the time.

'This Coalition includes the most pro-European of all political parties. Nick
Clegg began as an MEP, his enthusiasm is undiminished.

'Anyone who believes that this government can expedite our escape from the EU is
living in a world of illusion. Sorry. DS.'

Mr Swayne's extraordinary email prompted a furious response from anti-EU
campaigners.

Recent polls have found that an overwhelming majority of voters want Britain to
withdraw from the European Union Z with support draining away thanks to the
economic chaos surrounding the single currency. One poll for YouGov found that
the public would vote by 50 to 33 per cent to abandon Brussels if a referendum
were held tomorrow, a huge lead of 17 points.

The poll found that the euro crisis has turned conventional political wisdom on
its head and will fuel demands for David Cameron to renegotiate Britain's
relationship with Brussels.

More than 30,000 people have now signed an online Government petition calling
for a referendum on Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

Nigel Farage, UKIP leader, said: 'There are thousands of people who voted for
Desmond Swayne in the New Forest believing that to do so was the best chance of
a referendum on the EU. They remembered Cameron's cast-iron promise to hold one
and foolishly believed that the Conservatives wanted to deliver.

'Now Cameron's own private secretary describes those thousands as living in a
"world of illusion".

'One might admire his new-found honesty and I agree with him. It is truth that
trust in his Government's ability or desire to change our relationship with
Europe is delusional. It always was and I think it always will be.'

Mr Pitman, who is a member of UKIP, said he was 'staggered' by the nature of Mr
Swayne's response.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

It's an illusion to think we can escape EU, says Cameron aide

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 551 words


VOTERS who expect the Coalition to bring about Britain's departure from the
European Union are "living in a world of illusion", an aide to David Cameron has
said.

Desmond Swayne, the Prime Minister's parliamentary private secretary, said Nick
Clegg and the Liberal Democrats were preventing the Tories distancing Britain
from the EU project.

Mr Swayne, MP for the New Forest, made the comment in an email to a constituent
who asked for the Government to do more to reduce the influence of the EU in the
economy and society.

The MP said he sympathised with the views of his constituent, David Pitman, but
insisted that the Government's options were limited by the Coalition deal with
the Lib Dems.

"This coalition includes the most pro-European of all political parties, Nick
Clegg began as an MEP, his enthusiasm is undiminished," wrote Mr Swayne. "Anyone
who believes that this government can expedite our escape from the EU is living
in a world of illusion. Sorry."

The email is the latest sign of highlevel frustration among Conservatives about
the EU, particularly over European regulations that critics say are holding back
businesses.

The Daily Telegraph disclosed earlier this month that Mr Cameron's advisers had
taken independent legal advice about the viability of Britain refusing to
implement controversial EU directives giving temporary workers more rights.

Mr Pitman is an active member of the UK Independence Party, which seeks
withdrawal from the EU. In his email, Mr Swayne said he sympathised with Mr
Pitman's criticisms of the EU, describing himself as "a man with a clear
conscience - having at 18 campaigned and voted in 1975 to leave the Common
Market".

He added: "I understand your frustration."

A growing number of Conservative MPs believe that the current financial crisis
in the EU gives Britain a new opportunity to negotiate a new, looser
relationship with other Union members.

But Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said Mr Swayne's email proved those hopes
were false.

"There are thousands of people who voted for Desmond Swayne in the New Forest
believing that to do so was the best chance of a referendum on the EU," he said.

"They remembered Cameron's castiron promise to hold one and foolishly believed
that the Conservatives wanted to deliver.

"Now Cameron's own private secretary describes those thousands as living in a
'world of illusion'.

"One might admire his new-found honesty and I agree with him. It is true that
trust in his government's ability or desire to change our relationship with
Europe is delusional. It always was and I think it always will be."

Earlier this month, Mark Pritchard, the secretary of the 1922 Committee of
Conservative MPs, said Mr Cameron must call a referendum on Europe or face a
rebellion from his own party and a backlash from voters. He said the EU was an
"occupying force" that was eroding British sovereignty and that the
"unquestioning support" of backbenchers was no longer guaranteed.

He urged the Government to hold a referendum next year on whether Britain should
have a "trade only" relationship with the EU, rather than the political union
that has evolved "by stealth".

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said recently that Britain might prosper
by loosening its ties with Europe.

"People can remember Cameron's promise to hold an EU referendum

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Jail van driven 96 miles to save prisoner 60-yard walk to court

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words


A PRISON van was sent on a 200-mile round-trip to ferry a suspect just 60 yards
from a police station to court - because walking would have breached his human
rights.

Crown Court judge Tom Corrie blasted the appalling waste of taxpayers' cash to
comply with the controversial Human Rights Act, now widely blamed for making a
mockery of our criminal justice system.

He was backed by politicians and public spending campaigners, who condemned
human rights law for protecting terrorists, killers and rapists while costing
cash-strapped taxpayers millions of pounds.

In the latest farce, custody chiefs ordered a prison van from 96 miles away to
collect defendant Oliver Thomas, 27, from Banbury Police Station to take him to
the magistrates court just 30 seconds away. The stunned judge was told that the
prisoner should not have to go through the indignity of being shamed in public
by walking.

It meant a fortified van, complete with two guards, had to travel last Monday
from Southampton, Hampshire to Banbury, Oxfordshire. Judge Corrie was told that
to have taken the prisoner - accused of public order offences - on foot would
have "infringed his human rights".

As Oxford Crown Court Judge Corrie questioned the waste of public money, even
Thomas, from Banbury, ridiculed the situation. He said: "It was absolutely
ridiculous.

Why they couldn't just walk me over to the court I really don't know. I was
arrested on Friday night and held in a cell all weekend and told I'd be in court
first thing Monday.

"On the morning I was told there was a delay with the van. At first I wasn't too
bothered but we were waiting for hours. Then they told me the van was coming
from Southampton.

I thought they were joking.

"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to work it out - order a van from
Southampton, which is miles away, or take me across the road in less than a
minute. It's quite unbelievably really. It's a total waste of taxpayer's money."
The estimated cost of the van from Southampton to Banbury and back was put at
£1,000. A taxi for the same two-hour journey, one way, costs around £275. The
debacle came only days before Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg sparked a public
outcry by telling the Lib Dem party conference the Human Rights Act "is here to
stay".

Backbencher Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering who has called for the
controversial legislation to be scrapped, last night said: "This case is
absolutely barmy. I'd like to hear from Nick Clegg about how he justifies this
waste of taxpayers' money and the absurd abuse of commonsense that the Human
Rights Act amounts to."

27n05map UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This case shows how
the Human Rights Act, or the fear of it, has twisted commonsense into an origami
elephant."

Defence barrister Claire Fraser said she was told security firm GEOamey, paid
£90million a year to transport prisoners, had to send a van to drive her client
to court.

Judge Corrie questioned: "I'm not quite sure why he couldn't be walked across
the street."

Referring to GEOamey, who took over the Ministry of Justice contract in August,
Judge Corrie said: "The new contractor is still settling in to the revised and
cheaper contract, which, it was told to us, will be more efficient than the
previous one.

"Time will tell. The evidence is building." But GEOamey's John Bates, whose HQ
is only a few miles away in Oxford, defended the decision to send the van.

He said: "Police wouldn't expect us to turn up and handcuff a prisoner and take
him down the street to the court.

"It strays into the area of human rights. They have a right to have their
identity protected."

OPINION: PAGE 12

'The Human Rights Act has twisted commonsense into an origami elephant'

Southampton Southampton Banbury Banbury WHAT A WASTE OF MONEY Van was driven 96
miles from Southampton to take prisoner 60 yds Banbury Southampton 27n05arrows

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Oliver Thomas, inset, was in custody at Banbury Police Station, above
left, and moved by a special GEOamey van, driven from 96 miles away, to the
magistrates court, above right, at a cost of £1,000
Pictures: INS/WALES NEWS/SOLENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Jail van driven 96 miles to save prisoner 60-yard walk to court

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 600  words


A PRISON van was sent on a 200mile round-trip to ferry a suspect just 60 yards
from a police station to court - because walking would have breached his human
rights.

Crown Court judge Tom Corrie blasted the appalling waste of taxpayers' cash to
comply with the controversial Human Rights Act, now widely blamed for making a
mockery of our criminal justice system.

He was backed by politicians and public spending campaigners, who condemned
human rights law for protecting terrorists, killers and rapists while costing
cash-strapped taxpayers millions of pounds.

In the latest farce, custody chiefs ordered a prison van from 96 miles away to
collect defendant Oliver Thomas, 27, from Banbury Police Station to take him to
the magistrates court just 30 seconds away.

The stunned judge was told that the prisoner should not have to go through the
indignity of being shamed in public by walking.

It meant a fortified van, complete with two guards, had to travel last Monday
from Southampton, Hampshire to Banbury, Oxfordshire.

Judge Corrie was told that to have taken the prisoner - accused of public order
offences - on foot would have "infringed his human rights".

As Oxford Crown Court Judge Corrie questioned the waste of public money, even
Thomas, from Banbury, ridiculed the situation.

He said: "It was absolutely ridiculous. Why they couldn't just walk me over to
the court I really don't know.

I was arrested on Friday night and held in a cell all weekend and told I'd be in
court first thing Monday.

"On the morning I was told there was a delay with the van. At first I wasn't too
bothered but we were waiting for hours. Then they told me the van was coming
from Southampton. I thought they were joking.

"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to work it out - order a van from
Southampton, which is miles away, or take me across the road in less than a
minute. It's quite unbelievably really. It's a total waste of taxpayer's money."
The estimated cost of the van from Southampton to Banbury and back was put at
GBP 1,000.

A taxi for the same two-hour journey, one way, costs around GBP 275.

The debacle came only days before Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg sparked a
public outcry by telling the Lib Dem party conference the Human Rights Act "is
here to stay".

Backbencher Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering who has called for the
controversial legislation to be scrapped, last night said:

"This case is absolutely barmy. I'd like to hear from Nick Clegg about how he
justifies this waste of taxpayers' money and the absurd abuse of commonsense
that the Human Rights Act amounts to."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This case shows how the Human
Rights Act, or the fear of it, has twisted commonsense into an origami
elephant."

Defence barrister Claire Fraser said she was told security firm GEOamey, paid
GBP 90million a year to transport prisoners, had to send a van to drive her
client to court.

Judge Corrie questioned: "I'm not quite sure why he couldn't be walked across
the street."

Referring to GEOamey, who took over the Ministry of Justice contract in August,
Judge Corrie said: "The new contractor is still settling in to the revised and
cheaper contract, which, it was told to us, will be more efficient than the
previous one.

"Time will tell. The evidence is building." But GEOamey's John Bates, whose HQ
is only a few miles away in Oxford, defended the decision to send the van.

He said: "Police wouldn't expect us to turn up and handcuff a prisoner and take
him down the street to the court.

"It strays into the area of human rights. They have a right to have their
identity protected."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Oliver Thomas, inset, was in custody at Banbury Police Station, above
left, and moved by a special GEOamey van, driven from 96 miles away, to the
magistrates court, above right, at a cost of GBP 1,000

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Jail van is driven 96 miles to save prisoner 60-yard walk into court

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 24

LENGTH: 460  words


A PRISON van was sent on a 200-mile round trip to take a suspect 60 yards from a
police station to court - because walking would have breached his human rights.

Crown Court judge Tom Corrie blasted the waste of taxpayers' cash to comply with
the controversial Human Rights Act, now blamed for making a mockery of our
criminal justice system.

He was backed by politicians and public spending campaigners.

In the latest farce, custody chiefs ordered a prison van from 96 miles away to
collect defendant Oliver Thomas, 27, from Banbury Police Station to take him to
the magistrates court 30 seconds away.

The stunned judge was told the prisoner should not have to go through the
indignity of being shamed in public by walking.

It meant a fortified van, with two guards, had to travel from Southampton,
Hampshire to Banbury, Oxfordshire.

Judge Corrie was told at Oxford Crown Court that to have taken the prisoner -
accused of public order offences - to court on foot would have "infringed his
human rights".

Even Thomas, who is from Banbury, ridiculed the situation.

He said: "It was ridiculous. Why they couldn't just walk me to the court I don't
know.

"We waited for hours and they told me the van was coming from Southampton. I
thought they were joking.

"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to work it out. Order a van from Southampton
or take me across the road in less than a minute. It's a total waste of
taxpayer's money." The estimated cost of the trip was GBP 1,000.

The debacle came only days after Deputy Prime Minister Nick Cleg sparked a
public outcry by telling the LibDem party conference the Human Rights Act "is
here to stay".

Backbencher Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, who has called for the
legislation to be scrapped, said:

"I'd like to hear Nick Clegg justify this waste of taxpayers' money and the
absurd abuse of common sense that the Human Rights Act amounts to."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This shows how the Human Rights
Act, or fear of it, has twisted common sense into an origami elephant."

In court, defence barrister Claire Fraser said she was told security firm
GEOamey, who are paid GBP 90million a year to transport prisoners, had to send a
van to drive her client to court.

Referring to GEOamey, who took over the Ministry of Justice contract in August,
Judge Corrie said:

"The new contractor is still settling in to the revised and cheaper contract,
which, it was told to us, will be more efficient than the previous one.

"Time will tell. The evidence is building."

GEOamey's John Bates defended the decision over the van.

He said: "Police wouldn't expect us to handcuff a prisoner and take him down the
street to the court.

"It strays into the area of human rights.

"They have a right to have their identity protected."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Oliver Thomas, below, was in custody at Banbury Police Station, above,
and a van was driven 96 miles to take him to a court just along the street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 27, 2011 Tuesday 5:09 PM GMT

Defence giant BAE to axe thousands of jobs

BYLINE: By Alan Jones

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2401 words


Defence giant BAE Systems confirmed today that it is cutting almost 3,000 jobs
at sites across the country, mainly in its military aircraft division.

The firm ended days of speculation by giving details of a huge redundancy
programme, saying it needed to maintain competitiveness.

The biggest job cuts will be at sites in Warton and Samlesbury in Lancashire
and at Brough in East Yorkshire, although jobs will also be lost at the   firm's
head office in Hampshire.

Ian King, chief executive of BAE Systems, said: "Our customers are facing   huge
pressures on their defence budgets and affordability has become an   increasing
priority. Our business needs to rise to this challenge to   maintain its
competitiveness and ensure its long-term future."

BAE said the potential job losses were:

899 at Brough, East Riding of Yorkshire

51 at Christchurch, Dorset

78 at Farnborough, Hampshire

74 at Filton, Bristol

81 at Frimley, Surrey

26 at Great Baddow, Essex

35 at Hillend, Fife

21 at Loughborough, Leicestershire

7 at Malvern, Worcestershire

19 at New Malden, Surrey

565 at Samlesbury, Lancashire

843 at Warton and Preston, Lancashire

132 at Yeovil, Somerset

102 at other UK locations including Royal Air Force bases

9 in overseas locations.

BAE announced that it had started a consultation about ending manufacturing at
the Brough site, which currently employs 1,300 workers.

The firm said most of the job cuts would be in its military aircraft division,
which is being affected by a slowdown in orders for the Eurofighter Typhoon
combat jet.

Mr King said: "Some of our major programmes have seen significant   changes. The
four partner nations in the Typhoon programme have agreed to   slow production
rates to help ease their budget pressures.

"Whilst this will help extend our production schedule and ensure the
production line stays open until we receive anticipated export contracts, it
does reduce the workload at a number of our sites.

"Pressure on the US defence budget and top-level programme changes mean   the
anticipated increase in F-35 production rates will be slower than   originally
planned, again impacting on our expected workload.

"To ensure we remain competitive, both in the UK and internationally, we   need
to reduce the overall costs of our businesses in line with our reduced
workload.

"The proposals announced today aim to put the business into the right   shape to
address the challenges we face now and in the future and ensure we   are in the
best possible position to win future business.

"This transformation process is not going to be easy. We understand that   this
is a time of uncertainty for our employees and we are committed to   working
with them and their representatives to explore ways of mitigating   the
potential job losses."

Unite union national officer Ian Waddell said: "After days of speculation   and
rumours, our worst fears have been confirmed.

"It's a dark day for thousands of skilled men and women across the   country and
it is a dark day for British manufacturing.

"BAE Systems have dealt a hammer blow to the UK defence industry and   Unite is
determined to fight the cuts.

"Last year the UK defence industry generated over £9 billion of revenue   from
exports alone. Britain cannot afford to risk the future of this highly   skilled
industry.

"The Government's defence review has led to deep cuts in defence spending   and
significant job losses, meaning it will be difficult to redeploy the   jobs now
at risk.

"We will be doing everything we can to mitigate the impact of these cuts.

"The Government cannot sit on its hands and allow these highly skilled   jobs to
disappear. We expect the MoD to intervene urgently to protect these   jobs,
otherwise the UK's defence industry risks losing the critical mass it   needs to
maintain its reputation as a world leader in defence manufacturing.

"Once again George Osborne's proclamation that he would create the right
conditions to drive the economy forward through British manufacturing is
ringing hollow.

"The makers are not marching, they are in retreat.

"This Government must act urgently to get British manufacturing on track."

In Brough, workers could be seen walking to a mass meeting where they were due
to be addressed by a senior manager.

They will then be allowed to go home for the day and the site will reopen
tomorrow.

Local GMB officer Dave Oglesby said workers at the plant had been left
"absolutely   shocked" by the news.

Speaking outside the sprawling facility, he said: "We were given firm
assurances early this year that this plant would stay open - this plant was
the most viable plant to deliver the Hawk contract and we have had a   complete
turnaround.

"It looks, to all intents and purposes, that this will no longer be a
manufacturing facility."

Mr Oglesby said the plant had been in existence for 100 years, often with
three generations of the same family working there.

He said there were 70 to 80 apprentices working at Brough.

"Young people have been robbed of their future. Nine hundred families   have
been robbed of their livelihoods," he added.

The potential job losses at Brough, Samlesbury, Preston and Warton, affecting
both the military aircraft division and the head office, are linked to the
changes in Typhoon and F-35 production, said BAE, while those at   Christchurch,
Frimley, Hillend, Malvern, New Malden and Yeovil are   associated with reducing
workload on information programmes.

BAE said the potential job losses at Farnborough have been driven by a
reduction in Harrier and Tornado work, and job cuts at Royal Air Force bases
and overseas by changes to the support requirements for Harrier and Tornado.

All the cuts have been driven by the need to remain competitive, said the
company, which employs around 40,000 workers in the UK.

TUC general secretary Brendan Barber told the Labour Party conference in
Liverpool that the job losses were "yet another devastating body blow   to our
manufacturing base".

GMB general secretary Paul Kenny said: "These massive job losses show how   far
off track the recovery from the international recession now is.

"The economic prospects are bleak for families and communities affected   by
these job losses. They add to a jobless total already too high.

"Business Secretary Vince Cable has to intervene to help create new   businesses
in places like Brough and Lancashire to prevent the high skills   of these
workers being lost to the economy.

"The mixed economy of the public and private sectors working together to
create new jobs is essential in this grim situation."

Mr Cable said: "This news from BAE Systems will be a serious knock to the
individuals and communities affected.

"My officials and the BIS (Department for Business, Innovation and   Skills)
local teams are already in touch with the company, local authorities   and local
enterprise partnerships to make sure that everything possible is   done to help
those affected at Brough, Warton, Samlesbury and other sites.

"Last year I set up the Skills and Jobs Retention Group to help skilled
workers find new jobs in UK manufacturing.

"The group will ensure that the shortage of engineers in UK manufacturing   is
not exacerbated by the loss of talented people from companies like BAE
Systems.

"The group has set up a new national web-based system to make it easier   for
companies to recruit skilled workers who have been made redundant and   the
JobCentre Plus Rapid Response Service is also on hand to provide a range   of
support measures."

Godfrey Bloom, UKIP MEP for Yorkshire and the party's defence spokesman, said:
"These   job losses are an absolute tragedy, not just for my constituents in
Brough,   but across the UK.

"BAE cites the need to remain competitive as a reason behind these
redundancies and of course this is a necessity for any modern-day business,
but there are other ways of remaining competitive and reducing costs aside
from making people unemployed.

"The UK has increasingly become a restrictive and costly place to operate   in
due to the burden of business regulation generated here and from   Brussels.

"If the Government wants to stop further redundancies from companies like   BAE,
it should actively create a less complex and cheaper climate for   businesses to
operate in.

"The Government says it is on the side of enterprise, but actions speak   louder
than words."

Workers began leaving the Brough plant in their cars at 10.20am. Few were
prepared to discuss the announcement.

One worker, maintenance technician Edward Potter, said he was "off to go   home
to look for a job".

The 29-year-old, who has worked at the plant for 14 years, added: "It is   the
end of manufacturing at Brough. We were all resigned to it from what we   were
fed by the media. There's not really much else to say.

"There's not been a lot of work for the last two years anyway. We have   been
hanging on for the Hawk contract but it has not materialised."

He said the company could have been more "professional" in the way   the
announcement was made.

"The vast majority will be out of work at this plant. It is not good for   the
local area," he added.

Gary Waddingham, 50, who has worked at the plant for 24 years, said: "I
haven't really thought about getting a new job. We will manage.

"My family has been able to save up and pay off the mortgage, but other
families will lose their homes.

"I was expecting it sometime in the future but not now. I thought we   would get
another order but it hasn't happened."

A joint statement issued by East Riding of Yorkshire Council and Hull City
Council said the news was "devastating" for the local economy.

The councils said they would do everything they could to help those affected
in the area to find work and mitigate the impact of the job losses on the
wider community.

The statement read: "East Riding of Yorkshire Council and Hull City   Council
are very disappointed at this grave news of so many job losses at   BAE Systems
in Brough.

"This is devastating news for the local economy.

"The councils will work with the company and its partners, such as   Jobcentre
Plus, to do everything they can to help those affected, including   providing
practical support in finding other work and taking up re-skilling
opportunities.

"In addition, the Government is indicating that it will be working with   East
Riding of Yorkshire and Hull City Councils to support affected workers   and on
local economic development opportunities in the area.

"As well as help and support to BAE staff, we must also ensure that   everything
is done to mitigate the wider impact on local jobs, businesses,   and
communities."

Staff union convener Ian Gent said workers were left "absolutely   heartbroken
and tearful" following today's meeting in Brough.

"In all honesty, the company have been an absolute disgrace, an absolute
disgrace the way they have treated the people on this site," he said.

"For a company that purports to hold very high standards in its ethical
behaviour, it needs to look at itself in the mirror and ask itself some
serious questions about the way it treats its staff.

"We have co-operated with this company time after time to do the very   best for
the people on this site. Well, this time round they will be seeing   another
side to us. We have to fight them on keeping work on this site.

"We have yet to hear any tangible reason why this cannot be kept here.   They
have given us no good business reason yet as to why that should be   moved from
this site."

He said he agreed with sentiments shouted out by the workers as they left the
plant who claimed they had been "sold down the river".

"Absolutely sold down the river. We went through a redundancy which only
finished at the end of July based on the capability to build Hawk. They made
people compulsorily redundant from this site...

"Now we are in September and they are telling us that's not the case any   more.
What has changed in those few weeks?"

He suggested the company had been "cooking up this scenario behind our   backs".

He said it was "disingenuous" at best "and at worst I would   even suggest they
have lied to us".

David Davis, Conservative MP for Haltemprice and Howden, and Alan Johnson,
Labour MP for Hull West and Hessle, spoke outside the factory in Brough   after
meeting bosses.

The politicians said the announcement this morning was the beginning of a
statutory 90-day consultation period in which they would go through the
details, challenge the decision and put forward any counter proposals.

Mr Davis said they had to do everything possible to preserve production at
Brough while at the same time looking to help 900 people in the area to find
work elsewhere.

He added that this was the third time he had heard about job losses at the
plant through the media, rather than from the company and said the managers
should be "ashamed".

Mr Johnson agreed the way the workers had been treated was "appalling"   and
said the manager who briefed them had apologised for the way the news   had been
handled.

"Three or four days of news coverage before anyone sits down and tells   them
the truth," he said.

Mr Johnson said it was a "terrible day" and described the news as "devastating".

He said the factory, which opened in 1915, had a "long history" and   described
it as a "productive plant with wonderful skills that may well   be needed in the
future".

The plant in Brough was a "little oasis of well-paid, high-value jobs",   he
added.

Mr Davis described the workforce as "outstanding" and said they had   been
"brilliant" on each of the three occasions the factory had   been faced with job
losses.

"They're worth fighting for," he said. "The Government will be   putting every
ounce of effort into protecting as many jobs as possible."

Brough worker Leigh Johnson, 42, a father of one, said: "It has been a big
shock. I've got a son in the middle of his A-levels. I can't move but I will
have to find a job. I've got a mortgage, I'm the breadwinner in the house   and
I have to do something. I've been there 26 years, I started as an   apprentice."

Mr Johnson, who worked as a senior manufacturing engineer, added: "There are
husband and wife teams in there, there are plenty of people whose wives work
at the site. They will be looking for two jobs, it's not the best situation   to
be in."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FISH AND TWITS;
7 MEPs' seafood hol in Seychelles EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BRIAN FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 191 words


SHAMELESS MEPs are to escape the financial crisis engulfing Europe on a junket
to the Seychelles costing taxpayers more than £100,000.

Seven Euro MPs have signed up for the five-day fisheries mission - and will be
joined by three administrators, two secretariat officials and TEN interpreters.

Three MEPs down to go are from crisis-torn Spain, and there are one each from
teetering Italy and debt-riddled Ireland. The others are from France and
Germany.

The estimated £104,000 cost includes £5,499 EACH to send every Euro MP and
bureaucrat business class to the isle of Mahe.

MEPs are not obliged to attend the series of meetings lined up with locals.

And they can bring spouses to enjoy the free stay at luxurious Berjaya Beau
Vallon Bay resort and casino.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night blasted next month's trip by his fellow Euro
MPs. He said: "It beggars belief that a bankrupted and bailed out EU thinks this
is a good way of spending money which they clearly can't afford."

A European Parliament spokesman said the trip was to discuss a fisheries deal,
check sanitary arrangements for tuna imports and discuss piracy risks.

b.flynn@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Luxury ... resort

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MEPs off on £100k isle break;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BRIAN FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 103 words


SHAMELESS MEPs are to escape the financial crisis engulfing Europe on a junket
to the Seychelles costing taxpayers more than £100,000.

Seven Euro MPs have signed up for the fiveday fisheries mission - and will be
joined by three administrators, two secretariat officials and TEN interpreters.

The estimated £104,000 cost includes £5,499 each to send every Euro MP and
bureaucrat business class to luxury Berjaya Beau Vallon Bay resort on the isle
of Mahe.

Last night UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "It beggars belief." A European
Parliament spokesman said next month's trip is to discuss a fisheries deal and
tuna imports.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Luxury ... the resort

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 27, 2011 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT

Voters who expect Britain to leave EU are 'living in world of illusion' admits
Cameron aide;
Voters who expect the Coalition to bring about Britain's departure from the
European Union are "living in a world of illusion," an aide to David Cameron has
said.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 409 words


Desmond Swayne, the Prime Minister's parliamentary private secretary, said that
Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats are preventing the Tories distancing
Britain from the EU project.

Mr Swayne, the MP for the New Forest, made the comment an email to a constituent
who asked for the Government to do more to reduce the influence of the EU in
Britain's economy and society.

The MP said that he sympathised with the views of his constituent, David Pitman,
but insisted that the Government's options are limited by the Coalition deal
with Lib Dems.

Mr Swayne wrote: "This coalition includes the most pro-European of all political
parties, Nick Clegg began as an MEP, his enthusiasm is undiminished. Anyone who
believes that this government can expedite our escape from the EU is living in a
world of illusion. Sorry."

The email is the latest sign of high-level frustration among Conservatives about
the EU, particularly European regulations that critics say are holding back
British businesses.

The Daily Telegraph revealed earlier this year that Mr Cameron's advisers have
taken independent legal advice about the viability of Britain refusing to
implement controversial EU directives giving temporary workers more rights.

Mr Pitman is an active member of the UK Independence Party, which seeks
Britain's withdrawal from the EU.

In his email, Mr Swayne said he sympathised with Mr Pitman's criticisms of the
EU, describing himself as " a man with a clear conscience -having at eighteen
campaigned and voted in 1975 to leave the Common Market. "

He added: "I understand your frustration."

A growing number of Conservative MPs believe that the current financial crisis
in the EU gives Britain a new opportunity to negotiate a new, looser
relationship with other Union members.

But Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said that Mr Swayne's email proved those
hopes were false.

He said: "There are thousands of people who voted for Desmond Swayne in the New
Forest believing that to do so was the best chance of a referendum on the EU.
They remembered Cameron's cast iron promise to hold one and foolishly believed
that the Conservatives wanted to deliver.

"Now Cameron's own private secretary describes those thousands as living in a
'world of illusion'.

"One might admire his new found honesty and I agree with him. It is truth that
trust in his Government's ability or desire to change our relationship with
Europe is delusional. It always was and I think it always will be."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 26, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UK faces new £1bn bill to bail out euro

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 558 words


DAVID Cameron was last night under pressure to rule out any contribution from
British taxpayers to a near £3trillion bail-out deal designed to save the euro.

International finance officials were yesterday discussing proposals for an
agreement that would see the Greek government default on some of its debts while
shoring up European banks with a cash fund from the G20 group of leading
industrial nations.

But concern was growing that Britain may be asked to contribute more than
£1billion to the deal. The huge hand out would come on top of £12billion of UK
taxpayers' cash already poured into bailing out the euro zone.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "We have already squandered billions trying to
prop up a currency which we chose not to join. "It is would be completely
indefensible for us to spend another penny on propping up the euro. This borrow
and bail out approach is never going to work."

However, the Treasury was playing down the prospect of a further bail-out,
insisting that no proposal had been put forward.

German and French officials are understood to be finalising a deal to use cash
from G20 nations to underwrite European banks.

Their strategy included building a financial "firewall" around the most indebted
euro-zone nations that would allow an orderly Greek default on debts.

European banks would be underwritten to stop them collapsing as a result of any
Greek default. Under the plan, at least some of the £2.6trillion would come from
the International Monetary Fund, in which the UK has a 4.5 per cent stake.

As a result, Britain may have to contribute more than £1billion despite the
country not being part of the European Financial Stability Fund.

Most of the cash would be used to support French banks, which Crisis are
understood to be the most exposed to Greek debt. Christian Noyer, governor of
the Bank of France, insisted French banks did not need help.

At the weekend, Chancellor George Osborne said: "No one here has put forward a
plan for that. Greece has got a programme and needs to implement it."

Labour leader Ed Miliband yesterday urged David Cameron to "show some
leadership" in Europe in response to the euro zone crisis. Gerard Lyons, chief
economist at international bank, Standard Chartered, said: "If they can raise a
fund big enough to fight contagion to other countries, then a Greek default
could be the best of a bad job."

Yesterday, Tory MP Desmond Swayne, a senior aide to the Prime Minister, admitted
anyone expecting the Government to hasten Britain's "escape" from the EU should
abandon hope - because of the pro-EU Liberal Democrats.

The comments were in an email allegedly sent by the MP to a UKIP constituent who
took him to task over the Tories' failure to deliver a referendum on Europe.

Mr Swayne wrote: "This Coalition includes the most pro-European of all political
parties, Nick Clegg began as an MEP, his enthusiasm is undiminished.

"Anyone who believes that this government can expedite our escape from the EU is
living in a world of illusion. Sorry. DS."

Mr Swayne declined to comment if the email was sent by him, saying his emails
were "private". ?Join the Daily Express crusade calling for a referendum on
Britain's withdrawal from the EU. You will be taken to the official Government
website, where you can sign the e-petition, by going to
www.express.co.uk/referendum.

Leo McKiNstrY: page 12

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 25, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EAT, PRAY, CRISIS;
AS HIS WINE AND CURRY HABIT SPIRALLED OUT OF CONTROL, ONLY MICHAEL BOOTH'S WIFE
COULD SAVE HIM. BUT TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION AND YOGA? YOU'VE GOT TO BE
KIDDING, HE THOUGHT

BYLINE: MICHAEL BOOTH

SECTION: STYLE;FEATURES; Pg. 21,22

LENGTH: 1576 words


There was no mistaking the signs: the persistent, nagging thoughts of death,
taunting career regrets, and the alarming physical decline (teeth crumbling like
Edinburgh rock; the increased risk that something might go pop during a
particularly strenuous cough). Midlife crisis, ahoy! I was 39. In the unlikely
event of someone curating an exhibition of my life, prime exhibits would include
a rusty Toyota, some Ikea shelving and a shaming number of Primark pullovers. It
seemed to me I had no choice but to self-medicate every evening: ah, the slow
dissolve afforded by a bottle of pinot noir.

I was burnt out, cracked up, spent. My concentration was shot, my synapses
scrambled by the modern communications I consumed intravenously. Apparently, the
internet weakens the prefrontal cortex, turning us all into hummingbirds; or
perhaps my synapses had simply been enfeebled by age. Either way, I was a master
of procrastination, squandering hours on wild Google chases, listening in on the
Twitter feeds of other, more successful peers, simply staring into middle space
or scouring Friends Reunited in the (vain, it turns out) hope that the lives of
the people I went to school with might be marginally more pitiful than mine.
"I've seen this before in men your age, and let me tell you," a doctor I met at
a party told me, presumably having noted how many glasses of red wine I had
downed during the conversation, "if your life continues like this, something
will break."

One evening, not long after, my Danish wife, Lissen, came into the kitchen,
poured herself the last glass from the bottle of wine on the table and sat down
opposite me. Her eyes were tired and raw.

"Michael, this isn't working," she said, looking down at the glass of wine, her
fingers twisting the stem. My stomach plummeted. Were we really having this
conversation? "I think we need to get away," she said.

"What, from each other, you mean?"

"Eh?" she looked up. "No, all of us. You just look so tired. I can't remember
when I last saw you look really happy, or even contented. I am sick of these
conversations we have about your drinking. You know how I feel about it, but you
still do it. I think we need a break. Why don't we go to India?"

"Take the kids to India? Are you mad?" I snorted. We have two sons, then aged
six and nine. "Think of the traffic, and the food bugs, the poverty, the heat,
the insects, the diseases." Then I paused. A switch flicked in my head.
Somewhere a voice whispered: "Just think of the seekh kebabs."

Lissen had a small amount of money saved, which, she said, she hadn't told me
about because it was her "escape pod" from me. I took this in the spirit of
openness in which it was offered, and tried not to think too much about it.

India terrified me - the dirt, the disease, the dangers - but I love the food,
and reasoned it might prove another effective distraction from my midlife
crisis. So a three-month trip was planned: I was going to write a book about
Indian food, a follow-up to a previous one about Japan.

Once we got to India, though, both the plan and I began to unravel, incapable as
I was of passing a hotel bar. In Mumbai I spent an evening drinking while Lissen
and the kids went early to bed. The next morning I recognised the symptoms of
alcohol poisoning as soon as I woke up: cold sweats, crushing depression and a
searing self-hatred.

All I wanted was to lie in a cool bed in a darkened room, but I was due to
interview one of India's finest chefs. He treated me to course after course of
extravagantly good food that I was in no fit state to enjoy. At one point I had
to make an unedifying dash to the lavatory to be sick (I couldn't even blame it
on any of the classic subcontinental maladies - we managed to avoid those). This
and an accumulation of other shameful anecdotes prompted my wife towards a
one-woman intervention.

It came during a boat trip on the Kerala backwaters a week or so later. She
stood in front of me, gripped my shoulders and looked me firmly in the eyes. "I
have arranged for you to do an intensive yoga course," she said. It turned out
she had rearranged the final month of our itinerary. Instead of more eating and
drinking, I was to attend an intensive yoga boot camp, and I was furious. I had
gone to great pains to avoid any contact with yoga over the years, in much the
way that one might avoid members of UKIP, say, or vegans. Yoga was simply not
me. I had only managed the "Eat" part of Eat, Pray, Love, for instance; after
that my eyes had glazed over, a condition that turned out to be permanent. But I
also knew my wife was right, that I was teetering on a precipice.

Part of the problem had always been in admitting I was a full-blown alcoholic,
which I still don't think was really the case. I had no gutter-licking war
stories, blurry car crashes or vodka-soaked cornflakes. I was a classic
middle-class "risky drinker", as were several of my friends. When discussing our
alcohol intake, we would allay our guilt by citing the health benefits of red
wine, reminding each other to have at least one dry day a week, cloaking our
consumption in the garb of the oenophile: you're tasting the stuff, not drinking
it. But, after considerable discussion, I agreed to go through with Lissen's
one-month, alcohol-free, intensive yoga plan. In truth, she left me little
choice.

At the shala - as I soon learnt to call the yoga studio in Mysore - I managed 10
minutes of the first session before collapsing on my mat in a pool of sweat.
Around me, eight horribly fit, whippet-thin yoga warriors were twisting their
limbs like magician's balloons. I had vicious pins and needles in my lower legs
and feet; alarming chest pains; and my penis had shrivelled like a petrified
shar pei. I was gripped by a tremendous yearning for bed, rest or death. Above,
the ceiling fans mocked me with their inertia. But, to my enduring surprise, I
kept at it.

There were many side effects of taking up yoga, not all of them negative. They
included an alarmingly reawakened libido and a decline in my appetite. I wasn't
nauseous, it wasn't that I couldn't eat, I just didn't feel the need and I lost
two stone. After each session the world would seem sharper, brighter, clearer. I
was deeply fatigued, yes, in some pain, but what was this, stirring, somewhere
deep within? A long-dormant, can-do spirit, a positive energy I had believed
extinct.

Of course, the path to "equanimity, equilibrium and enlightenment" (the catchy
subtitle of my book) was not smooth - alcohol dependency, even the middle-class
variety, has a way of throwing a spanner in the works. After a particularly
gruelling session, I found myself at a Mysore hotel bar where the gin and tonics
were so cheap, I convinced myself I would be a fool not to have at least one.
And once I had downed my first, I failed to see what difference it would make if
I had another.

I managed to convince Lissen this had been an aberration, which thankfully it
turned out to be. But, clearly, I needed more than just the physical regime of
yoga to bring balance to my life, particularly where alcohol was concerned.

While waiting for the class to begin one morning, I overheard a couple of the
students talking about Transcendental Meditation and joined them on a course
with a man who turned out to be one of the Maharishi's original disciples. He
gave us all a mantra - "In a way, it is a nonsense," he told us, with refreshing
candour. "It has no meaning, but it has a very great purpose. It is a vehicle
for silencing thought" - and explained how TM reduced hypertension and changed
the energy patterns in the brain. Most interestingly of all, as far as I was
concerned, meditation is supposed to "strengthen" your prefrontal cortex, the
part of your brain affected by the technological distractions of the modern age
- like checking every five minutes to see how many people haven't visited your
website.

I still drink once or twice a week, but no longer to numb myself, and I think
that has a great deal to do with the equanimity that has emerged from what I
grandly call my daily yoga and meditation practice. My concentration is
improved, I'm not quite as neurotic as I used to be, and my temper is more
temperate. I don't get so upset if someone cuts me up in traffic: I have finally
come to understand it's not personal. I now realise my printer does not hate me
and is not trying to push me to the brink of a breakdown. In other words, I have
come - belatedly, I realise - to the conclusion that it's not all about me: some
drivers are rubbish, and mine is a rubbish printer. Paradoxically, by focusing
on myself, that self has become less petulant and shouty.

Going to India to "find yourself" is, of course, the oldest cliché in the book.
In my defence, I went to find a really great sarson ka saag recipe, but I did
discover some tools that have helped me to bring a little more balance,
stillness, clarity and self-discipline to my life. And, of course, I defy anyone
to spend time in India and not return home considerably more grateful to have
running water, a roof over their head and a nice Primark jumper or two.

Eat, Pray, Eat: One Man's Accidental Search for Equanimity, Equilibrium and
Enlightenment by Michael Booth (Jonathan Cape £15) is out now. Available for
£13.49 (inc p&p) on 0845 271 2135 or at thesundaytimes.co.uk/bookshop

I SCOURED FRIENDS REUNITED IN THE HOPE THAT THE LIVES OF THE PEOPLE I WENT
TOSCHOOL WITH MIGHT BE MARGINALLY MORE PITIFUL THAN MINE

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Be here now Equanimity has emerged 'from what I grandly call my daily
yoga practice'
JAN SONDERGAARD
Thinner and happier Michael Booth with his wife, Lissen, and sons Emil and Asger

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEPs' austerity measure... a £15m museum

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 325 words


THE European Parliament has been accused of "self-glorification" at a time of
austerity by opening a £15.5million hightechnology "parliamentarium" to showcase
the work of MEPs.

Jerzy Buzek, the parliament's president, insisted that the project, aimed at
school pupils, was needed to show the relevance of MEPs at a time when the
European Union was threatened by the eurozone crisis.

"The exhibition shows that Europe has come a long way - surviving two world
wars, reuniting a divided continent and now sharing a joint political project
which, I am convinced, will thrive and prevail over the challenges we face
today," he said.

Officials claim that the Brussels visitors centre will give "a unique insight
into the work of MEPs and how their work touches your daily life" when it opens
in a fortnight's time.

The "parliamentarium" is focused around a 360-degree projection of the EU
assembly's debating chamber and includes a two-and-a-half hour role-play game
for secondary school pupils. The game uses computer technology and contributions
from more than 400 actors to create a "virtual world" experience of life as an
MEP.

"Students will learn the art of compromise, which is fundamental to success in
European politics," claims a parliament document.

Martin Callanan, the leader of the European Conservatives, said: "The money
could surely have been spent on something more worthwhile than this shiny new
temple for the glorification of the European project."

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and member of the parliament's budgetary control
committee, attacked a "shambolic waste of money" driven by "vanity". "The
parliamentarium was completed, like so many other parliament projects, over the
original budget and late," she said.

The parliament also faces controversy over its plan for a £90 million "European
House of History", to be built by 2014, despite an argument over fundamental
historical events, such as content relating to the Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday

Saturday: The Saturday interview: Brace yourselves, he's back: Robert
Kilroy-Silk, former Labour MP and disgraced daytime TV star, has been called a
racist, a xenophobe and an Arab-hating Little Englander. Now he's trying to win
new admirers with a series of lurid novels - including one about consensual
adult incest ...: Brace yourself, he's back

BYLINE: Stuart Jeffries

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 2064 words


'I'm still the same person the Guardian used to eulogise when I was a young MP,"
says Robert Kilroy-Silk. "On all the liberal issues I am the Guardian man. I
believe in a woman's right to choose, I'm opposed to the death penalty, I'm anti
any form of discrimination against women, I believe in higher rates of tax for
the rich. I don't feel I've drifted to the right at all."

This is a surprise. The 69-year-old former Labour MP turned disgraced
multi-millionaire TV presenter has been called many things - racist, xenophobe,
Europhobe, Islamophobe, Arab-hating Little Englander and orange (thanks to his
alleged sun tan) - but not until now an upholder of liberal Guardian values.

Most of these labels are false, he argues. He isn't even orange: "I'm not tanned
at all. Look at me." And he isn't. Kilroy-Silk and his wife Jan have just
returned to their Buckinghamshire estate from a summer spent at their 11-bedroom
Spanish villa between Gibraltar and Marbella. Jan, who will later kindly drive
me back to the station in their Daimler, has a nice tan, but her husband of 48
years surely looks as pasty as he did when he was raised in Birmingham's
backstreets during Britain's postwar austerity years.

That's because he has spent his summer in the shade, filling reams and reams of
paper in his new career as writer of eye-poppingly unsavoury novels that nobody
will publish. "If the politics were taken out, they'd be eminently commercial,"
he says.

But back to the non-existent tan. When someone chucked a sack of manure over him
before his appearance on Radio 4's Any Questions in Manchester in 2004, the Have
I Got News for You wags joked that "the shit hits the tan". Unfair: yes, there
was shit (and a court made the defendant pay Kilroy-Silk £200 costs for throwing
it), but then, as now, no tan.

The manure incident followed Kilroy-Silk's sacking from the BBC for a column in
the Sunday Express headlined "We owe Arabs nothing" in which he wrote: "We're
told that the Arabs loathe us . . . What do they think we feel about them? That
we adore them for the way they murdered more than 3,000 civilians on 11
September 2001 and then danced in the hot, dusty streets to celebrate the
murders? . . . That we admire them for being suicide bombers, limb-amputators,
women repressors?"

What made him write that? "There was a big thing in the Independent about how
Arabs think we're decadent. I thought, what do we think of them? This was in the
context of the Iraq war, when Britons and Americans were laying down their lives
. . . I'm not stupid. I didn't intend to say every Muslim or Arab is like that."
Then perhaps he should have substituted "extremist Jihadists" for "Arabs"
throughout. "I wish I had. That's what I believe."

Does he regret the article? After all, it cost him his lucrative TV career.
(Younger readers may not remember, but 10 years ago Kilroy, daytime precursor of
the Jeremy Kyle show, was watched daily by 6 million viewers). "I don't regret
it. I regret the fact that the BBC allowed itself to be bullied by a few people.
Most of the complaints came from one Muslim website. You could tell because the
complaints all spelled my name wrongly in the same way."

The Sunday Express editors clearly liked his article, since they ran it twice,
in April 2003 and January 2004. The second time it appeared the Muslim Council
of Britain and the Commission for Racial Equality condemned it: "I was vilified
in every single newspaper." Guardian columnist Faisal Bodi argued that
Kilroy-Silk should be prosecuted for inciting race hatred. Bodi contended that
Kilroy-Silk had previous in slurring Muslims, when defending Salman Rushdie
during The Satanic Verses affair in 1989. "But I was right about Rushdie!" he
snaps. "We shouldn't allow books to be burned. I'm in favour of a multi-ethnic
Britain, but not a multicultural one. You can't tolerate practices that are
morally wrong on the grounds of cultural difference. You can't accept that one
part of the population discriminates against women, imposes forced marriages or
allows female circumcision . . . I was called a racist for saying these things.
But now Cameron, Sarkozy, Merkel are saying them. My daughter says I've been
outflanked by the right."

We're drinking tea in the opulent living room of his vast house, formerly owned
by suave actor Dirk Bogarde and heavy-metal bawler Ozzy Osbourne. It was in this
very room, Kilroy-Silk tells me, that Alan Jay Lerner and Rex Harrison were
brought together by Bogarde. Harrison soon afterwards starred as Henry Higgins
in Lerner and Loewe's My Fair Lady.

Beyond the French windows is a rolling garden, and beyond that deer and goats
roam in acres of parkland. It's only an hour down the M40 from Birmingham, but
Kilroy-Silk has come a long way materially, from the terrace house in Summer
Lane where he was born to this eight-bedroom Georgian mansion. Like Osbourne,
Kilroy-Silk is a working-class Brummie done good. "I'm from Hockley, he's from
Aston, which is posher."

His dad, William Silk, was a Royal Navy stoker lost at sea during the war when
Robert was 18 months old. His mother, Rose Rooke, later married William's best
friend, car worker John Kilroy - hence the double-barrelled surname. The grammar
school boy studied politics and economics at the London School of Economics
before becoming a politics lecturer at Liverpool University. Later he served as
Labour MP for Ormskirk (1974-1983) and Knowsley North (1983-86).

"The two things I was most proud of in my life were going to the LSE and being
an MP. Trollope said M and P were the most prestigious letters a man could have
after his name. When I was elected as a 31-year-old MP I was respected. Now if
you say you're an MP you're treated with contempt. Understandably. How could the
prime minister think it right to claim having his wisteria pruned as a
parliamentary expense? Now those other letters in my life, LSE, have been
besmirched." He means because of the revelations earlier this year that the LSE
received donations from the Gaddafi regime.

He became disillusioned with parliamentary politics decades before the expenses
scandal. "I got shafted by Militant. The were trying to deselect me and by 1986,
I'd had enough. Fortunately I got offered a TV job simultaneously." I suppress a
giggle. Not because being subverted by Trotskyist entryists is funny, but
because he said "shafted". In 2001 Kilroy-Silk hosted a daytime ITV game show
called Shafted, once crowned the worst TV progamme ever. At the end of each
episode, he would ask the two remaining contestants if they would share the
prize money or risk getting more money by shafting their opponent. He would make
an unwittingly hilarious fisting gesture to demonstrate the latter option, for
which he was weekly mocked on Have I Got News For You.

Kilroy-Silk's career could be told as one of being repeatedly shafted - by
Militant in 1986, by the BBC in 2004, and by the UK Independence party when he
failed to become its leader later that year. He was shafted by his new party
Veritas when he was ousted as its leader in 2005, and by voters who failed to
elect him at the general election in the same year. He was shafted by I'm a
Celebrity viewers when he was the first to be voted off the 2008 show.

Could he have risen higher in politics? "I'm too much of a troublemaker. My
contemporaries, Jack Straw, John Prescott, Margaret Beckett, all became cabinet
ministers. Possibly I could have done too, but I'm too much of a maverick."

No one can shaft this troublemaking maverick any more. Perhaps more's the pity.
Enriched by the millions he earned from the BBC in his TV glory days,
Kilroy-Silk is beholden to no one as he writes novels that he self-publishes on
Amazon's Kindle. He's published three since the spring and each seethes with
rage at political correctness in modern British society - with their unsavoury
racism, glum sexist stereotypes, borderline homophobic jibes and digs against
Islam, they reek of an outsider judging a world he doesn't want to understand.

The first novel, Betrayal, is about consensual adult incest. In it an
18-year-old daughter meets her 40-year-old father for the first time and they
are immediately sexually attracted to each other. What made him write that
story? He says he originally approached his agent with a political saga of a
novel. "They thought it was wonderful but that publishers wouldn't be interested
in a political novel. They said you can clearly write and we'd like something
from you. Then I found a story about a daughter and father who have an affair
when they first meet and the mother shops them to the police.

"I thought it raised all sorts of moral issues I could explore. It also made me
angry. Consensual adult incest is illegal in this country, but it shouldn't be."
Why not exactly? "There is surely nothing wrong with incest between consenting
adults, at least when, as in my book, one party is a parent and the other is a
child, and they haven't seen each other for decades. I know it's shocking, but
there are circumstances such as those when it isn't wrong." Really? "I'm proud
of the way I tackled a difficult subject and I thought I did a reasonable job
empathising with the characters, but when it went out to publishers they weren't
prepared to push the boundaries. Adult incest is taboo."

It's not the incest theme that put me off Betrayal, just the clunky expository
writing and endless digressions. It begins: "Michael Steven's 18-year-old
daughter, Katherina, who he had not seen since she was less than a year old, had
arrived at his front door a little over an hour ago, on this Friday afternoon in
early June, looking spectacular in the bright sunlight." It cries out for an
editor. Kilroy-Silk, to his credit, concedes the point.

The second novel, Closure, anatomises the disintegration of a British family. He
hopes it will be adapted as a TV series. His third, Abduction, is better written
than the others, but even more likely to require publishers who read it to be
brought round with smelling salts. It deals with two parents framed as violent
by a pair of hetero-hating lesbian social workers and have their children
forcibly adopted as a result. "It's based on fact," says Kilroy-Silk. "Read
Christopher Booker in the Sunday Telegraph, Lib Dem MP John Hemming or the
Forced Adoption website." It ends (spoiler alert!) with the wretched stereotype
of an obese lesbian social worker being murdered by a vengeful father who leaves
her strangled corpse tied up amid dildos to make it look like a perverted
autoerotic asphyxiation. After, of course, having arranged that the children
have been kidnapped from their adoptive parents and whisked away to Cyprus. It's
a Daily Mail revenge fantasy on PC Britain gone nuts.

Nonetheless, I submit, Abduction is the sort of drama Hollywood might like,
ideally with Mel Gibson as an un-PC little guy avenging himself on power-crazed
social workers, moronic coppers and other jumped-up state functionaries. "Oh do
write that!" says Kilroy-Silk. Only one problem: his inveterate homophobia would
need to be excised. "Homophobic? That's not me." But there does seem to be a
theme: not only do the absurd lesbian social workers gleefully install one of
the forcibly adopted children on a gay Islington couple who toast their adoption
triumph in Taittinger and offer a glass to their six-year-old charge
(monsters!), but two other characters moan about gay men fellating each other in
public in Brompton cemetery. "But that's based on fact!" says Kilroy-Silk. "I'm
in favour of equal rights and the legalisation of homosexuality, but not of
anyone having sex in public. And the lesbian social worker story is based on
fact."

Kilroy-Silk is now writing a thriller: "I'm trying to write in a more
disciplined way, without the politics." Perhaps, then, his new book might get
published. "Who knows? Jan thinks I should write my autobiography. Maybe I will.
Or I might get disillusioned and spend my time feeding the goats and deer."

It's a lovely autumn afternoon at the Kilroy-Silk estate as I leave him, so I
can understand that impulse. But surely it would be premature: Kilroy-Silk is
clearly still overflowing with energy and political passion. The only question
is whether anybody wants them any more.

Captions:

Robert Kilroy-Silk in the studio for Kilroy, a precursor of the Jeremy Kyle Show
that drew 6 million viewers a day

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

AN 8-HOUR DAY? NOT FOR US SAY EU PEN-PUSHERS

BYLINE: By Daniel Martin Whitehall Correspondent

LENGTH: 718 words


FAT cat Brussels bureaucrats are threatening to strike over plans to make them
work eight hours a day Ð because they say it will wreck their 'family life'.

EU bosses are asking civil servants Ð among the best paid public officials in
the world Ð to stay behind in the office for an extra half hour a day to save
costs.

The move would take their five-day working week from 37 and a half hours up to
just 40 hours.

This would still be less than the 41 and a half hours undertaken by the average
British full-time worker.

But unions representing EU civil servants will refuse to consider any extension
to their working week, saying longer hours would affect the 'attractiveness' of
their jobs.

Critics demanded unions representing 55,000 EU staff Ð 1,322 of whom are British
Ð 'get real' over the modest change to working hours at a time when millions all
over the continent are losing their jobs or having to work longer.

The European Commission has demanded the cost-cutting move following mounting
pressure from national governments to cut Brussels' administrative budget.

They say that putting in the extra hours will save EU taxpayers one billion
euros a year Ð some £870million.

It comes as the EU civil servants are castigated for their sluggish response to
the fall-out from the Eurozone crisis.

Yesterday the UK's share index fell by the largest amount for 30 months.

Eurocrats have also been blamed for drawing up a string of regulations which
have left British businesses struggling.

But civil servants in the main EU institutions Ð the European Commission,
European Parliament and EU Council of Ministers Ð enjoy a range of perks.

These include high salaries, gold-plated pensions, generous holiday entitlements
Ð 42 days off a year Ð and free food at their workplace.

Now one of the staff unions is refusing to negotiate on the proposal for
slightly longer working hours.

The Equipe d'Union Syndicale, the European Parliament's joint trade union, has
issued a message rejecting the call.

A group of union officials put their names to a letter declaring: 'The unions
and staff associations replied to this proposal with a categorical "Niet!"'

'Niet' means 'no' in Dutch, one of the official languages in Belgium, where EU
institutions are based.

They say working a 40-hour week would have a 'very negative impact on
reconciliation of working and home life'. The statement adds: 'The
attractiveness of the European civil service would deteriorate. It would be a
socially-backward step that the unions and staff associations reject
emphatically.'

Martin Callanan, Conservative leader in the European Parliament, said those
fighting the change should 'get real'. 'Public sector staff the world over are
facing cutbacks and wage freezes,' he said.

'But here in Brussels they seem to think they live in an economic microclimate
where money grows on trees and the world owes them a very comfortable living.'

He added: 'The Brussels pen-pushers, just like many of the politicians here,
just don't seem to get it when it comes to the economy.

'Austerity measures are being taken everywhere, but somehow they think the EU is
immune.' Ê

If the unions refuse to negotiate, it could mean industrial action will follow.
In December 2009, EU staff went on strike after bosses tried to limit pay rises.

Stephen Booth, research director of the Open Europe think tank, said: 'For
Brussels civil servants to protest against working a few more hours a week
borders on comedy, would it not be for the EU facing its worst crisis in its
history. It shows a complete lack of self-awareness and is an insult to
taxpayers all over Europe, who face falling living standards and the threat of
redundancy.'

And Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'Not only do those
in the various EU institutions have no idea about what to do with the eurozone
crisis, but many of them now appear to be refusing to work a few extra hours a
week, which many of us do as a matter of necessity just to keep a roof over our
heads. Ê

'You really couldn't make it up. Greece looks like it is about to implode and
yet the eurocrats responsible for the mess are moaning about working slightly
longer every week to justify their bloated salaries that we are paying for.'
Comment Ð Page 14

Precedent: EU workers on strike in December 2009

'An insult to taxpayers'

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

First fines for flouting French ban on burkas

BYLINE: Peter Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 451 words


TWO women yesterday became the first to be fined for breaking France's burka
ban.

The fines were imposed as another woman, one of the first to be arrested for
breaking the ban, announced her intention to stand for president.

Kenza Drider, a 32-year-old mother of four, wore a banned niqab veil as she put
forward her candidacy on the day she attended a court hearing to support the two
women protesters.

Hind Amas, also 32, was fined £118, while Najate Nait Ali, 36, was fined £72.
The fines are the first to be handed down since the ban came into force five
months ago.

Celebrate Both women were arrested outside the town hall in the Paris suburb of
Meaux on May 5 while carrying an almond cake to "celebrate" the birthday of the
local mayor, Jean-Francois Cope.

Mr Cope is also head of president Nicolas Sarkozy's ruling UMP party, and one of
the architects of the ban.

The French word for almond is "amande," which sounds like "amen-de", the word
for fine, and the women wanted to use the joke cake to highlight the "absurdity"
of a law which they say has increased anti-Muslim feeling across France.

Ms Amas said the women planned to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights.
Ms Drider, of Avignon - who has worn the veil for 13 years - will take on Mr
Sarkozy as an independent in next year's general election. Her backers include
millionaire property developer Rachid Nekkaz, who is set to pay the women's
fines.

After the hearing in Meaux, Mr Nekkaz said he would help fund an appeal to the
court in Strasbourg.

If the ban is overturned it will all be very embarrassing for Mr Sarkozy, who
claims he is trying to maintain the secular French constitution. Instead he has
been widely accused of stigmatising women in burkas to win votes from the
extreme Right.

More than 90 women have been stopped by police for wearing burkas since the ban
came in, but less than a tenth of cases have gone to court.

Belgium already has a ban and Denmark, Austria, the Netherlands and Switzerland
are considering one. But there are no plans for a ban in Britain.

Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall said: "The problem is how you enforce it. That
said, Ukip does believe there are certain places where the burka or niqab should
be removed. This would be purely for security reasons in places such as airports
or railway stations."

Dr Taj Hargey, chairman of the Muslim Educational Centre of Oxford, backs a ban.
"The French decision to impose fines should be applauded," he said.

"Muslims, or any other people, should obey the letter of the law.

"The idea of this woman standing for president is just a publicity stunt. How
would a masked woman meet the leader of another country? It's absurd. The French
government should stand firm."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Presidential hopeful Kenza Drider outside court yesterday
Picture: IAN LANGDON / EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Border checks 'in chaos' as asylum seekers soar by 12%

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 408 words


THE number of foreigners seeking asylum in the UK has risen by 12 per cent over
the past year.

Official EU figures show 6,070 people arrived in the country claiming refuge in
the first three months of 2011 - up from 5,400 in 2010.

The total number of new asylum applications in the past 12 months was 22,735.
When repeat and existing applicants are included, the number was 24,140.

Campaigners yesterday said the figures underlined the need for Britain to ignore
human-rights legislation and set its own standards for granting sanctuary.

UK Independence Party Euro MP and home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten said:
"These numbers will continue growing as long as we see deteriorating political
situations around the world and have something to offer economic migrants.

"The whole border control system is in chaos and the only way to bring it back
on track is to repeal the Human Rights Act that forces us to grant asylum and
withdraw from the EU.

"We have to take control of our borders and impose our own strict criteria, not
take orders from abroad."

Alp Mehmet, of Migrationwatch, said: "There is no obvious reason for this
increase. The most important point now is that those who don't qualify for
asylum are returned to the countries from whence they came as quickly as
possible.

"They should not be permitted to stay for reasons that most ordinary British
people would regard as feeble and unconvincing."

Yesterday's figures were published by Eurostat, the statistical arm of the EU.

They revealed a six per cent rise in asylum seekers across Europe in the first
quarter of this year, following the mass influx of migrants fleeing the chaos of
the Arab uprisings.

Germany and France were hit hardest by the wave of north Africans, mainly
Tunisians, and 40 per cent of all new applications were made in those two
countries.

Italy had 1,300 extra applicants.

Sweden recorded the biggest fall - 33 per cent - mainly due to a drop in the
number of Somalis.

The biggest groups coming to the UK were from Pakistan, Iran, Sri Lanka,
Afghanistan and Zimbabwe. Most of those were men aged 18 to 34.

illegally. Across the EU as a whole, there were 66,000 applications in the first
three months of the year. Afghans formed the largest group, followed by Russians
and Iraqis.

Of the 6,335 asylum decisions made by UK Border Agency officials in the first
three months of this year, 4,530 applications were rejected. But many stay on in
the country illegally.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerard Batten: System in chaos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Border checks 'in chaos' as asylum seekers soar by 12%

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 404  words


THE number of foreigners seeking asylum in the UK has risen by 12 per cent over
the past year.

Official EU figures show 6,070 people arrived in the country claiming refuge in
the first three months of 2011 - up from 5,400 in 2010.

The total number of new asylum applications in the past 12 months was 22,735.

When repeat and existing applicants are included, the number was 24,140.

Campaigners yesterday said the figures underlined the need for Britain to ignore
human-rights legislation and set its own standards for granting sanctuary.

UK Independence Party Euro MP and home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten said:
"These numbers will continue growing as long as we see deteriorating political
situations around the world and have something to offer economic migrants.

"The whole border control system is in chaos and the only way to bring it back
on track is to repeal the Human Rights Act that forces us to grant asylum and
withdraw from the EU.

"We have to take control of our borders and impose our own strict criteria, not
take orders from abroad."

Alp Mehmet, of Migrationwatch, said: "There is no obvious reason for this
increase. The most important point now is that those who don't qualify for
asylum are returned to the countries from whence they came as quickly as
possible.

"They should not be permitted to stay for reasons that most ordinary British
people would regard as feeble and unconvincing."

Yesterday's figures were published by Eurostat, the statistical arm of the EU.

They revealed a six per cent rise in asylum seekers across Europe in the first
quarter of this year, following the mass influx of migrants fleeing the chaos of
the Arab uprisings.

Germany and France were hit hardest by the wave of north Africans, mainly
Tunisians, and 40 per cent of all new applications were made in those two
countries.

Italy had 1,300 extra applicants. Sweden recorded the biggest fall - 33 per cent
- mainly due to a drop in the number of Somalis.

The biggest groups coming to the UK were from Pakistan, Iran, Sri Lanka,
Afghanistan and Zimbabwe. Most of those were men aged 18 to 34.

Across the EU as a whole, there were 66,000 applications in the first three
months of the year. Afghans formed the largest group, followed by Russians and
Iraqis.

Of the 6,335 asylum decisions made by UK Border Agency officials in the first
three months of this year, 4,530 applications were rejected. But many stay on in
the country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerard Batten: System in chaos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

Economic crisis: a time for cool heads, not conspiracy theories

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1702 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Britain is in acute economic difficulty - the last thing we need
is talk of plots or pompous, bogus passion

FULL TEXT

The global economy is "staring down the barrel" of a second world recession,
David Cameron sternly reminded eurozone leaders from the safety of Ottawa this
morning. He has also signed a round robin letter telling the G20 to get its
finger out and sort things out at the Cannes summit in (wait for it) November.

So should it be "well done, Dave" or "who do you think you are, matey - Gordon
Brown?"? A bit of both, but mainly the latter, I think - especially on a day
when Peter ("a better class of conspiracy theory") Oborne, the posh populist
pundit, has run amok on Europe (again).

French and German policymakers looking at Britain can hardly be over-impressed
by what they see of our own economy and wider society. Like Margaret Thatcher
before him, Gordon Brown used to dip into Brussels to lecture those pesky
foreigners (with the speech heavily briefed in advance) on the "British economic
miracle". He would then dash home for some reassuring porridge rather than eat
those disgusting croissants.

At least Brown grasped that the banks had to be recapitalised in the post-Lehman
crash of 2008 - this at a time when Dave'n'George were still against it - and at
least he put some heft behind the rhetoric in organising London's G20 summit, in
April 2009, which staved off another Great Depression (until now?).

The coalition ("we saved Britain from being another Greece") has usually seemed
content to squabble at home about what to do next while lecturing others abroad
from the sidelines.

Thus the deflationary impulses that come naturally to any post-war government in
Berlin (it's been in their potty training since it took Germans 2m marks to buy
a sandwich) are shared by the Lib-Con coalition in London, whose Treasury is
much more deeply in fiscal deficit (though not accumulated debt) than Germany's.

Both countries have enough slack, and enough austerity credibility in the
markets, to ease off a bit and help restore demand to the stricken North
Atlantic economy.

Who says so? Why, Christine Lagarde, the former French (Tory) finance minister,
now the French IMF chief. But no, the pressure from the restless right wing of
the Conservative party is all in the opposite direction.

Cut more deeply and, while you're about it, seize this moment of eurozone
weakness to loosen your ties with Brussels as the price of co-operating to
reform the zone, say some. Break the zone up by engineering Greek or (the other
way around) German withdrawal, others blithely assert.

On the party's wilder shores - Mark Pritchard MP wrote in the Telegraph that EU
membership amounts to military occupation, the twerp - there is even talk of the
biggest cut of all: cutting off EU membership.

This is depressing stuff. We live in a fast-declining region of the world where
the economy is flat to falling, in contrast to 8% growth and more across much of
East Asia.

Talk of faltering growth or a bursting property bubble in China is not good
news, for them or for us. Europe's leaders must find a way to create a model for
regional solidarity and co-operation that works (it's not working very well at
present), and of persuading their voters at home that it is all worth the
trouble.

Whether we like it or not, we are part of Europe, part of the North Atlantic
community. Even the new Times Atlas - the one that shrank the Greenland ice cap
- confirms that. Unlike those hedge fund managers in Mayfair, we can't just all
move to Hong Kong or Singapore (which this week ticked off UBS for messing up
its portfolio of bank investments again with that "rogue" trader).

Put another way, if Greece goes bust in a disorderly way (a structured default
of some kind seems inevitable), then a lot of French and German banks catch a
serious bout of flu. If the contagion spreads to Spain or Ireland (it would),
our battered banks take a fresh beating, too.

No one wins - not even the Chinese, who depend on US and EU import markets to
keep their own restless and repressed (economically as well as politically)
voters sort of happy. Yet HMG, busy strutting the international stage as
saviours of Libya (with borrowed US bombs and fingers crossed), seems more
content to play domestic politics with the European question for fear of Ukip,
the Daily Express and other paper tigers that prey on elderly voters.

William Hague had a bad attack of Euro-pandering before the election, but seemed
to be settling into a more pragmatic mindset once he was safely, if sadly,
installed as the foreign secretary. I hear the diplomats do not like him much,
but that is not automatically a bad sign.

Enter, stage right, Oborne and his co-author, Frances Weaver, who have penned a
pamphlet for the Thatcherite but still not expired thinktank the Centre for
Policy Studies (CPS), called (without any sense of irony) Guilty Men - a tribute
to the hugely successful and thoroughly dishonest pamphlet that Michael Foot
(sic) wrote for his chum, Lord Beaverbrook (sic) in 1940.

Foot's purpose was to make sure that the Chamberlain wing of the Tory party got
the blame for the policy of appeasement towards Hitler, which had collapsed with
the occupation of Prague in March 1939 and the invasion of Poland - courtesy of
Stalin - six months later.

No mention of Beaverbrook's role ("there will be no war in Europe this year or
next", his papers proclaimed on the masthead every day until the final hour), or
of the Labour party's deluded belief in collective security until the end.

Both redeemed their honour in the war that followed. That's how life works, but
Guilty Men was a brazen bit of revisionism for which Beaverbrook once joked that
he, not Footie, should have collected the royalties.

Now to 2011. Oborne/Weaver's thesis - they are never less than grandiose where
Oborne is concerned - is that Britain was systematically betrayed by its elites
into selling a once-proud nation into subservience to Europe over a period of
60-odd years.

You can buy the pamphlet here for a tenner, but I wouldn't bother. You can read
a potted version by the authors in yesterday's Telegraph here - a newspaper,
incidentally, where "something went wrong" (Oborne and Weaver's phrase about the
FT) about seven years ago after it fell into the hands of the Barclay Brothers.

Or there's a laudatory online review in the American National Review, with which
these chaps have close links. Or you can read the ex-ambassador Peter Jay, in
today's Times, with a tremendous rant that rests heavily on his recollection of
hearing Jean Monnet voice French ambitions to restore the country's lost glory
via the new EU. Jay, whose father, Douglas, was a famous Europhobe and Labour
grandee too, was 15 at the time.

Oborne's thesis (sorry, Frances Weaver, I'm sure you worked hard - but it sounds
like him, not you) is that the three most guilty institutions in the plot are
the Financial Times, the CBI (headed, until this spring, by an ex-FT editor)
and, of course, the BBC.

He aired this view on Radio 4's Today programme this morning, taking a poke at
Jim Naughtie as typical of the breed. Even John Humphrys (I suspect we all know
his EU line) felt moved to defend the corporation.

I have to concede that I see Oborne's point. There are days when the great and
good sound as shifty and dishonest, as crudely partisan as he describes. As
someone who voted Yes in the 1975 referendum (along with Thatcher and Jimmy
Goldsmith) but would not have voted Yes to the single currency (unlike assorted
Trots and lefties who were No voters in 1975), I routinely note in this spot the
noisy silence of most champions of British membership of the euro just a few
years back. Nick Clegg had a try on air this week, and wasn't very good.

But making mistakes and keeping quiet about them is one thing, accusing others
of a thumping great conspiracy is another.

As Ian Traynor wrote this week, the Euro-federalists think their hour has come
at last. As the euro staggers, they have a case in logic for greater fiscal and
budgetary integration in which Britain will not take part if - if - it happens.
But this is the result of a continent-sized cock-up, not a plot.

As Denis MacShane MP (one of those lefties who swung from hard No in 1975 to
fervent Yes today) reminded Oborne on the radio, the editor of Today at the time
when all these pro-Europeans were allegedly forcing propaganda down out throats
was Rod Liddle, now famous as an exhibitionist columnist wherever they will
print his often shabby stuff.

What turned me against Andrew Gilligan was not the lad's dodgy reporting of the
dodgy Iraq war dossiers, but some conspiratorial rubbish he dug up about the EU
much earlier - rubbish on which, if memory serves, Hot Rod led his programme.

And wasn't Sir Geoffrey Howe (possibly Britain's greatest postwar chancellor,
Oborne says in today's Telegraph column) eventually prepared to resign over
Thatcher's hostility to Europe? I believe he was.

Britain is in acute economic difficulty, facing hard choices about the balance
between deficit-cutting and seeking to nurture growth. So is Europe, where
Germany's beggar-my-neighbours approach will beggar Germany too, unless Angela
Merkel uses her newly-acquired breathing space from six damaging regional
elections (none due until 2013) to show more creative leadership. As for the US,
let's not go there today - but it is bad.

That fact alone ought to induce a sense of wary humility in British Eurosceptic
breasts. Yes, they got some things right about the EU, including the flawed,
over-ambitious architecture of the euro. Thatcher was right to take us into the
single market, too - well done her.

But they got a lot wrong as well, not least their excessive faith in the
unbridled free market model, whose excesses have done so much to damage the
mighty US economy, and wider society, in recent years. The Chinese have been
taking notes, as well as dollar notes, and are not impressed.

So this is a time for cool heads and leadership, not conspiracy theories and
pompous, bogus passion. The last thing we need is what MacShane wittily called,
in memory of the great anti-Jewish smear, the Protocols of the Elders of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

The Eurosceptic isolationists are in the saddle

BYLINE: Denis MacShaneguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 679 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: Peter Oborne's pamphlet makes outlandish claims about a
pro-European conspiracy to control the British media

FULL TEXT

Today sees the publication of a pamphlet called Guilty Men, written by the
Telegraph journalist Peter Oborne. Arguing that "the political class sought to
tie the fortunes of the British to the euro", it has all the characteristic
rococo exuberance of its writer. The pamphlet is published by the Centre for
Policy Studies, whose director has spent his life in the trenches of anti-EU
ideological warfare, and must be delighted to get a journalist of Oborne's
standing on the high Tory right to produce the pamphlet.

Its appearance coincides with the increasing emergence of a group, consisting of
nearly half the Tory parliamentary party, dedicated to the neo-isolationist
ideology that Britain would be better off out of the EU. Britain is one of the
weakest European economies, with almost zero growth, a huge deficit, high
inflation and rising unemployment. Yet there is a solipsistic belief among the
rightwing commentariat that we can lecture Germany, Finland, Estonia, France and
the Netherlands on what to do.

Oborne belongs to that Eurosceptic wing that follows the principle of "first
simplify, then exaggerate". He argues that there was a conspiracy to control the
media so that the truth about Europe will be hidden from the British people. The
conspiracy was headed by Rod Liddle, then editor of Today, and the CBI, the UK's
leading business lobbying organisation. Liddle can speak for himself, but the
CBI has opposed every EU development in recent years.

Oborne is right to say that Philip Stephens of the Financial Times now and then
writes that perhaps the EU is a good thing on the whole. But set against the
serried ranks of commentators for the Murdoch papers, the Mail, the Express and
the Telegraph papers which spew out anti-European news and comment pieces with
vigour and enthusiasm, the notion that the media have been suborned into aiding
and abetting a pro-Europe line is silly.

The Guardian has able writers like Larry Elliott, Michael White and Seumas Milne
who make no secret of their opposition to the single currency - as do Mary Ann
Sieghart and Anne McElvoy, two influential centrist commentators.

Simon Jenkins and Max Hastings also star in this anti-euro galère, and given
that between them they practically write half the columns we read, there is
little room for other points of view. The broadcasters have their obligations of
impartiality, but this does not stop Nigel Farage being on Question Time or Any
Questions more than any other elected politician - despite Ukip's nugatory
showing in elections to the Commons or local councils.

Key broadcasting figures such as Andrew Neil or Michael Portillo are openly
identified Eurosceptics and the Notting Hill-Islington-Chiswick world of our
opinion shapers long adopted an EU-weary world vision.

Business knows that if the euro collapses, it will take the single market with
it, but imbued with the saloon-bar wisdom of the Daily Mail as they are,
business leaders will not defend the EU.

Core EU facts remain unknown to the British public. According to the House of
Commons library, just 7% of our laws originate in Europe. The total EU spend is
just 1% of Europe's GDP. The BBC employs more people that the European
commission and pays much bigger salaries.

Peter Oborne ignores facts like these when he paints his picture of a secret
cabal producing the Protocols of the Elders of Europe to betray British
interests. He titles his broadside Guilty Men after the famous 1940 pamphlet by
Michael Foot and others that blasted the isolationism of the 1930s.

Today the isolationists are in the saddle. The Murdochs, Blacks and Rothermeres
have their Melanies, Bruces and Simons to rant against Europe. They have
conquered the field. Pro-Europeans have shrunk away. Peter Oborne has all the
space in the world to make his propaganda against Europe. Whether it is good for
British journalism to have so little balance and such scorn for facts is another
question.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2011 Friday 3:25 PM GMT

European Parliament opens £15.5 million temple to MEPs;
The European Parliament has been accused of "self-glorification" after defying
national austerity cuts by opening a £15.5 million high-technology
"parlamentarium" to showcase the work of MEPs.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 291 words


Jerzy Buzek, the parliament's president, insisted that the project, which
targets school students, was needed to show the relevance of MEPs at a time when
the EU was threatened by the eurozone crisis.

"The exhibition shows that Europe has come a long way - surviving two world
wars, reuniting a divided continent and now sharing a joint political project
which, I am convinced, will thrive and prevail over the challenges we face
today," he said.

Officials claim that the Brussels visitors centre will give "a unique insight
into the work of MEPs and how their work touches your daily life" when it opens
in a fortnight's time.

The "parlamentarium" is focused around a 360 degree projection of the EU
assembly's debating chamber and includes a 2.5 hour role-play game for secondary
school pupils, using the latest computer technology and contributions from over
400 actors to create a virtual world experience of life as an MEP.

"Students will learn the art of compromise, which is fundamental to success in
European politics," said a parliament document.

Martin Callanan MEP, leader of the European Conservatives, said: "The money
could surely have been spent on something more worthwhile than this shiny new
temple for the glorification of the European project."

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and member of the parliament's budgetary control
committee attacked a "shambolic waste of money" driven by "vanity".

"The parliamentarium was completed, like so many other parliament projects, over
the original budget and late," she said.

The parliament also faces controversy over its plan for a £90 million "European
House of History", to be built by 2014, despite an argument over fundamental
historical events, such as what happened during the Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clegg sparks outrage as he declares: Human Rights Act is here to stay

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 505 words


NICK Clegg ignited the seething coalition row over Europe last night by vowing
to wreck any Tory attempt to scrap the Human Rights Act.

The Deputy Prime Minister used his keynote speech on the final day of the Lib
Dem conference to make a highly provocative defence of the controversial
legislation, that has been widely blamed for undermining the criminal justice
system and border controls.

Triggering the biggest cheer of the gathering of Lib Dem faithful in Birmingham,
he declared: "Let me say something really clear about the Human Rights Act. In
fact, I'll do it in words of one syllable: It is here to stay."

His rant was seen by Tory backbenchers yesterday as open defiance of David
Cameron, who has launched an inquiry to examine whether the Human Rights Act
should be replaced with a British Bill of Rights that does not allow convicted
criminals to flout the law.

It followed the astonishing ruling by European judges earlier this week that
Nigerian rapist Akindoyin Akinshipe cannot be deported because of his right to a
"private and family life" in Britain.

Goaded Mr Clegg even goaded Conservatives by citing Winston Churchill as
authority for his stance on human rights. And he risked further intensifying
coalition tensions by claiming that the presence of Lib Dem ministers kept the
Government "in the centre ground" and was the only thing preventing the Tories
from devastating the country.

He said: "This country would be in deep trouble today if we had not gone into
Government last year." Tory MPs were infuriated by the Lib Dem leader's remarks.
Backbencher Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, said: "The Liberal
Democrats are entirely out of step with the public on the issue of the Human
Rights Act.

"The overwhelming majority want it scrapped because it is interfering with the
British way of life. I am afraid that Nick Clegg is completely wrong on this
issue."

Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham, Essex, said: "Nick Clegg is playing to the
gallery but I don't see how he can justify these remarks. The Human Rights Act
threatens our identity checks, our border controls and undermines our courts. It
is not in Britain's interests."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Clegg has made it clear that
despite the wishes of the public he is happy that foreign-born rapists and
murderers can use the Human Rights Act and the European Court of Human Rights to
remain in the UK.

"He doesn't want to protect the British people against this sort of injustice
and it is obvious that he will block any attempts by the Tories to propose
reforming the current unacceptable system."

But Mr Clegg's 42-minute speech was given an enthusiastic standing ovation by
Lib Dem activists. He told them to "hold your heads up and look our critics
squarely in the eye".

And he insisted they should be proud that being in the coalition meant that they
could put a brake on Tory policies.

Lib Dems had "the power to hold our coalition partners back and the power to
move the Government forward", he said. OPINION & COMMENT: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg with wife Miriam before his speech yesterday
Phil Hollobone says Clegg is wrong
Picture: PETER CORNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Clegg sparks outrage as he declares: Human Rights Act is here to stay

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 539  words


NICK Clegg ignited the seething coalition row over Europe last night by vowing
to wreck any Tory attempt to scrap the Human Rights Act.

The Deputy Prime Minister used his keynote speech on the final day of the Lib
Dem conference to make a highly provocative defence of the controversial
legislation, that has been widely blamed for undermining the criminal justice
system and border controls.

Triggering the biggest cheer of the gathering of Lib Dem faithful in Birmingham,
he declared: "Let me say something really clear about the Human Rights Act. In
fact, I'll do it in words of one syllable: It is here to stay."

His rant was seen by Tory backbenchers yesterday as open defiance of David
Cameron, who has launched an inquiry to examine whether the Human Rights Act
should be replaced with a British Bill of Rights that does not allow convicted
criminals to flout the law.

It followed the astonishing ruling by European judges earlier this week that
Nigerian rapist Akindoyin Akinshipe cannot be deported because of his right to a
"private and family life" in Britain.

Mr Clegg even goaded Conservatives by citing Winston Churchill as authority for
his stance on human rights. And he risked further intensifying coalition
tensions by claiming that the presence of Lib Dem ministers kept the Government
"in the centre ground" and was the only thing preventing the Tories from
devastating the country.

He said: "This country would be in deep trouble today if we had not gone into
Government last year." Tory MPs were infuriated by the Lib Dem leader's remarks.

Backbencher Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, said: "The Liberal
Democrats are entirely out of step with the public on the issue of the Human
Rights Act.

"The overwhelming majority want it scrapped because it is interfering with the
British way of life. I am afraid that Nick Clegg is completely wrong on this
issue."

Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham, Essex, said: "Nick Clegg is playing to the
gallery but I don't see how he can justify these remarks.

The Human Rights Act threatens our identity checks, our border controls and
undermines our courts. It is not in Britain's interests." UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage said: "Clegg has made it clear that despite the wishes of
the public he is happy Should Nick Clegg be in Government?

QYES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345 Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088 No text
DXTHURNO to 80088 Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates that
foreign-born rapists and murderers can use the Human Rights Act and the European
Court of Human Rights to remain in the UK.

"He doesn't want to protect the British people against this sort of injustice
and it is obvious that he will block any attempts by the Tories to propose
reforming the current unacceptable system."

But Mr Clegg's 42-minute speech was given an enthusiastic standing ovation by
Lib Dem activists. He told them to "hold your heads up and look our critics
squarely in the eye".

And he insisted they should be proud that being in the coalition meant that they
could put a brake on Tory policies.

Lib Dems had "the power to hold our coalition partners back and the power to
move the Government forward", he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg with wife Miriam before his speech yesterday
Phil Hollobone says Clegg is wrong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Anger as Clegg vows to prevent any reform of Human Rights Act

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 485  words


NICK Clegg ignited the seething Coalition row over Europe last night by vowing
to wreck any Tory attempt to scrap the Human Rights Act.

The Deputy Prime Minister used his keynote speech on the final day of the Lib
Dem conference to make a highly provocative defence of the controversial
legislation that has been widely blamed for undermining the criminal justice
system and border controls.

"Let me say something really clear about the Human Rights Act. In fact, I'll do
it in words of one syllable: it is here to stay, " he said, triggering the
biggest cheer of the gathering of the Lib Dem faithful in Birmingham.

His rant was being seen by Tory backbenchers yesterday as open defiance of David
Cameron, who has launched an inquiry to examine whether the Human Rights Act
should be replaced with a British Bill of Rights that does not allow convicted
criminals to flout the law.

It followed the astonishing ruling by European judges earlier this week that
Nigerian rapist Akindoyin Akinshipe cannot be deported because of his right to a
"private and family life" in Britain. Mr Clegg even goaded Tories by citing
Winston Churchill as authority for his stance on human rights.

And he risked further intensifying Coalition tensions by claiming the presence
of Lib Dem ministers kept the Government "in the centre ground" and was the only
thing preventing the Tories from devastating the country.

"This country would be in deep trouble today if we had not gone into Government
last year, " he said. Tory MPs were infuriated by the Lib Dem leader's remarks.

Backbencher Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, said: "The Liberal
Democrats are entirely out of step with the public on the issue of the Human
Rights Act.

"The overwhelming majority want it scrapped because it is intefering with the
British way of life. I am afraid that Nick Clegg is completely wrong on this
issue."

Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham, said: "Nick Clegg is playing to the gallery but
I don't see how he can justify these remarks. The Human Rights Act threatens our
identity checks, our border controls and undermines our courts. It is not in
Britain's interests."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Clegg has made it clear that
despite the wishes of the public he is happy that foreign-born rapists and
murderers can use the Human Rights Act and the European Court of Human Rights to
remain in the UK. It is obvious that he will block any attempts by the
Conservatives to propose reforming the current unacceptable system."

But Mr Clegg's 42-minute speech was given an enthusiastic standing ovation by
Lib Dem activists. He told them to "hold your heads up and look our critics
squarely in the eye".

And he insisted they should be proud that being in the Coalition meant that they
could put a brake on Tory policies.

Lib Dems had "the power to hold our Coalition partners back and the power to
move the Government forward", he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg with wife Miriam before his speech yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday

Run of disasters plunges Lloyd's into the red: Some insurers believe 2011 may be
costliest year ever Underpriced risks should not be insured, boss warns

BYLINE: Julia Kollewe

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 808 words


Lloyd's of London is warning that the insurance industry faces an extremely
challenging outlook as the world's oldest market slipped deep into the red
following record claims from natural disasters.

An unprecedented run of catastrophes in Australia, New Zealand, Japan and the US
has led to insurers paying out billions of pounds this year. This made the first
half of 2011 the costliest six-month period in the insurance market's 323-year
history.

Richard Ward, Lloyd's chief executive, said 2011 was shaping up to be the
second-worst year on record for the insurance industry - after 2005, which saw
Hurricane Katrina wreak havoc across the southern US. Others, including Lloyd's
of London insurer Hiscox, believe this could easily be the most destructive year
ever.

"If we see more catastrophes come through it could well be (the second worst
year ever)," said Ward. "Things will get more and more challenging. We're faced
with a pretty dire economic environment. Everyone is talking about sovereign
debt default and a double-dip recession. It doesn't make happy reading. The
economic environment is, of course, affecting all our clients."

This makes it harder for insurers to raise the cost of cover. Ward warned:
"While interest rates are low and equity markets are volatile, we can't rely on
investment income to subsidise our underwriting, we must decline underpriced
risks."

Lloyd's, which began in a coffee shop in the City of London in 1688, slumped to
a pre-tax loss of £697m in the first half, against a profit of £628m a year ago,
reflecting £6.7bn of claims.

While insurers have been lifting their premiums to protect against natural
catastrophes in Australia, New Zealand, Japan and the US, Ward said that
elsewhere rates are flat or even falling. "We do need to see rates go up to
restore the industry to profitability," he reiterated. "But rates are going up
from a low level - in 2005 the market was still reasonably hard and there were
still profits in the system."

The frequency and severity of natural disasters is making life hard for
insurers. "It does feel as though (natural disasters) are happening a lot more
frequently," Ward said, although he added that "you have to look over 100 years
rather than just 10 years.

"When these events happen everyone does revise their models. But I always say
what worries me most are the things we don't model," he said.

Lloyd's revealed that it had minimised its exposure to some European government
debt regarded as too risky, and was steadily pulling deposits from peripheral
European banks. A spokeswoman explained that Lloyd's had no investments in
Greece, and "minimal exposure" to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain.

Rather than rushing to withdraw deposits from certain banks, Lloyd's is shifting
its portfolio towards more secure banks as term deposits mature.

Lloyd's has a £50bn investment portfolio, with 38% allocated to corporate bonds,
28% to government bonds, 29% to cash and 1% to equities. Most of its government
bonds are British gilts and US treasuries, which are seen as safe havens.

Luke Savage, Lloyd's finance director, said: "Given the uncertainty around the
eurozone, we would seek to reduce potential downside risk. As a result, we are
not holding government debt of any peripheral EU countries and have sought to
reduce our exposure to banks in these countries."

Some 80% of Lloyd's corporate bond holdings are from financial institutions.
Savage said Lloyd's was shifting its

holdings towards high-quality banks, perhaps with government backing, from
single A-rated banks and peripheral European institutions.

Godfrey Bloom, UKIP's City spokesman, who sits on the economic and monetary
affairs committee of the European parliament, said: "Lloyd's are only doing what
they have to do. Their job is to ensure that money deposited with them is
treated with full due diligence and care. Anything else than acting to protect
these deposits by removing them from potential harm in risky countries would be
a dereliction of their duty."

The news comes a day after it emerg-

ed that the German engineering group Siemens had pulled its deposits out of the
French bank Societe Generale in July.

At 113%, Lloyd's has a combined ratio - a key measure of an insurer's
underwriting profitability where 100% and anything over indicates a loss - that
compares favourably with the 117% recorded by its Bermuda-based rivals and 116%
for US reinsurers, although European insurers and reinsurers have a lower ratio
of 106%.

Ward believes Lloyd's is benefiting from the diverse book of business that its
members write - covering anything from natural disasters to kidnapping, fine art
theft, and space and satellite insurance.

Captions:

Cargo containers strewn about in Sendai, Japan, after the devastating earthquake
and tsunami in March, which hit profits at Lloyd's, below Photograph: Itsuo
Inouye/AP

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 22, 2011 Thursday 3:14 PM GMT

EU civil servants slam 40-hour week

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 559 words


A union for eurocrats is on the warpath over plans for a 40-hour week -
claiming the move would hit the balance between work and home life.

Some of the best-paid civil servants in the world are being asked to agree to
work another two and a half hours a week as a cost-saving measure in the   midst
of mounting pressure from national governments to cut the EU   administrative
budget.

Number-crunchers in Brussels say putting in the modest extra hours will save
EU taxpayers one billion euros a year (£870 million).

But one of the staff unions representing workers with pay and conditions which
are the envy of national civil servants across Europe is refusing to   negotiate
on the increase.

All civil servants in the main EU institutions - European Commission, European
Parliament and EU Council of Ministers - enjoy the same scale of pay and
perks.

And many senior staff work long hours, despite the official norm of 37 and a
half hours per week.

Now the Equipe d'Union Syndicale, the European Parliament's joint trade union,
has sent round a message rejecting the call for longer hours.

A group of union officials put their names to a letter declaring: "The   unions
and staff associations replied to this proposal with a categorical   'Niet!"'

They say working a 40-hour week would have a "very negative impact on
reconciliation of working and home life".

The statement adds: "The attractiveness of the European civil service   would
deteriorate."

European Parliament staff already have Fridays off in the weeks when European
Parliament plenary sessions are held.

And most staff finish at lunchtime on Fridays the rest of the time.

But some insisted today that staff put in long hours, far in excess of the
official 37 and a half hour week.

On the other hand they can operate a flexi-time system, balancing short days
by working longer hours another day.

And they enjoy time off in lieu for hours over 37 and a half per week - even
in senior management positions.

But Conservative leader in the European Parliament Martin Callanan insisted
today that those fighting the change should "get real", in the   midst of the
economic cutbacks being suffered across Europe.

"Public sector staff the world over are facing cutbacks and wage freezes,"   he
said.

"But here in Brussels they seem to think they live in an economic   microclimate
where money grows on trees and the world owes them a very   comfortable living."

He added: "The Brussels pen-pushers, just like many of the politicians   here,
just don't seem to get it when it comes to the economy. Austerity   measures are
being taken everywhere, but somehow they think the EU is   immune.

"They need to get real and start to talk to us about how they can help   Europe
out of this crisis."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party and an MEP, said: "Not only
do those in the various EU institutions have no idea about what to do with   the
eurozone crisis, but many of them now appear to be refusing to work a   few
extra hours a week, which many of us do as a matter of necessity just to   keep
a roof over our heads.

"You really couldn't make it up: Greece looks like it is about to implode and
yet the eurocrats responsible for the mess are moaning about working   slightly
longer every week to justify their bloated salaries that we are   paying for."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nigerian rapist wins right to stay in UK

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 170 words


A RAPIST has avoided deportation from the UK after European judges yesterday
ruled kicking him out would violate his right to a family life.

The 24-year-old Nigerian has no partner or children but the European Court of
Human Rights in Strasbourg ordered the British Government to let him stay and
pay £3,500 of his legal bill.

The rapist, identified only as AA after the court gave in to his demands for
anonymity, was 15 when he was given four years in 2002 for raping a 13-year-old
girl. He had only been in the country two years at the time.

Since his conviction, the rapist from Bexleyheath, south-east London, has
completed A-levels, a degree and a masters course at the taxpayers' expense and
now works for a local authority.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said: "Yet again we see that because of
the human rights industry we can no longer deal with foreign criminals on our
own soil."

A Border Agency spokeswoman said: "We are extremely disappointed by this
judgment and will consider the next steps carefully."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

A spell at summer school ...Nick Clegg's answer to sorting out rioting thugs

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words


NICK CLEGG will today ignite fresh accusations that the Lib Dems are soft on
crime by claiming that the recent riots were sparked by poverty and educational
failure.

The Lib Dem leader, in his keynote speech to his party conference, is expected
to say that lawless thugs went on the rampage as a result of hopelessness about
their future rather than criminality and greed.

And he will unveil a £50million summer school initiative designed to give
youngsters who struggle two weeks of extra classes to prepare them for secondary
school.

A Lib Dem source said around 100,000 children are expected to attend each year.

The Deputy Prime Minister was due to tell the Lib Dem faithful in Birmingham:
"My passion is ensuring a fair start for every child.

"I have a simple, unquenchable belief; that every child can do good things,
great things, if only we give them the opportunities they deserve."

His speech will round off a conference that featured scathing attacks on
sentences for rioters and accusations that Tory calls for a tough response were
"reactionary drivel".

And in what will be seen as an expression of sympathy for some of the rioters,
Mr Clegg will say: "You know what really struck me? How so many of the rioters
seemed to have nothing to lose.

"It was about what they could get, here and now, not what lies in front of them,
tomorrow and in the years ahead, as if their own future had little value.

"Too many of these young people had simply fallen through the cracks."

Mr Clegg will claim that many youngsters who "go off the rails are the ones
struggling years earlier".

He will unveil his summer school plan for children making the transition from
primary to secondary education "helping them to catch up and getting them ready
for the challenges ahead".

He was due to say: "Too many children lose their way, so this is a £50million
investment to keep them all on the right path."

Secondaries will be encouraged to set up the summer schools with staff to be
paid overtime. Teachers will select pupils invited to join, although attendance
will not be compulsory.

Mr Clegg will also use his speech to launch a scathing attack on Labour leader
Ed Miliband in an attempt to redress the balance after his party's conference
has been dominated by attacks on the Tories.

He will say: "Ed Miliband says he wants to loosen the ties between his party and
the union barons.

"Let's see him put his money where his mouth is.

"Let's see if he'll support radical reform of party funding."

Mr Clegg performed an extraordinary U-turn yesterday.

After years of being one of the most enthusiastic campaigners for single
currency membership, he said: "With the benefit of hindsight, you can say it
would have been a huge, huge error."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "We weren't lucky to stay out of
the euro...the majority knew it was a bad idea.

"Clegg was working in Brussels and stoppered his ears to the voices of the
British people."

OPINION: PAGE 14

Lib Dems want empty home tax

HOMEOWNERS who leave properties empty face swingeing council tax rises under Lib
Dem plans unveiled yesterday.

Coalition ministers want to tackle homelessness and give fresh momentum to the
housing market by raising the levy on homes unoccupied more than two years.

But critics last night condemned the move as an unfair penalty on property
ownership.

Christine Melsom, of the council tax reform campaign group Isitfair, said: "A
lot of people are having to keep homes empty because they can't sell them at the
moment.

"This seems like an unfair extra cost."

Lib Dem regeneration minister Andrew Stunnell, speaking at his party's
conference, said it was a "crime" that 300,000 were empty during a chronic
housing shortage.

He said some of the levy would go to charities and voluntary groups to

refurbish vacant homes.

Q Are the Lib Dems totally useless?

YEs: 0901 030 8342

NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYEs to 80088

No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Looters this summer who 'seemed to have nothing to lose' and had
'fallen through the cracks', according to Mr Clegg
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg will deliver his keynote conference speech today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GREEKS DENY 'EURO QUIT' VOTE

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 186  words


THE embattled Greek government yesterday denied an explosive claim that it was
considering holding a referendum on leaving the euro.

Prime Minister George Papandreou was said by unnamed sources in Athens to be
pondering a vote on whether his country should keep trying to tackle its debt
crisis from within the eurozone or quit.

It came as Italy reacted furiously to having its credit rating downgraded.

Greek government spokesman Angelos Tolkas acknowledged that a Bill was tabled on
Monday to enable referenda to be held.

But he insisted the idea of a vote on the single currency had "definitely" not
been discussed.

The denial did not dampen speculation that Greece could leave the eurozone and
default on its debts rather than keep struggling to repay the massive bail-outs.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "Of course, Greek government sources are denying
that leaving the euro is an option. They would say that, though, as they have to
continue negotiations with Brussels."

In Rome, Premier Silvio Berlusconi said Standard and Poor's downgrading of
Italy's credit rating to A from A+ was based on "political considerations".

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A spell at summer school . . .Nick Clegg's answer to sorting out rioting thugs

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 489  words


NICK CLEGG will today ignite fresh accusations that the Lib Dems are soft on
crime by claiming that the recent riots were sparked by poverty and educational
failure.

The Lib Dem leader, in his keynote speech to his party conference, is expected
to say that lawless thugs went on the rampage as a result of hopelessness about
their future rather than criminality and greed.

And he will unveil a GBP 50million summer school initiative designed to give
youngsters who struggle two weeks of extra classes to prepare them for secondary
school.

A Lib Dem source said around 100,000 children are expected to attend each year.

The Deputy Prime Minister was due to tell the Lib Dem faithful in Birmingham:
"My passion is ensuring a fair start for every child.

"I have a simple, unquenchable belief; that every child can do good things,
great things, if only we give them the opportunities they deserve."

His speech will round off a conference that featured scathing attacks on
sentences for rioters and accusations that Tory calls for a tough response were
"reactionary drivel".

And in what will be seen as an expression of sympathy for some of the rioters,
Mr Clegg will say: "You know what really struck me? How so many of the rioters
seemed to have nothing to lose.

"It was about what they could get, here and now, not what lies in front of them,
tomorrow and in the years ahead, as if their own future had little value.

"Too many of these young people had simply fallen through the cracks."

Mr Clegg will claim that many y oungsters who "go off the rails are the ones
struggling years earlier".

He will unveil his summer school plan for children making the transition from
primary to secondary education "helping them to catch up and getting them ready
for the challenges ahead".

He was due to say: "Too many children lose their way, so this is a GBP 50million
investment to keep them all on the right path."

Secondaries will be encouraged to set up the summer schools with staff to be
paid overtime. Teachers will select pupils invited to join, although attendance
will not be compulsory.

Mr Clegg will also use his speech to launch a scathing attack on Labour leader
Ed Miliband in an attempt to redress the balance after his party's conference
has been dominated by attacks on the Tories.

He will say: "Ed Miliband says he wants to loosen the ties between his party and
the union barons.

"Let's see him put his money where his mouth is.

"Let's see if he'll support radical reform of party funding."

Mr Clegg performed an extraordinary U-turn yesterday.

After years of being one of the most enthusiastic campaigners for single
currency membership, he said:

"With the benefit of hindsight, you can say it would have been a huge, huge
error."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "We weren't lucky to stay out of
the euro?the majority knew it was a bad idea.

"Clegg was working in Brussels and stoppered his ears to the voices of the
British people."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Looters this summer who 'seemed to have nothing to lose' and had
'fallen through the cracks', according to Mr Clegg
Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg will deliver his keynote conference speech today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leave illegal gypsy camps in peace say the eurocrats

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 386 words


MEDDLING Euro politicians sparked fury last night by demanding that illegal
camps like the Dale Farm site should be left in peace to flout British laws.

They claimed that planning regulations should be relaxed to prevent a "rising
tide" of discrimination against gypsies and travellers.

As Basildon council was thwarted in its bid to clear Britain's biggest illegal
camp, a Brussels-based race watchdog said long-standing camps should remain.

The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance report said legalising
established camps would help "combat prejudice and stereotypes concerning Roma
and travellers".

Last night, the watchdog's demands drew fury and disbelief from British
politicians and residents living near Dale Farm.

Gerard Batten, UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman said: "It is a
recipe for anarchy and a total breakdown in the law.

"This means an Irish gypsy can turn up in the United Kingdom, put down a caravan
wherever he wants and if he gets away with it for so long, then it becomes
legitimate.

"Meanwhile, if some Englishman flouts the planning law - maybe even through an
innocent mistake - he will be ordered to tear whatever he has built down. It is
one law for one group of people and another for a different group, all under the
auspices of the human rights lobby."

Basildon Council leader Tony Ball said the Dale Farm case had been pursued in
compliance with human rights laws.

He added: "This case has been through every court in the land and human rights
have been considered at every stage through the legal and planning processes.

"We have negotiated for a peaceful resolution to this over the past decade and
will carry out the site clearance in a safe and lawful way."

Len Gridley, whose house backs on to the Dale Farm site, said: "What about my
human rights? I am a taxpayer.

"If these people have their way then I may as well do what the travellers do and
board up my property and go out on the road, keeping everything I earn for
myself.

"It's all wrong and these people are getting too much protection from the law."

The European report urged countries signed up to the European Human Rights
Convention to waive planning rules if camps had survived in a particular place
for some time and said they should be given backdated authorisation to stay.

CRUSADE

GET US OUT OF THE EU

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How Britain is giving GBP 355m to educate the girls of Asia and Africa

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor at the Lib Dem conference in Birmingham

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 415  words


NICK Clegg triggered fresh outrage at Britain's spiralling overseas aid budget
by pledging GBP 355million of taxpayers' cash to educate girls in poor
countries.

He announced the huge handout at the Lib Dem conference yesterday amid warnings
of swingeing austerity for families at home.

The Deputy Prime Minister's promise of cash for countries including South Sudan,
Nigeria and Bangladesh also came as it emerged that a literacy drive in British
schools is to be axed.

Mr Clegg was cheered by his party's grassroots activists at their gathering in
Birmingham yesterday.

But the move infuriated opponents of the Coalition's policy of raising overseas
aid to a massive GBP 12.6billion a year by 2015 - equivalent to nearly GBP 500
for every household in Britain.

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "This is totally unjustifiable. However nice these
projects sound, they are simply unaffordable.

"What Nick Clegg should be focused on is raising educational standards in this
country. He should look at the number of people who leave schools and cannot
read or write."

MEP Paul Nuttall, education spokesman for the UK Independence Party, said: "This
is deeply unfair on the British taxpayers, who expect their taxes to be used to
educate children in this country. Who does he represent?"

Mr Clegg announced the policy at a question-and-answer session, when a delegate
asked what the Coalition was doing to increase aid spending.

"It is something I feel passionate about myself, having worked before I went
into Parliament on development aid, " he replied. He said the policy was in the
country's "self interest" and that poverty in the Third World was "the breeding
ground for terrorism, strife, mass movement of people".

Thanks to his pledge, GBP 355million will be donated to the new Girls Education
Challenge project by 2015 - enough to provide a million youngsters with
secondary education for three years.

But the National Association of Head Teachers yesterday said Britain's Reading
Recovery Project was being dropped at many of the country's schools.

Andrew Mitchell, Tory International Development Secretary, said: "Educating
girls tackles the root causes of poverty. Research shows that providin g girls
with an extra year of schooling can increase their wages by up to 20 per cent,
while also lowering birth rates."

Officials say girls in developing countries who have been through secondary
education are less likely to marry in adolescence, will have fewer children and
will avoid becoming HIV positive.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Clegg is cheered by Lib Dems yesterday as he reveals the extra
foreign aid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Leave illegal gypsy camps in peace say the eurocrats

BYLINE: By Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 381  words


MEDDLING Euro politicians sparked fury last night by demanding that illegal
camps like the Dale Farm site should be left in peace to flout British laws.

They claimed that planning regulations should be relaxed to prevent a "rising
tide" of discrimination against gypsies and travellers.

As Basildon council was thwarted in its bid to clear Britain's biggest illegal
camp, a Brussels-based race watchdog said long-standing camps should remain.

The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance report said legalising
established camps would help "combat prejudice and stereotypes concerning Roma
and travellers".

Last night, the watchdog's demands drew fury and disbelief from British
politicians and residents living near Dale Farm.

Gerard Batten, UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman said:

"It is a recipe for anarchy and a total breakdown in the law.

"This means an Irish gypsy can turn up in the United Kingdom, put down a caravan
wherever he wants and if he gets away with it for so long, then it becomes
legitimate.

"Meanwhile, if some Englishman flouts the planning law - maybe even through an
innocent mistake - he will be ordered to tear whatever he has built down. It is
one law for one group of people and another for a different group, all under the
auspices of the human rights lobby."

Basildon Council leader Tony Ball said the Dale Farm case had been pursued in
compliance with human rights laws.

He added: "This case has been through every court in the land and human rights
have been considered at every stage through the legal and planning processes.

"We have negotiated for a peaceful resolution to this over the past decade and
will carry out the site clearance in a safe and lawful way."

Len Gridley, whose house backs on to the Dale Farm site, said: "What about my
human rights? I am a taxpayer.

"If these people have their way then I may as well do what the travellers do and
board up my property and go out on the road, keeping everything I earn for
myself.

"It's all wrong and these people are getting too much protection from the law."

The European report urged countries signed up to the European Human Rights
Convention to waive planning rules if camps had survived in a particular place
for some time and said they should be given backdated authorisation to stay.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

G2: Shortcuts: Can W.E. be saved by a radical rethink?: Advice clinic, part 1

BYLINE: Xan Brooks

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words


'I hope it's over with soon," Madonna sighed recently. Now it's reported that
she is preparing to return to the

editing suite to recut her film W.E. after her labour-of-love tale of Edward and
Mrs Simpson was savaged by critics at this year's Venice film festival and
seemed destined to die a swift and bloody death. But hope springs eternal and a
new W.E. is poised to be born. Here's how the singer-turned-director can still
pluck an Oscar-winning triumph from the jaws of disaster.

1 Play it as horror movie W.E. is not just a film about Edward and Wallis
Simpson. It is also the story of Wally (Abbie Cornish), a trophy wife in
late-90s New York who is obsessed with Wallis and occasionally communes with the
woman's ghost. By inviting us to view this as a healthy relationship, Madonna
misses a crucial trick. All it would take is a cursory re-edit to conjure W.E.
into a shocking, Repulsion-style horror movie; a portrait of one woman's nervous
breakdown, as Wally reels through the corridors of her palatial Manhattan
townhouse with the ghost of Wallis in hot pursuit.

2 Play it as a Madonna mashup

Madonna admits that she made the film because she "identifies" with Wallis. Why
not drum this home by peppering the tale with her own back catalogue? Who's That
Girl as Edward catches his first glimpse of Wallis; Causing a Commotion when she
sparks a constitutional crisis; Crazy for You on the wedding day; and the
irrepressible Holiday for the subsequent honeymoon in Nazi Germany.

3 Tone down the Nazi element The director spends much of W.E. ejecting fascists
from the drama, like a harassed bouncer at a UKIP fundraiser. No, she insists,
Edward and Wallis were not Nazi sympathisers. So what if they had lunch with
Hitler? Wallis didn't even like the man!

Arguably, she then undermines these efforts by thanking both John Galliano and
Leni Riefenstahl in the film's credits.

4 Crank up the Nazi element The flipside to Solution 3: instead of airbrushing
out the Nazi allegations, simply shove them to the foreground. Re-titled Wallis
Uber Alles, this could feature a goose-stepping Edward VIII scheming to reclaim
the throne in the event of a German victory while a

voguish Hitler (perhaps played by Madonna herself) storms across Poland in a
Gaultier bra. If it worked for Mel Brooks, it could well save Madonna.

5 Chaos theory! If all else fails, take each scene, throw to the wind and see
where they fall. The result: a potential pop-art masterpiece, a non-linear
free-for-all; like Warhol and Godard turned loose on the grounds of Balmoral.

Captions:

More ghosts! More music! More Nazis!

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 20, 2011 Tuesday 4:26 PM GMT

Chris Huhne attacks Tory hard right

BYLINE: By Sam Lister

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 1816 words


Chris Huhne has launched a scathing attack on the Tory hard right, bracketing
them with the "madcap" American Tea Party movement and warning   they will
"wreck the nation's economy".

The Energy Secretary used his speech to round on Conservatives who "slaver
over tax cuts for the rich" and claimed if they failed to compromise   Britain's
economic recovery would be "put in peril".

Mr Huhne's criticism is the most explicit verbal assault made from the
conference platform by a senior Liberal Democrat on their coalition partners
this week.

He said: "This coalition government saved Britain's credit standing by
compromise.

"The danger if you don't compromise is now clear from America.

"There the markets looked over the brink when the mad-cap Republican   right in
Congress would not compromise with the President.

"Let that be a warning to the Conservative right here - we need no Tea   Party
Tendency in Britain.

"If you fail to compromise, if you fail to seek the common ground that   unites
us, if you insist that only you have the answers, if you keep beating   the
anti-European drum, if you slaver over tax cuts for the rich, then you   will
put in peril the most crucial achievement of this Government.

"You will wreck the nation's economy and common purpose.

"We are all in this together and we can't get out of it alone."

He added: "Whatever we think of the Conservative campaign in the   alternative
vote referendum, and I for one thought that the vilification of   Nick was
appalling, for Liberal Democrats compromise is not and cannot be a   dirty
word."

In a direct challenge to eurosceptic Tories, Mr Huhne also vowed that the Lib
Dems would not allow the Government to weaken links to Europe.

Earlier this month new intake Conservatives formed a group to press the case
for repatriating some powers from Brussels and Foreign Secretary William   Hague
admitted looser ties could benefit the UK.

Mr Huhne said: "Being part of Europe is not a political choice. It is a
geographical reality.

"It always was and until the tectonic plates break up, it always will be.

"We will not, as Liberal Democrats in government, weaken the ties that   deliver
our national interest through Europe."

Mr Huhne's attack came during his keynote conference speech, where he pledged
to "hold course to be the greenest government ever".

He told activists ministers are poised to order energy suppliers to pay
customers unlimited refunds to compensate for "bad behaviour" and   confirmed
tough new powers for energy watchdog Ofgem that will allow it to   stop
companies blocking reforms.

Mr Huhne, who was criticised for saying at the weekend that families "do   not
bother" to hunt for bargains on gas and electricity, will also   announce
changes that will make it easier for consumers to switch suppliers   so they can
lower their bills by up to £200 a year.

He also insisted that the Government's energy policies will mean consumers
will be "better off" in 2020 in an attempt to denounce claims   bills would
rocket.

"We are determined to get tough with the big six energy companies to   ensure
that the consumer gets the best possible deal," he said.

"We want simpler tariffs. Requiring energy companies to tell you whether   you
could buy more cheaply on another tariff. And you could save real money.

"I want to help households save money, simpler charging, clearer bills,
quicker switching and more consumer-friendly firms - co-ops, partnerships,
consumer charities - dedicated to doing the shopping around for consumers to
make sure that you are always on the best deal, even if you do not have time
to check yourself.

"I believe Ofgem should have new powers to secure redress for consumers -
money back for bad behaviour - and we will stop the energy companies from
blocking action by Ofgem, which can delay matters by a year."

Mr Huhne said that energy companies had agreed to add information on to bills
this winter that will direct customers on how to switch to cheaper tariffs.

It comes ahead of plans to force them next year to set out exactly how much
customers could save by switching to a different tariff offered by their own
supplier.

He said: "It is not fair that big energy companies can push their prices   up
for the vast majority of their consumers - who do not switch - while
introducing cut-throat offers for new customers that stop small firms   entering
the market.

"That looks to me like predatory pricing. It must and will stop."

Conceding that households were struggling to make ends meet, he insisted that
cutting carbon "is not a luxury to be ditched when the going gets tough".

Investing in the green energy industry would also help fuel the UK's economic
recovery, he argued.

Referring to the great depression that followed the 1929 economic crash he
said: "In the Thirties, we did not create new jobs by bringing back the
textiles, coal and iron jobs that were lost.

"We created new jobs in new industries and the same is happening today.   Every
month, more than 300,000 people leave the unemployment register to   find new
jobs.

"Thousands of those jobs are now in the low carbon economy. It is our   route to
recovery. Green business is good business."

Richard Lloyd, executive director at Which?, said: "With many people facing
price hikes of 10% to 20% this winter, Government action on rocketing energy
bills will be overdue but welcome. For the millions struggling in fuel
poverty, help can't come soon enough this winter.

"Giving people information on their bills about cheaper tariffs is a step
towards helping people to manage spiralling energy costs. However, when 60%   of
domestic energy customers never switch, the Government and Ofgem must now   take
action to inject genuine competition into the energy market.

"Serious questions must be asked about whether the major suppliers' customer
bases will need to be broken up in order to achieve a competitive market."

CBI director-general John Cridland said: "Competitive energy markets benefit
businesses and consumers. Energy customers should be helped to get the best
deal and we support easier switching of accounts.

"At a time when world energy prices are rising, energy companies are promoting
energy efficiency, and introducing smart meters and low-cost insulation to
help consumers reduce bills.

"We must remember that prices also reflect the critical need for energy
investment for a low-carbon future, where there are opportunities for new
entrants to the market. But we do need ministers to be crystal clear on   energy
policy if vital business investment is to be secured."

Juliet Davenport, chief executive of 100% renewable electricity supplier Good
Energy, said: "The traditional approach to energy is clearly broken and   needs
fixing.

"We need to move towards a decentralised energy market which can provide the
UK with resilience against price volatility caused by relying on energy
imported from abroad.

"Good Energy welcomes Chris Huhne's desire to increase competition. By
encouraging more independent organisations to generate electricity, small
suppliers won't have to buy from the Big Six, ensuring that the consumer   gets
the best possible deal in the end."

Louise Hutchins, climate and energy campaigner at Greenpeace, said: "At last,
Chris Huhne has taken some steps to tackle the big six energy companies as
they continue to rip off the public. But tinkering at the edges won't be
enough.

"As long as this cartel is allowed to use their stranglehold and influence in
Whitehall, our energy bills and inflation will continue to soar as they keep
Britain hooked on ever more expensive imported fossil fuels.

"Serious Government backing for cutting-edge renewable energy industries and
energy-efficient technologies would break the energy giants' grip on   consumer
purses and help bring household bills under control.

"We will know the Government is starting to get serious when it toughens up
its lame energy efficiency legislation currently in Parliament and gives   real
lending powers to the new Green Investment Bank."

Mr Huhne later denied his speech was "conference grandstanding" - and claimed
the Lib Dems were "moderating" the Tories.

He told BBC Radio 4's World at One: "What it's pointing out is that a
coalition government has to represent the views of all of the votes that
support that government in the House of Commons and of the Lords.

"When I see on the Conservative right groups of people beginning to say we
need to take the opportunity of the eurozone crisis to unpick some of the
arrangements which we already have with the European Union, that alarms me   and
alarms a lot of people in the Liberal Democrats.

"We don't intend to let that happen."

He admitted the language he used "dramatised" the differences between the two
coalition parties, and claimed the Lib Dems had restrained their more   popular
partners.

"If there was a single party, Conservative government then the position of the
people who are pushing to disentangle us from our existing commitments in
Europe... would be much more in the ascendancy.

"It's important people understand the Liberal Democrats have a key role in
ensuring the moderation of the Government."

He said his "warning to the Conservative right" was designed to urge them not
"to threaten" the coalition's mission in tackling Britain's economic crisis.

Nick Clegg was asked about Mr Huhne's comments about the "Tea Party tendency"
during a visit to a hospital in Birmingham later.

"All political parties have different wings," he said. "And the point that
Chris was making, whether you like the choice of words or not, was a very
simple one - which is, in a coalition government compromise is the glue that
holds the government together.

"It is important that all of us, all sides in the coalition realises, that
compromise is necessary."

He went on: "Of course from time to time political parties will say, 'oh well,
we want to act as if we won a majority. Nobody did."

Pressed on whether he agreed with the choice of words, Mr Clegg replied: "We
will all choose our own words...

"I'm not there to vet the individual words of senior Liberal Democrats."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage called Mr Huhne a "dishonest fool" for arguing that
being part of Europe was a geographical reality rather than a political
choice.

He said: "Yes, the people of Britain have no issue with Europe, but with the
European Union, and he knows it. Nobody is suggesting that we dynamite the
Channel Tunnel.

"His cheap and ignorant attack on the majority of the British public who want
to end our subservient relationship with the European Union should be and   will
be treated with the contempt he deserves.

"He is talking geography, we are talking about history. He is a fool, and a
dishonest one at that, if he thinks that we are so stupid."

PA

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 20, 2011 Tuesday 4:10 PM GMT

If Martin McGuinness wants to be President of Ireland, he must first renounce
his IRA crimes

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1362 words


Oh, what a joy it was to hear Clegg skewered on the Today Programme this morning
when he was asked if he still thinks that we should join the euro. In the end he
was left spluttering that no one foresaw this crisis. Well, no one except Norman
Lamont, Nigel Lawson and many others. Even I pointed out that "no currency can
have two Chancellors of The Exchequer", and that is the hard fact that has
wrecked the eurozone.

However, that is an aside to the matter of the decision of Mr Martin McGuinness
to run as a Sinn Fein candidate for the presidency of the Republic of Ireland.
Of course it is not for me to tell Irish voters who should be their president,
but there are implications for all of us in Mr McGuinness's bid.

As I understand it, he has a criminal record in the Republic, having been
convicted of membership of the IRA. He also has a criminal record for terrorist
offences in the United Kingdom. He is widely believed to have held very senior
positions in the Provisional IRA, not least in Londonderry during some of the
bloodiest days of terrorism.

The Saville Commission into the deaths during the rioting on January30th 1972
concluded that Mr McGuinness, who was at that time the adjutant of the
Provisional IRA terrorist organisation in that city "was probably armed with a
Thompson submachine gun".

I think it likely that, twelve years later as a senior IRA terrorist, he would
at the very least been aware of, if not party to, the plot to murder Prime
Minister Thatcher in the Brighton bombing of 1984 in which four people were
killed and a number of others - including my wife and I - were injured. My wife
was indeed crippled and has needed constant care to survive ever since.

I understand that Mr McGuiness says that he has renounced terrorism, but I think
it would be fair to say that he has not renounced the fruits of office which he
attained from the IRA's campaign of terrorism. Of course the Government of the
United Kingdom is in no position to criticise the people of the Republic of
Ireland should they elect Mr McGuinness as their President, for they also put
him in office - as a Minister in Northern Ireland.

However, if he is set on a path of reconciliation on both sides of the border,
as he claims, it seems to me that he should understand that the first step in
that process should be the telling of the truth, and the second is the
expression of regret and repentance, without which forgiveness cannot be
expected.

He cannot expect to be forgiven in the way that Christ forgave those who had
crucified him, for in His words "they know not what they do". Mr McGuinness did
know what he was doing. He profited from it. It is now time for his repentance
in order that forgiveness might be given. A first step along that road would be
to disclose where his terrorist colleagues hid the bodies of those of their
victims who have never been found in order that their families may give them a
decent Christian burial.

Such an act of contrition could mitigate the problems, particularly in an era of
international terrorism against Western democracies, posed by the election of a
head of state unable to repent of the terrorist career from which he had
benefited.

...

Well, the union bosses did not get a great deal of support in your comments. I
should say to pragmatist and idmurray that I do not write the headlines to my
blogs, so the description of men like Crowe as "demented" was not mine, but as
rastech observed, it might well be used by many of their members. Perhaps it
would be best if I just noted rather than expressed an opinion on the joy
expressed by aabill, killer of socialists, captain badger and JanglyGuitarParts
at the prospect of finding Mr Crowe in the fast lane of the motorway. However, I
think that crownarmourer was right to say that blocking the road would be an
offence both under road traffic and trades union law.

A number of comments from pragamist and others made the fair point that it is
the job of union leaders to represent their members' interests. I would not
disagree with that. The issue is whether massive strikes bound to damage the
economy would be in the interests of those members, let alone the mass of
workers in the private sector who are no better off than those in the public
sector. After all, I do not recollect Crowe and his friends being much concerned
when Brown raided the private sector pension funds to provide cash for the
public sector. Certainly I doubt if anyone, other than the union leaders, would
benefit from the general strike itzman says he would support. JanglyGuitarParts
thought it unfair to make those who did not cause the recession pay for its
price. Life is often none too fair, but it is also true that the huge increase
in the cost of the public sector, without any commensurate increase in the value
of output, under NuLab is a major part of the problem of soaring Government
debt.

I could not agree with Henry Page, nor does the former Chancellor Alistair
Darling, that Gordon Brown was a brilliantly successful Chancellor who was doing
very well except for the banking crisis for which he had no responsibility.
Public expenditure exploded on his watch. He was responsible for making sure
that the banks were properly regulated. He failed. He failed to prosecute
bankers such as his friend Sir Fred "The Shred" Goodwin for false accounting.
Come off it. What will be next, a hymn of praise for the money grubbing Blair.
Indeed all-going-to-hell-in a handbasket and darkseid refuted such nonsense very
well.

Poor Ed Miliband got no more, perhaps even less, support than the union leaders,
with darkseid suggesting I was too soft on him.

Well, I try to be fair. Muddleheaded he may be, but I believe he is motivated
primarily by wanting to good for his country, as indeed was Gordon Brown, who
was just plain wrong. Like sheonah, I hope he does stand up to the wild men of
the public sector unions .

I think 95 daavid had it about right. If Miliband stands up to the unions, he
would probably not win many new votes and would lose some Labour voters. If he
does not he will not win any new voters either, and either way, as darkseid
pointed out, he has Mr Balls waiting to oust him a dilemna that pomponius found
"entertaining". Nor did either Miliband or the union leaders get any support
from trevedic, Victor Meldrew, ogg1, jeongu, rastech, but as pragmatist
observed, fortunately for them the Tories are floundering too. In the end Bobbie
Dazzler and Laveen Ladharam may be right and the unions will massively overreach
themselves and the wave of strikes will subside to a ripple.

I enjoyed the exchanges between besher and Laveen Ladharam, who seemed a lot
more mature than some of their elders, and between JanglyGuitarParts and
darkseid. Then softmicro wrote a splendid piece on taxation which is well worth
reading.

However, rubberchicken was a disappointment as he still could not explain his
reference to my pension. So too was Durnovia who cannot understand that it may
well be that the Conservative Party is in a better position to deliver the
essentials of UKIP's policy than is UKIP itself. It depends who is in the
driving seat making Conservative policy.

Nor do I think there is anything wrong with workers financing a political party.
What seems odd to me that a few trades union leaders have such influence over
the election of the leader of that party and its policies which do not seem to
most of us to be in the best interests even of their members, let alone the
country as a whole.

Off subject darkseid wrote suggesting that I advocate a rival to the EU. Not so.
I advocate a wider and stronger EFTA of which a West Europen Republic and the UK
might both be members. As the Euro staggers on form crisis to crisis I think
that it is time our Government began to canvass for support for such an idea
amongst other member states. The alternative for us would be to simply leave the
EU and stand back as it collapses. That however would be a messy business, but
not as messy as staying in and being buried under the collapse.

My thanks to vaselino who reminded us of events in Australia, as well as to
those who were kind enough (or smart enough) to agree with me!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 19, 2011
                                 First Edition

@i YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 538 words


A blind eye to exploitation

Christina Patterson tells us that for two years she has been visiting a shop
where she knew a migrant worker was being exploited and she did nothing ("The
truth about immigration", 17 September).

If there is a problem with immigration in this country Christina summed it up in
the first paragraph: exploitation and turning a blind eye. That is also why
there are fewer jobs for British workers, because we''re less willing to be
exploited.

Christina describes poor, cramped living conditions, illegal hours and illegal
pay. Yet she is party to that by her admission that she knew and did nothing.

VERITY SMART

Ms Patterson and her class do not have the right to undermine the working
classes of this country with cheap imported slave-labour, whilst maintaining
pressure on housing so as to prop up the value of their overpriced properties.
This is our country too. Globalisation is a dirt-poor excuse. Shame on her.

PAUL McCARTHY

MANCHESTER

Steak at the Playboy Club

It was with relish that I read the review by John Walsh of Wolfgang Puck's
restaurant in Mayfair (17 September). John's description of the steaks on offer
was mouthwatering.

However, the guide price of about £260 for a meal for two, with wine, is sadly
nowadays out of my price range.

I noticed that the restaurant is at 45 Park Lane, once home to the London
Playboy Club, of which I was a member. Probably the last time I dined there was
in 1978, when a rump or sirloin steak dinner was 75p. Dessert would set you back
another 20p. Happy days.

ROGER C BULL

CORNWALL

Wrong leader for Labour

For once (shock horror), I agree with comments from the Liberal Democrats that
Ed Miliband is an absolute gift for the Tories and the Lib Dems. What possessed
the unions to vote for this weak, ineffective leader of the Labour Party.

Only after a collapse of the eurozone and subsequent EU doubledip recession, or
massive riots when David Cameron and Nick Clegg's social cleansing policies
evict decent families, will Ed Miliband get a chance at winning a general
election.

Where are you, Ukip ?

TERRY McANISH

BASINGSTOKE, HAMPSHIRE

Making the rich pay

Spain will reintroduce a wealth tax affecting around 160,000 people and
expecting to raise up to Euro 1.08bn.

If so much money can be raised by taxing a small number of rich people in Spain,
why does the 50p tax rate for rich people in our country supposedly raise so
little? Are the people who advise us that it would be best to drop the 50p tax
rate earning in excess of £150,000 a year?

STEVE HARDING

WELLINGTON, SOMERSET

Met blames the press

The Metropolitan Police, who have failed to get to the bottom of the phone
hacking scandal, now pass on the blame to the only people who have alerted the
public to what has been going on. They blame the Press for allegedly breaching
the Official Secrets Act to inform the public about the murky world in which we
live.

TERRY DUNCAN

BRIDLINGTON, EAST YORKSHIRE

Mine tragedy in Wales

Thank you for featuring the tragedy of the Gleision Colliery miners on your
front page (17 September). It means a great deal to Welsh people that the
dangers of the mine-working that was the basis of the Welsh economy for for so
long are recognised. COLIN LEWIS MORE COMMENT on independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 18, 2011

Tory MPs and grassroots rebels pile the pressure on £ 32bn high-speed rail link:
Opponents to HS2 had concentrated on the threat to rural beauty. But now they
say the economic case is flawed too

BYLINE: Jamie Doward and Alex Binley

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1219 words


The government faces an uphill battle to win the argument for one of its most
controversial infrastructure projects, High Speed 2, with an increasing number
of backbench MPs set to join the chorus of voices coming out against it.

The £ 32bn rail link connecting London to Birmingham and the north is to be
granted a full parliamentary debate that will see the row over its potential
impact stretch far beyond the constituencies through which it will run.

Following a concerted campaign by Tory MPs, parliament's backbench business
committee has slated a debate for 13 October in what has been seen as a
humiliating rebuke to the government, which had opposed the move.

The debate will play into the increasingly bitter row over the government's
proposals to relax planning laws. "As the proposed route runs through the
Chilterns, an area of outstanding natural beauty, other areas of outstanding
natural beauty should no longer feel safe," said Penny Gaines of Stop HS2.

The government is acutely aware it has a fight on its hands. Last week, the
Economist magazine and the Taxpayers' Alliance joined a chorus of influential
voices opposing the plan. The critics' cause was bolstered by the transport
secretary, Philip Hammond, who conceded that some rail fares were
"eye-wateringly expensive".

Until now the debate about HS2, which would see trains run at more than 200mph,
cutting the journey time between London and Birmingham to just 49 minutes, has
largely focused on its impact on England's finest countryside. The route runs
through the gardens of Hartwell House, the Grade II listed property that is
leased to the National Trust and is recorded in the Domesday Book. It also runs
close to Edgecote Hall, used as the setting for Netherfield in the BBC's 1995
television adaptation of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice, starring Colin
Firth.

Now, however, attention is switching to the business and economic case. The
Institute for Economic Affairs, which has questioned whether HS2 is commercially
viable, is to hold a debate on the project this week that will see its business
plan come under forensic scrutiny. Parliament's transport select committee will
deliver its verdict next month.

"My concern has been that the debate so far has concentrated on the impact on
the constituencies on the route," said the North Warwickshire Tory MP, Dan
Byles, who helped secure the debate. "But it's such an important national
project that, regardless of whether you as an MP are for or against it, you need
to know the issues at stake. Every family in the land will end up paying for
this."

There is a belief within Westminster that many more backbench MPs will oppose
the project once its impact on the nation's finances is subjected to scrutiny.
Byles said opposition was stretching across political divides, with MPs from all
three main parties coming together to oppose the project.

Several other Tory MPs, including Nick Hurd, the minister for civil society,
have joined Byles in openly questioning the business case for HS2. George
Eustice, the prime minister's former spokesman, has complained that "a fortune
is being spent to shave 20 minutes of the journey time from London to Birmingham
when those of us who live at the end of the line in Cornwall have to travel for
the best part of six hours".

Cheryl Gillan, secretary of state for Wales, and MP for Chesham and Amersham,
one of the affected constituencies, has pledged to defy the party whip and
oppose the project.

A growing number of celebrities are also opposed, including Chris Tarrant and
James and Oliver Phelps, who played the Weasley twins in Harry Potter, while the
Ramblers Association, the Campaign for the Protection of Rural England, the
Woodland Trust, the RSPB, and the Wildlife Trusts have expressed reservations.

Opponents are demanding to see evidence from HS2 Ltd, the company behind the
project, that 18 trains an hour would be possible on the "Y-shaped route"
between Leeds and Manchester to London via Birmingham. Critics claim HS2 needs
to deliver that number if it is to be viable.

"It's outrageous that HS2 Ltd have got away with refusing to show their
evidence," said Hilary Wharf, director of the HS2 Action Alliance. "They said to
the transport select committee that they have just done new work that shows 18
trains per hour is possible. It is plainly in the public interest that HS2 Ltd
release not just this new evidence, but also any evidence they had before."

The government claims the economic benefits from building the "Y network" will
total £ 44bn, only half of which will go to London and the south-east.

"HS2 will generate employment, economic growth, regeneration and spread
prosperity across the UK and deliver £ 2 of benefits for every £ 1 spent," a
Department for Transport spokesman said. "These benefits to the country as a
whole will dwarf the costs associated with constructing and operating HS2."

Claims that the project would be a white elephant have been rejected in a report
commissioned by Greengauge 21, a consultancy that represents city councils,
regional development agencies, transport authorities and rail organisations.
Consultants PricewaterhouseCoopers predicted the government could expect to
recoup up to £ 7bn on its initial £ 13.9bn investment if it sells off HS2's
infrastructure.

But many independent experts question the economic and financial claims made in
favour of HS2, especially at a time of mounting austerity and given the need to
rein in spending.

While Tory party chiefs are said to be sanguine about the threat a prospective
voter backlash poses to the 16 Conservative seats along the proposed route,
locals tell a different story. They point out that the Tories lost the ward of
Great Missenden in the Chilterns during the last local elections; four years
earlier, they had held it with 72% of the vote. Ukip, meanwhile, has seen voters
swing behind it in neighbouring wards and has picked up a couple of seats in
Aylesbury.

Seb Berry, the independent councillor who won Great Missenden on the strength of
his opposition to HS2, predicted the mood was turning. "So far there hasn't been
an anti-HS2 slate in the Chilterns. Come the 2013 elections you can rest assured
there will be."

By then the government will have made its decision on whether HS2 will proceed.
The deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, gave a clue last week as to which way the
government would go when he declared that major infrastructure projects were
vital to the future of the UK.

"Whitehall will put its foot on the accelerator," Clegg pledged. "We will
deliver on our commitments."

Indeed, despite the mounting opposition, the government shows no signs of
wavering in its commitment to the project, having already spent £ 37m on
consultants and lawyers to advance a case it believes is becoming more
compelling by the month.

"Long-distance rail travel has doubled in the past 15 years and today some of
our key rail arteries are almost full," the DfT spokesman said. "Without the
extra capacity that HS2 can provide, passengers will soon face the very real
prospect of not being able to get onto trains."

Captions:

The proposed route runs close to Edgecote Hall, used as the setting for
Netherfield in the BBC's 1995 adaptation of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice,
starring Colin Firth. Photograph by Adrian Sherratt/Alamy


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday

THE EURO NIGHTMARE

LENGTH: 1498 words


SIMON HEFFER

The world economic situation has, according to IMF boss Christine Lagarde,
entered a 'dangerous phase'. Central banks from around the globe have promised
yet another bailout fund to stop Europe's banks running out of money. Although
the financial markets have recovered (slightly), the respite is only temporary.

Greece is still likely to default on its debts, which are 160 per cent of its
annual GDP. All that remains to be settled is the timing. It will happen when
Chancellor Merkel of Germany, President Sarkozy of France, Eurocrats in Brussels
and European Central Bank officials in Frankfurt finally admit the iron law of
capitalism: that markets are more powerful than the wishes of politicians.

Until a few days ago, whenever one of Europe's economic basket cases went to the
German Government begging for money, it coughed up.

But no longer. There are two reasons. First, Germany's constitutional court
ruled that parliamentary approval must be given for further bailouts. Second,
opinion polls , especially those taken among Angela Merkel's supporters , show
approval for her policy has collapsed.

Not surprisingly, therefore, Merkel is turning off the tap and ordering
colleagues to be wary of mentioning the word 'default'.

What's more, she tried to boost confidence in Greece, absurdly telling her
Athens counterpart how central his country was to the future of the euro. That
was a little like saying that Scunthorpe is central to the future of sterling.

This ridiculous rhetoric nonetheless reassured the financial markets for the
time being. This is not because they believe what was being said: it is simply
because they took it as a sign that, if Greece should prepare to default,
Germany will still hand out a few billions more.

However, markets make judgments based on facts. Everything in the long-term
points to a Greek default, not just because Germany cannot keep bailing out the
Greeks, but because they themselves are mulishly refusing to accept the
necessary and long overdue austerity programme.

M eanwhile, the Chinese (who have been busy buying up European debt) signalled
on Wednesday that they had bought enough. No one else is keen to take on more.

If Greece defaults, contagion is likely to spread and more countries, perhaps
including Italy (whose debt is 120 per cent of GDP and whose economy is too big
to bail out), are likely to follow.

Some language used in the last few days by eurocrats suggests this is a
probable, rather than a possible, outcome. Why else would we keep hearing dark
talk that if the euro implodes, so would the EU?

Why, too, would Jacek Rostowski, the Polish finance minister, warn that the debt
crisis threatens to destroy the entire EU project and make wars in Europe
imaginable again?

When such ministers engage in such hysteria, scaremongering has replaced
reasoned argument.

If the eurozone does eventually evaporate, the next great event in European
history would not be war but an attempt by the 27 EU members to make a new
treaty to cement a union of nations no longer secured by the ideal of a single
currency.

And, as one former Foreign Office minister told me, that treaty would seek
closer integration between states , possibly even fiscal union , to avoid a
repeat of the current crisis.

This, of course, would be a nightmare for David Cameron, who is already under
pressure from 120 Tory MPs who are calling for a looser association with Europe.
Some , perhaps as many as a fifth of backbenchers , want out altogether, while
sentiment among Tory voters is profoundly anti-EU.

UKIP continues to do well in local elections by advocating withdrawal from the
EU and making other traditional Tory demands such as restricting immigration and
restoring grammar schools. If instinctive Tories vote for UKIP, the
Conservatives would lose a wave of seats.

Mr Cameron used to believe that any treaty that changed the nature of the EU
should be subject to approval in a referendum of the British people. This was
the stance he took towards the Lisbon Treaty (which would have given Brussels
many more powers) until six months or so before he won power.

He was then told that the Treaty amended the earlier Treaty of Rome (the
founding document of the EU) and that a vote against it would void the Treaty of
Rome, forcing Britain to leave the EU. His referendum pledge was swiftly
dropped.

Incidentally, the law states that any treaty that affects Britain's relationship
with the EU must be subjected to a referendum. However, any new treaty
introducing fiscal union of those in the eurozone would not affect Britain,
because we are not part of it.

The great danger now is that a combination of the Foreign Office, the malign
editorial voice of the BBC (which regards eurosceptics as deranged and
anti-European Unionists as downright evil) and, above all, the Lib Dems would
press Mr Cameron into signing a treaty advocating closer integration , and bully
him to refuse a referendum on it. That would have far-reaching effects.

Tory MPs are in no mood to see the PM collude in the pretence that the EU can
carry on towards the same superstate goal by different means. Indeed, the
parliamentary Conservative Party is more eurosceptic than at any time since the
war.

It would be especially toxic for Cameron if he appeared to be manipulated by the
Lib Dems on this issue as he is, regrettably, on so many other policies.

No party in Britain has a more shocking record of misjudgments on Europe than
the Liberals.

The Tories rejected a single currency when William Hague became leader in 1997,
and even Labour kept Britain out of the euro thanks to Gordon Brown, despite
pressure from Blairites to join up.

By contrast, the Lib Dems have been obsessive believers in the European project
throughout the disaster with the euro. This attitude reflects their fundamental
distrust in British institutions and their disregard for national sovereignty.

David Cameron would be better off taking advice on Europe from his postman than
from Nick Clegg and his deluded friends. If ignoring the Lib Dems breaks the
Coalition, so be it.

But the really astonishing aspect of this debacle is that the political class
failed to see it coming. Why did anyone ever think that 17 disparate countries,
with different economic cultures, different work ethics, different industrial
bases and different standards of living could ever adapt to a one-size- fits-all
currency?

W hy did they ever think a single currency could work in 17 different countries
with 17 different finance ministers, 17 different tax systems, and 17 different
economic policies? Why did they think it would work when country after country ,
including significant ones such as France and Italy , repeatedly flouted the
rule forbidding them to run deficits of more than 3 per cent of their GDP, and
nobody punished them?

I don't profess to be a genius, but my own realisation that this could never
work came when I was in the fourth form at school, just before the 1975
referendum on whether we stayed in what was then called the European Economic
Community.

I read a newspaper report of a speech by Enoch Powell, who said that you could
only have a single currency if you had a single economic policy; and you could
only have a single economic policy if you had a single Chancellor of the
Exchequer. 'And it won't,' he added, 'be ours.'

If the euro dies, the EU won't, I'm afraid, die with it. Frantic, desperate
attempts will be made to keep the twitching corpse alive. The big decision for
our Prime Minister will be whether he drives the ambulance, or passes by on the
other side.

Instead of prosecuting Kweku Adoboli, who is accused of a 61.3 billion 'rogue
trade', shouldn't he just be sent straight to run the Greek economy? Having only
lost such a trifling sum, he'd be an improvement on the present incumbents.

THE BOTTOM LINE...

I've always been in two minds about caning in schools , not because I am a
bleeding heart liberal, but because I don't think the teaching profession would
benefit from all the perverts and sadists attracted by what they would see as
such a perk. However, when I read about the head who suspended 109 pupils in one
day for various offences, I was forced to reconsider. A whacking must be less
painful than letting these delinquents loose on the public.

* The TUC used to be so significant that it took over whole seaside resorts for
its annual conference. This week, it met in subdued circumstances in its grim
London HQ. It will marginalise itself further with a fatuous 'day of action' in
November, while the nation struggles through the economic crisis.

If it isn't careful, it will soon be so irrelevant that it could hold its annual
jamboree in a Clacton telephone box.

* Why does Dave claim to regard 'with relish' his fight with the National Trust
over its opposition to the Government's planning reforms?

Why is he so keen on the concreting over of rural England? Is it because his
party's property spiv paymasters mean so much more to him than his core vote?

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brussels pen-pushers top up pay by 16pc with 'expat' allowance for life

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 541 words


TWO thirds of EU officials receive an expat perk that gives them 16 per cent on
top of their salary for their entire working life at a cost of £200million a
year.

Some 70 per cent of EU staff, over 38,000 people, claim an "expatriation"
allowance to compensate them for living abroad, an information request by The
Daily Telegraph has established.

The perk, which is paid at a flat rate of 16 per cent of salary, lasts
throughout the career of an EU official and is worth an extra £30,000 a year to
those earning the highest annual pay grade of £185,000.

Unlike the private sector or other institutions, such as the Foreign Office, the
allowance is paid without requirement of proof, for the working life of
officials after they take up an EU civil service post.

All non-Belgian EU officials working in Brussels are entitled to the perk even
though moving and relocation costs would diminish over time. Many claim the
allowance even though they are already living abroad.

Britain, France, Germany, Austria, Demark, Finland, Holland and Sweden are
demanding the allowance be scrapped as part of EU austerity savings and wider
staff reforms, including the principle that extra payments be based on incurred
expenditure rather than fixed rates.

A Government spokesman said: "At a time when governments have taken significant
actions to reduce the costs of their public sector, including freezing or even
cutting civil service pay, salaries and allowances in EU institutions should
reflect the very difficult decisions which are being made right across Europe.

"Pay for EU officials needs to be brought into line with pay for civil servants
in EU countries. Parts of the pay and benefits package for EU civil servants
need serious reform, including the expatriation allowance."

Martin Callanan MEP, the leader of the European Conservatives, said: "It is
justifiable for staff moving jobs between countries to have relocation costs
reimbursed but to continue these allowances for life is simply ridiculous. It is
not as if these people are badly paid."

In Britain, the Government has imposed a two-year pay freeze for most civil
servants, reduced pension benefits and cut hundreds of thousands of jobs in the
public sector.

In Greece, which is being administered under an EU-IMF austerity programme,
public sector wages have fallen by over 25 per cent on average. Over 300,000
Irish civil servants have had their benefits cut and have to pay a special tax.

The European Commission has proposed £870 million in staff savings between 2014
and 2020 by increasing the working week for officials and cutting jobs by five
per cent. But the commission has ruled out any change to expat allowances even
though it could save £1.4billion over the seven-year period, saving the British
taxpayer £204 million.

"The expat allowance is a key part of officials' remuneration package, and
changing it would have serious consequences on the geographical balance of
staff," said a commission spokesman.

Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of Ukip, said that people did not need to be
compensated having to work in the "culinary paradise of Brussels", capital of
Belgium. "How can the EU dictate austerity to the millions while it continues to
feather its own nest at their expense?" he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 16, 2011 Friday 9:00 PM GMT

EU officials cash in on £200 million expat perk;
Two thirds of EU officials are cashing in on an expat perk that gives them an
extra 16 per cent on top of their salary for their entire working life at a cost
of £200 million a year.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 588 words


An information request by The Daily Telegraph has established that 70 per cent
of EU staff, more than 38,000 thousand people, claim an "expatriation" allowance
paid to compensate them for living abroad.

The perk, which is paid as an automatic flat rate of 16 per cent of salary,
lasts throughout the career of an EU official and is worth an extra £30,000 a
year to those earning the highest annual pay grade of £185,000.

Unlike the private sector or other institutions, such as the Foreign Office, the
allowance is paid, without any requirement of proof, for the entire working life
of officials, up to 40 years, after they take up an EU civil service post.

All non-Belgian EU officials working in Brussels are entitled to the substantial
perk even though moving and relocation costs would diminish over time and many
claims the allowance even though they are already living abroad.

Britain, France, Germany, Austria, Demark, Finland, Holland and Sweden are
demanding that the lifetime allowance be scrapped as part of EU austerity
savings and wider staff reforms, including the principle that extra payments
should be based on incurred expenditure rather than fixed rates.

"At a time when governments across Europe have taken significant actions to
reduce the costs of their public sector, including freezing or even cutting
civil service pay, salaries and allowances in EU institutions should reflect the
very difficult decisions which are being made right across Europe," said a
Government spokesman.

"Pay for EU officials needs to be brought into line with pay for civil servants
in EU countries. Parts of the pay and benefits package for EU civil servants
need serious reform, including the expatriation allowance."

Martin Callanan MEP, the leader of the European Conservatives, said: "I think it
is justifiable for staff moving jobs between countries to be have relocation
costs reimbursed but to continue these allowances for life is simply ridiculous.
It is not as if these people are badly paid."

In Britain, the Government has imposed a two-year austerity pay freeze for most
civil servants, reduced pension benefits and cut hundreds of thousands of jobs
in the public sector.

In Greece, a country being administered by European officials under an EU-IMF
austerity programme, public sector wages have fallen by over 25 per cent on
average. Over 300,000 Irish civil servants, also reeling from EU-IMF demands for
spending cuts, have been hit by cuts to benefits and a special tax on public
sector workers.

To bring the EU into line with national austerity, the European Commission has
proposed £870 million in staff savings between 2014 and 2020 by increasing the
length of working week for officials and cutting jobs by five per cent.

But the commission has ruled out any change to expat allowances even though
cutting the benefit could save £1.4 billion over the same seven year period,
providing a saving for the British taxpayer of £204 million.

"The reason for this is that the expat allowance is a key part of officials'
remuneration package, and changing it would inevitably have serious consequences
on the geographical balance of staff," said a commission spokesman.

Nigel Farage MEP, the leader of Ukip, said that people did not need to be
compensated having to work in the "culinary paradise of Brussels", capital of
Belgium, which has the highest density of Michelin starred restaurants in
Europe.

"How can the EU dictate austerity to the millions while it continues to feather
its own nest at their expense?," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 16, 2011 Friday 1:43 PM GMT

'War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength' claims Osborne

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 664 words


"A successful Euro is massively in Britain's interests" Chancellor George
Osborne said today.

He could equally well have said: "A cute puppy and/or crazy calendar
kitten-in-a-basket for every working family is massively in Britain's
interests". Or: "TV series which are at least as good as Das Boot, Band of
Brothers, The Simpsons, The Sopranos and South Park combined are massively in
Britain's interests." Or: "Eternal youth, endless peace and permanent
full-employment in lovely jobs that everyone loves doing are massively in
Britain's interests." And made just about as much sense.

Sure a "successful Euro" would be massively in Britain's interests if we lived
in a parallel universe where: the EU were a democratic entity which prized,
above all else, the sovereign rights of its constituent states; the EU were not
a two-speed economy where the interests of heavily socialised, terminally
corrupt spendthrift southern whacko member states like Greece diverged
enormously from those of stolid, hardworking, fiscally responsible states like
Germany; the political union necessary to secure a stable Euro would not
inevitably result in a massive democratic deficit in which sovereign peoples no
longer had any meaningful control over their sociopolitical and economic
destiny.

Unfortunately we don't live in that parallel universe. Which is why UKIP leader
Nigel Farage was quite right to Tweet: "The British Chancellor is telling the
rest of Europe it must abandon democracy. It's appalling."

Yes it is. I can't be the only one, surely, who is sick to death of hearing from
economists, technocrats, politicians and bankers (ie the very people who got us
into this mess in the first place) that the costs of a Euro break up are so
unimaginably awful it simply cannot be allowed to happen.

Right then, let us do some imagining for them. Let's just think about what
happens, say, when a Greek who has been nursed in the concept of Eleutheria
suddenly wakes up one day to find that from now on every decision about his
future prosperity - what he's paid, whether he can even get a job - is decided
by men in suits he can never boot out of office because he never voted them into
office. And let's just think about happens when you're a German small
businessman whose profits are getting measlier and measlier each month thanks to
all that money you're obliged to divert to places like Athens so that Greek tax
collectors can go on strike for the right to retire at 22 on pensions quadruple
their final earnings?

What you get, at the very least, if this goes on are Soviet-Union-level extremes
of authoritarianism, control, economic stagnation, waste and abject misery.

And that's the upbeat scenario in the very unlikely event that this "soft
fascist" tyranny - as my new friend Timo Soini called it the other day - endures
for any length of time. Far, far more likely are riots, revolutions and military
coups in the more hot-headed southern regions of the Eurozone. And creeping
judicial, economic and political authoritarianism from the northern member
states as they attempt, with increasing desperation, to shore up the ruins of a
disastrous project which should have been abandoned decades ago.

Where Britain fits into all this is anyone's guess. But what I would suggest to
George Osborne is this:

No it's not massively in Britain's interests to abut a Communist-style economic
dead zone in which all productive business and financial service industries have
long since fled to the safety of the Far East.

No it's not massively in Britain's interests to sit on the edge of a continent
torn by civil disobedience or civil war.

No it's not massively in Britain's interests to demand, just because you've made
no contingency for this disaster and you want to buy more dithering space, that
the Finns, the Irish, the Spanish, the Dutch and the rest be forced to submit
themselves to a new pan-European dictatorship.

Sorry George, but you need to think up a Plan B. And fast.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Save the doomed euro by setting up a new super-state'

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 545 words


THE EU's top bureaucrat yesterday claimed that only a fully-fledged superstate
can save the euro.

Jose Manuel Barroso, the Commission's President, said the deepening economic
crisis in Europe was a "fight for integration".

His outburst was seen by opponents of the march towards a federal Europe as
exposing the ultimate ambitions of the Brussels bureaucracy.

Mr Barroso spoke out amid yet more desperate efforts to stop debt-ridden Greece
going bust and wrecking the single currency.

"What we need now is a new, unifying impulse, a new federalist moment - let's
not be afraid to use the word," Mr Barroso told the European Parliament in
Strasbourg.

"We are confronted with the most serious challenge of a generation. This is a
fight for the jobs and prosperity of families in all our member states.

"This is a fight for the economic and political future of Europe. This is a
fight for what Europe represents in the world. This is a fight for European
integration itself."

Scam

But one critic, Tory MP Douglas Carswell, said: "This is a fight for Europe's
fat cats to cling on to their privileged positions and their taxpayer-funded
fiefdom.

"It is not in the interests of the millions of people around Europe who have
been oppressed by Barroso and his ilk's currency scam.

"The sooner the euro breaks up, the better. People need a currency that works
for them.

"And who voted for Barroso to lord it over us, anyway? He is an unelected
bureaucrat who is overseeing a system that is falling apart."

In his speech, Mr Barroso said: "The right way to stop the negative cycle and
strengthen the euro is to deepen integration, mainly in the euro area. This is
the way to go."

Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, told Mr Barroso in the parliament:
"We all know that Greece is going to default.

"You can't say you weren't warned: You were all told that Greece should never
have joined the euro." He added: "Unless Greece is allowed to get out of this
economic and political prison, you may well spark a revolution in that country."

Many senior politicians fear a Greek debt default could destroy the euro.

As the crisis deepened yesterday, US President Barack Obama and China's Premier
Wen Jiabao both warned EU leaders to get a grip.

Poland's finance minister went so far as to say: "If the eurozone were to
collapse or to disappear, then the European Union itself might not survive, that
is possible." Mr Barroso was last night pressing for the issuing of "euro bonds"
as a solution to the crisis. The measure would allow the 17 euro currency
nations to collectively borrow cash.

But his plan was being opposed by Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel amid fears
in her country that eurozone debt is spiralling out of control.

Instead, Mrs Merkel and French president Nicolas Sarkozy were offering the
Athens government more bail out cash in return for a pledge to stick to its
spending cuts.

LEO MCKINSTRY: PAGE 12 GET US OUT

OF THE EU

CRUSADE

GET US OUT OF THE EU

Even if you have already signed the Daily Express online petition please go to
www. express.co.uk/referendum which will direct you to the Government's offi
cial e-petition website. We need 100,000 backers to force Parliament to debate a
referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. Nearly 30,000 have already backed
our crusade.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Barroso was branded 'an unelected bureaucrat in a system falling
apart'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

'Save the doomed euro by setting up a new super-state'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 503  words


THE EU's top bureaucrat yesterday claimed that only a fully-fledged superstate
can save the euro.

Jose Manuel Barroso, Commission President, said the deepening crisis in Europe
was a "fight for integration".

His outburst was seen by opponents of the march towards a federal Europe as
exposing the ultimate ambitions of the Brussels bureaucracy.

He spoke out amid yet more desperate efforts to stop debt-ridden Greece going
bust and wrecking the single currency. "What we need now is a new, unifying
impulse, a new federalist moment - let's not be afraid to use the word, " Mr
Barroso told the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

"We are confronted with the most serious challenge of a generation. This is a
fight for the jobs and prosperity of families in all our member states.

"This is a fight for the economic and political future of Europe. This is a
fight for what Europe represents in the world. This is a fight for European
integration itself."

But one critic, Tory MP Douglas Carswell, said: "This is a fight for Europe's
fat cats to cling on to their privileged positions and their taxpayer-funded
fiefdom.

"It is not in the interests of the millions of people around Europe who have
been oppressed by Barroso and his silk's currency scam. The sooner the euro
breaks up, the better. People need a currency that works for them."

Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, told Mr Barroso in the parliament:
"We all know that Greece is going to default. You can't say you weren't warned:
You were all told that Greece should never have joined the euro." He added:
"Unless Greece is allowed to get out of this economic and political prison, you
may well spark a revolution in that country."

Many senior politicians fear a Greek debt default could destroy the euro.

As the crisis deepened yesterday, US President Barack Obama and China's Premier
Wen Jiabao both warned EU leaders to get a grip.

Poland's finance minister went so far as to say: "If the eurozone were to
collapse or to disappear, then the European Union itself might not survive, that
is possible." Mr Barroso was last night pressing for the issuing of "euro bonds"
as a solution.

But his plan was being opposed by Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel amid fears
in her country that eurozone debt is spiralling out of control.

Instead, Mrs Merkel and French president Nicolas Sarkozy were offering Athens
more cash in return for a pledge to stick to spending cuts.

They told the Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou it was essential he
introduce the measures agreed in July following a second European bail out. They
stressed the "importance they attach to the strict and effective implementation
of the Greek economic redressment programme."

They wanted to quell fears Greece was about to default, leave the euro and
destabilise other troubled eurozone nations such as Portugal, Ireland, Spain or
Italy. Last night demonstrators in Rome clashed with police as the Government
passed a new 54 billion euro package of austerity measures to save the country's
economy.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Barroso was branded 'an unelected bureaucrat in a system falling
apart'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Save the doomed euro by setting up a new super-state'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 477  words


THE EU's top bureaucrat yesterday claimed that only a fully-fledged superstate
can save the euro.

Jose Manuel Barroso, the Commission's President, said the deepening economic
crisis in Europe was a "fight for integration".

His outburst was seen by opponents of the march towards a federal Europe as
exposing the ultimate ambitions of the Brussels bureaucracy.

Mr Barroso spoke out amid yet more desperate efforts to stop debt-ridden Greece
going bust and wrecking the single currency.

"What we need now is a new, unifying impulse, a new federalist moment - let's
not be afraid to use the word, " Mr Barroso told the European Parliament in
Strasbourg.

"We are confronted with the most serious challenge of a generation. This is a
fight for the jobs and prosperity of families in all our member states.

"This is a fight for the economic and political future of Europe. This is a
fight for what Europe represents in the world. This is a fight for European
integration itself."

But one critic, Tory MP Douglas Carswell, said: "This is a fight for Europe's
fat cats to cling on to their privileged positions and their taxpayer-funded
fiefdom.

"It is not in the interests of the millions of people around Europe who have
been oppressed by Barroso and his silk's currency scam.

"The sooner the euro breaks up, the better. People need a currency that works
for them.

"And who voted for Barroso to lord it over us, anyway? He is an unelected
bureaucrat who is overseeing a system that is falling apart."

In his speech, Mr Barroso said: "The right way to stop the negative cycle and
strengthen the euro is to deepen integration, mainly in the euro area.

This is the way to go."

Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, told Mr Barroso in the parliament:
"We all know that Greece is going to default.

"You can't say you weren't warned:

you were all told that Greece should never have joined the euro." He added:

"Unless Greece is allowed to get out of this economic and political prison, you
may well spark a revolution in that country."

Many senior politicians fear a Greek debt default could destroy the euro.

As the crisis deepened yesterday, US President Barack Obama and China's remier
Wen Jiabao both warned EU leaders to get a grip.

Poland's finance minister went so far as to say: "If the eurozone were to
collapse or to disappear, then the European Union itself might not survive, that
is possible." Mr Barroso was last night pressing for the issuing of "euro bonds"
as a solution to the crisis. The measure would allow the 17 euro currency
nations to collectively borrow cash.

But his plan was being opposed by Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel amid fears
in her country that eurozone debt is spiralling out of control.

Instead, Mrs Merkel and French president Nicolas Sarkozy were offering the
Athens government more bail out cash in return for a pledge to stick to its
spending cuts.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Barroso was branded 'an unelected bureaucrat in a system falling
apart'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tory anger at Clarke vow on human rights

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 316  words


JUSTICE Secretary Kenneth Clarke sparked fury last night after he said there was
"not the faintest chance" of withdrawing Britain from Europe's Human Rights
Convention.

Outspoken Mr Clarke said the document - along with the European Court of Human
Rights - had "advanced" standards across Europe despite concerns about a string
of controversial rulings imposed on Britain by European judges.

His outburst appeared to conflict with the Tory election pledge of a new UK Bill
of Rights to curb Europe's influence on British law.

And after last month's riots, the Prime Minister said he would act to stop
courts' powers of punishment being wrecked by rulings from the European Court of
Human Rights.

David Cameron said: "What is alien to our tradition - and now exerting such a
corrosive influence on behaviour and morality - is the twisting and
misrepresenting of human rights. We're working to develop a way through the
morass by looking at creating our own British Bill of Rights."

Mr Clarke told the Commons said: "Since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end
of the Cold War, the convention has acquired new importance in making sure we
support those advancing standards in eastern and central Europe. There isn't the
faintest chance of the present Government withdrawing from the Convention on
Human Rights."

Answering Labour's Jeremy Corbyn who asked about the new Bill of Rights, Mr
Clarke's remarks sparked angry scowls from Tories. In response, Labour MPs
shouted: "Watch out behind you."

Mr Clarke then tried to blame the Government's stance on human rights law on the
Lib Dems, saying: "Have a look at our Coalition Agreement."

Last night, Tory MP Priti Patel said: "These are alarming and deeply unhelpful
words from Ken Clarke. European judges are riding roughshod over Britain at the
moment." Ukip's Nigel Farage said:

"Millions of people across the country will see the Government for what it is."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 14, 2011 Wednesday 3:04 PM GMT

Call for more European federalism

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 659 words


The economic crisis has turned into a "fight for European integration",   the
president of the European Commission warned today.

Jose Manuel Barroso insisted that the answer to the growing threat to the euro
was a more, and not less, integrated European Union.

Amid growing speculation that Greece may default on its debts or even leave
the eurozone, Mr Barroso told the European Parliament: ""We are   confronted
with the most serious challenge of a generation.

"This is a fight for the jobs and prosperity of families in all our   member
states. This is a fight for the economic and political future of   Europe. This
is a fight for what Europe represents in the world. This is a   fight for
European integration itself."

In a three-way conference call later today, German chancellor Angela Merkel
and French president Nicolas Sarkozy will press Athens to honour its   national
austerity pledges in return for more bail-out cash from Europe.

The alternative, the Greek government is being warned, is national bankruptcy
and a rupture in the single currency.

Mr Barroso used his speech in Strasbourg to fend off eurosceptic insistence
that the crisis signals the end to integrationist dreams. He insisted that   the
"signals" he was getting were for "a more integrated   Europe".

"What we need now is a new, unifying impulse, a new federalist moment -   let's
not be afraid to use the word."

The Commission president went on: "The right way to stop the negative   cycle
and strengthen the euro is to deepen integration, mainly in the euro   area.
This is the way to go."

He said the big problem was that new rules governing the running of the euro
area had been agreed but not fully implemented by the euro-zone countries.

He said: "In the cacophony of criticisms, counter-criticisms, magic   bullets
and miracle panaceas that are proposed on a daily basis, the truth   has been
drowned out - that solid, feasible and concrete proposals have been   made. That
they have been agreed upon. But they have taken too long and have   not yet been
fully delivered."

Mr Barroso added: "Economic and monetary union cannot function properly   only
on the basis of decisions taken by unanimity.

"Because if a eurosceptic fringe can determine the position of one member
state and one member state can block decisions, the result is that we are   not
credible. This is not about institutional positioning or power. It is   about
efficiency and delivery."

Mr Barroso called for more centralised decision-making using the EU "Community
method", adding: "A system based purely on intergovernmental cooperation has
not worked in the past and will not work in the future. After all, this is   why
the Community method and the EU institutions were created by the member   states
in the first place."

He defended the Greek government - widely accused of failing to implement
austerity measures as planned - saying Athens had taken significant steps to
deliver on its commitments.

But he urged the Greek government now to finalise the details with the
"Troika" - officials from the Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB),   and
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) - who are due in Athens later this   week.

But Ukip leader Nigel Farage slammed the "Troika" as a group of "part-time
overseas dictators" telling the Greeks what to do.

He told Mr Barroso: "I don't think even you believe in what you are saying,
because we all know that Greece is going to default.

"You can't say you weren't warned: you were all told that Greece should never
have joined the euro.

"Now you've got European economic governance and what is it? A troika of the
Commission, ECB and IMF, killing democracy in Greece... these part-time
overseas dictators now tell the Greek people what they can and cannot do. It
is totally unacceptable.

"Unless Greece is allowed to get out of this economic and political prison,
you may well spark a revolution in that country."

PA

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

SORRY, I WAS WRONG!

LENGTH: 1958 words


In this extraordinary recantation, MAX HASTINGS, who has been pro-European all
his adult life, admits the EU is now a disaster which is blighting every aspect
of British life , and crippling our recovery Put ASIDE the crash this week in
European shares over the nightmare that is the Greek economy, and the fact
remains that the EU is in dire straits, unprecedented in its history.

All my adult life, I have called myself a pro-European. I deplored Brussels'
follies as much as anyone, but went on hoping for better things. I believed
Europe was broadly a force for good.

However, today, I recant. After much agonising and hesitation, I adopt the
conclusion that many of you probably reached years ago: that the EU in its
present form has become a disaster, which threatens the future of its major
members, unless its terms and powers are drastically recast.

The eurozone is merely the most conspicuous symptom of failure. It reflects a
historic policy blunder by the rich, prudent nations that linked themselves in a
suicidal currency pact with the non-serious countries of Europe, Greece and
Ireland foremost among them.

Even the staunchly pro-European Economist magazine admitted last week that 'the
debt crisis is exposing problems in the basic design of the European Union';
that the eurozone faces a stark choice between break-up and fiscal integration,
against the strong wishes of its solvent members' voters.

Some of us used to argue that Europe has been an economic success story. Those
who remembered the past poverty of Spain, for instance, rejoiced to see the
country apparently booming, its prosperity exemplified by Madrid's glittering
new airport.

Much the same might be said about our western neighbour, the Celtic tiger.

But now we see that their supposed success , not to mention that of Greece and
Portugal , was an illusion created by smoke, mirrors, prodigious subsidy and
reckless borrowing. The EU's generosity enabled tinpot countries to create
lavish welfare states unsustainable by their own real wealth.

The pain of restoring their solvency will persist for years: Italians last week
staged a general strike to protest against austerity cuts. Southern Europe can
regain stability and credibility only by making a rendezvous with reality
involving a much reduced standard of living.

Beyond the euro, a thousand other, scarcely lesser Euro- nonsenses blight our
lives and prosperity. Consider, for example, the impending EU directive
affecting 1.3 million temporary workers in Britain. From October 1, after 12
weeks' service, they will be granted identical rights and privileges to those
enjoyed by permanent staff.

This can have only one consequence: to deter employers from engaging temporary
labour , madness at a time when British unemployment stands at 7.9 per cent and
one in five young people aged between 16 and 24 lack jobs.

Equally, a shop that wants to cut its workforce from six to five faces a
statutory requirement to make all six reapply for their jobs.

Meanwhile, small businesses employing as few as two or three employees, lacking
administrative staff and human resources departments, are drowning in a sea of
paperwork.

The European Commission, supposedly a driver for commerce, has become a blight
on it.

At a time when we face a historic challenge from Asia, the EU makes it almost
impossible to adopt measures essential to strengthening its members'
competitiveness, above all the relaxation of employment law.This has become, for
practical purposes, unemployment law.

But the Business Department run by Vince Cable, a Lib Dem Euro-enthusiast,
declines to resist the new EU employment directive, though it would be legally
possible for Britain to do so. Another directive, a further example of Brussels
suicidalism, is shortly to take effect in Britain: the so-called Resale Rights
Directive, a levy that guarantees artists (and the heirs of those who have died
in the past 70 years) a percentage of the profit every time their work is
resold.

While this has obviously been welcomed by artists, London auction houses and
dealers are wringing their hands.

Anyone planning to sell a work and who wants to avoid the tax will simply send
it to be sold in New York or Geneva, where there is no such levy.

The big loser will be British trade: this country commands 50 per cent of the
entire European art market.

Yet again, Brussels will have inflicted another savage wound on its own members'
interests.

Tony Blair fought off implementation of the Resale Rights Directive in Britain,
but the Coalition has caved in to Brussels with contemptible feebleness.

Baroness Willcox, the minister responsible in the Business Department, is
nominally a Tory. But her readiness to accept the new Euro art sales tax
suggests that, in P. G. Wodehouse's phrase, she is a spineless invertebrate.

Unless David Cameron intervenes personally at the 11th hour, this latest EU
poison pill will take effect on January 1.

As for the disastrous European Convention On Human Rights, this was brought into
effect in 1953 by the Council of Europe rather than by the EU, but it is deemed
legally impossible for Britain to derogate from the convention while remaining
an EU member.

I use the word 'disastrous' because its interpretation by the judges of the
European Court in Strasbourg has had a host of unwelcome consequences for
Britain.

The Human Rights convention no longer serves as it was intended, as a barrier to
injustice.

Instead, it has become a rockfall in the path of common-sense in almost every
area of human affairs.

Gipsies, illegal immigrants, convicted terrorists and criminals have become its
undeserving beneficiaries.

Fear of human rights law causes employers, judges, ministers and policemen to
cower in slit trenches rather than risk litigation.

It is hard to identify the smallest advantage for law-abiding British citizens
from our adherence to the convention, but there is no will in Europe to reform
it.

On another front, it is a mockery to suggest the EU can forge a meaningful
common foreign and security policy when most of its members, prominently
including Germany, will fund only derisory defence spending.

Baroness Ashton, the nonentity nominated by Tony Blair to serve as the EU's
first foreign affairs supremo, would be a comic figure, save that her office
costs us millions.

As for the European Parliament, it has shown itself toothless as a scrutinising
body for the Commission's deeds and misdeeds, and is chiefly notorious for the
expenses frauds of its members, far outstripping those of the House of Commons.

In its early decades, the Common Market was a benign institution set up to
liberalise European trade. It is no longer so.

At a time when our major new competitors such as India are hastening to shed
regulation and bureaucracy, Europe is drowning us in them.

Eurosceptics who warned of the disastrous consequences of the drive towards
integration symbolised by the 1991 Maastricht treaty have been shown to be
right.

Even if the euro staggers on , and Britain, too, will share the pain if it
founders , Europe's economies are stagnating.

Indeed, a new poll by the European Commission shows the Continent's economic
confidence is almost unprecedentedly low.

A friend once compared the EU to the medieval Christian Church: an extortionate,
self-indulgent, hugely expensive and non-productive deadweight that European
societies narrowly afforded until the Reformation.

The cost of Brussels has become insupportable. If we continue to burden
employers and wealth generators, large and small, with its Utopian vision, only
relentless decline can lie ahead.

The truth is that European institutions with huge spending power lack effective
supervision.

Resources shared between 27 EU nations are distributed with reckless
irresponsibility by unelected officials. Those who obey the rules suffer by
comparison with those who break them.

France , to name but one , observes only those Brussels edicts that suits it,
while Romania, Greece and Italy remain chronically corrupt.

Meanwhile, Britain is constantly penalised for its rigid adherence to EU law,
enforced by our judiciary and civil servants.

So what to do? The truth is that it seems politically implausible , though no
longer impossible , to imagine Britain's absolute withdrawal from Europe.

As a result, we are caught in a web of treaties, agreements, organisations and
understandings so dense and interwoven it would be hard to escape from them.

I still reject the crude jingoism of the UK Independence Party, which ignores
the practicalities of avoiding a breach with our vital trading partners.

And I realise that quitting Europe would engage us in a crisis that would sap
the entire energy and attentions of any British government for years.

But it has become essential to repatriate powers from Brussels. This is not in
furtherance of isolationism, but of the economic imperative to strengthen our
competitive position in the world and repair our social fabric.

We must regain control of Britain's borders, loss of which has inflicted wholly
unwelcome social change. Almost incredibly, the latest net immigration figures
are the highest ever.

If the EU maintains its present path, it is hard to see the structure surviving
longer than another decade. Its failure will become ever more starkly obvious to
the electorates of Northern Europe, who pay the bills for the chronic corruption
and incompetence of the South.

Brussels cannot justly be blamed for many things that are wrong in Britain
today, our educational system notable among them. Also, Germany and northern
Italy demonstrate that, even within the EU, it is possible to have a strong
manufacturing sector, as Britain does not.

But fundamental issues persist: the EU imposes on its members structural costs,
social benefits, consumer protection, health and safety measures and
environmental rules, which are unaffordable in our harsh new world.

I feel embarrassed to have to admit I have been wrong for so long about
something so important. A eurosceptic friend said recently, with some
bitterness: 'For years, everybody, and especially the BBC, has treated people
like us as if we were lunatics.' She is right.

I still reject the notion that Britain should embrace lonely isolation, enfolded
in the flag. The closest possible trading relationship with Europe's major
economic powers is indispensable.

But membership of the EU in its present form has become a blight, imposing
unacceptable social, cultural, commercial and industrial burdens and
constraints.

With so much else to trouble him, David Cameron is understandably reluctant to
precipitate a crisis of choice in Brussels.

The EU will most likely stumble on in its present form, crippled and
discredited, exercising its dead hand upon members.

But revolt among electorates is growing by the day, about their politicians'
defiance of reason as well as popular sentiment. German as well as British
voters have had enough.

Their leaders will pay a heavy political price if they fail to heed public anger
and frustration.

The refusal of David Cameron's government even to reject the new part-time work
directive and the droit de suite reflect an indefensible infirmity of purpose.

Margaret Thatcher's fears about the trajectory of the European project have been
vindicated.

There seems little purpose in a referendum, the terms of which would be hard to
draft and the outcome inevitable , a resounding vote against Brussels.

But if Britain's government cannot find the means to retrieve some part of our
lost control of vital national interests, we shall find ourselves mere fellow
passengers with our EU partners aboard a waterlogged hulk, while the Chinese,
Indians, South Koreans and Singaporeans power past in their glittering
speedboats, leaving us bobbing in the wake.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain forms eight-nation 'coalition' to fight EU budget plans

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 443 words


BRITAIN has rallied Germany, France and five other countries behind calls for a
"substantial" cut to a Brussels demand for an increase of 11 per cent in EU
spending.

David Cameron signed up the French, Germans, Finns and the Dutch last December,
more than six months before the European Commission published its plans in June
for financing between 2014 and 2020.

Yesterday his four allies renewed their support as Austria, Italy and Sweden
also joined the battle to bring Brussels budgets into line with national
spending cuts and austerity. "The important news is that the coalition has got
larger," said David Lidington, the Europe minister. "We are adding new member
states to the team of those who are determined to ensure that we have effective
budget discipline within the EU. We're at a very early stage of these
negotiations. The priority for all of us is to secure agreement on an overall
tight budgetary ceiling."

The first round of negotiations on the European Commission's "multiannual
financing framework", or MFF, began in Brussels yesterday and will continue
until the end of next year.

The statement agreed by the eight countries insisted that "European public
spending cannot be exempt" from "considerable national efforts" to reduce
budgets, austerity measures that were often demanded by the EU itself to counter
Europe's debt crisis.

"The commission proposal is too high. The increases of spending over the next
MFF are significantly in excess of what is needed," said the statement. "The new
MFF should not lead to an increase in national contributions to the EU budget.

Accordingly, total spending for the 2014-2020 period needs to be substantially
lower."

The Treasury has estimated that the EU budget demand would cost the British
taxpayer an extra £1.4 billion a year, totalling £9.8billion or £626 for every
British family over the MFF's seven-year period.

But the call to reduce the commission's demand for an increase falls short of
British demands for a freeze, meaning real-term cuts, to future EU spending.

"There are different countries represented around the table. Our position on a
real terms freeze hasn't altered," admitted Mr Lidington. Janusz Lewandowski,
the EU budget commissioner, noted that the call from the eight-nation cuts
coalition "was without figures". "Our proposal is a real contribution to jobs
and growth," he said.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and member of the European Parliament's budget
committee, said: "The British public will be wary of promises made by the
Conservative government.

"Cameron previously came back from a summit in 2010 trumpeting a 2.9 per cent
increase as a victory after promises of a freeze."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

THE ANDREW PIERCE COLUMN

LENGTH: 762 words


RURAL RUMPUS BUILDS UP AFTER TORY'S U-TURN

FOR A Tory minister to alienate the National Trust and the Campaign For The
Protection Of Rural England, , by definition, both 'small c' conservative bodies
, is quite an achievement.

Yet that is exactly what Greg Clark, the minister of state in the Department for
Communities, has done with his proposals to speed up the planning process to
allow more houses to be built, particularly in greenbelt and rural areas.

Clark has infuriated conservation bodies with his document, which includes a
'presumption in favour of sustainable development' that would make it harder for
councils to reject development plans.

Not only was he accused in the Sunday papers yesterday of recruiting senior
figures in the house-building industry , including an executive from Taylor
Wimpey , to draft the new guidelines.

But it can also be disclosed that back in 2006, when he was a humble and unheard
of backbench MP, he took a totally different view.

Back then, he introduced a Bill that tried to put up obstacles against
developers , as you might expect from an MP representing the relatively rural
area of Tunbridge Wells, Kent.

'As housing development is encouraged on brownfield sites, it is next to
impossible for local councils throughout the country to refuse planning
applications for developments that they consider to be excessive, even if they
want to.

'The situation has serious consequences for my constituents and those of other
MPs,' he told the Commons.

'Two principles should apply. The first is that the people who make the
decisions should understand their communities. They should be familiar with the
character of their areas and accountable to their local electorate.

'Better the town hall than the Minister in Whitehall when it comes to taking
views on the character of a development. We should give back to local
communities the power to decide those applications, and not have them taken
remotely.'

Quite, minister. And that's what the National Trust and CPRE say about your
'Whitehall knows best' piece of intrusive legislation.

SALLY BOOBS AGAIN

THERE were no fewer than nine scantily clad young women in cleavage-displaying
photographs in yesterday's Sunday Star before readers arrived at the crass new
column by Sally Bercow, the Speaker's wife. Is this self-proclaimed feminist and
champion of women's rights keeping abreast of what is appearing in her own
newspaper?

THE eurosceptic leaders of UKIP, which held its party conference in Eastbourne
at the weekend, have come up with a vote-wooing wheeze. The party's online shop,
under the heading 'special offer', has a 'Happy 18th birthday from UKIP card'
for the princely sum of 10p. A word of caution. The party warns prospective
buyers of the following: 'Please note , envelopes not supplied.'

WILL the Lib Dem conference see a return to the political limelight for David
Laws, who resigned as Chief Secretary to the Treasury after it emerged he'd
cheated on his parliamentary expenses? Having been suspended from the Commons,
and repaying 656,000, Laws quietly took his place for the first time last week
as a member of the tedious-sounding Joint Committee on Draft Financial Services
Bill. It examines Treasury legislation before it goes on the statute book. Dull
but important, it is another sign that Laws, who was Chief Secretary for barely
20 days, is heading for a Cabinet return.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: Welsh Office minister David Jones: 'Why does Jeremy Clarkson
(the Top Gear presenter) make such a fool of himself over the Welsh language?
And why am I rising to the bait.' Well, you said it, minister.

OSBORNE'S IN THE HOT SEAT

IS HISTORY about to repeat itself? After being sacked as Chancellor by John
Major, Norman Lamont lost his Surrey seat in boundary changes.

He was pipped to the post for the neighbouring seat by Tory MP Richard Tracey,
who had risen to the dizzy height of Sports minister.

Details of the proposed boundary changes this week are expected to confirm that
George Osborne, the current Chancellor, is to see his Cheshire seat of Tatton
cease to exist. Will he secure a new one? That may well depend on whether he
successfully delivers the economy from another deep recession. At present, the
omens are not good.

* A TRAVELLER, according to the Oxford dictionary, is a 'person who travels or
is travelling'.

So why do we call the illegal residents of Essex's Dale Farm, who have the added
misfortune of Sally Bercow and Vanessa Redgrave supporting them, travellers?
They have not moved an inch in almost ten years.

There is a much better word for them. Squatters.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'I'd crack down on immigration and ban slip dresses on women over size 10';
Interview Joan Collins on her political manifesto - and exactly what she thinks
of celebrities today

BYLINE: Bryony Gordon

SECTION: FEATURES; PROFILES AND INTERVIEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1308 words


Politics being showbusiness for ugly people, Joan Collins has no interest in
getting involved in it. As we learn in her new book, a manifesto entitled The
World According to Joan, at 18 she was voted "Most Beautiful Girl in England"
(page 46), while at the age of 21 she was signed up to a film in which she had
to play "the most beautiful girl in New York" (page 49).

Dear Joanie tells me that she did once get involved with UKIP, "but I wasn't
sure it was the kind of thing I wanted to do. I'm not Glenda Jackson." No,
heaven forbid. So where does La Collins fall on the political spectrum? "I'd say
I was Conservative Party, 1940s." She laughs huskily; it's ever so naughty. "And
I was a very big supporter of Thatcher."

What does she think of David Cameron? "I like David, but I think he's hog-tied
by what's-hisname."

Nick Clegg? "Yes. I'm not a big fan." And what does she think of Ed Miliband.
"Not a lot," she says simply.

Even though La Collins insists that a life in Westminster holds no thrall for
her - she is, after all, 78, and goodness knows what the electorate would make
of her second and third homes in Los Angeles and St Tropez - she doesn't
hesitate when I ask her what she would do if, in a parallel universe, Joan
Collins were Prime Minister.

"First, education. I think it is shocking that 15-and 16-yearolds leave school
unable to add up and with the reading ability of a four-year-old. When I was at
school, I was terrible at algebra and arithmetic, but I was always the best at
English and literature. And acting, of course." She does a self-mocking "Of
course I was" shrug of her shoulders, which are currently minus Dynasty-style
pads.

"I always did the best essays. I edited the fourth-form school magazine because,
while I always wanted to be an actress, at the back of my mind I also wanted to
be a dress designer and a writer, and funnily enough I have actually ended up
doing all three."

But enough about her talents. She settles herself in to a huge sofa in the
Dorchester, the cushions almost swallowing her little frame, before launching
back in to the Joan Collins plan to fix Britain. "Second, immigration. Because
the reason we don't have any housing is that we have 400,000 extra people coming
in here every year and doing jobs that our young people could do."

"And that's just the ones we know about," adds her publicist.

"Yes!" says Joan, throwing her dainty little jewel-encrusted and manicured hands
in to the air. "Exactly! In Birmingham last Christmas, I said to my driver, 'Why
are there no decorations?' I had just come back from New York where every street
is festooned with decorations. And he said, 'Well, we have a lot of people here
whom it offends on religious grounds.' But I'm not saying any more than that. I
don't want petrol bombs being thrown through my window."

She is weary of being seen as an old reactionary, but then she hasn't much time
for being politically correct. And it would be easy to dismiss her views as
irrelevant, that of an out-of-touch septuagenarian millionairess who splits her
time between two continents. And yet, the more I listen to her, the more I think
she makes some quite salient points, that she simply says what she sees. Even
the assertions in her book about her great beauty cease to seem arrogant - more
of a statement of fact. She is a diamond-encrusted battleaxe.

What else does she want to talk about? The riots, of course. "These kids are so
ignorant and stupid. I don't think they have much of a moral compass now because
they spend their life doing - what are those games they do? The ones where they
kill and they shoot? And they watch a lot of violent stuff on television." She
sighs. "And, of course, porn is readily available." Joan, the star of such films
as The Bitch and The Stud can't "stand watching porn", even tried getting it
taken off her Sky system, "but, unfortunately, it's part of the package".

It would never have been like that in her day. "I hear that it is far more
disgusting than it was 20 or 30 years ago, and kids of 11 can watch it on their
phones at school. So they are desensitised. I don't think they have much
judgment. They think that, when they kick a pensioner to death - which seems to
happen on a regular basis in this country - they're not actually kicking a real
person. Violence has become normalised in this country, and I think it's quite
tragic."

La Collins is sipping on a Bloody Mary and eating a club sandwich - or at least
parts of it, removing layers of bread as she goes. Last night was her book
launch, attended by the likes of Frederick Forsyth, Barbara Taylor Bradford,
Christopher Biggins, Nicky Haslam "and lots of my friends who are not
'above-thetitle' names". At this she lets out another throaty laugh.

The book puts down reality television stars, declining standards in dress ("It's
no one's fault to be born ugly, but, honestly, must it be worn as a symbol of
pride?") and a lack of chivalry in men ("Gone are the days when a gentleman
lightly took your hand in his and brushed his lips across it, or tipped his hat
to acknowledge you as he chivalrously stepped aside to let you pass").

Men are turning gay because women are unfeminine. Women over a size 10 should
not wear slip dresses, and nobody should show bare legs in winter. Anklestrap
shoes are "seriously unattractive", and she advises against wearing jeans.
"Rarely glamorous" is her damning indictment of them.

Joan, whose fifth husband Percy is 32 years younger than her, sits in front of
me in a cream beret and a zebra-print dress. She is dripping in gold jewellery.
Her publicist tells me: "I rarely wear any make-up, but, at the end of a day
with Joan, I am caked in it." La Collins looks incredible and you can tell this
is actually because she has had no work done and stayed natural (she thinks sex
is better than Botox).

How, I ask, does she look so glamorous the whole time? "You think I'm glamorous
today? This is all just thrown together. What I find extraordinary is that all
these girls today go out in the coldest weather, wearing the shortest skirts
with crop tops, no stockings and no coats." She shivers at the thought. "But I
guess they can't take the coats in because they will just get stolen."

I wonder what she makes of modern-day celebrities. She once said that the only
person she could think of with true star quality was Angelina Jolie, so I decide
to throw some names at her. What does she think of Gwyneth Paltrow? "Is she the
one who called her grandmother a rude word on air?" she asks, dismissively. "I
thought that was pretty shocking."

Kiera Knightley? "Well, she's thin," is all Joan will say. Carey Mulligan? "I
don't want to comment on Carey Mulligan," she remarks sadly, before proceeding
to do just that. "I can't believe she's playing Eliza Doolittle in a new movie."

I move on and show her a picture of Kate Winslet taken a few days earlier at the
Venice Film Festival. She lets out a huge sigh. "Oh, that's a dreadful dress.
The worst dress. And ghastly shoes and an awful hairstyle. I'm sorry." She
shakes her head.

I move away from actresses. Adele? "She's a very good singer, very, very
talented, but she has a terrible hairpiece." Joan, a selfconfessed wig wearer,
knows a lot about hairpieces.

Kate Moss is "OK, but she's not Linda Evangelista in my mind". I clutch
desperately at straws. There must be one modern-day female she admires. Victoria
Beckham? "Oh I love Victoria Beckham. You've finally found someone I like."

And that's the other reason Joan Collins could never be a politician: she tells
it like it is.

'The World According to Joan' by Joan Collins is available exclusively from
Sainsbury's at a special introductory price of £5 (RRP: £12.99)

Kate Winslet 'A dreadful dress and an awful hairstyle'

KateMoss 'She's OK, but she's not Linda Evangelista'

Adele Very talented but a terrible hairpiece."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The natural look: Collins has had no work done. Sex, she says, is
better than Botox
ANDREW CROWLEY; AGF SRL/REX FEATURES; OLYCOM SPA/REX; PA WIRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Expenses cheat Lord Hanningfield released from jail early

BYLINE: Shiv Malikguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 496 words

ABSTRACT

Tory peer and former leader of Essex county council found guilty of false
accounting serves a quarter of nine-month sentence

FULL TEXT

A for expenses fraud has been released early after serving a quarter of his
sentence.

Lord Hanningfield, a former front bench opposition spokesperson and leader of
Essex county council, was jailed in July this year after a jury at Chelmsford
crown court found him guilty of £13,379-worth of expenses fraud.

He has now been spotted by his local paper walking with his dog in his home
village of West Hanningfield, Essex.

The 70-year-old former pig farmer, whose given name is Paul White, claimed
parliamentary travel expenses to London when Essex county council was already
paying for him to be chaffeur-driven to the capital.

Hanningfield was found guilty of six counts of false accounting. He also claimed
public money for hotel stays and travel expenses in the UK while he was boarding
a plane to India. He falsely claimed for overnight hotel accommodation when he
was sleeping at his home 50 miles away.

In sentencing him to prison, Justice Saunders said he would be partly remembered
as a "benefits cheat". Hanningfield subsequently lost an  in late July when
judges said his case was "unarguable".

Hanningfield, who was elevated to the Lords in 1998 and held the education and
business briefs in opposition, told police in interviews that his claims had
"averaged out" over time.

"I have done the same as 500 or 600 other peers. I averaged them out because of
my expenditure. I have never done anything illegal in my life," he said, adding:
"I have put so much money into my public life, I regret ever becoming a peer."

Hanningfield was later sacked as the head of Essex council. His jailing followed
that of MPs Elliot Morley, Jim Devine, David Chaytor, Eric Illsley, and Lord
Taylor of Warwick over false expenses claims. Devine was released in August
after serving four months of a 16-month sentence.

Former Labour MP  for alleged illegal parliamentary expense claims.

Like Illsley and Chaytor, Hanningfield has been electronically tagged.

Speaking to the  he said he was relieved that the ordeal was over but said there
was more to tell. "There is much more to my side of the story, which will be
revealed when I am ready," he said.

"This expenses situation has been going on for two-and-a-half years and I am
glad it is all over.

"I am feeling OK about things at the moment but I just want a couple of weeks to
myself to relax and let everything settle down."

Talking about his time at a minimum security prison in Kent, he said: "Some of
the people who were in prison were better than some of the people I have met on
the outside."

Last Thursday night  Ian Grundy took the Stock ward seat but with a reduced
majority and the UK Independence Party came second.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 4:53 PM GMT

Governments rap EU budget rise plan

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 692 words


Nine European governments including the UK joined forces today to condemn a
planned EU budget rise as unacceptable at a time of national belt-tightening.

After talks in Brussels, UK European Minister David Lidington and his
counterparts from Austria, Denmark, Germany, Finland, France, Italy, the
Netherlands and Sweden issued a statement warning: "We need to make the   best
use of the European budget to create better conditions for growth and   make
Europe more competitive. We need to spend better, not to spend more."

The new money-raising plans for the European Union for 2014-2020 amount to an
extra 11% rise, according to Treasury estimates - effectively adding £1.4
billion a year to the UK's EU bills.

The budget was unveiled by the European Commission in June, just days after
Prime Minister David Cameron told Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
that the public would not understand anything above an increase in line with
inflation - a real-terms freeze.

Now today's statement from the nine EU countries against the plan is an early
signal to the rest that the fight is on in the next few months as the final
figure is hammered out.

"The Commission's proposal comes at a time when member states are making
considerable financial efforts to support Europe and at the same time are
undertaking tough consolidation efforts," said the statement.

"European public spending cannot be exempt from these considerable   national
efforts.

"The Commission proposal is too high. The increases of spending over the   next
MFF are significantly in excess of what is needed for a stabilisation   of the
European budget. The new Multi-Annual Financial Framework (MFF)   should not
lead to an increase in national contributions to the EU budget."

The Commission says its plan for an average annual EU budget over seven years
of £125 billion a year amounts to a 1% share of the combined GDP of the 27
member states - the same GDP share as the current EU budget.

But in cash terms it means an increase of about 11%, according to the Treasury
- leaving the UK to find another £1.4 billion a year.

And the first two years of such a rise would have to be found from the
belt-tightening national spending review programme under which Chancellor
George Osborne has already allocated drastically-reduced funds.

Mr Lidington has invited EU Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski to visit
London as part of efforts to convince Brussels of the UK case for an EU
spending freeze.

Conservative leader in the European Parliament Martin Callanan said: "The
leaders of the countries that pay the EU's bills are rightly asking for
restraint. MEPs and Eurocrats in their ivory towers must listen.

"If they fail, then they will only reinforce the view that they are remote and
out of touch. The irony is that they are doing their own cause massive harm   as
people turn against the EU."

As officials confirmed that eight countries had signed the statement - Denmark
did not take part - Ukip MEP and former European Commission chief accountant
Marta Andreasen commented: "It is a bit late in the day but we welcome that
the fact that eight EU countries have woken up to the fact that we cannot go
on expanding the EU budget to fund ludicrous projects and a 2020 strategy   that
plainly has no chance of succeeding.

"However, the British public will be very wary of promises made by the
Conservative Government.

"David Cameron previously came back from a summit in 2010 trumpeting a 2.9%
increase as a victory after promises of a freeze.

"What the British public really want to see is a reduction in our
contributions to the EU."

Fellow Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom, the party's economics spokesman in the European
Parliament, said: "It is good that some countries realise that we cannot go   on
expanding the EU budget.

"But this sort of promise has been made before, when Cameron promised a 0%
rise in Britain's contributions, and came back saying that a 2.9% increase   was
a victory. So we won't hold our breath.

"David Cameron has deceived the people time and time again about the EU. He
simply can't be trusted."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 10:58 AM GMT

John Rentoul: Out of the 'zone', but still in the soup;
The problems of the euro could sink even those who wanted nothing to do with it,
such as the Conservative Party

SECTION: HEI-FI-VIEWS

LENGTH: 972 words


The state of the economy is, as David Cameron said to the BBC on Friday, "very
difficult". Although in a later interview he dodged a question about the
possibility of a double-dip recession by saying that it was not the Government's
job to make forecasts any more, because "we have a separate Office of Budget
Responsibility". (He meant Office for Budget Responsibility, but he can't
remember everything, and his quango-busting government has created so many
quangos.)

One of the main threats to the British economy, as the Prime Minister put it
in his interview with David Frost on Al Jazeera, is that of "a break-up   of the
euro or disorderly debt defaults", because "40 per cent of   our exports go to
eurozone countries".

Which puts him, George Osborne and William Hague in the curious position of
lecturing the eurozone members on the need for common budgetary policy and
closer political integration. This is not necessarily inconsistent, because
the reason that they argued against Britain adopting the euro was that they
did not think the currency would work without a single government, which   they
did not want.

Still, it was fun to read the Foreign Secretary's interview in The Times
yesterday. He said he was "vindicated" in having compared adopting   the euro to
being "stuck in a burning building with no exits"; and   in the next sentence:
"We want a stable and healthy burning building."   (Actually, he said
"eurozone".)

One person who was enjoying himself last week commented: "It's remarkable   that
we should be advocating that our neighbours give up their democracy."   The
problem for Cameron and Osborne is that this voice of the authentic
Conservative belonged to Nigel Farage, whose UK Independence Party   advertised
its frivolity by announcing at its annual conference that Neil   Hamilton, the
disgraced former Tory minister, was its latest celebrity   recruit.

Ukip may not be a serious party, but its leader has a gift for succinct
expression of what most Conservatives think, including that the attempts to
prop up the euro are "reinforcing failure" and "making the   bust, when it
comes, even bigger". Some Tories make that argument in   public, including Nigel
Lawson, one of Osborne's predecessors, who last week   wrote that the imminent
collapse of the euro was a "golden opportunity"   for the Government to
renegotiate European Union treaties and dispense at   last with that troubling
phrase, "ever closer union".

Indeed, this is an argument that goes beyond the Tory party's internal
politics, because many economists think that bailing out Greece, Ireland and
an uncertain number of other speculator-carrion is only going to make   matters
worse in the long run. The counter-argument is that, if the eurozone   is going
to lose some of its weaker members, now is not the time to do it   because that
would risk a Europe-wide depression.

The Prime Minister cannot take part in that argument, though, because he wants
to be "helpful and constructive", as he put it to Frost. Even if   he thought it
was in Britain's interest to get the pain of a euro break-up   over quickly,
which he does not appear to do, there is no advantage in   saying so.

Thus we observe the paradox of a government led by the most eurosceptic prime
minister ever (with the possible exception of Margaret Thatcher's last few
months) politely going along with the federalist attempt to create a United
States of Euro-Europe.

The contradictions run through the Government. One minister has taken to
carrying a laminated card in his pocket with the number of votes held by   each
EU country under the system of qualified majority voting, so that he   can see
at a glance if a policy is likely to be voted through. Romania is   often the
key, apparently, with the most votes after the big six. Even a   Liberal
Democrat minister was heard to exclaim, "Oh, we can't go on   like this," when
yet another official explained that he couldn't do   anything about an EU law.

One such is the agency worker directive, which comes into effect next month.
This well-intentioned legislation makes it harder for employers to take on
temporary workers, and ministers were desperate not to enact it. Steve   Hilton,
Cameron's most influential adviser, ruffled the mandarins by   commissioning
legal advice for the Prime Minister's office on how to avoid   it (protocol says
that is a matter for the Business Department). The advice   was, in effect, that
nothing could be done.

Hilton's frustrations with the restrictions of EU law, and of law derived from
the separate European Convention on Human Rights, are shared, privately, by
many ministers and, publicly, by at least 90 Tory backbenchers elected last
year, who meet tomorrow. In his interview yesterday, Hague got back on his "Save
the Pound" flatbed truck. He welcomed this loyal rebellion and   gallantly
blamed the Lib Dems for the Government's failure to "repatriate   some powers"
from Brussels.

The stage is set, therefore, for economic policy and European policy to
intersect again. The last time this happened, over the exchange rate
mechanism, 1988-92, it was disastrous first for a Conservative prime   minister
and then for a Conservative government. This time, another   recession on its
own might be survivable for Cameron. It is not as if the   Labour alternative,
even if it is right, is seen as credible.

What would be dangerous for Cameron's chances of re-election (on new, more
favourable, boundaries), would be if the economy, already falling behind
Osborne's "on the road to recovery" forecasts of last year, became   part of a
divisive argument within his own party about Britain's relations   with the rest
of Europe.

And the euro crisis can only get worse over the next few years.

independent.co.uk/jrentoul

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 6:37 PM GMT

Britain wins allies in calling for 'substantial' cut to European budget;
Britain has rallied Germany, France and five other countries behind calls for a
"substantial" cut to a Brussels budget demand for an increase of 11 per cent to
EU spending.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 415 words


David Cameron, the Prime Minister, signed up the French, Germans, Finns and the
Dutch in December over six months before the European Commission published its
plans for financing between 2014 and 2020 in June.

Yesterday his four allies renewed their support as Austria, Italy and Sweden
also joined the battle to bring Brussels budgets into line with national
spending cuts and austerity.

"The important news is that the coalition has got larger," said David Lidington,
the Europe minister.

"We are adding new member states to the team of those who are determined to
ensure that we have effective budget discipline within the EU. We're at a very
early stage of these negotiations. The priority for all of us is to secure
agreement on an overall tight budgetary ceiling."

The first round of negotiations on the commissions "multiannual financing
framework", or MFF, began in Brussels and will continue until the end of next
year.

The statement agreed by the eight countries insisted that "European public
spending cannot be exempt" from "considerable national efforts" to reduce
budgets, austerity measures that often demanded by the EU itself to counter
Europe's debt crisis.

"The commission proposal is too high. The increases of spending over the next
MFF are significantly in excess of what is needed," said the statement.

"The new MFF should not lead to an increase in national contributions to the EU
budget. Accordingly, total spending for the 2014-2020 period needs to be
substantially lower."

The Treasury has estimated that the EU budget demand would cost the British
taxpayer an extra £1.4 billion a year, totalling £9.8 billion or £626 for every
British family over the MFF's seven year period.

But the statement to reduce the commission's demand for an increase falls short
of British demands for a freeze, meaning real term cuts, to future EU spending.

"There are different countries represented around the table. Our position on a
real terms freeze hasn't altered," admitted Mr Lidington.

Janusz Lewandowski, the EU budget commissioner, noted that the call from
eight-nation cuts coalition "was without figures". "Our proposal is a real
contribution to jobs and growth," he said.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and members of the European Parliament's budget
committee said: "The British public will be very wary of promises made by the
Conservative government. Cameron previously came back from a summit in 2010
trumpeting a 2.9 per cent increase as a victory after promises of a freeze."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 12:12 PM GMT

Joan Collins: I'd crack down on immigration;
Joan Collins on her political manifesto - and exactly what she thinks of
celebrities today.

BYLINE: By Bryony Gordon

LENGTH: 1292 words


Politics being showbusiness for ugly people, Joan Collins has no interest in
getting involved in it. As we learn in her new book, a manifesto entitled The
World According to Joan, at 18 she was voted "Most Beautiful Girl in England"
(page 46), while at the age of 21 she was signed up to a film in which she had
to play "the most beautiful girl in New York" (page 49).

Dear Joanie tells me that she did once get involved with UKIP, "but I wasn't
sure it was the kind of thing I wanted to do. I'm not Glenda Jackson." No,
heaven forbid. So where does La Collins fall on the political spectrum? "I'd say
I was Conservative party, 1940s." She laughs huskily; it's ever so naughty. "And
I was a very big supporter of Thatcher."

What does she think of David Cameron? "I like David, but I think he's hog-tied
by what's-his-name." Nick Clegg? "Yes. I'm not a big fan." And what does she
think of Ed Miliband. "Not a lot," she says simply.

Even though La Collins insists that a life in Westminster holds no thrall for
her - she is, after all, 78, and goodness knows what the electorate would make
of her second and third homes in Los Angeles and St Tropez - she doesn't
hesitate when I ask her what she would do if, in a parallel universe, Joan
Collins were Prime Minister.

"First, education. I think it is shocking that 15- and 16-year-olds leave school
unable to add up and with the reading ability of a four-year-old. When I was at
school, I was terrible at algebra and arithmetic, but I was always the best at
English and literature. And acting, of course." She does a self-mocking "Of
course I was" shrug of her shoulders, which are currently minus Dynasty-style
pads.

"I always did the best essays. I edited the fourth-form school magazine because,
while I always wanted to be an actress, at the back of my mind I also wanted to
be a dress designer and a writer, and funnily enough I have actually ended up
doing all three."

But enough about her talents. She settles herself in to a huge sofa in the
Dorchester, the cushions almost swallowing her little frame, before launching
back in to the Joan Collins plan to fix Britain. "Second, immigration. Because
the reason we don't have any housing is that we have 400,000 extra people coming
in here every year and doing jobs that our young people could do."

"And that's just the ones we know about," adds her publicist.

"Yes!" says Joan, throwing her dainty little jewel-encrusted and manicured hands
in to the air. "Exactly! In Birmingham last Christmas, I said to my driver, 'Why
are there no decorations?' I had just come back from New York where every street
is festooned with decorations. And he said, 'Well, we have a lot of people here
whom it offends on religious grounds.' But I'm not saying any more than that. I
don't want petrol bombs being thrown through my window."

She is weary of being seen as an old reactionary, but then she hasn't much time
for being politically correct. And it would be easy to dismiss her views as
irrelevant, that of an out-of-touch septuagenarian millionairess who splits her
time between two continents. And yet, the more I listen to her, the more I think
she makes some quite salient points, that she simply says what she sees. Even
the assertions in her book about her great beauty cease to seem arrogant - more
of a statement of fact. She is a diamond-encrusted battleaxe.

What else does she want to talk about? The riots, of course. "These kids are so
ignorant and stupid. I don't think they have much of a moral compass now because
they spend their life doing - what are those games they do? The ones where they
kill and they shoot? And they watch a lot of violent stuff on television." She
sighs. "And, of course, porn is readily available." Joan, the star of such films
as The Bitch and The Stud can't "stand watching porn", even tried getting it
taken off her Sky system, "but, unfortunately, it's part of the package".

It would never have been like that in her day. "I hear that it is far more
disgusting than it was 20 or 30 years ago, and kids of 11 can watch it on their
phones at school. So they are desensitised. I don't think they have much
judgment. They think that, when they kick a pensioner to death - which seems to
happen on a regular basis in this country - they're not actually kicking a real
person. Violence has become normalised in this country, and I think it's quite
tragic."

La Collins is sipping on a Bloody Mary and eating a club sandwich - or at least
parts of it, removing layers of bread as she goes. Last night was her book
launch, attended by the likes of Frederick Forsyth, Barbara Taylor Bradford,
Christopher Biggins, Nicky Haslam "and lots of my friends who are not
'above-the-title' names". At this she lets out another throaty laugh.

The book puts down reality television stars, declining standards in dress ("It's
no one's fault to be born ugly, but, honestly, must it be worn as a symbol of
pride?") and a lack of chivalry in men ("Gone are the days when a gentleman
lightly took your hand in his and brushed his lips across it, or tipped his hat
to acknowledge you as he chivalrously stepped aside to let you pass").

Men are turning gay because women are unfeminine. Women over a size 10 should
not wear slip dresses, and nobody should show bare legs in winter. Ankle-strap
shoes are "seriously unattractive", and she advises against wearing jeans.
"Rarely glamorous" is her damning indictment of them.

Joan, whose fifth husband Percy is 32 years younger than her, sits in front of
me in a cream beret and a zebra-print dress. She is dripping in gold jewellery.
Her publicist tells me: "I rarely wear any make-up, but, at the end of a day
with Joan, I am caked in it." La Collins looks incredible and you can tell this
is actually because she has had no work done and stayed natural (she thinks sex
is better than Botox).

How, I ask, does she look so glamorous the whole time? "You think I'm glamorous
today? This is all just thrown together. What I find extraordinary is that all
these girls today go out in the coldest weather, wearing the shortest skirts
with crop tops, no stockings and no coats." She shivers at the thought. "But I
guess they can't take the coats in because they will just get stolen."

I wonder what she makes of modern-day celebrities. She once said that the only
person she could think of with true star quality was Angelina Jolie, so I decide
to throw some names at her. What does she think of Gwyneth Paltrow? "Is she the
one who called her grandmother a rude word on air?" she asks, dismissively. "I
thought that was pretty shocking."

Kiera Knightley? "Well, she's thin," is all Joan will say. Carey Mulligan? "I
don't want to comment on Carey Mulligan," she remarks sadly, before proceeding
to do just that. "I can't believe she's playing Eliza Doolittle in a new movie."

I move on and show her a picture of Kate Winslet taken a few days earlier at the
Venice Film Festival. She lets out a huge sigh. "Oh, that's a dreadful dress.
The worst dress. And ghastly shoes and an awful hairstyle. I'm sorry." She
shakes her head.

I move away from actresses. Adele? "She's a very good singer, very, very
talented, but she has a terrible hairpiece." Joan, a self-confessed wig wearer,
knows a lot about hairpieces.

Kate Moss is "OK, but she's not Linda Evangelista in my mind". I clutch
desperately at straws. There must be one modern-day female she admires. Victoria
Beckham? "Oh I love Victoria Beckham. You've finally found someone I like."

And that's the other reason Joan Collins could never be a politician: she tells
it like it is.

'The World According to Joan' by Joan Collins is available exclusively from
Sainsbury's at a special introductory price of £5 (RRP: £12.99)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 10:07 AM GMT

Why I'm sceptical about William Hague's Euroscepticism

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1120 words


What are we to make of the sudden re-emergence of William Hague from his
disengagement of recent times to a new bout of Euroscepticism? The more I read
the text of his interview, the more puzzled I am that so much has been read into
it. I can only surmise that the newspaper in question wanted a headline to
sellmore copies. Indeed, I bought one myself.

Of course it is good news that Hague has refound his zest for work, but to be
comfortable in the Foreign Office, which these daysacts like a branch office of
the Brussels authorities, hardly seems compatible with holding the sort of views
of the Eurosceptic wing of the Parliamentary Conservative Party, let alone those
of most Conservative voters, many Labour voters and many of their former
supporters who no longer vote at all or have defected to UKIP.

Of course Hague deserves credit for realising that "the idea that you can have a
single currency without a closer fiscal union was always a great mistake". He
would have been more right had he said then, and repeated now, that the fiscal
union has not got to be just "closer", but as close as that in USA or the UK,
and that requires political union too.The more interesting question is what
should be our policy to minimise the damage to ourselves and of course if
possible to our trading partners in the wreckage of the Eurozone. As Iunderstand
it, so far it amounts only to encouragement to pusue a policy to delay, but
worsen, the final crash.

I am pleased too that the Foreign Secretary says we should pull away from
Brussels, although thatstatement was in indirect speech, perhaps to
avoidupsetting the Eurofanatic Lib Dems. His words were "we would like to see
powers returned from the EU to the United KIngdom", but he would not been drawn
on which powers, leaving that to Tory back benchers. Sadly, I would be more
impressed ifthe Government had not gone along with every EU demand that has been
made upon us since May last year and got nothing in return, not even for giving
consent to the botched bail-out of Greece.

It is a great pity that there is a lot less in this outburst of Euroscepticism
than the headline writer, and no doubt Mr Cameron would like us to believe.

...

I am afraid that you were a rather tetchy lot in your comments on the subject of
The Union. It was gigolo who called it the meanspiritedness of the English, but
there was quite of lot of that from North of the Border too.

A lot of you, including Hugoandfreddie, incensed, 95ravid, jinglebalix,
rogerhutchinson, mikehunt, lesley1, bella, spark99, the-locksmithand others were
pretty disparaging about the Union from south of the border, mostly regarding
Scotland as an unmitigated Left-wing liability. They were of course
counterbalanced by some pretty chip-on-shoulder stuff from north of it.

There were a couple of bucketloads of the usual Labour bilge fom Fabian
Solutions, merrily kicked over by some splendid stuff from darkseid. However
Frank Bee Hive deserves a special mention for the silliest remark of the week
when he told us thst he "can think of nothing more fascist than Thatcher and
Cameron". Clearly he knows nothing of Mussolini and Fascism, nor Thatcher, nor
Cameron. Perhaps he should have just left it at "I can think of nothing".

Perhaps I should have reminded us all that Scotland was not conquered by the
English, nor England by the Scots. The first King of the Union was a Scot.
Scotland was bailed out from its disastrous Darien project. England closed off
the back door route to any attempted invasion from the continent. Scotland
gained the benefit of the English navy and access to her colonies. England
gained the fighting strength of the Scots army. Both nations gained from the
cross fertilisation of their intellectual scientific, pholosophicand literary
elites and their business skills.Both nations profited from the development of
the British Empire and both nations contributed to its defence and
administration.

In short we did together what neither of us could have done so well alone. Of
course the Empire is gone, but as satyr observed there is comfort in not having
a land border with a foreign country. Nor should we underestimate the continuing
contribution of Scotland to our Armed Forces, nor our scientific, artistic and
business communities.Most of you thought that Scotlandwould never be independent
and would opt for colonial status in the EU being forced to join the Euro
disaster zone. However when I discussed this with a former Lord Chancellor he
told me that he thought that as the Treaty of Accession and all EU treaties
since was made by the United Kingdom which was created by The Act of Union, if
the Act of Union were to be repealed,neither England nor Scotland would be
parties to the European Treaties.But don't get too excited, it would be ruled
upon by a judiciary which has distinctly Quisling tendencies in such matters.
What is more, as anyold iron noted, it would affect The Act of Settlement and
much else.

There can be plenty of arguments about the financial viability ofScotlandeither
within the EU or as an independent nation, but they all hinge on oil and how
much of what Salmond calls "Scotland's oil" is within Scottish waters and how
much in English, or indeed Shetland's waters. Shetland of course might well
prefer association with the Norwegians rather than Salmond's Glaswegians.For
sure, as robolt27 wrote,Salmond's figures do not add up. I will try to find some
reliable figures on this.

A good many contributors agreed with me including mpjones, ravenscar,
Cocklecarrot J, steady barkerand tigerstripes, but I think rather more had
criticisms ranging from gojam's fear that in Scotland the word "'unionist" has
sectarian associations to those who saw no point in rebranding. Nor would I, if
that was all it was.Like clydesider, I thinka Scottish Unionist Party would have
to be truly independent of the English and Welsh party, with its own policies
and whipping.

So many other good (and bad) points were made, but I enjoyed HootGibsons quip
that Scotland's currency should be named the Darien, and there were plenty of
you who seemed to agree (as I did) withoggy who would like a Right of centre
party in England - but I could not agree with boudicca who wanted a federal UK.
As shoka asked, have we not got enough layers of Government already?

It is nearly 15 years ago that Iadvocated a referendum in Scotland on the issues
of independence. There would have been an overwhelming no vote. That would have
put the SNP back in its box and allowed sensible politics to get on with the
business of government. Sadly, now we have to talk about and resolve both the
West Lothian Question and indeed the possible end of a successful union of more
than 300 years.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               September 11, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Neil's talking sense;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 169 words


NEIL Hamilton speaks for many former Tory supporters who find themselves
virtually disenfranchised under our political regime.

A traditional Conservative government would by now have embarked on a long
overdue programme of desperately needed action to attempt to halt our national
slide to disaster under the watchful eye of our EU "masters".

Whether UKIP can achieve anything at all depends on getting the support of the
electorate, and there is the rub. The last local elections showed increased
support for the discredited Labour Party.

Last week saw revelations about the vicious infighting that went on between
Gordon Brown and his Chancellor Alistair Darling.

These details show the diet of untruths we were fed at the time along with their
failure to halt the slide into recession.

Our major parties are deeply flawed as all are committed to the EU. A peerage
and/or seats on the eurogravy train are the rewards for party obedience and to
blazes with the country. Bravo Neil Hamilton.

Charles Rushton, Strensall, York

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Neil's talking sense;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 64

LENGTH: 169  words


NEIL Hamilton speaks for many former Tory supporters who find themselves
virtually disenfranchised under our political regime.

A traditional Conservative government would by now have embarked on a long
overdue programme of desperately needed action to attempt to halt our national
slide to disaster under the watchful eye of our EU "masters".

Whether UKIP can achieve anything at all depends on getting the support of the
electorate, and there is the rub. The last local elections showed increased
support for the discredited Labour Party.

Last week saw revelations about the vicious infighting that went on between
Gordon Brown and his Chancellor Alistair Darling.

These details show the diet of untruths we were fed at the time along with their
failure to halt the slide into recession.

Our major parties are deeply flawed as all are committed to the EU. A peerage
and/or seats on the eurogravy train are the rewards for party obedience and to
blazes with the country. Bravo Neil Hamilton.

Charles Rushton, Strensall, York

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Tory sceptic MPs lead anti-EU fight

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 459  words


FOUNDERS of a new EU sceptic Conservative movement have vowed to lead the
fightback against Brussels.

The first meeting of the more than 80 Conservative MPs takes place tomorrow and
will see major new research commissioned on Britain's relationship with Europe.

It will form the foundation of a new parliamentary party campaign to renegotiate
Britain's relationship with Brussels in the wake of the eurozone crisis.

George Eustice, the driving force behind the meeting, said Conservative MPs
wanted to create a new momentum and new thinking.

The MPs will tomorrow commission research from think-tank Open Europe and the
European Research Group, who will be tasked with researching "coalition
friendly" issues, such as improving transparency within European politics.

They will also be charged with pursuing Conservative proposals on repatriation
of British powers.

With the eurozone crisis driving calls for greater fiscal integration within the
EU, Mr Eustice says Britain may be in a position to redress the balance "sooner
than people think".

He welcomed the intervention of Foreign Secretary William Hague, who said
yesterday that Britain could "get ahead" by loosening its ties with Europe.

Mr Eustice, MP for Camborne and Redruth, stressed this was not a Trojan Horse
movement towards demands for an in-out referendum.

"I respect that position obviously. I am a former Ukip councillor but I don't
think that is the preference of the majority of MPs and I think talking about a
referendum is a distraction."

Co-founder Daventry MP Chris Heaton-Harris, said: "We are not a group as such,
we are a network.

"There is no membership, it is open to anyone in the parliamentary party to come
along and we are trying to reach across the political divide as well.

"The European policy playing field has changed dramatically with the crisis in
the eurozone.

"All bets are off and I don't think anyone knows where we are going to be in six
months let alone in four years.

"What we are trying to do is populate this vacuum with good ideas that are good
for Britain."

Priti Patel, Witham MP and a co-signatory to the Mainstream euroscepticism
movement, said Mr Hague's comments showed that Tory MPs were already having an
impact.

"There is a recognition this is not going to go away, " she said.

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said Tory MPs risked handing his
party a golden opportunity at the 2014 Euro elections if their ideas fell on
stony leadership ground with David Cameron.

What do you think - SHOULD WE HAVE A REFERENDUM ON BRITAIN'S MEMBERSHIP OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION?

YES - 0901 030 0982 NO - 0901 030 0983

YES text SXYES to 80088 NO text SXNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rate.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wine angels and the naked truth;
Is Naked Wines a genuine innovation, or just another club?

BYLINE: Victoria Moore

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1048 words


I've been boycotting Naked Wines partly because the name grates so much. It
sounds as if it's been thought up by a focus group of middle-aged men on their
way to a Chris Rea concert. I can hear the chat. "Yeah, it's about getting back
to the pure thing of what wine really is, and naked sounds groovy." No, it
doesn't. It sounds desperate. And don't even get me started on their wine angels
gimmick. Yes, that's right, a Naked Wine Angel is apparently a "normal drinker
just like you" who gets "preferential prices in return for investing in our
independent winemakers". I'll come back to that later. In detail.

I decided to have a closer look at Naked Wines for two reasons. First, friends
kept mentioning they'd been given vouchers for the company and wanted to know if
they were worth spending. Second, this week Naked Wines won innovator of the
year at the International Wine Challenge awards. And third, Naked Wines recently
announced it had increased its turnover from £4 million in 2009 to £10m (with a
loss of £1m) in 2010, and says it expects to double again this year to £20m, so
must be doing something right.

The chief executive is a soft-voiced South African entrepreneur, Rowan Gormley,
who founded and ran Virgin Wine for Richard Branson then left when the company
was sold on in 2005. His vision for Naked Wines, which launched in December
2008, owes something to the Amazon model in that it's an online-only retailer
that asks customers to rate purchases and uses a hidden algorithm to recommend
other products they might like and encourages drinkers to chat to each other,
posting reviews and ratings online. It's highly interactive. An added dimension
is the zeitgeisty notion that as Naked Wines buys from independent winemakers
(as do other wine merchants, I should add), you're supporting the little guys as
you drink. Hey, that hangover is going to help polish your halo in Farmers'
Market heaven.

I meet Gormley, a confirmed houseswapper ("Haven't you tried it? I've done home
exchanges in Slovenia, Mexico, the US") at the London club he uses for meetings
and try not to blame him when reception makes me sign in on an iPad. The deal
with wine angels is that you pay in £20 each month towards the next order and in
return "get better wine for supporting winemakers directly" (I disagree with
this on the grounds that their access to wine is no greater than that of a
non-wine angel, and I wasn't wowed by the 12 samples I tried); earn 33 per cent
cashback every time they buy (this turns out not to be quite true either); and
receive free samples and invitations to tastings.

But what's the difference between a "wine angel" and someone who agrees to sign
up to a club and hand over cash in advance? It's just a wine club, isn't it?

"No. We have 62,000 people putting in £20 a month; that's over £1m we can use to
invest in winemakers. We support them by paying, typically, a third at harvest
time, a third on bottling and a third on collection."

The idea is some of these wines wouldn't exist without such support. There are
some great stories; for example, helping the first black woman to graduate as a
winemaker in South Africa set up her own project, or the Kiwi sauvignon blanc
made using grapes from a grower abandoned by a multinational after a 30-year
contract was terminated.

Wine angels get to choose who they support, which brings an exciting Dragons'
Den element. But wine is a long and expensive game, and Gormley says he only
commits to one harvest at a time - some other wine merchants would say they
behave more like agents, supporting a producer year in, year out. Do wine angels
still have to drink it if it turns out to be rubbish or mediocre? "We have the
final say whether we take it. We've funded 300-odd wines and only had to refuse
two."

And what about that 33 per cent "cashback?" It works like this. A wine angel
buys a case of wine and 33 per cent of the price is paid back into his account
with Naked Wines. It's actually Gormley who points out to me that this does not,
as you might at first think, represent a saving of 33 per cent. "One of my
customers did the maths. It's actually 25 per cent," he says, then shows me a
complex calculation.

It's not actually cashback either, because although the money goes into your
account, and a wine angel can withdraw money at any time, Gormley says they are
not allowed to withdraw the "cashback". You can only use it against a new order
of wine. In other words, it's really a voucher - he prefers the term "asset" -
and given there's a minimum order of six bottles, chances are you'll have to
spend more money to use it.

That's a lot of smoke and mirrors. Gormley insists, "angels get a good deal" and
that his gross margins are low. In my case I found only one wine - Castillo de
Tafalla Rosado Garnacha 2010 Spain, lovely even at the non-angel price of £6.99
- I would buy, discount or no. Tesco wine chief Dan Jago once tweeted that Naked
Wines is reminiscent of Ukip in that it "appeals passionately to very few
people". I am not one of those.

What I've enjoyed most this week

Simply Muscadet 2010 France

(12%, Tesco, £4.49)

One of the new range of basic wines that Tesco says will be sold at the same
price all year round, a blessing as it means you don't have to look out for it
to be on promotion to know you're not paying over the odds. This does the job
nicely for a fiver: clean and fresh with a slightly stony edge. Simple, yes, but
decent.

Bibbiano Chianti Classico 2008 Italy

(13.5%, Berry Brothers, £14.30)

I've long admired the wines from this estate near Castellina-in-Chianti, but
they have been hard, if not impossible, to get hold of in this country - until
now. Aged in Slavonian oak, this is a traditional style of wine for those who
like their chianti fresh and poised rather than chunky and spicy.

Laforet Beaujolais 2010 France

(13%, £8.99, M&S)

A good, bright and classy beaujolais that you could drink at room temperature or
put in the fridge for 20 minutes to give it a chilly briskness. Made from gamay,
it's good with roasted root vegetables - I'm thinking of an autumnal plateful of
oranges and purples: beetroot, parsnips, squash, carrots and perhaps a pork chop
on the side.

Email

victoria.moore@telegraph.co.uk

Naked Wines is like Ukip - it "appeals passionately to very few people".

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PATRICK MORGAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE YEAR THAT UKIP BECAME A FORCE TO BE RECKONED WITH

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 388 words


THE United Kingdom Independence Party, which has been holding its conference in
Eastbourne this weekend, can look back on a year in which it has established
itself as a mainstream political presence that the bigger parties cannot afford
to ignore.

After securing nearly a million votes but, of course, no seats in the 2010
general election, UKIP has profited from the implosion of the eurozone and a
growing public clamour for an In/Out referendum on the EU.

Its opinion poll rating has regularly been coming in at five per cent despite it
not being mentioned in the "prompt" question that pollsters put to voters about
which party they would vote for were a general election held tomorrow.

That may not sound much but it means that one in every 20 people you pass in the
street is now a UKIP supporter. That also helps to explain why the Conservatives
these days find it so difficult to score the magic 40 per cent or more in polls
or national elections.

The days when David Cameron felt able to smear the party as the refuge of
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" are long gone - too many of his own
party membership share UKIP's main goal of extracting Britain from the EU for
him to risk language like that again. Drill down into the polling figures and
you find UKIP now routinely ahead of the Lib Dems among key sectors of the
electorate such as the over-60s. In a development that was disgracefully ignored
by most of the broadcast media, UKIP also came second behind Labour in the
Barnsley Central parliamentary byelection in March.

Yet the first past the post electoral system will probably keep UKIP out of the
Commons for many years ahead, so how can the party use its leverage to achieve
its goal? The key is elections for the European Parliament, which are next held
in 2014 under a proportional voting system. In 2009 UKIP came second behind the
Tories. Next time they can do even better by exploiting voter disillusionment
with all the major parties on Europe.

Should UKIP win those elections - the key aim of its leader Nigel Farage - it
can put Labour and the Tories under tremendous pressure to pledge a referendum
in the run-up to the 2015 general election.

If the party can keep its nerve and a lid on the faction-fighting to which it is
prone, there is every prospect of it changing British politics for good.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

Ukip chief blasts Cameron for deceiving voters over Europe

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 436 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage blasted David Cameron yesterday for deceiving voters
over immigration, human rights legislation and a referendum on the European
Union.

He accused the Tories of "mass deception" in making pre-election promises on
Europe which they had no intention of keeping.

His speech, at Ukip's annual conference in Eastbourne, coincides with a bitter
row over Europe from Tory backbenchers.

MPs are to meet on Monday to discuss how to recast Britain's relations with the
EU, with veteran Eurosceptic Bill Cash tabling a Bill demanding a referendum on
any moves to closer fiscal union.

Mr Farage told the Ukip conference there had been a "total breakdown in trust"
in all the major parties, with Labour voters disillusioned by the financial
crisis and Iraq and Liberal Democrats by the U-turn on tuition fees.

"But those who must be feeling the most let down, the most disappointed, are the
millions of Conservative voters who believed the promises of David Cameron," he
said.

"They have begun to realise that when Mr Cameron makes promises about EU
referendums, immigration figures or human rights legislation, that he is doing
so simply to get their vote, without ever meaning it. The Tories' election
strategy is one of mass deception and if you're a patriotic, anti-EU Tory voter
then your party has disappeared."

Mr Farage also floated a proposal for an English parliament, to resolve tensions
caused by devolution to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

HAGUE: LOOSEN TIES TO BRUSSELS

WILLIAM Hague believes that Britain could "get ahead" by loosening its ties with
Europe, it emerged last night.

The Foreign Secretary gave hope to Tory eurosceptics when he said it was
"certainly not career suicide" to be linked to a group that wants a shift in the
UK's relationship with Brussels. Speaking of a more distant relationship, he
said: "It's true of the euro, it could be true of more areas in future. In fact
we may get ahead as a result of being outside."

On Monday a group of 80 new intake Tory MPs will discuss what reforms they want
on the UK's relationship with the EU.

CRUSADE   GET US OUT OF THE EU

SUPPORTERS of the Daily Express's crusade for Britain to quit the European Union
can make their voices heard by signing our e-petition on the Government's
website.

More than 27,700 readers have already added their names online at the direct.gov
site.

Once the e-petition reaches 100,000 backers, the Government will have to
seriously consider holding a Parliamentary debate on the issue.

You can sign the official petition at: www.express.co.uk/referendum which will
direct you to the Government e-petition site.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage in EU attack on the PM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Ukip chief blasts Cameron for deceiving voters over Europe

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 244  words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage blasted David Cameron yesterday for deceiving voters
over immigration, human rights legislation and a referendum on the European
Union.

He accused the Tories of "mass deception" in making pre-election promises on
Europe which they had no intention of keeping.

His speech, at Ukip's annual conference in Eastbourne, coincides with a bitter
row over Europe from Tory backbenchers. MPs are to meet on Monday to discuss how
to recast Britain's relations with the EU, with veteran Eurosceptic Bill Cash
tabling a Bill demanding a referendum on any moves to closer fiscal union.

Mr Farage told the Ukip conference there had been a "total breakdown in trust"
in all the major parties, with Labour voters disillusioned by the financial
crisis and Iraq and Liberal Democrats by the U-turn on tuition fees.

"But those who must be feeling the most let down, the most disappointed, are the
millions of Conservative voters who believed the promises of David Cameron, " he
said.

"They have begun to realise that when Mr Cameron makes promises about EU
referendums, immigration figures or human rights legislation, that he is doing
so simply to get their vote, without ever meaning it. The Tories' election
strategy is one of mass deception and if you're a patriotic, anti-EU Tory voter
then your party has disappeared."

Mr Farage also floated a proposal for an English parliament, to resolve tensions
caused by devolution to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage in EU attack on the PM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip chief blasts Cameron for deceiving voters over Europe

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 370  words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage blasted David Cameron yesterday for deceiving voters
over immigration, human rights legislation and a referendum on the EU.

Mr Farage accused the Tories of "mass deception" for making pre-election
promises on Europe which they had no intention of keeping.

His tub-thumping speech, at Ukip's annual conference in Eastbourne, comes amid a
bitter row amid Tory backbenchers over Europe.

MPs are due to meet on Monday to discuss how to recast Britain's relations with
the EU, with veteran Eurosceptic Bill Cash tabling a Bill demanding a referendum
on any moves to closer fiscal union.

In a full-scale attack on Conservative credentials on the European Union, Mr
Farage told the Ukip conference that there had been a "total breakdown in trust"
in all the major parties, with Labour voters disillusioned by the financial
crisis and Iraq and Liberal Democrats by the U-turn on tuition fees.

"But those who must be feeling the most let down, the most disappointed, are the
millions of Conservative voters who believed the promises of David Cameron, " he
said.

"They have begun to realise that when Mr Cameron makes promises about EU
referendums, immigration figures or human rights legislation, that he is doing
so simply to get their vote, without ever meaning it himself.

He went on: "The Tories' election strategy is one of mass deception and if
you're a patriotic, anti-EU Tory voter then your party has disappeared." Mr
Farage also used his speech to float a proposal for an English parliament, to
resolve tensions caused by devolution to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

The Ukip leader said that his party was the first to draw up serious proposals
to answer calls for "English votes for English laws".

He added: "What we have in the UK at the moment is a situation where the English
people are the ones most likely to break up the union because they feel used and
under-represented."

Meanwhile, former Conservative MP Neil Hamilton - a Ukip member for about a year
- was using the conference as a springboard to the party's frontline by standing
for a post on its ruling national executive committee.

Earlier this week, Mr Cameron dismissed calls for an "in-out" referendum on
Britain's EU membership.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage in EU attack on the PM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE YEAR THAT UKIP BECAME A FORCE TO BE RECKONED WITH

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 388  words


THE United Kingdom Independence Party, which has been holding its conference in
Eastbourne this weekend, can look back on a year in which it has established
itself as a mainstream political presence that the bigger parties cannot afford
to ignore.

After securing nearly a million votes but, of course, no seats in the 2010
general election, UKIP has profited from the implosion of the eurozone and a
growing public clamour for an In/Out referendum on the EU.

Its opinion poll rating has regularly been coming in at five per cent despite it
not being mentioned in the "prompt" question that pollsters put to voters about
which party they would vote for were a general election held tomorrow.

That may not sound much but it means that one in every 20 people you pass in the
street is now a UKIP supporter. That also helps to explain why the Conservatives
these days find it so difficult to score the magic 40 per cent or more in polls
or national elections.

The days when David Cameron felt able to smear the party as the refuge of
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" are long gone - too many of his own
party membership share UKIP's main goal of extracting Britain from the EU for
him to risk language like that again.

Drill down into the polling figures and you find UKIP now routinely ahead of the
Lib Dems among key sectors of the electorate such as the over-60s. In a
development that was disgracefully ignored by most of the broadcast media, UKIP
also came second behind Labour in the Barnsley Central parliamentary by election
in March.

Yet the first past the post electoral system will probably keep UKIP out of the
Commons for many years ahead, so how can the party use its leverage to achieve
its goal? The key is elections for the European Parliament, which are next held
in 2014 under a proportional voting system. In 2009 UKIP came second behind the
Tories. Next time they can do even better by exploiting voter disillusionment
with all the major parties on Europe.

Should UKIP win those elections - the key aim of its leader Nigel Farage - it
can put Labour and the Tories under tremendous pressure to pledge a referendum
in the run-up to the 2015 general election.

If the party can keep its nerve and a lid on the faction-fighting to which it is
prone, there is every prospect of it changing British politics for good.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

Leading article: Unthinkable? Tea Party Tories

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 250 words


The Tea Party in the US is not a party, more a militant sect; or rather,
perhaps, an appendage of the Republican party, an eager energetic young tail
that increasingly wags a rather ropey old dog. That it's come so far has excited
politicians of similar views elsewhere.

Since MPs returned to Westminster on Monday there has been a Tea-Party-ish
tincture to the conduct of Tory backbenchers. Socially conservative? Certainly,
especially on abortion: Nadine Dorries, the nearest thing to a British Palin or
Bachmann, whose amendment on the provision of counselling services so troubled
ministers, is not wholly opposed to abortion, but she and her comrades are
determined to roll it back. Taxation? They want it cut, and cut quickly -
especially the 50% rate bequeathed by Labour. Standing up to foreigners who try
to dictate to this proud nation? The 2010 parliamentary intake - including some
converts from Ukip - have brought a new fervour to Euroscepticism. Now backbench
pressure over the right of Scottish and Welsh MPs to vote on purely English
issues has persuaded the government to set up an inquiry. The mood was summed up
by Wednesday's question (Nadine Dorries again) to David Cameron: wasn't it time
he told his Lib Dem deputy who was the boss? In effect, a demand for her party
leader to do what his party wants him to do with complete disregard for the
pesky partners foisted on him by the electorate. A challenge straight out of
fantasy land. But that's a mark of Tea Party politics too.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Brussels meddlers must stop having pop

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 129 words


BRUSSELS-bashing UKIP leader Nigel Farage hailed Irn-Bru's victory over the EU -
but warned of more meddling to come.

And he insisted the bureaucrats could try to tackle yet more Scots icons like
shortbread and even bagpipes.

Outspoken Farage, 47, said: "I may be an Englishman but even I know the famous
recovery powers of Irn-Bru after a heavy night out.

"The fizzy ginger drink is as Scottish as the kilt.

"So I'm not surprised Brussels have been forced into a climbdown.

"They'd have been as well to try to ban the bagpipes - but I wouldn't put it
past them to try."

He added that unless the UK quits the EU "I absolutely guarantee they will be
back to meddle with more iconic Scottish brands".

Farage said: "How do you think you'll like it when the bureaucrats outlaw
shortbread?"

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Toast ... UKIP's Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 10, 2011 Saturday 3:28 PM GMT

William Hague: Britain could benefit from looser EU ties;
William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, has said that Britain could benefit by
loosening its ties with Europe.

LENGTH: 381 words


Mr Hague also said that he welcomed the debate on the issue provoked by
increasingly vocal Conservative backbench MPs.

He said, in an interview published today, that it would "certainly not [be]
career suicide" to become linked to a new group that wants a shift in Britain's
relationship with Europe.

Mr Hague suggested that Britain might do better by setting itself apart from the
continent in the same way that it had done over the issue of the single
currency.

"It's true of the euro, it could be true of more areas in future. In fact we may
get ahead as a result of being outside," Mr Hague said.

He said the creation of the eurozone without closer tax and spending rules was
"always a giant mistake" and it "would stand as a monument in time to how
group-think can go so seriously away from what is realistic".

David Cameron has come under increasing pressure to hold an "in or out"
referendum on Europe. Earlier this week a 100,000-name petition was delivered to
Downing Street, enough to trigger consideration of a parliamentary debate on the
issue.

Mr Cameron insisted there was "no case to answer" on membership, adding: "I want
us to be influential in Europe about the things that matter to our national
interest - promoting the single market, pushing forward for growth, making sure
we get lower energy prices."

On Monday a group of 80 new intake Tory MPs will meet to discuss what reforms
they want.

Backbencher George Eustice, one of the group's conveners, said: "The aim of this
new group is to promote debate about creating a new relationship with the EU and
reversing the process of EU integration."

Mr Eustice has said that the eurozone crisis has given Britain the opportunity
to press for change.

Mr Hague said members of the new group would be welcomed into his office any
time.

He told The Times that he was "clearly" in favour of repatriating powers from
Brussels, but that it was an area on which there had been necessary compromise
in the Coalition with the Liberal Democrats. Danny Alexander, the Liberal
Democrat Chief Secretary to the Treasury, has warned Tory MPs not to exploit the
eurozone crisis to force a referendum on the issue of EU membership.

But Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, has said there was "great anger" at Mr
Cameron's failure to offer a vote.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

100,000 names on e-petition add to clamour for EU referendum

BYLINE: Andrew Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 230 words


THE pressure on David Cameron to hold a referendum on Britain's continuing
membership of the European Union is intensifying after 100,000 people signed an
e-petition urging him to allow a vote on the issue. A group of Conservative MPs
also stepped up their lobbying of Downing Street over the issue yesterday,
despite being warned off by the Liberal Democrats.

George Eustice, a former close aide to Mr Cameron and now a Tory back-bench MP,
said that an "absolutely crucial" moment was approaching, with the eurozone
crisis giving Britain the opportunity to press for change.

He urged Mr Cameron not to "duck" the challenge.

"What we'd like to make sure of is that this is an opportunity to change the EU.
We have a changing context, a lot of other EU countries are starting to question
the direction the EU is going, given the current crisis in the eurozone," he
added.

Danny Alexander, the Lib Dem Chief Secretary to the Treasury, warned Tory MPs
not to exploit the eurozone crisis to force a referendum on the EU. But Mr
Eustice said the Lib Dems had to realise that they had been "completely wrong"
on the single currency. Under a new system of government e-petitions, any issue
which attracts more than 100,000 signatories has to be considered for a Commons
debate.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said there was "great anger" at Mr Cameron's
failure to offer a referendum on Europe.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Crusade to escape the EU marches on No 10;
CRUSADE GET US OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 443 words


A SIGNATURE with 100,000 names demanding a referendum over the UK's EU
membership was delivered to 10 Downing Street yesterday.

A cross-party group of MPs and Euro-MPs marched on the Prime Minister's office
to hand over the call for the first official national poll on Britain's ties
with Brussels since 1975.

And the move comes as tensions have been rising within the Coalition over
Britain's relations with the EU.

Independent Euro-MP Nikki Sinclaire, who organised the petition, said: "This is
giving voice to more than 100,000 people who want a referendum on membership of
the EU.

Crisis

"This is an argument that has been going on far too long. We must have a
referendum, and the Government must abide by the result."

Labour MP Kate Hoey said: "It's inevitable now Britain will have a referendum on
our EU membership. It's just a question of when."

Kelvin Hopkins, also a Labour MP, said: "The vast majority of the British
population wants a referendum on the country's EU membership and I think they
should have it.

"Europe is in an economic crisis and the EU is doing no good for the eurozone or
for us."

Nigel Dodds, Democratic Unionist Party MP for North Belfast, said: "This is the
latest message in the growing demand from people across the UK for a referendum.
People have had enough of the EU and they want Britain to get out."

Ukip Euro-MPs Mike Nattras and Trevor Colman also joined the protest. "We need
to end Brussels regulation," said Mr Nattras.

A growing number of Tory MPs are calling for a major overhaul of relations with
the EU, and around 80 are to hold a meeting on Monday in a defiant challenge to
the Prime Minister.

Tory backbencher George Eustice, one of the Tory backbench group's conveners,
said that the Prime Minister had "two or three years" to restructure Britain's
links with Brussels .

But Lib Dem Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander enraged
Conservatives by saying that the economic crisis in the eurozone should mean
that Britain worked harder at being a "leading member" of the EU.

Meanwhile, fresh moves for an EU-wide tax on trading in shares and bonds were
threatened by the European Commission CRUSADE last night. Brussels officials
vowed to press ahead with the 0.1percent financial transaction tax despite
opposition from the British Government.

Earlier this year, 373,000 Daily Express readers backed a separate petition
calling for the UK to quit the EU.

And nearly 26,000 people have backed a new petition started by the Daily Express
on the Government's official e-petition website also calling for British
withdrawal.

You can join our petition for a referendum on leaving the EU at
www.express.co.uk/referendum

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At No10: from left, Trevor Colman, Mike Nattras, Kelvin Hopkins, Nikki
Sinclaire, Nigel Dodds and Kate Hoey
Picture: TIM CLARKE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Crusade to escape the EU marches on No 10

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 440  words


A SIGNATURE with 100,000 names demanding a referendum over the UK's EU
membership was delivered to 10 Downing Street yesterday.

A cross-party group of MPs and Euro-MPs marched on the Prime Minister's office
to hand over the call for the first official national poll on Britain's ties
with Brussels since 1975.

And the move comes as tensions have been rising within the Coalition over
Britain's relations with the EU.

Independent Euro-MP Nikki Sinclaire, who organised the petition, said: "This is
giving voice to more than 100,000 people who want a referendum on membership of
the EU.

"This is an argument that has been going on far too long. We must have a
referendum, and the Government must abide by the result."

Labour MP Kate Hoey said:

"It's inevitable now Britain will have a referendum on our EU membership. It's
just a question of when."

Kelvin Hopkins, also a Labour MP, said: "The vast majority of the British
population wants a referendum on the country's EU membership and I think they
should have it.

"Europe is in an economic crisis and the EU is doing no good for the eurozone or
for us."

Nigel Dodds, Democratic Unionist Party MP for North Belfast, said: "This is the
latest message in the growing demand from people across the UK for a referendum.
People have had enough of the EU and they want Britain to get out."

Ukip Euro-MPs Mike Nattras and Trevor Colman also joined the protest. "We need
to end Brussels regulation, " said Mr Nattras.

A growing number of Tory MPs are calling for a major overhaul of relations with
the EU, and around 80 are to hold a meeting on Monday in a defiant challenge to
the Prime Minister.

Tory backbencher George Eustice, one of the Tory backbench group's conveners,
said that the Prime Minister had "two or three years" to restructure Britain's
links with Brussels. But Lib Dem Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander
enraged Conservatives by saying that the economic crisis in the eurozone should
mean that Britain worked harder at being a "leading member" of the EU.

Meanwhile, fresh moves for an EU-wide tax on trading in shares and bonds were
threatened by the European Commission last night. Brussels officials vowed to
press ahead with the 0.1percent financial transaction tax despite opposition
from the British Government.

Earlier this year, 373,000 Daily Express readers backed a separate petition
calling for the UK to quit the EU.

And nearly 26,000 people have backed a new petition started by the Daily Express
on the Government's official e-petition website also callin g for British
withdrawal.

You can join our petition for a referendum on leaving the EU at
www.express.co.uk/referendum

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At No10: from left, Trevor Colman, Mike Nattras, Kelvin Hopkins, Nikki
Sinclaire, Nigel Dodds and Kate Hoey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 10:50 AM GMT

Labour gain but Tory share boosted in by-elections

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 215 words


Labour gained from Liberal Democrats at Bristol in the latest council
by-elections.

Candidate Brenda Massey took a Southmead seat which Lib Dems had won in 2009.

But Labour later returned another councillor there last year on the same day
as the General Election.

In the latest poll Tories surprisingly benefited the most from Liberal
Democrats' vote collapse.

Conservatives also comfortably won Essex County Council's Stock division,
previously represented by the authority's ex-leader Lord Hanningfield, who   was
jailed after being found guilty of fiddling parliamentary expenses.

Ukip took second place with Lib Dems dropping to fourth. The result was
technically a Tory gain as Lord Hanningfield was no longer in the party's
group.

RESULTS

Bristol City - Southmead: Lab 1,109, C 765, Lib Dem 365, Green 120, English
Democrats 77. (May 2010 - Lab 1,921, Lib Dem 1,291, C 984, BNP 310, Green   124,
English Democrats 120). Lab gain from Lib Dem. Swing 8.6% Lib Dem to   Lab.

Essex County - Stock: C 1,820, Ukip 736, Lab 273, Lib Dem 160, Green 80. (June
2009 - C 3,726, Lib Dem 711, Green 493, BNP 442, Lab 297). C gain from Ind.
Swing 5% C to Lab.

North Somerset Council - Backwell: Ind 816, C 314, Lab 124, Lib Dem 69. (May
2011 - Two seats Ind 1,603, 1,602, C 778). Ind hold.

PA

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Ukip welcomes European anti-immigration parties

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 299 words


Ukip has been accused of pandering to xenophobia by inviting two prominent
figures from European anti-immigration parties to address its annual conference
today.

The star speaker will be Timo Soini, the leader of the True Finns, a previously
fringe nationalist party which scored a surprise success by coming third in the
Finnish general election. Ukip has been attracted by the fiercely Eurosceptic
outlook of the party, which tapped into opposition to offering financial support
for Mediterranean nations hit by the Eurozone crisis.

But the True Finns have also described immigrants as "parasites on taxpayers'
money" and suggested ethnically Finnish women should study less and spend more
time having babies.

Mr Soini will be joined by the MEP Barry Madlener, of the Dutch Freedom Party.
Its leader, Geert Wilders, has attacked Islam as a violent religion and compared
the Koran to Mein Kampf.

A Ukip spokeswoman said the parties had been invited because of their shared
Euroscepticism. She said the invitation was not an endorsement of their entire
policy programme, adding: "We wouldn't seek to tell other political parties how
to run their domestic affairs." But Denis MacShane, the former Europe Minister,
said: "These parties show nothing but contempt for different faiths, different
nationalities and different skin colours. There are plenty of anti-European
politicians in Europe who could grace, or disgrace, the conference platform.
Going for these two tells you all you need to know about Ukip."

Tim Bale, professor of politics at Sussex University, said the True Finns were
among a new wave of avowedly populist parties that tapped into popular
disaffection. "They are not after a rebirth of a Nordic super-race," he said.
"But they will draw in some people with pretty extreme views."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Letters: Patients at risk in our hospitals

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 2793 words


Your article "Hospital staff shortages 'cause 500 deaths a year'" (8 September)
shows that too few junior doctors are caring for too many patients overnight and
at the weekend. Patients who are admitted to hospital in the evening and at the
weekend risk receiving sub-standard care.

Despite the best efforts of consultants who work above their contracted hours,
patients are not getting sufficient input to their care from senior doctors
during these periods. The supervision and training of junior doctors is also
adversely affected by a lack of senior input during these periods. More
doctors are required to provide this high level service.

The Royal College of Physicians believes that there is an urgent need to
review workforce patterns in hospitals to ensure that medical in-patients
receive direct input from consultant physicians on every day of the week. We
previously issued guidance for physicians caring for very sick patients.
Hospitals admitting acutely ill medical patients should have a consultant
physician on-site for at least 12 hours per day, seven days per week, at   times
related to peak admissions. Consultants should have no other duties   during
this period.

We can begin now by reconfiguring acute services. Concentrating specialist
services in centres of excellence will improve standards and help to provide   a
consultant delivered service.

Furthermore, junior doctors' contract, the New Deal, and the European Working
Time Directive must be renegotiated to provide more local flexibility when
designing staff rotas in hospitals.

The RCP calls on the Government to take urgent action to ensure that extended
consultant-delivered services, providing safer care for patients and the
opportunity for excellent training of the next generation of doctors can be
achieved.

Sir Richard Thompson

President, Royal College of Physicians, London NW1

Keep cameras out of courts

Why the rush to film court proceedings? It's not as though it's been a hot
topic in the pub, bus or boardroom.

Ken Clarke says it's about transparency. But one thing criminal-court
proceedings already are is transparent. Members of the public can go along,
watch and listen, and the proceedings are recorded for transcript purposes.

I've seen no mention of how much this will cost us, the taxpayer. I have no
doubt that hard-pressed crown court staff are not impressed with money being
spent on this when their numbers have been cut beyond the minimum and they   are
at breaking point.

Paul Nuttall MEP

(UKIP, north-west england)

While there are certainly arguments for a televised judicial system (report, 7
September), it is important to consider the effect of the cameras on judges.

The chance to appear on television certainly provides one with an opportunity
to exercise one's ego, as well as raising interest on social media.

It would be naive and ultimately unjust to assume that, while appearing on
television with the potential for future celebrity, every judge will remain
undaunted, principled and, most fundamentally, impartial.

Charles Lake

Ruislip, Middlesex

Your leading article on the proposed televising of court proceedings (7
September) mentions in passing "the occasionally mooted discontinuation   of
wigs and gowns on the grounds that they overawe ordinary people".

Overawe? On the contrary. On seeing a judge in full panoply, or a barrister in
wig and gown, the natural reaction of any normal, healthy person is to fall
about laughing. It would certainly make sense to get rid of these ludicrous
comic-opera costumes if "ordinary people" are to take the legal   system
seriously.

John Smurthwaite

Leeds

Target traders in stolen metals

The continued theft of metals such as lead and copper is now of a magnitude to
merit a co-ordinated response on a national scale. Each time the price of
these metals rises, there is an increase in this criminal activity. This is
proving a particular burden on churches, few of which have escaped losing   lead
from their roofs. The cost of replacing the stolen lead has to be borne   by the
individual church and its congregation, often a very small number of   people,
who have to pay for the replacement. And some churches have had   their lead
stolen again and again. In this latest spate of thefts, over 40   churches have
been affected in the Diocese of Lincoln alone.

Of course measures are taken to deter such thefts, including for example
installing intruder alarms. The police are involved but with only limited
success in apprehending the thieves.

But while thieves can readily dispose of the stolen metal, they will continue
to gather this free harvest - whether lead from church roofs or copper from
railway lines. The stolen materials are worthless unless they can be sold to
somebody prepared to accept them, and this appears not to present any great
difficulty to the criminal.

Given the quantities of metals being stolen, there must be in operation
fencing on an industrial scale. This is surely where the police and other
law-enforcing bodies need to target their efforts; and this must be
cross-constabulary and preferably co-ordinated nationally. If the harsh   light
of investigation is focused on the scrap-metal dealers and subsequent
recyclers/smelters, then we might begin to tackle this criminal activity.

Stan Underwood

Lincoln

Don't let bankers ruin us all

Part of my job during many years in banking was reading fiction or
semi-fiction, also known as balance sheets. We often had to guess what the
real truth was about the information with which we were fed and guard   against
being deceived.

Then we get "Chinese walls", the purpose of which is to ensure that
information important to one part of a business would never be passed to
another. Pull my other leg, the one with bells on it.

Now we have the latest fashion, "ring-fenced assets", which no one   has yet
explained in detail. It seems that by magic if one part of a   business goes
bust, the other by magic does not. How does this work legally?

No, the gambling side of banks must be completely divorced from the
old-fashioned side so that if the gamblers go broke, as they will, the
traditional side will not. No "ring-fencing": two different   businesses,
legally separate, with separate names.

This is not a technicality; the future of our country is at stake.

Peter Croggon

Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers London SW16

Protect religious freedom in Syria

With the authoritarian regime of Libya's Gaddafi effectively replaced,
attention is bound to move to Syria, and hopes are high in some Western
capitals of being able to engineer a similar transition.

However, Syria differs from Libya in one crucial aspect; its religious
diversity. Christianity took root in Syria at its very beginning and the
country has churches and monasteries that trace their roots all the way back
to that time.

While historically there have been incidents of serious religious violence, in
recent times Syria has had relatively harmonious relations between Muslims   and
the indigenous Christian churches, both Orthodox and Eastern Rite   Catholics.
It has provided a haven for refugees from Turkey and more   recently Iraq, a
disproportionate number of whom were indigenous Christians   fleeing from
targeted attack.

Whatever the mistakes, or worse, of the al-Assad dynasty, it has deliberately
promoted religious tolerance, a unique achievement of inestimable value and   a
lesson to the rest of the Middle East. Some senior Islamic clerics in   Syria
have remarkably good relations with leaders of the indigenous churches   and see
them as an integral part of the country, and an important ally   against
Islamist extremism.

Western politicians should be taking note, and journalists should be talking
this up. While overt support for Christians in Syria by the West will   condemn
them in the eyes of radical Islamists as "Crusader"   stooges, any support for
the Syrian opposition must demand that, if they   come to power, they continue
that same policy of full religious toleration.

The religiously inspired barbarity that followed our attempt at recent "regime
change" in Iraq must not be allowed a second appearance.

Nicholas Crampton.

(Co-ordinator, Eastern Christian Links)

Mundford, Norfolk

National Trust is out of touch

The opposition of the National Trust to more housing in rural Britain shows
how out of touch this "charity" is. In Cornwall its isolation from   the local
community is stark. We face the worst affordability problem with   housing in
the UK. The problem is worsened by the selfish use of large   amounts of Cornish
housing for second homes. The Trust is itself a large   owner of second homes in
our region. To protect the countryside it should   join the Cornish campaign to
curtail second homes and so reduce the need for   green-field developments. But
I guess National Trust members either own or   aspire to own a second home and
are not going to want to see this as the   problem.

The result is an ethnically cleansed and sanitised countryside devoid of young
Cornish people or an income spread in the villages. A countryside, in fact,
just like a National Trust stately home - nice to look at, but devoid of   life.
In Cornwall the Trust adds insult to injury as it refuses to use the   Cornish
language at any Cornish site.

It's time the National Trust was made accountable to the communities it is
hosted by. It is difficult to see why the nimbys at the Trust get tax breaks
while Cornish rural schools close.

Tim James

Penzance

The sham of school targets

Your leading article "A fraud on all our pupils" (7 September)   claims that
schools have cheated, "to ensure the school met its targets   and occupied a
higher position in the league tables than it would otherwise   have done".

Since there can be few heads who have not grasped that recent governments have
reduced education to a game that they must win, then it might be fairer to
claim that they have acted to ensure that their schools do not fall below
their rightful positions in the league tables.

Just where should the lines be drawn between the wholly acceptable, the
dubious and out-and-out fraud? Entering pupils for "equivalent"   qualifications
in order to enable potential GCSE failures (below C grade) to   pass is,
presumably, acceptable even though it may mean that able pupils are   not
stretched and may be prepared inadequately for A-level.

How do we judge a head who instructs a teacher to check coursework and demand
recommended improvements until the target grade is reached? Teachers are,
after all, required to state that the piece is entirely the work of the   pupil.

When marking history coursework I used to set the mark for the best piece
according to what, I judged, would be the highest I could get without having
the moderator reduce it. Were I to award, say, 86 per cent when another   school
might award 94 per cent for work of a similar quality, I might have   deprived
my strongest students of their A* and A grades. Even worse, I might   have
plunged several pupils from a potential C to the dreaded D. Was this
acceptable?

Schools that have played the game and seen their A-C grades soar have had
praise heaped upon them. They have been congratulated for the "improvements"
that they have made. Schools that have not played according to the new rules
and seen their pass rates stagnate have been judged to be "failing".

The teaching profession is not responsible for the political game and its
rules. It has simply responded to the demands of government. If the present
government is unhappy with the outcome, it should take responsibility for
changing the game.

Stephen Shaw

Nottingham

Riotous times in Brighton

During the last few days I have been reading the excellent book Family Britain
by David Kynaston about life in the 1950s. Given the outcry over the recent
riots and what they tell us about the breakdown of families etc, I was   amused
to come upon the following few lines: "In late April [1952] the   Brighton and
Hove Herald reported a wave of wanton destruction by teenage   hooligans
striking the seafront, with juvenile gangsters vandalising   property and
assaulting passers-by; soon afterwards, Disgusted of South   Wales complained to
the local paper about vandalism in Aberfan's cinema and   attributed it to lack
of parental control." So don't panic - we've been   here before and apparently
survived.

Professor Brian Everitt

London SE19

Greed motivates this quest for oil

In your piece about oil exploration in the Arctic and the potential for
natural disaster ("Oil exploration under Arctic ice could cause
'uncontrollable' natural disaster", 6 September), it should be noted   that the
best estimation of 160bn barrels of oil is still only five years'   of total
global consumption.

So we would be putting off the inevitable end to this finite resource at great
risk to the environment and at great cost. It seems that the motivation is
greed rather than investment in sustainable and renewable long-term   solutions.

Jake Backus

Oxford

A fine romance

When I read Wuthering Heights as a teenager it certainly tweaked my romantic
nerve. Kaleem Aftab (Viewspaper, 7 September) is fascinated that director
Andrea Arnold has deprived the new Wuthering Heights film of any romance.

On re-reading the book at 50 I didn't recognise the characters I thought I had
found there previously; it is book full of cold, hard people with few
redeeming qualities, bent on self-destruction or the destruction of others,
with no romance, just the desire to own or dominate.

Clare Shepherd

Blandford, Dorset

Why Trident?

The short answer to Robert Hinde's question (letters, 7 September) about
retaining Trident is "continuing delusions of grandeur". Or (to   replay the
opinion of Dean Acheson, US Secretary of State at the time of the   1956 Suez
crisis): "Britain has lost an empire, but has yet to find a   role".

Michael McGwire,

Swanage, Dorset

Perspectives on tax havens

Nothing immoral about Jersey

Paul Vallely's recent article "There is no moral case for tax havens"   (29
August) lumps all international financial centres together under the
pejorative term "tax haven" and thereby fails to take into account   the
diversity and quality of the jurisdictions he derides.

Just as democracies vary in strength and quality, offshore financial centres
occupy a vast spectrum from the opaque, secretive jurisdictions to the
cooperative, transparent and well-regulated centres. Jersey is clearly at   the
latter end of this spectrum. Indeed, Jersey has been independently   assessed as
compliant or largely compliant with 44 of the Financial Action   Task Force
recommendations to combat money laundering and terrorist   financing. To put
this in perspective, the UK has only been deemed to be   compliant with 36 of
these. With this in mind, Vallely's position that all   international financial
centres are sanctuaries for the spoils of "theft,   fraud, bribery,
terrorism..." is clearly untenable.

Vallely goes on to posit that there is a direct and detrimental relationship
between offshore financial centres and the developing world. This argument   is
unsupported by the evidence as amply demonstrated in independent research
conducted by Professor Sharman of the University of Griffith.

Finally, the terms "tax avoidance" and "tax evasion"   really should not be
conflated. It is the right of every taxpayer to arrange   his or her own
finances in the most effective and efficient way. Tax   evasion, by contrast, is
rightly illegal. Far from proving his case that "tax   havens" are in some way
immoral, the onus is on Vallely and others to   make the moral case that
individuals should not have the right to choose how   they manage their affairs.

Geoff Cook

Chief Executive,Jersey Finance Ltd

Jersey, Channel Islands

Loopholes in the British Virgin Islands

Sherri Ortiz overlooks the crucial role that the British Virgin Islands plays
in assisting wealthy investors to avoid paying their taxes (Letters, 1
September). The Tax Information Exchange Agreement with the UK leaves this
particular loophole largely untouched.

Much of the foreign money held in Swiss bank accounts is not booked in the
name of the actual, or beneficial, owners of the funds. Rather it is held in
the name of companies registered in corporate secrecy jurisdictions, such as
the British Virgin Islands.

Since company registers in these jurisdictions are not open to public
examination, it is very difficult for the tax authorities to be aware of the
existence of these companies - let alone whose money is concealed in them.

Nigel Wilkins

London SW7

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Ukip welcomes European allies;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 159 words


UKIP HAS been accused of pandering to xenophobia by inviting two prominent
figures from European anti-immigration parties to address its annual conference
today.

The star speaker will be Timo Soini, the leader of the True Finns, a previously
fringe nationalist party that scored a surprise success by coming third in the
Finnish general election. Ukip has been attracted by the fiercely Eurosceptic
outlook of the party, which tapped into opposition to offering financial support
for Mediterranean nations.

But the True Finns have also described immigrants as "parasites on taxpayers'
money" and suggested ethnically Finnish women should study less and spend more
time having babies.

Mr Soini will be joined by the MEP Barry Madlener, of the Dutch Freedom Party.
Its leader, Geert Wilders, has attacked Islam as a violent religion and compared
the Koran to Mein Kampf.

A Ukip spokeswoman said the parties had been invited because of their shared
Euroscepticism.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

LION'S HEAD SALE OUTRAGE;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 52 words


ConseRvAtIonIsts have condemned the UK Independence Party for auctioning a
lion's head and pelt in aid of party funds.

LionAid slammed it as "shameful and appalling".

But UKIP, which hopes the lion will fetch pounds 250 at its gala dinner tonight
in eastbourne, east sussex, defended the auction as "perfectly legal".

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 11:00 AM GMT

Is Naked Wines a genuine innovation, or just another club?;
Victoria Moore asks whether Naked Wines is just another club - or else something
more special.

BYLINE: By Victoria Moore

LENGTH: 839 words


I've been boycotting Naked Wines partly because the name grates so much. It
sounds as if it's been thought up by a focus group of middle-aged men on their
way to a Chris Rea concert. I can hear the chat. "Yeah, it's about getting back
to the pure thing of what wine really is, and naked sounds groovy." No, it
doesn't. It sounds desperate. And don't even get me started on their wine angels
gimmick. Yes, that's right, a Naked Wine Angel is apparently a "normal drinker
just like you" who gets "preferential prices in return for investing in our
independent winemakers". I'll come back to that later. In detail.

I decided to have a closer look at Naked Wines for two reasons. First, friends
kept mentioning they'd been given vouchers for the company and wanted to know if
they were worth spending. Second, this week Naked Wines won innovator of the
year at the International Wine Challenge awards. And third, Naked Wines recently
announced it had increased its turnover from £4 million in 2009 to £10m (with a
loss of £1m) in 2010, and says it expects to double again this year to £20m, so
must be doing something right.

The chief executive is a soft-voiced South African entrepreneur, Rowan Gormley,
who founded and ran Virgin Wine for Richard Branson then left when the company
was sold on in 2005. His vision for Naked Wines, which launched in December
2008, owes something to the Amazon model in that it's an online-only retailer
that asks customers to rate purchases and uses a hidden algorithm to recommend
other products they might like and encourages drinkers to chat to each other,
posting reviews and ratings online. It's highly interactive. An added dimension
is the zeitgeisty notion that as Naked Wines buys from independent winemakers
(as do other wine merchants, I should add), you're supporting the little guys as
you drink. Hey, that hangover is going to help polish your halo in Farmers'
Market heaven.

I meet Gormley, a confirmed house-swapper ("Haven't you tried it? I've done home
exchanges in Slovenia, Mexico, the US") at the London club he uses for meetings
and try not to blame him when reception makes me sign in on an iPad. The deal
with wine angels is that you pay in £20 each month towards the next order and in
return "get better wine for supporting winemakers directly" (I disagree with
this on the grounds that their access to wine is no greater than that of a
non-wine angel, and I wasn't wowed by the 12 samples I tried); earn 33 per cent
cashback every time they buy (this turns out not to be quite true either); and
receive free samples and invitations to tastings.

But what's the difference between a "wine angel" and someone who agrees to sign
up to a club and hand over cash in advance? It's just a wine club, isn't it?

"No. We have 62,000 people putting in £20 a month; that's over £1m we can use to
invest in winemakers. We support them by paying, typically, a third at harvest
time, a third on bottling and a third on collection."

The idea is some of these wines wouldn't exist without such support. There are
some great stories; for example, helping the first black woman to graduate as a
winemaker in South Africa set up her own project, or the Kiwi sauvignon blanc
made using grapes from a grower abandoned by a multinational after a 30 year
contract was terminated.

Wine angels get to choose who they support, which brings an exciting Dragons'
Den element. But wine is a long and expensive game, and Gormley says he only
commits to one harvest at a time - some other wine merchants would say they
behave more like agents, supporting a producer year in, year out. Do wine angels
still have to drink it if it turns out to be rubbish or mediocre? "We have the
final say whether we take it. We've funded 300-odd wines and only had to refuse
two."

And what about that 33 per cent "cashback?" It works like this. A wine angel
buys a case of wine and 33 per cent of the price is paid back into his account
with Naked Wines. It's actually Gormley who points out to me that this does not,
as you might at first think, represent a saving of 33 per cent. "One of my
customers did the maths. It's actually 25 per cent," he says, then shows me a
complex calculation.

It's not actually cashback either, because although the money goes into your
account, and a wine angel can withdraw money at any time, Gormley says they are
not allowed to withdraw the "cashback". You can only use it against a new order
of wine. In other words, it's really a voucher - he prefers the term "asset" -
and given there's a minimum order of six bottles, chances are you'll have to
spend more money to use it.

That's a lot of smoke and mirrors. Gormley insists, "angels get a good deal" and
that his gross margins are low. In my case I found only one wine - Castillo de
Tafalla Rosado Garnacha 2010 Spain, lovely even at the non-angel price of £6.99
- I would buy, discount or no. Tesco wine chief Dan Jago once tweeted that Naked
Wines is reminiscent of Ukip in that it "appeals passionately to very few
people". I am not one of those.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP is 'irrelevant';
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 127 words


Sir, The boast by John Harvey (letter, Sept 6) that a victory for UKIP in the
next European elections will enable the party to "set about freeing Britain from
the EU" is quite delusional. The presence of UKIP MEPs in Brussels for more than
a decade has simply enriched those elected and has not had any impact at all on
Britain's independence. Even if UKIP won every UK seat in the European
Parliament it could change nothing. Its strategy is a mirage which simply
deflects funds and energy from the real battle for influence at Westminster,
which alone counts.

UKIP has been fooling its voters and members for far too long. Its third-rate
leaders, propagandists and MEPs all need to be sacked and the party
re-established.

professor alan sked Founder, UKIP, London N1

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday

OVERPAID

LENGTH: 246 words


CATHY ASHTON? KEEP IT, SAYS EU

BY PETER ALLEN

EU diplomats who are accidentally paid too much while working for British
foreign affairs chief Cathy Ashton are being allowed to keep much of the money.

Members of the Baroness's new diplomatic corps have their salaries adjusted
depending on what part of the world they are working in.

For example, an official working in an expensive European capital will receive
more than one in low-cost East Africa.

But the 'weighting' allowance frequently changes because of currency
fluctuations and the changing cost of living overseas. By the time salaries are
adjusted Z which can take as much as a year Z diplomats will often have been
paid too much and should, technically, return all the excess.

Instead, they are being asked to pay back a maximum of six months owed money.

The Commission could not supply a figure for the number of staff involved but a
spokesman said it would be 'hundreds'.

The arrangement applies to senior diplomats on six figure salaries as well as
junior staff, meaning the cost to the European taxpayer will be millions.

European Commission spokesman Antony Gravili said: 'Not offering some minimal
protection for colleagues would be a great disincentive for them to apply for
posts in these countries.'

But UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen, the commission's former chief
accountant, said: 'Failing to try to retrieve this taxpayers' money is
disgraceful. It is not as if Eurocrat staff aren't already well paid.'

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU superstate... it's a nightmare!

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 336 words


TOP Eurocrat Herman van Rompuy provoked outrage yesterday by declaring his
ambition to become leader of a "United States of Europe".

He signalled his desire for a second two-and-a-half year term as president of
the European Union.

And he made clear he would use a renewed mandate to realise the ultimate
Euro-fanatic dream of turning the EU into a superstate.

Last night, there was outrage at the "deluded ambitions" of the EU's unelected
president.

Martin Callanan, leader of the Tory EuroMPs, said: "Mr van Rompuy's dream of
leading a European superstate is everyone else's nightmare.

"We don't want to be part of a United States of Europe under any circumstances."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "His ambitions are
deluded given the huge problems that the continent is facing." Mr van Rompuy -
whose term of office ends in May - made his move as growing pressure for a new
EU treaty fuels concern over UK membership.

The Daily Express crusade for a referendum on Britain quitting the EU has won
25,000 signatures on the Government e-petition website.

But last night, David Cameron ruled out a referendum despite a previous Tory
pledge for a poll on any EU treaty changes.

The Prime Minister told Tory MPs: "Britain should be in there defending its
interests."

Backbencher Bill Cash warned that the refusal to grant a referendum could
provoke a furious backlash.

"You're creating an extremely dangerous situation," he told Mr Cameron "Why
won't you give the British people the right to have their say?"

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should UK belong to a European superstate?

YES: 0901 030 8342

NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

Should UK belong to a European superstate? q Yes: 0901 030 8342 no: 0901 030
8343 Yes text DXWeDYes to 80088 no text DXWeDno to 80088 Calls cost 26p from a
BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network
operator rates

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IS JOAN COLLINS OUR SAVIOUR?;
Children need discipline, slobs should be shamed and messy hair is unforgivable!
The wise, witty and politically incorrect world of a 78-year-old British heroine

BYLINE: Simon Edge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 1487 words


IT'S a general rule of thumb that when people moan about bad behaviour by the
very young they are talking about other folk's children, not their own. So you
have to hand it to Joan Collins. Although she is pretty rude about lots of
people in an explosive new memoir about the state of the modern world her
broadside against modern child-rearing starts with her own family.

"Don't get me wrong, I love being with my young grandchildren, especially during
the summer holidays when we're all gathered at my villa in France," the
five-times-married actress writes in The World According To Joan. "But I'm less
than thrilled at the way my own children seem to minister to their children's
every need."

The quiet of her St Tropez idyll is punctuated, the 78-year-old star says, by
the sound of her grandchildren's voices raised above those of their parents -
Joan's elder daughter Tara Newley, her son Sacha Newley and his wife Angela -
who seem to follow them around in "helpless supplication". It's very different
from the way she was taught to behave.

"As a youngster I would never have dreamed of questioning my parents' authority
but today's children seem to take their parents' orders as an opener to debate,"
she writes. "Pleas and appeals turn into manoeuvring and cajoling worthy of a
United Nations summit, until out-and-out crying or faces of utter misery
convince their buckling parents to give in to desperate demands for new toys or
outings. As I watch my own son, daughter and daughter-in-law crumble in the face
of this childish opposition, I wonder how so much could have changed in so
little time."

The London-born beauty, who went to Hollywood in her 20s and famously appeared
nude in hit Seventies films The Stud and The Bitch is a woman of strong views
and has made no secret of her political affiliations. In the Eighties, the
excesses of which she personified on screen as queen bitch Alexis Carrington in
US soap Dynasty, she was one of a tiny number of showbiz types to buck the
"luvvie" trend and express support for Margaret Thatcher.

As the Conservative Party turned in on itself in opposition she became a patron
of the UK Independence Party. She is now back in the Tory fold, openly
championing David Cameron on election night in May 2010.

But neither she nor any other actress - with the possible exception of Vanessa
Redgrave at the opposite political pole - has ever let rip with quite such
abandon as Joan does in her slim new volume.

BILLED as "an irreverent and lighthearted look at modern life" the book is full
of chatty, elegant observations on glamour, ageing, travel and fame. But it is
also fuelled by rage at everything from the riots to the obesity crisis and the
influence of the Lib Dems - "more to the Left than Labour!" - on the coalition.
"I know people will blame me for pontificating about things that an actress
shouldn't,"

she said while publicising the book, "but I have something to say that I think a
lot of people will agree SEE OUR ENTERTAINMENT SECTION EVERY FRIDAY & SUNDAY
with - things that they might be frightened to say because it is politically
incorrect to do so."

Young people are high on her list of things wrong with the world. Idling away
hours in front of TVs or computers has cost them knowledge and wisdom, TO
ADVERTISE she says. What they need is discipline instilled from birth "and I
don't see many parents today who know how to do this".

She asks how kids can receive a well-rounded education when classes are packed
to capacity and the brightest are forced to move at the pace of the slowest. She
despairs of the way that teachers are bullied, assaulted and insulted by pupils
supposedly in their charge but are unable to change things because of the
repercussions. And she shares the widespread fear of what might happen if she
asserts her own values in public. "Chastise a person in the street for dropping
a food wrapper or using foul language and you'll be lucky to get away with them
merely screaming abuse at you," she says.

But Joan is not just concerned with falling standards in decorum. She is still
seething that neighbours complained when she draped a US flag from her London
flat after 9/11. She was furious to be told she could not write "English" on her
immi-gration form when she goes abroad and is disgusted that "whole swathes of
our population from benefit scroungers to so-called respectable bankers believe
self-preservation is the only goal".

She wants more money put into the NHS, less sent to "African despots" and the 50
per cent tax rate lowered to allow the rich to put more of their money into the
economy.

Some of her anger stems from experience. When she says London isn't safe any
more and "my daughters can't even walk down the street during the day without
the possibility of something unpleasant happening", she is clearly referring to
the snatch of her daughter Tara's £7,000 Cartier watch in Notting Hill in 2001.

OTHER rants are observational. Fat people are "Orca-sized oafs from Planet
Girth" who are "digging their graves with their teeth", while she is horrified
at the lowlife on Jeremy Kyle's TV show. She also has little time for another
small-screen genre. "Most reality TV stars are devoid of talent, beauty or charm
and to stay in the public eye have had to rely on selfserving antics, each time
more bizarre or licentious," she says.

Some of her complaints are idiosyncratic. While few would disagree that the
decline in manners, the lack of respect shown to old people and the menacing yob
culture are matters of concern, not everyone would place them in the same
sentence as "the proliferation of badly dressed people". She is also horrified
that Royal Ascot has degenerated into a mass of yobs and boors who "expose
tattooed or 'fake-baked' bodies" in full view of the Queen.

But in her wail of lament for a lost world of decorum Joan Collins is without
doubt articulating something that many people of her generation - as well as a
good many her junior - also feel.

The positive elements she sees are few. "It was gratifying a few years ago to
see the respect that Britain gave to the Queen Mother at her funeral," she says.
"We need leaders who, like the Queen Mother, advocate consistent benevolence and
values and we need to give them a platform."

Leaders like Joan Collins, perhaps? On that subject she is tantalisingly stumm.

HER WORDS OF WISDOM

JOAN ON POLITENESS

THE death of chivalry is an issue close to my heart and one which saddens me.
Manners have been thrown out of the window and politeness is an old-fashioned
word used to describe a code of behaviour that has gone for ever. What's so
depressing is that it's happened here in Britain, once the home of flawless good
conduct. Instead we have embraced boorishness as our national emblem.

The very idea of opening a door for someone or standing up when a woman arrives
at the table is completely alien to many people today. Why has the desire to
eat, dress and talk properly become something to be scorned, a source of
ridicule?

You see it everywhere, on the television and in restaurants: drunk people
sitting with their elbows on the table and talking loudly with open mouths full
of food.

ON ACHIEVEMENT

I DO not tolerate fools lightly, I can't stand being bored or being around bores
and I try to live each day to the utmost with passion. I want every day to be a
mini-lifetime in which I achieve something and enjoy something.

ON CRIMINALS

LET'S' have proper sentencing in courts rather than some of the ridiculously
lenient punishments that are usually handed out. We must not allow the criminal
to become the victim, as happens so often in our legal system. I was brought up
at a time when loitering in the street, spitting or acting aggressively was an
offence. Litter the streets in the Fifties and you risked being arrested on the
spot by a bobby on the beat.

ON UGLINESS'

BRITS are almost rivalling Americans as the most hideously unstylish nation in
the world. It's no one's fault to be born ugly but must it be worn as a symbol
of pride? Is the answer to a plain face to put on 40lb, staple metal to every
available lobe and tattoo oneself like an Apache on the war trail? staple metal
to every available lobe and tattoo oneself

ON WIGS

WHEN I made The Stud then The Bitch in the late Seventies I invented a look
which I've stuck to more or less ever since: big hair, smoky eyes and bright
lipstick. Also I always do my own hair or wear wigs when I'm working or going to
events where I'm likely to be photographed. I can't understand why so many women
are averse to hair pieces. The amount of time they save is colossal because
constant blow drying and straightening of hair is disastrous for it.

ON MARRIED MEN

OH beware the married man who is full of promises and whispers sweet nothings.
It's a no-win situation.

The World According To Joan by Joan Collins is available exclusively from
Sainsbury's at the special introductory price of £5 (RRP: £12.99).

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: FADIL BERISHA; Gavin Smith/CAMERA PRESS; LFI
CLOSE FAMILY: With husband Percy, daughters Tara and Katie and two of her
grandchildren
GLAMOUR GIRL: Joan is as stunning today as she was when a starlet in 1959, right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU superstate. . .it's a nightmare!

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 253  words


TOP Eurocrat Herman van Rompuy provoked outrage yesterday by declaring his
ambition to become leader of a "United States of Europe".

He signalled his desire for a second two-and-a-half year term as president of
the European Union.

And he made clear he would use a renewed mandate to realise the ultimate
Euro-fanatic dream of turning the EU into a superstate.

Last night, there was outrage at the "deluded ambitions" of the EU's unelected
president.

Martin Callanan, leader of the Tory Euro-MPs, said:

"Mr van Rompuy's dream of leading a European superstate is everyone else's
nightmare.

"We don't want to be part of a United States of Europe under any circumstances."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "His ambitions are
deluded given the huge problems that the continent is facing." Mr van Rompuy -
whose term of office ends in May - made his move as growin g pressure for a new
EU treaty fuels concern over UK membership.

The Daily Express crusade for a referendum on Britain quitting the EU has won
25,000 signat ures on the Government e-petition web site.

But last night, David Cameron ruled out a referendum despite a previous Tory
pledge for a poll on any EU treaty changes.

The Prime Minister told Tory MPs: "Britain should be in there defending its
interests."

Backbencher Bill Cash warned that the refusal to grant a referendum could
provoke a furious backlash.

"You're creating an extremely dangerous situation, " he told Mr Cameron "Why
won't you give the British people the right to have their say?"

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

IS JOAN COLLINS OUR SAVIOUR?

BYLINE: By Simon Edge

SECTION: NEWS; 28

LENGTH: 1071  words


Children need discipline, slobs should be shamed and messy hair is unforgivable
The wise, witty and politically incorrect world of a 78-year-old British heroine

IT'S a general rule of thumb that when people moan about bad behaviour by the
very young they are talking about other folk's children, not their own. So you
have to hand it to Joan Collins. Although she is pretty rude about lots of
people in an explosive new memoir about the state of the modern world her
broadside against modern child-rearing starts with her own family.

"Don't get me wrong, I love being with my young grandchildren, especially during
the summer holidays when we're all gathered at my villa in France, " the
five-times-married actress writes in The World According To Joan. "But I'm less
than thrilled at the way my own children seem to minister to their children's
every need."

The quiet of her St Tropez idyll is punctuated, the 78-year-old star says, by
the sound of her grandchildren's voices raised above those of their parents -
Joan's elder daughter Tara Newley, her son Sacha Newley and his wife Angela -
who seem to follow them around in "helpless supplication". It's very different
from the way she was taught to behave.

"As a youngster I would never have dreamed of questioning my parents' authority
but today's children seem to take their parents' orders as an opener to debate,
" she writes. "Pleas and appeals turn into manoeuvring and cajoling worthy of a
United Nations summit, until out-and-out crying or faces of utter misery
convince their buckling parents to give in to desperate demands for new toys or
outings. As I watch my own son, daughter and daughter-in-law crumble in the face
of this childish opposition, I wonder how so much could have changed in so
little time."

The London-born beauty, who went to Hollywood in her 20s and famously appeared
nude in hit Seventies films The Stud and The Bitch s a woman of strong views and
has made no secret of her political affiliations. In the Eighties, the excesses
of which she personified on screen as queen bitch Alexis Carrington in US soap
Dynasty, she was one of a tiny number of showbiz types to buck the "luvvie"
trend and express support for argaret Thatcher.

As the Conservative Party turned in on itself in opposition she became a patron
of the UK Independence Party. She is now back in the Tory fold, openly
championing David Cameron on election night in May 2010.

But neither she nor any other actress - with the possible exception of Vanessa
Redgrave at the opposite political pole - has ever let rip with quite such
abandon as Joan does in her slim new volume.

BILLED as "an irreverent and lighthearted look at modern life" the book is full
of chatty, elegant observations on glamour, ageing, travel and fame. But it is
also fuelled by rage at everything from the riots to the obesity crisis and the
influence of the Lib Dems - "more to the Left than Labour!" - on the coalition
"I know people will blame me for pontifiating about things that an actress
shouldn't, " she said while publicising the book, "but I have something to say
that I think a lot of people will agree with - things that they might be
frightened to say because it is politically incorrect to do so."

Young people are high on her list of things wrong with the world. Idling away
hours in front of TVs or computers has cost them knowledge and isdom, she says.
What they need is discipline instilled from birth "and I don't see many parents
today who know how to do this".

She asks how kids can receive a well-rounded education when classes are packed
to capacity and the brightest are forced to move at the pace of the slowest.

She despairs of the way that teachers are bullied, assaulted and insulted by
pupils supposedly in their charge but are unable to change things because of the
repercussions. And she shares the widespread fear of what might happen if she
asserts her own values in public. "Chastise a person in the street for dropping
a food wrapper or using foul language and you'll be lucky to get away with them
merely screaming abuse at you, " she says.

But Joan is not just concerned with falling standards in decorum. She is still
seething that neighbours complained when she draped a US flag from her London
flat after 9/11. She was furious to be told she could not write "English" on her
immigration form when she goes abroad and is disgusted that "whole swathes of
our population from benefit scroungers to so-called respectable bankers believe
self- reservation is the only goal".

She wants more money put into the NHS, less sent to "African despots" and the 50
per cent tax rate lowered to allow the rich to put more of their money into the
economy.

Some of her anger stems from experience. When she says London isn't safe any
more and "my daughters can't even walk down the street during the day without
the possibility of something unpleasant happening", she is clearly referring to
the snatch of her daughter Tara's GBP 7,000 Cartier watch in Notting Hill in
2001.

OTHER rants are observational. Fat people are "Orca-sized oafs from Planet
Girth" who are "digging their raves with their teeth", while she is horrified at
the owlife on Jeremy Kyle's TV show.

She also has little time for another small-screen genre. "Most reality TV stars
are devoid of talent, beauty or charm and to stay in the public eye have had to
rely on selfserving antics, each time more bizarre or licentious, " she says.

Some of her complaints are idiosyncratic. While few would disagree that the
decline in manners, the lack of respect shown to old people and the menacing yob
culture are matters of concern, not everyone would place them in the same
sentence as "the proliferation of badly dressed people".

She is also horrified that Royal Ascot has degenerated into a mass of yobs and
boors who "expose tattooed or 'fake-baked' bodies" in full view of the Queen.

But in her wail of lament for a lost world of decorum Joan Collins is without
doubt articulating something that many people of her generation - as well as a
good many her junior - also feel.

The positive elements she sees are few "It was gratifying a few years ago to see
the respect that Britain gave to the Queen Mother at her funeral, " she says.
"We need leaders who, like the Queen Mother, advocate consistent benevolence and
values and we need to give them a platform."

Leaders like Joan Collins, perhaps? On that subject she is tantalisingly stumm.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GLAMOUR GIRL: Joan is as stunning today as she was when a starlet in
1959, right
CLOSE FAMILY: With husband Percy, daughters Tara and Katie and two of her
grandchildren

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

JOAN LAYS DOWN LAW

BYLINE: By Simon Edge

SECTION: NEWS; 28

LENGTH: 795  words


Children need discipline, the overweight are a disgrace and don't even start her
on the Lib Dems The wise, witty and politically incorrect world of British
heroine Joan Collins

IT'S a general rule of thumb that when people moan about bad behaviour by the
very young, they are talking about other folk's children not their own. So you
have to hand it to Joan Collins. Although she is pretty rude about lots of
people in an explosive new memoir about the state of the modern world, her
broadside against modern child-rearing starts with her own family.

"Don't get me wrong, I love being with my grandchildren, especially during the
summer holidays when we're all gathered at my villa in France, " the
five-timesmarried actress writes in The World According to Joan. "But I'm less
than thrilled at the way my own children seem to minister to their own
children's every need."

The quiet of her St Tropez idyll is broken, the 78-year-old star says, by the
sound of her grandchildren's voices raised high above those of their parents -
Joan's elder daughter Tara Newley, and her son Sacha Newley and his wife Angela
- who follow them around in "helpless supplication". It's very different from
the way she was taught to behave.

"As a youngster I would never have dreamed of questioning my parents' authority,
but today's children seem to take their parents' orders as an opener to debate,
" she writes. "Pleas and appeals turn into manoeuvring and cajoling worthy of a
United Nations summit, until out-andout crying or faces of utter misery convince
their buckling parents to give in to desperate demands for new toys or outings.
As I watch my own son, daughter and daughter-in-law crumble in the face of this
childish opposition, I wonder how so much could have changed in so little time."

The London-born beauty, who went to Hollywood in her 20s and famously appeared
nude in the hit films The Stud and The Bitch, has always been a woman of strong
views and has made no secret of her political affiliations. When she was
starring as queen bitch Alexis Carrington in US soap Dynasty, she was one of
very few showbiz types to buck the "luvvie" trend and back Margaret Thatcher.

Later, she became a patron of the UK Independence Party. She is now back in the
Tory fold, championing David Cameron.

But no other actress - with the possible exception of Vanessa Redgrave at the
opposite political pole - has ever let rip with quite such abandon as Joan does
in her slim volume. The book is full of chatty, elegantly phrased observations
on glamour, ageing, travel and fame. But it is also fuelled by rage at the
riots, obesity and what she sees as the damaging influence of the Lib Dems on
the Coalition. Young people idling in front of TVs or computers has cost them
knowledge and wisdom, she says. What they need is discipline, which must be SHE
asks how kids can receive a well-rounded education when classes are packed to
capacity and the brightest are forced to move at the slowest pace. She despairs
of the way teachers are bullied, assaulted and insulted by pupils.

And she shares the widespread fear of what might happen if she asserts her own
values in public.

"Chastise a person in the street for using foul language, and you'll be lucky to
get away with them merely screaming abuse at you, " she says.

She is horrified by the widespread use of the F-word. Even actresses receiving
Oscars say it, she says - referring to this year's best supporting actress,
Melissa Leo. But Joan is not just concerned with falling standards in decorum.
She is still seething that neighbours complained when she draped a US flag from
the balcony of her London flat after 9/11. She was furious to be told she could
not write "English" on her immigration form when she goes abroad, and is
disgusted that "whole swathes of our population from benefit scroungers to
so-called respectable bankers believe self-preservation is the only goal".

SHE wants more money for the NHS, less for "African despots" and the 50 per cent
tax rate lowered to allow the rich to put more of their money into the economy.
Fat people are "Orcasized oafs from Planet Girth" who are "digging their own
graves with their teeth" and she is horrified at the parade of low-life horrors
on Jeremy Kyle's TV show.

But in her wail of lament for a lost world of discipline, decency and decorum,
Joan is without doubt articulating something that many people of her own
generation - as well as a good many her junior - also feel. "It was gratifying
to see the respect Britain gave to the Queen Mother at her funeral, " she says.
"We need leaders who, like the Queen Mother, advocate consistent benevolence and
values, and we need to give them a platform."

Leaders like Joan Collins, perhaps? But on that subject she is tantalisingly
silent.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KNOCKOUT: Joan Collins has always looked stunning - from her days as a
screen starlet, far left, to her offscreen role as a grandmother, above left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 7, 2011 Wednesday 4:52 PM GMT

Cameron rules out Europe referendum

BYLINE: By Sam Lister

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 548 words


David Cameron today insisted Britain must make Europe "work for us" as he
again ruled out holding an "in out" referendum.

During Prime Minister's questions he was urged to listen to the calls of
Conservative eurosceptics who want a swift vote on the UK's relationship   with
the EU.

But Mr Cameron, who is meeting President of the European Council Herman Van
Rompuy today, insisted there was "no case" for a vote.

Mr Cameron said: "I want us to be influential in Europe about the things   that
matter to our national interest - promoting the single market, pushing   forward
for growth, making sure we get lower energy prices.

"Those are things we will be fighting for but I don't see the case for an   in
out referendum on Europe.

"We are in Europe, we have got to make it work for us."

It comes as a group made up from around 80 new intake Conservative MPs plans
to press the Government for significant changes in Britain's role in Europe.

Tory MP George Eustice, one of the group's conveners, insisted the initial aim
was for reforms rather than a referendum.

He said: "The aim of this new group is to promote debate about creating a   new
relationship with the EU and reversing the process of EU integration."

The group will work closely with think-tank Open Europe and could eventually
expand to take in Labour eurosceptics and possibly some Liberal Democrats.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "The Prime Minster has   said
today that he didn't see the case for an in/out referendum on Europe.   'We are
in Europe', he told us and 'we have got to make it work for us'.

"Well it is obvious that the EU is not working for us, and hasn't worked   for
us. So then what does Mr Cameron propose?

"By ruling out a referendum he leaves himself naked in the negotiations.   Our
EU colleagues must be laughing at his naivety."

Downing Street said that Mr Cameron and Mr Van Rompuy discussed the European
economy and the current situation in the eurozone, as well as measures to
support countries in north Africa, including Libya, through the EU's
neighbourhood policies.

Meanwhile, eurosceptic Conservative backbencher Bill Cash tabled a bill which
would require a referendum and act of Parliament to approve any provisions   for
fiscal union within the eurozone.

His proposals, in a private member's bill, stand little chance of receiving
the parliamentary time required to become law.

Mr Cash said: "Allowing eurozone member states to go ahead towards fiscal
union and economic governance creates two Europes, to which the United   Kingdom
would remain bound by treaty and law, though they are built on sand.

"The money required for all the bailouts is not within the economic capacity
of Germany or the political will in the eurozone countries. It must be
accepted that fiscal union within the eurozone will not work and will be
unstable, damaging and not improving our own economy.

"It will have profound economic, political and constitutional consequences for
our vital national interests. This will fundamentally change the UK's
relationship with the whole of the European Union, not only our relationship
with the eurozone.

"We must have a referendum in the light of such a profound change in our
political relationship with Europe."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 7, 2011 Wednesday 4:23 PM GMT

Cameron rules out Europe referendum

BYLINE: By Sam Lister

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 403 words


David Cameron today insisted Britain must make Europe "work for us" as he
again ruled out holding an "in out" referendum.

During Prime Minister's questions he was urged to listen to the calls of
Conservative eurosceptics who want a swift vote on the UK's relationship   with
the EU.

But Mr Cameron, who is meeting President of the European Council Herman Van
Rompuy today, insisted there was "no case" for a vote.

Mr Cameron said: "I want us to be influential in Europe about the things   that
matter to our national interest - promoting the single market, pushing   forward
for growth, making sure we get lower energy prices.

"Those are things we will be fighting for but I don't see the case for an   in
out referendum on Europe.

"We are in Europe, we have got to make it work for us."

It comes as a group made up from around 80 new intake Conservative MPs plans
to press the Government for significant changes in Britain's role in Europe.

Tory MP George Eustice, one of the group's conveners, insisted the initial aim
was for reforms rather than a referendum.

He said: "The aim of this new group is to promote debate about creating a   new
relationship with the EU and reversing the process of EU integration."

The group will work closely with think-tank Open Europe and could eventually
expand to take in Labour eurosceptics and possibly some Liberal Democrats.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "The Prime Minster has   said
today that he didn't see the case for an in/out referendum on Europe.   'We are
in Europe', he told us and 'we have got to make it work for us'.

"Well it is obvious that the EU is not working for us, and hasn't worked   for
us. So then what does Mr Cameron propose?

"By ruling out a referendum he leaves himself naked in the negotiations.   Our
EU colleagues must be laughing at his naivety."

Downing Street said that Mr Cameron and Mr Van Rompuy discussed the European
economy and the current situation in the eurozone, as well as measures to
support countries in north Africa, including Libya, through the EU's
neighbourhood policies.

Meanwhile, eurosceptic Conservative backbencher Bill Cash tabled a bill which
would require a referendum and act of Parliament to approve any provisions   for
fiscal union within the eurozone.

His proposals, in a private member's bill, stand little chance of receiving
the parliamentary time required to become law.

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday

Fighting Mode 4

BYLINE: Brian Denny

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1027 words


The fight against the proposed European Union/India Free Trade Agreement and the
widespread social dumping it would create is gathering pace and the issue will
now be debated at this year's TUC Congress. One union, RMT, is now campaigning
against the most secretive aspect of this deal - the labour liberalisation
concept, called Mode 4, which allows corporations to drive down wages. At its
annual general meeting, RMT delegates were warned that EU Mode 4 commitments
would hand transnational corporations the power to bring in cheap labour from
outside the EU to work on extremely low rates of pay. "The UK is the main and
very willing target for these corporations and it will undermine UK labour
conditions and displace workers.

"These workers will not be classed as immigrants and the company will be holding
their visas," RMT delegate Gary Abbott warned. The union is now seeking to
publicise how British workers are being sold out in EU international trade deals
and to challenge the British government's complicity in this. Public debate on
economic recovery always acknowledges the central importance of employment and
of workers earning and spending. But if transnational corporations displace
earning and spending workers with a reserve army of cheaper, temporary migrant
workers, recovery will be undermined. Yet this is not so readily recognised, and
neither are the government measures that allow this to happen. In particular,
trade concessions that encourage such social dumping are being deliberately
hidden. Workers who are earning and spending - in the process allowing others to
earn and spend - is what Keynes called the multiplier effect. While temporary
cheap migrant labour may benefit individual companies and their shareholders, it
cuts across the earn and spend cycle and the multiplier effect. This means that
wages leave the country, tax and national insurance income drops, the welfare
bill increases as resident workers are displaced and become unemployed, young
workers are denied work opportunities and there is an ominous and irretrievable
loss of skills. And then transnational corporations cream off profits from
moving cheap labour across borders. There is a continuum of measures allowing
big business to capitalise on transnational wage differences. Free movement of
workers inside the EU, but particularly free movement of services allows EU
firms to bring in their own cheaper labour from wherever they choose. Two
categories in the British points-based system allow trans-national firms to
bring in workers with no numerical limits. The EU's Mode 4 offers - included in
all EU trade agreements - allow transnational firms to bring in temporary
workers. The British points-based system categories of "intracorporate
transferees" (ICTs) in tier 2 and "international agreements" in tier 5 have been
set up for the international trade agreement commitments, though the British
government does not draw attention to this. Government regulations actually
encourage the use of tier 2 ICTs. Transnational corporations bringing in skilled
workers for less than a year can pay them just the minimum wage, made up to a
low industry level wage with tax-free expenses and no national insurance. So
British regulations ensure that ICTs are overall a cheap labour source, and
because these workers are brought in temporarily and rely on the corporation for
their visa, they will not become organised. The EU's Mode 4 trade concessions
are the most sinister measure because of the secrecy, the implications for
workers and particularly for their permanence. They allow corporations to bring
in workers for their own established operations but also to supply workers into
other firms, relieving those firms of all employer responsibilities. Under Mode
4 the corporate right to displace workers with cheaper temporary migrant labour
becomes irreversible and fixed in international trade law. India is the main
country asking for Mode 4 access so that Indian corporations such as Tata can
supply cheap labour into the EU, though Britain is actually the main target. In
the EU/India Free Trade Agreement - expected to be completed in December this
year - Mode 4 labour access is the single demand that India is making. Thus this
trade agreement hinges on British workers' jobs being sacrificed in exchange for
investment opportunities for transnational financial services firms. Yet while
the EU/India trade agreement is being heavily contested in India because of the
effects there, British workers have not been told about it. There has been
deliberate secrecy throughout the four years of negotiations. Tory, Lib Dem,
Labour, Green and UKIP politicians - as well as high profile journalists - have
all known about Mode 4 commitments but have failed to tell British workers. The
BIS House of Commons select committee, overseeing the Department of Business,
Innovation and Skills which connects with EU trade policy, has similarly failed
in its role. Despite the committee's extensive and expensive enquiries on trade,
the labour aspect has not emerged in its reports. This supposed watchdog
committee has chosen to ignore it, despite the effects on workers and on the
national economy, both now and in the future. Workers in many sectors and at all
skill levels will be affected by the Mode 4 commitments, especially in
combination with existing internal EU labour liberalisation measures.
Transnational corporations will cash in on importing cheap workers as long as
the government measures allow and facilitate it while disregarding the negative
effects. Clearly workers have to act for themselves to bring this to public
debate. RMT has recognised the urgency of the threat of Mode 4 labour
commodification, especially in the EU/India Free Trade Agreement, and is
campaigning to bring it to public attention and to hold the government
accountable. Why Mode 4? The World Trade Organisation categorises the modes in
which cross-border services can be delivered Mode 1: eg by internet Mode 2:
client crosses border eg tourism, foreign student market Mode 3: company
established cross border Mode 4: workers are moved as "service suppliers"

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

15,000 Romanians are chasing jobs in Britain each month

BYLINE: Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 395 words


BRITAIN is still the number one destination of choice for migrant workers from
Romania with at least 15,000 seeking employment here every month, a report has
claimed.

In the fi rst six months of this year, nearly 90,000 Romanians applied for
22,000 jobs in the UK, more than any country in Europe, according to research by
a Romanianbased employment agency.

Wealthy

It showed young Romanians view Britain as a land of opportunity where well-paid
jobs and a comfortable standard of living can be achieved through hard work.

While many of the Romanians counted in the research may not have gone on to
actively seek employment in Britain after taking part in the survey, fi gures
from the UK show many are still coming here to work.

Despite supposedly tougher restrictions introduced by the Government after an
infl ux of Polish workers in 2004, Home Offi ce fi gures show nearly 2,000
Romanians classifi ed as skilled,

independently wealthy or students, applied to enter the UK this year with 1,646
of them allowed in. In the same period 7,514 low-skilled workers were allowed to
fi nd seasonal employment. MEP

Gerard Batten, UKIP's home affairs spokesman, said: "These fi gures show Britain
is always the fi rst choice for the working and the workshy.

Those who want to work, often for low pay, can fi nd it while our housing and
bene- fi ts system attracts those in search of a handout."

Skilled workers have to get the authority of the UK Border Agency before they
are allowed to enter Britain. The Department for Work and Pensions confi rmed
Romanian migrants in work are eligible to claim incomerelated benefi ts such as
housing benefi t straight away. And after 12 months of continuous employment
they can claim out-of-work bene- fi ts like income-related jobseeker's
allowance.

Labour MP Shabana Mahmood said: "The Tory-led Government's rhetoric on
immigration isn't being matched by action. They are failing to meet their
promise to cut net migration to tens of thousands and eroding the public's trust
in their ability to manage immigration."

Romanian recruitment experts Tjobs said so far this year 370,000 workers in the
former communist

7,514 low-skilled workers were allowed to find seasonal employment

370,000 workers have applied for 97,000 jobs overseas this year

1,646 have been allowed into Britain so far this year

90,000 applied for 22,000 British jobs so far this year

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

15,000 Romanians are chasing jobs in Britain each month

BYLINE: Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words


BRITAIN is still the number one destination of choice for migrant workers from
Romania with at least 15,000 seeking employment here every month, a report has
claimed.

In the first six months of this year, nearly 90,000 Romanians applied for 22,000
jobs in the UK, more than any country in Europe, according to research by a
Romanianbased employment agency. It showed young Romanians view Britain as a
land of opportunity where well-paid jobs and a comfortable standard of living
can be achieved through hard work.

Wealthy North and showers. risk of hail westerly South mainly mostly force South
mostly showers, A strong Outlook While many of the Romanians counted in the
research may not have gone on to actively seek employment in Britain after
taking part in the survey, figures from the UK show many are still coming here
to work. After a west with the afternoon, Fresh to Birmingham Despite supposedly
tougher restrictions introduced by the Government after an influx of Polish
workers in 2004, Home Office figures show nearly 2,000 Romanians classified as
skilled, independently wealthy or students, applied to enter the UK this year
with 1,646 of them allowed in. In the same period 7,514 low-skilled workers were
allowed to find seasonal Manchester newcastle Plymouth Extremes: THE start, it
will cloud over from the rain spreading eastwards through some heavy by evening.
strong northwesterly winds. (24 hours to 2pm employment. MEP Gerard Batten,
UKIP's home affairs spokesman, said: "These figures show Britain is always the
first choice for the working and the workshy.

Full 12 six-day forEcasT 7,514 low-skilled workers were allowed to find seasonal
employment min max min max min max Those who want to work, often for low pay,
can find it while our housing and bene-fits system attracts those in search of a
handout."

Skilled workers have to get the authority of the UK Border Agency before they
are allowed to enter Britain.

Wed Thu Fri 10 18 12 14 18 20 9 11 13 15 16 17 9 10 12 18 18 19 11 14 14 16 16
17 11 12 12 15 15 17 10 10 13 16 16 19 9 9 12 16 17 18 9 11 12 18 18 20 12 14 14
16 17 17 The Department for Work and Pensions confirmed Romanian migrants in
work are eligible to claim incomerelated benefits such as 90,000 applied for
22,000 British jobs so Coldest: Katesbridge 1C (34F) .

Wettest: Valentia 0.28in EXODUS FROM Moon September in Centigrade housing
benefit straight away. And after 12 months of continuous employment they can
claim out-of-work bene-fits like income-related jobseeker's allowance. Labour MP
Shabana Mahmood said: "The Tory-led Government's rhetoric on immigration isn't
being matched by action. They are failing to meet their promise to cut net
migration to tens of thousands and eroding the public's trust in their ability
to manage immigration."

min max min max min max SaT Sun Mon 14 14 13 21 22 21 14 13 12 18 18 17 131311
20 20 14 14 13 18 19 18 131413 17 18 17 13 13 11 19 20 19 12 12 11 18 19 18 14
13 21 22 20 14 13 18 18 17 Romanian recruitment experts Tjobs said so far this
year 370,000 workers in the former communist state have into ROMANIA applied for
97,000 jobs overseas with Greece and Germany the most popular destinations after
the UK.

370,000 workers have applied for 97,000 jobs overseas this year force southwest
Midlands: Rain, clear to leave a southwesterly Wales: Rain at to leave blustery
winds. High 17C David Frost at the British Chambers of Commerce said:
"Overwhelmingly, business has adopted migrant workers for the simple reason they
are often better educated and have a stronger work ethic than local people.

UK six-day "It's not about paying lower wages. If the Government is serious
about British jobs for British workers they have to improve the education system
and radically change the welfare system so it never pays not to work."

1,646 been allowed Britain so far London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Britain still land of milk and honey for Romanians

BYLINE: By Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 328  words


BRITAIN is still the number one destination of choice for migrant workers from
Romania with at least 15,000 seeking employment here every month, a report has
claimed.

In the first six months of the year nearly 90,000 Romanians applied for 22,000
jobs in the UK, more applicants than from any other country in Europe, according
to research by a Romanianbased employment agency.

It showed that young Romanians view Britain as a land of opportunity where
well-paid jobs and a comfortable standard of living can be achieved through hard
work.

While many of the Romanians counted in the research may not have actually gone
on to actively seek employment in Britain after taking part in the survey,
figures show that many are still coming here to work.

Despite supposedly tougher restrictions introduced by the Government after an
influx of Polish workers in 2004, official Home Office figures show nearly 2,000
Romanians classified as skilled, independently wealthy or students, have applied
to enter the country already this year, with 1,646 of them allowed in.

In the same period 7,514 low-skilled workers were allowed to find seasonal
employment.

Last night MEP Gerard Batten, Ukip's home affairs spokesman, said:

"These figures show Britain is always the first choice for the working and the
work-shy. Those who want work, often for low pay, can find it while our housing
and benefits system attracts those in search of a handout."

The Department for Work and Pensions confirmed that Romanian migrants in work
are eligible to claim income-related benefits such as housing benefit straight
away.

And after 12 months of continuous employment they become eligible to claim
out-of-work benefits like income related Jobseeker's Allowance.

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: "This survey may have found that 90,000
Romanians applied for jobs here, but fewer than 10,000 have successfully applied
to come to Britain.

"Tough transitional controls are in place to restrict access to the UK."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

15,000 Romanians are chasing jobs in Britain each month

BYLINE: By Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 463  words


BRITAIN is still the number one destination of choice for migrant workers from
Romania with at least 15,000 seeking employment here every month, a report has
claimed.

In the first six months of this year, nearly 90,000 Romanians applied for 22,000
jobs in the UK, more than any country in Europe, according to research by a
Romanianbased employment agency.

It showed young Romanians view Britain as a land of opportunity where well-paid
jobs and a comfortable standard of living can be achieved through hard work.

While many of the Romanians counted in the research may not have gone on to
actively seek employment in Britain after taking part in the survey, figures
from the UK show many are still coming here to work.

Despite supposedly tougher restrictions introduced by the Government after an
influx of Polish workers in 2004, Home Office figures show nearly 2,000
Romanians classified as skilled, independently wealthy or students, applied to
enter the UK this year with 1,646 of them allowed in. In the same period 7,514
low-skilled workers were allowed to find seasonal employment. MEP Gerard Batten,
UKIP's home affairs spokesman, said:

"These figures show Britain is always the first choice for the working and the
workshy. Those who want to work, often for low pay, can find it while our
housing and benefits system attracts those in search of a handout."

Skilled workers have to get the authority of the UK Border Agency before they
are allowed to enter Britain.

The Department for Work and Pensions confirmed Romanian migrants in work are
eligible to claim income related benefits such as housing benefit straight away.
And after 12 months of continuous employment they can claim out-of-work benefits
like income-related jobseeker's allowance.

Labour MP Shabana Mahmood said: "The Tory-led Government's rhetoric on
immigration isn't being matched by action. They are failing to meet their
promise to cut net migration to tens of thousands and eroding the public's trust
in their ability to manage immigration."

Romanian recruitment experts Tjobs said so far this year 370,000 workers in the
former communist state have applied for 97,000 jobs overseas with Greece and
Germany the most popular destinations after the UK.

David Frost at the British Chambers of Commerce said:

"Overwhelmingly, business has adopted migrant workers for the simple reason they
are often better educated and have a stronger work ethic than local people.

"It's not about paying lower wages. If the Government is serious about British
jobs for British workers they have to improve the education system and radically
change the welfare system so it never pays not to work."

THE EXODUS FROM ROMANIA

90,000 applied for 22,000 British jobs so far this year

1,646 have been allowed into Britain so far this year

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Reply: Response An instant ban on Europe's battery eggs won't work: But we can
target those flouting the new law, and stop their produce entering the UK

BYLINE: Stuart Agnew i

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 529 words


It is no exaggeration when you report that "hundreds of poultry farmers with
millions of laying hens are expected to flout a ban on conventional battery
cages next year" (European farmers expected to flout ban on battery hen cages, 1
September). As you state, European commission figures show that "eight countries
- including Portugal, Belgium and Poland - are not predicted to make the grade,
with more than 17m hens expected to remain in old-fashioned battery cages by
January".

In all probability there will be 83m illegally caged birds in the EU on 1
January 2012, whose eggs will have unfair access to the UK market. One reason
for this is financial. The capital cost to a farmer to install a
welfare-friendly system is £25 per bird, but the wafer-thin margins made by
producers cannot finance such an investment. Though I've never been a battery
farmer, like many UK producers I've had to borrow money to meet the new system's
requirements.

But the significant point you do not mention is culture. For years, rising
numbers of UK consumers have been buying more expensive eggs produced in other
ways: retailers such as Waitrose and Marks & Spencer have committed to selling
only free range eggs; and several products, such as Hellman's Mayonnaise, only
use free range. This has been voluntary and consumer-driven, with the RSPCA
involved in defining "free range".

There is no equivalent progress in southern and eastern Europe, where consumers
cannot see why their egg industry should massively invest in systems that will
produce more expensive eggs. Those eight countries mentioned have never
responded to the commission's requests for changeover updates.

Peter Stevenson of Compassion in World Farming, whom you quote as being "deeply
disappointed" by the resistance of some EU countries, says the ban must be fully
enforced on day one, but this could be counter-productive. Theoretically, it is
possible to remove 83m birds from cages and wring their necks, or smash their
eggs, or force them out of lay; but in reality these measures are impractical,
very expensive and would undermine the ban's welfare objectives. Even if such
enforcement was achieved, consumers in member states that have failed to prepare
for the ban will simply obtain cheap eggs from non-EU countries, where animal
welfare is a low priority.

I would agree with Stevenson that trying to prevent EU cage eggs from leaving
their country of production is a non-starter. But it might be practical if they
were stamped as such: I have proposed this in Brussels but both he and the
commission have opposed it. It is possible to police eggs coming into this
country as we are an island, and our egg importers are large-scale businesses
and few in number. The naming and shaming of those who do not comply, in itself,
would be helpful.

Unless firm action is taken, British egg farmers, who have invested £400m on
compliance with the ban, will be left swinging in the wind.

Stuart Agnew is the UK Independence party's MEP for the East of England. He
serves on the European parliament's agriculture and rural development committee
and farms in Norfolk where he has 35,000 free range hens.

stuartagnewmep@ukip.org

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 6, 2011 Tuesday 9:18 AM GMT

Bombardier contract decision 'will cost jobs'

BYLINE: By Alan Jones

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 747 words


Scores of firms which deal with Bombardier will be forced to cut jobs after
the train-maker lost out on a lucrative Government contract to build new
carriages, according to a report today.

Research for Unite among 125 companies supplying Bombardier found that almost
half relied on the firm for 5% of sales, while a similar number relied   almost
entirely on the Derby-based manufacturer.

Almost half those surveyed warned of job losses, with some already laying off
workers, following the decision to award a contract to build new trains for
the Thameslink route to German firm Siemens.

Around 1,400 workers at Bombardier face redundancy, but Unite said today's
report showed that thousands more jobs were at risk at firms across the
country, including some in the Prime Minister's constituency.

Only one firm out of the 125 questioned by research firm Survation said the
decision would have a positive impact on their business.

The biggest number of firms affected by the Siemens move were based in Derby,
Nottingham and Chesterfield.

Unite general secretary Len McCluskey said: "This powerful survey is a
devastating indictment of the Government's decision on Thameslink. It is
absolutely scandalous that the Government did not stop to examine the social
and economic impact of not choosing Bombardier for the Thameslink contract.

"Countless small and medium-sized companies will pay the price for this
decision. Some companies are even having to lay off workers now and a third
believe the decision will have a substantially negative impact on their
business.

"The fact that fewer than 1% believe they will benefit from the Government's
preferred bidder is a devastating indictment of the Government's   manufacturing
strategy. The Department for Transport has openly admitted   they failed to
carry out an impact assessment on the consequences of not   awarding the
contract to Bombardier."

The Rail Maritime and Transport union said almost 1,000 companies in the
supply chain stand to lose out, pledging to raise the issue at a meeting of
the Commons Transport Committee tomorrow.

A delegation of more than 200 Bombardier workers, Derby councillors and local
business leaders will travel on a specially commissioned Bombardier-built
train from the East Midlands to London tomorrow to press the Government to
change its decision.

The East Midlands train, called Spirit of Derby, will travel from Derby to St
Pancras, carrying union officials, workers and Conservative, Labour and
Liberal Democrat councillors.

Conservative council Leader Philip Hickson said: "The Government have simply
got things wrong with the Thameslink contract.

"The whole of Derby feels very strongly about this issue, but the knock-on
effect could see the end of rail manufacturing in the UK altogether. That
would mean never again would any train, underground vehicle or tram be built
in the UK by skilled British workers."

Lib Dem deputy leader of the council, Hilary Jones, added: "My party feels as
strongly about this issue as the other two parties and the rest of the Derby
community, and I have written on many occasions to Nick Clegg and Vince   Cable
to point out the stupidity of the Government's attitude.

"They have admitted they've made a mistake, they are going to change their
procurement processes for future contracts, but cannot go back on their
decision on Thameslink. We are advised that this is a nonsense and that they
are hiding behind legal niceties."

Labour leader on the council, Paul Bayliss, said: "The Thameslink contract
specification was set up by a Labour government, who now admit they got it
wrong and don't mind if they take the blame."

Derek Clark, Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, said: "No one should be surprised
that the 1,200 made redundant by Bombardier will be just the first of   several
hundred more unfortunate people who have done nothing wrong yet   still lose
their jobs.

"Losing this contract will be an enormous blow to Derby and to Derbyshire as a
whole and has massive ramifications far beyond Bombardier.

"Losing this contract makes us the laughing stock of Europe when you consider
that in Germany, France and Spain practically all such contracts go to
national firms. There is nothing wrong with that, but everything is wrong   with
our Government not supporting British industry in the same kind of way.

"It didn't take long for the 'British jobs for British workers' quote to be
forgotten."

PA

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain's future relations with the eurozone

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 563 words


Sir, We should not be deceived by the apparent temporary loss of momentum of the
EU juggernaut, as its proponents view on the horizon the attainment of the
ultimate goal of its founding fathers - the creation of a United States of
Europe ("Get tough on Europe, Tories tell Cameron", Sept 5). It is a matter of
historical fact that no monetary union has ever succeeded in the absence of
political integration. Lord Lawson of Blaby is right in his condemnation of the
architects of the euro. Indeed, unless the Lisbon treaty is superseded by a
constitution in which the drive for an ever-closer union of nation states is
"explicitly abandoned", the future for the UK looks decidedly grim.

It will be a future in which we shall have ceded our national sovereignty to an
undemocratic EU and wealth created by a diminishing private sector used to
support a bloated federal bureaucracy, and to fund the ambitious social
objectives of the EU's liberal elite. The outcome is, of course, predictable:
the subjugation of the will of our people, more quantitative easing,
accelerating inflation, confiscatory levels of taxation and a new age of
austerity, the like of which few will have any idea.

john barker Prestbury, Cheshire Sir, One message that can be deduced from Lord
Lawson's article ("We need a constitution to protect us from a superstate",
Opinion, Sept 5) is that David Cameron cannot expect to win the next general
election if he does not accommodate the eurosceptics in his party. His dilemma
is that the Liberal Democrats in the coalition will brook no concessions on our
relationship with the EU and wish for an ever-closer union. Yielding to the
Liberal Democrats on this issue may ensure that David Cameron remains Prime
Minister of a shaky coalition until 2015; extricating the country from the EU
could reward him with an even longer premiership than that of Margaret Thatcher.
He should not find the choice a difficult one.

ronald forrest Wells, Somerset Sir, It is delightful to see Lord Lawson making
such a resolute stand over the direction of the European Union, and the
Government's responsibility to start negotiating in the country's interests. To
call for the removal of the explicit reference to "ever closer union" in the
EU's treaties is essentially to call for withdrawal from the EU as it is
constituted.

What with his support for a sane approach to energy and climate change policy,
and now for a sharp about-turn on Europe, it's clear that Lord Lawson would be
far more comfortable sitting with the other UKIP peers in the House of Lords,
than those of the coalition whose policies he now opposes. nigel farage, mep
Brussels Sir, In the past three European elections my party, UKIP, has come
fourth, third and second respectively. With luck we will win the next one in
2014, at which point we can set about freeing Britain from the EU. Will the
Tories still be dithering even then? john harvey Rodmell, E Sussex Sir, I am
bemused by the media and politicians who refer to the eurozone crisis and the
"we should cut our ties with Europe" brigade while I languish in a place where
my pound sterling was, not so long ago , worth (EURO)1.40. Now it hovers about
(EURO)1.10 and I suffer 5 per cent inflation compared with euroland's 2.5 per
cent. Would our crisis have been less disastrous had we joined the euro in the
first place? campbell morrow Pyrford, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Should Britain tear up the Lisbon treaty and negotiate looser ties with
Europe?
AP PHOTO / YVES LOGGHE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Dropping the 'C' word may rescue the Scottish right;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 271  words


MURDO Fraser, tipped in some quarters to become the next leader of the Scottish
Conservatives, says the very word "Conservative" puts many potential voters off
the party. Mr Fraser is also convinced that the Scottish party must be entirely
separate from the Tories in England, although it would sit with the latter at
Westminster. He may be correct on the first point and is almost certainly right
on the second.

Lord Forsyth, the former Scottish Secretary, says it would be madness to drop
"Conservative" from the party name.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, also a one-time Scottish Secretary, has welcomed Mr
Fraser's proposals. Many of our readers who support the Tories may be deeply
dismayed at the thought of dropping "Conservative", and there is a danger that a
new centre-right party without the traditional title may not be taken seriously
north of the Border, rather like UKIP. Mr Fraser would argue that remaining as
the Scottish Conservatives would not persuade voters the party had separated
from its London ties. Lord Forsyth's criticism that a rebranding would smack of
surrender will be seized upon by the SNP and Labour.

Labour, however, regained power only after becoming New Labour. And even the
Nationalists cynically dropped virtually all mention of independence in the
run-up to the Scottish election. So parties must, and do, adapt to changing
circumstances.

We desperately need a strong centre right opposition to the left-of-centre SNP
and Labour. The Tories have, year in, year out, fallen short of providing it.
Perhaps a new beginning on the lines envisaged by Mr Fraser could be what the
centre-right is looking for.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Lord Lawson invited to join UKIP after he challenges David Cameron on EU

BYLINE: Nicholas Wattguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 788 words

ABSTRACT

Nicholas Watt: Lord Lawson wants Britain to block further European integration
because he is a member of the generation which feared a "two speed Europe"

FULL TEXT

With impeccable timing, the UKIP leader Nigel Farage today wrote to the former
chancellor Lord Lawson to invite him to join his party.

Farage fired off a letter after Lawson called on David Cameron to use any future
EU treaty negotiations, in the wake of the crisis in the Eurozone, to call for
an end to greater European integration.

In an article in the Times, Lawson wrote:

To be precise, the notion that "more Europe" must always be promoted, that there
is no acceptable end to the process of integration short of a full-blown United
States of Europe, and that the watchword must always be that of "ever closer
union" has to be explicitly abandoned.

And this requires not merely a declaration to that effect, but its embodiment in
a full-blown constitution that sets out the entrenched and unalterable
competences and responsibilities of the member states of the Union - the very
reverse of what is contained in the anti-constitutional Lisbon treaty.

This is what Farage says:

Nigel Lawson has come to the conclusion that the very approach of the EU is
against Britain's interests, and is calling for the concept of 'Ever Closer
Union' to be struck from the Treaty.

He calls for a new Constitution that makes explicit the limits of EU power. He
is also wise enough to know that his proposals have not a cat in hells chance of
being accepted by the other 26 countries of the European Union.

What Lord Lawson leaves unspoken is what happens when inevitably the EU rejects
his idea. If the changes he calls for are not made, then Britain must reserve
the right to leave the moribund European Union and strike out as a free-trading
good neighbour of the European Union.

As a loyal Tory, Lawson will probably be horrified at the prospect of joining
UKIP. But Farage is clever to invite Lawson to join his party because David
Cameron and George Osborne will not accept the ideas outlined by the former
chancellor in today's Times.

Lawson will struggle because the prime minister and chancellor have abandoned
one of the central tenets of Tory thinking over Europe over the last 20 years.
This view held that Britain must fight hard to avoid the creation of what is
called a "two speed Europe" - an inner group, led by Germany and France, and a
more detached group led by Britain. This approach explains why John Major always
left open the possibility of British membership of the euro after negotiating a
British opt-out from the single currency in the 1991 Maastricht treaty.

Cameron and Osborne are making clear they would have no qualms if the 17 members
of the Eurozone decide to introduce greater fiscal co-operation to underpin the
single currency. This is what the chancellor wrote in the FT last month:

The eurozone...needs to demonstrate commitment to greater fiscal integration and
governance arrangements that avoid moral hazard and entrench fiscal
responsibility.

Some pro-Europeans regard the Cameron and Osborne's decision to embrace a "two
speed Europe" as a reckless gamble that will severely diminish British influence
in the EU.

Cameron and Osborne have a ready response. They say:

· Britain, which would not be part of the new eurozone arrangements, has a vital
national interest in ensuring the survival of the euro, the currency of
Britain's largest trading partners. Poor implementation of the growth and
stability pact, which was meant to prevent the sort of borrowing that has
inflicted such harm on Greece and Ireland, is to blame for the current crisis.
Stricter rules should, goes the thinking, help prevent a repeat of the mess.

· New rules for the eurozone would present a golden opportunity for Britain. The
necessary treaty changes would have to be approved by all 27 members of the EU.
The prime minister told the Tory 1922 committee before the summer recess that he
would use the treaty negotiations to repatriate powers in three key areas -
legal rights, criminal justice and social and employment legislation. But there
would be a coalition bust-up on this. Nick Clegg rejected the Cameron proposal
when he said that the euro crisis was no time to demand a "pound of flesh".

In his assault on the euro, Lawson failed to mention his support for the warm up
for the single currency - the European exchange rate mechanism. The former
chancellor resigned from the cabinet in 1989 after Margaret Thatcher refused to
distance herself from her late economic adviser, Sir Alan Walters, after he
described the ERM as "half baked". As I , Lawson explained to William Keegan in
2007 why he supported the ERM but not the single currency.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 126 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 5, 2011
                                 First Edition

Has success become a bad thing?;
Letter from ??

BYLINE: Simon Kelner

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 414 words


Why we should pay attention to what someone who's lived in California for 20
years thinks about Britain is slightly beyond me, but John Cleese's remark that
London no longer "feels English" has attracted a good deal of comment, most of
it predictable. The leader of Ukip - yes, they're still going - said that Cleese
was only articulating what a lot of people felt, while Boris Johnson and Ken
Livingstone argued that the capital's cosmopolitan profile was a major part of
its attraction.

Perhaps all that alimony has gone to Cleese's head, because I don't really know
what he's on about. London hasn't really felt "English" for a very long time.
Like most important capital cities, it has been a melting pot of cultures, races
and ethnicities and, because of its history and traditions (and, from time to
time, the weakness of its currency), it has been a huge draw for tourists. You
could stand all morning outside Buckingham Palace and not hear anyone speak
English: is that a matter for resentment or pride? Cleese wasn't talking about
the racial tensions and the social and ethnic challenges of some of the
inner-city areas of London where, yes, it is not difficult to feel the dominance
of other cultures. No, he was railing against the number of foreign voices on
the King's Road. King's Road! Chelsea! It's not exactly Coldharbour Lane, is it?
And if it wasn't for foreigners spending their money, heaven knows how much
worse it would be for high street retailers.

"London is no longer an English city," said the comedian who last did something
funny three decades ago. "That's how we got the Olympics."

Exactly, you silly old fool. London's reputation as a functioning city which
traditionally opens its arms to foreigners was, I'm sure, a key factor in being
awarded the 2012 Games. Or is he saying that's a bad thing? Perhaps he's upset
because he can walk through London, down the King's Road even, and no one will
come up to him any more and say how funny they thought the dead parrot sketch
was. (I remember it, and I didn't think it was that funny at the time.) Anyway,
he was going to come back to live in Britain, but our onerous tax system (you
know: taxes, those awkward things we all have to pay) have decided him against
it.

Instead, he is considering buying a house in either Switzerland or Monaco,
countries where he won't be bothered by anything as troublesome as cultural
diversity, or indeed income tax. Nevertheless, his views on Britain will always
be welcome.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               September 4, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

NEIL HAMILTON;
EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 6 words


Why  Why I'm joining Ukip

SEE PAGE 31

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               September 4, 2011
                                   Edition 1;

NEIL HAMILTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 7 words


EXCLUSIVE  Why I'm joining Ukip

SEE PAGE 31

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               September 4, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEIL HAMILTON EXCLUSIVE - Why [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


Tomorrow NEIL HAMILTON Britain Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday) Amsterdam
Showers 18C/64F Brussels Fair 18C/64F Dublin Cloudy 16C/61F Frankfurt Fair
21C/70F Geneva Fair 21C/70F Lisbon Sunny 27C/81F Madrid Sunny 30C/86F Paris Fair
20C/68F Rome Sunny 27C/81F EXCLUSIVE - Why Today I'm joining Ukip yesterday
Amsterdam Brussels Dublin Frankfurt Geneva SEE PAGE 31 CF CF

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               September 4, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The only way to ditch EU

BYLINE: NEIL HAMILTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 547 words


IT is 14 years since i left the Commons. i don't miss it and have enjoyed a
freewheeling life in TV, radio, theatre and journalism. Life as a Tory
backbencher in the Blair-Brown wilderness years would have been dismal and under
Cameron is little better but I can stand aside no longer. I have become active
in the fight to restore democracy and selfgovernment to the United Kingdom.

The Conservative Party has long since abandoned these beliefs and UKIP is now
the only credible means of getting Britain out of the EU.

From Magna Carta in 1215 to the Representation of the People Act 1949 our
history was a long march to adult democracy under a sovereign Parliament.
Astonishingly, within 24 years, that same Parliament began reversing and handing
over more and more power to unelected bureaucrats in Brussels.

The late Lord Weatherill, Speaker of the Commons in my day, summed it up thus:
"I view with increasing alarm the loss of Parliamentary sovereignty which for
centuries has underpinned the freedoms of the British people. Directives and
diktats from the European Union, which have the force of law, often without
parliamentary scrutiny or debate, are steadily eroding our nation's independence
and the electorate is increasingly unaware of what is done in their name. The
time has come to call a halt."

Westminster is now powerless to control perhaps 75 per cent of the laws we have
to obey. The so-called "European Parliament" cannot propose legislation either.
That right belongs to the unelected EU Commission.

Ministers of the 27 EU countries make amendments in secret meetings of the
Council of Ministers but if the British are outvoted they still have to
rubber-stamp the decisions, usually by Ministerial Order which Parliament
doesn't even debate, let alone vote on.

EU laws made in this undemocratic way now intrude into every nook and cranny of
life. Two days ago 60-watt tungsten lightbulbs were outlawed in favour of
dimmer, supposedly eco-friendly alternatives.

If your council forces you to scavenge through your own rubbish and divide it
between a multiplicity of bins that is because of EU directives. Thousands of
similar diktats affecting us intimately in our daily lives are now backed by
criminal penalties yet our Government and Parliament have no power to alter
them.

The EU is also a byword for waste, extravagance and corruption. Its auditors
have never given its accounts a clean bill of health. The seriousness with which
EU leaders treat this scandal can be judged by the fact that they appointed Neil
Kinnock to sort matters out. What happened? The whistleblowers, such as former
EU chief accountant Marta Andreasen (now a UKIP MEP) got sacked instead of the
corrupt and incompetent officials.

David Cameron was supposed to be a Eurosceptic but reneged as soon as he was
elected on his "castiron" promise of a referendum on the Lisbon treaty ceding
yet more power to Brussels. Foreign Secretary William Hague announced at the
same time that the Tories would not seek repatriation of powers to Westminster.

UKIP is now the best hope for reviving our moribund Parliament. That is why I am
speaking at its conference this week and standing for election to its national
executive.

Who knows? I may go further.

'I can stand aside no longer in fight for democracy'

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday

KILROY'S STILL HERE (AND AS FULL OF HIMSELF AS EVER...)

LENGTH: 2069 words


HOLDING COURT ON HIS SPRAWLING SPANISH ESTATE, HE'S WRITING RACY NOVELS NO ONE
WILL PUBLISH Z AND DREAMING OF A LAZARUS-LIKE POLITICAL COMEBACK. SERIOUSLY?
FRAID SO!

BY JAN MOIR

Let's start with the tan. For Robert Kilroy's face is not the orange lollipop of
popular legend. About his personage there is no sign of the ingrained perma-tan
of the serial sun abuser.

Meeting him at his Spanish home at the end of a long, hot summer, I had expected
him to be the colour of stewed tea, not this restrained, whiter shade of pale
cappuccino. What in the name of factor 30 is going on?

'I have developed an aversion to the sun. Now, I never sunbathe,' he says. When
his children visit, they wonder why their old dad bothers to holiday down here,
because all he does is sit in the shade.

'Anyway,' says Kilroy, 'I never was that brown. Never really the man with the
tan. Not me. Not true.'

Lots of things, he will claim, are not true about him. Lots of things have been
exaggerated, twisted, lost and contorted in the mists of time. He is a man with
a clear idea of his place in the firmament and of how he should be perceived,
remembered, fixed in the public eye.

'A lot has happened. Things I could not control. But I am not bitter. I might be
sad, but I am not bitter. My wife Jan says that I should be angry, but I accept
it all. It's what happens. Perhaps that means I am a wimp?' he says, unzipping
one of those famous, toothy grins; a grin designed to be far more wolfish than
wimpish. And he knows it.

Certainly, the switchback of his life has been remarkable. Multi-millionaire
Kilroy is the ultimate working-class boy made good, a former Labour shadow
cabinet member and MEP who traded in politics for fame and television glory.

Ten years ago, his daytime show, Kilroy!, was watched by regular audiences of
six million viewers. He was quite brilliant at what he did and for years his
smarmy charm and provocative style made him a household name. He was paid more
than 61 million a year by the BBC and seemed unstoppable, the thinking man's
Jeremy Kyle.

Then, in 2004, it all went horribly wrong when the BBC very publicly sacked him
for writing what was perceived to be a racist newspaper column. In the pages of
the Sunday Express, Kilroy opined that Arabs were 'suicide bombers, limb
amputators, women repressors'. 'Of course, I meant Muslim extremists, not Arabs.
That is what I should have written. And I should have added that they cut
people's heads off, too, which is what they were doing in Iraq at the time,' he
says today.

Seven years on, he remains disappointed in the BBC for not standing by him.

'I thought the BBC would be more robust, I did,' he says. 'But it all happened
within the context of the Hutton Report [an inquiry into the death of weapons
expert David Kelly, which was deeply critical of an allegation on the BBC that a
dossier on Saddam Hussein's weapons had been "sexed up"].

'Everyone was watching their own backs. And they needed me like they needed a
hole in the head. There wasn't a strong person there who would do the right
thing. They wouldn't accept, for example, that 99 per cent of the complaint
emails came from the same Muslim website, with the same spelling mistakes.'

Audiences loved him, but within certain sections of the BBC Kilroy knew he was
not popular. 'Some people were very glad to be rid of me. I always had the
ratings as a protection, but in the end even they couldn't save me.' Following
this jolting setback, a further entanglement with politics came to nothing.
Kilroy-Silk joined UKIP, but resigned in 2005 following a failed bid to lead the
party.

After forming his own party, Veritas, whose primary policy was opposition to
mass immigration in the UK, he resigned from there, too. This followed a poor
showing in the General Election.

Kilroy believes that conflict has dogged his political life because he is the
kind of right-minded, no-holds-barred buccaneer who likes to upset the status
quo.

I suspect it is rather more that his ego will not allow him to be a member of a
political party he does not lead. And he will brook no dissent in the ranks or
challenges to his authority when he does. He has described himself in the past
as a control freak with a short fuse. Neither he nor wife Jan , together since
their teens , has ever been drunk.

He has, shall we say, a very entrenched sense of self. Even when relaxing at
home in Spain, Kilroy-Silk is one of those men who has to establish immediately
that he is the top dog, the silverback, the leader of the pack, the big
manchego.

When he establishes that my friend, who has driven me to Kilroy's remote home,
is not the photographer, he shouts at him to go and water the garden. Twice.
When the photographer eventually arrives after getting lost, he cries: 'You are
a nightmare!' It's supposed to be funny, but no one is laughing, least of all
Kilroy himself.

Supremacy is clearly what he craves. When he is not speaking low and fast in his
slightly mournful Brummie accent during the interview, he sort of roars about
the place, unable to contain his own bounding energy.

He swims several times a day, he hikes down the river bed, watches the eagles
that nest here every year and tends to the oleanders and lavender he has planted
in his beautiful garden. He keeps himself ferociously busy , but is it all a
distraction tactic? Would he like to be back in politics?

'Yes. I would,' he says candidly. 'I'd like to be back there causing a fuss.'

What party would he belong to now? 'Well, I am not very good at belonging to a
party. I am too independent-minded. I find it difficult to toe a party line. For
me, my country comes first. The thing is, I'm a troublemaker. I can't bear
seeing things I disagree about and not act. I can't walk on by.

'I am 69 now. Getting older. But I still have that passion about things that I
think are wrong. And if I was still a politician I would put down a
parliamentary question or make a speech. If I was still in TV, I would do a
Kilroy on the subject.'

What does he do now? Well, frustrated by his lack of a public platform, Kilroy
writes books. Huge books. Six-hundred-page doorstoppers, raving on and on
through inky chapters numbered XXIX, XLIV and beyond.

He writes all the time, winter and summer. Every morning, after breakfasting on
porridge and fresh orange juice, he sits at a table with his Biro and his
notepad and the words just pour out of him.

Recently, Kilroy has self-published three of his novels in Kindle form , they
can be read only in an electronic format , because, he says, no publishers will
touch his manuscripts. Frankly, I'm not surprised.

His first book, Betrayal, is about consensual adult incest , a taboo subject
that hardly lends itself to popular fiction. The second, Closure, features a
central character who is a strident, Right-wing woman who drives a 4x4. Almost
as untouchable!

The third and latest is Abduction, which concerns itself with forced adoptions,
the practice of removing children from their family unit and placing them with
adoptive parents.

To read one of his books is like taking the top off his head with a tin opener,
then peering in horror at the nest of writhing snakes inside.

Abduction tells the story of an innocent husband and a wife , not married to
each other , who each, through no fault of their own, have a child taken from
them by social services and placed into adoption.

It's not that forced adoption is not an interesting, important subject and
worthy of attention. It is. And I do not doubt Kilroy's deeply-felt and
passionate interest in this difficult and vexatious issue. It is more that
readers are never left in any doubt where his sympathies lie.

In this book, the social workers are devious and malicious; the police are
stupid and violent; the entire criminal justice system is a crock. 'That's not
fair,' he says. 'There is one sympathetic prison officer.'

In the coconut shies of his chapters, he also takes potshots at anything that
bothers him, from political foes such as John Prescott and Lord Mandelson to
layabouts, to fat people, to whatever.

'I like sounding off. It is a platform. It is my replacement for politics,' he
says. Elsewhere in Abduction, the red-buttocked sex scenes are excruciating; one
character with whom we are supposed to sympathise calls gay people 'bent' and
almost all of the attractive women have a luscious pair of 'silken thighs'.

'Silken thighs? They haven't all got them, have they? Oh s**t.'

Clearly, this is all a wonderful therapy for Kilroy, who is now working on a
thriller. However, I wonder if there is a reader out there who could enjoy
reading his books as much as he relishes writing them.

Still, it keeps him busy. 'My step-father used to say: "If you don't work, you
don't eat." I don't feel right unless I am doing something productive.'

He has certainly provided for his family. 'I saved. I made a lot of money on
Kilroy. Our TV company made programmes for Panorama and Dispatches. I invested
in the dotcom boom; I bought shares in unfashionable, ridiculous things like
utilities and drug companies.

'Jan also made a lot of money, she bought and renovated cottages and listed
buildings.' The Kilroy-Silks, from Birmingham, are considerably richer than yaw.
They have an estate in Buckinghamshire, formerly owned by Ozzy and Sharon
Osbourne, but spend as much time as they can down here.

They live in the hills between Gibraltar and Marbella, where Jan has converted
an olive mill into a grand residence, with marble terraces, soaring ceilings and
cream interiors. There are two pools, 11 bedrooms, staff quarters, plus two
further cottages that are rented out.

The house is in a narrow limestone valley, forested with pine, almond and cork
trees. Kilroy owns more than 100 acres here, as far as the eye can see. 'I own
all this,' he once boasted to his mother when she came to visit. To which she
replied: 'I think it's disgusting that someone should own this much. What about
the homeless?'

Today, Kilroy-Silk counts himself as a lucky man. He and Jan have two children
and three grandchildren, who come to visit regularly. He also has another son
called Danny, born to a woman he once had an affair with. Does he visit, too?

'I don't ever talk about him. I don't ever talk about him. I have never
discussed it, ever,' he says, and changes the subject.

We move on. Today, RKS is wearing a polo shirt, jeans and loafers, no socks.
With his big shoulders and thick hair, he is still youthful, still full of vim,
still feels he has much to give.

Back in 2005, he was talking about English nationalism and Old Labour big-state
socialism. His was a lone public voice advocating the reorganisation of the
asylum system and using the money saved to help genuine refugees and 'the two
million pensioners and 3.6 million kids in poverty in this country'. He also
believes he was one of the first , 'the first' , to criticise multiculturalism.

'Multi-ethnic, multi-race, multi-creed, multi-colour, yes, yes, yes. But one
culture, one set of values, one law. Everybody equal. We can't have women
treated as second-class citizens just because they happen to be Asian. I got
absolutely vilified for saying that. Now who is saying it? Merkel, Sarkozy,
Cameron. The Archbishop of Canterbury.'

Recently, his daughter laughed and told him: 'Dad, you're being outflanked on
the Right.' How did he feel about that?

'Well, it's too late for me,' he says. 'But I am very sanguine about everything.
I am not bitter. It happens to lots of people , the world is a pretty sh***y
place. And we all get treated badly when it suits people to do it.'

There are moments when Kilroy's single-mindedness makes him come across like a
hybrid of David Icke and Jeffrey Archer. If he is a victim of anything, he says,
it is of a lack of courage on the part of others.

'People who would not defend free speech and the truth. I have lots of flaws,
but I am a decent man,' he says. And in a way, he is. Really, I think it would
be best all round if Kilroy could pour his energies into being on TV again. No
one ever managed to fill his shoes at the BBC , and it might stem the terrible
flow of his novels if he did.

In the meantime, there he sits, the not-too-tanned king in his Spanish castle.
He points to where the mountain spring rises in the woods, the spring which
fills the pools and provides the water for Casa Kilroy.

'Taste it. It's like champagne,' he says.

Place in the sun: Robert Kilroy-Silk and wife Jan

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday

WHY I FEEL LIKE A FOREIGNER IN LONDON THESE DAYS,

LENGTH: 582 words


CLEESE

By Simon Cable Showbusiness Reporter

Mass immigration has turned London into a city that is 'no longer English', John
Cleese claims.

The former Monty Python star says he now feels like a foreigner walking through
the capital's streets.

California-based Cleese, 71, moved to the U.S. more than two decades ago, having
grown up in Somerset.

The comic was asked what he thought about British culture and the recent London
riots during an interview on 7.30, a television show in Australia, where he is
currently on a stand-up tour.

He replied: 'I'm not sure what's going on in Britain. Or, let me say this Ð I
don't know what's going on in London, because London is no longer an English
city.

'That's how we got the Olympics.

'They said we were the most cosmopolitan city on Earth. But it doesn't feel
English.

'I had a Californian friend come over two months ago, walk down the King's Road
and say, "Where are all the English people?"

'I mean, I love having different cultures around. But when the parent culture
kind of dissipates, you're left thinking, "Well, what's going on?"'

Far-Right group the English Defence League seized on Cleese's comments
yesterday, posting a link to them on its Twitter page. A spokesman for London
mayor Boris Johnson said: 'If the King's Road is jam-packed with foreign
tourists then that is something we should celebrate.'

And former mayor Ken Livingstone Ð currently standing for the post again Ð said:
'To stay competitive, London must be what New York is to the U.S., a global
centre of business, culture and innovation, none of which can be achieved
without people of all nations working and living here.'

The comedian was praised by UKIP leader Nigel Farage for articulating 'what an
increasing number of people in London are thinking'.

He added: 'For him to make these remarks shows a tremendous strength of feeling
on this matter.

'Of course other cultures are welcome, but Mr Cleese is right to point out that
it should not be at the expense of the parent culture.'

Of the eight million people who currently live in Greater London, 2.7million
residents were born outside the UK, and more than 300 languages are spoken in
the city.

Last year Cleese, a Liberal Democrat supporter, lamented the state of modern
England, bemoaning a decline in traditional middle-class values, which he says
has been replaced by 'a yob culture'.

He is now preparing to leave the U.S., where he has been living for 21 years,
revealing that his decision was partly prompted by a fall in the amount of work
he is offered in the States.

The Fawlty Towers star initially moved to California in 1990.

Last year he bought an apartment near Bath so that he could be near to his new
girlfriend, jewellery designer Jennifer Wade, and her family when he visited the
UK.

It was seen as something of a homecoming for the star, who was born 33 miles
away in Weston-super-Mare.

He said he now prefers visiting Bath than London, claiming: 'It feels more like
the England I grew up in.'Ê

However, he says that he won't be returning to live in Britain permanently,
because it would mean paying vast amounts in extra tax on divorce payments to
his third wife, Alyce Faye Eichelberger.

He lost more than half his fortune in 2009 when a judge granted Miss
Eichelberger £12.5million, as well as £600,000 a year in maintenance payments
for seven years.

Instead, he says he is considering buying a home in Switzerland or Monaco.

s.cable@dailymail.co.uk

Out in London: John Cleese with Jennifer Wade

'Strength of feeling'

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Eurostar's arrogant bid to phase out British pound

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262 words


BRITAIN, thank goodness, did not join the European single currency. The
political class knew it would never win a referendum on dumping the pound and so
never got round to holding one.

FINAL ARTWORK our currency is therefore the pound sterling just as it has been
for hundreds of years. So for a company even to think of refusing payment in
sterling on British soil is an outrage.

It appears that Eurostar went further than mere contemplation, actually trying
out a ban on sterling while allowing payment in euros as its trains sped between
continental Europe and London. Thankfully the scheme was called to a halt after
the Daily Express intervened.

As UKIP's Gerard Batten points out: "Banning the pound on Eurostar would have
meant we couldn't use our own currency on a train in our own country to buy a
British cuppa and a Kit-Kat."

Millions of British people love the countries of mainland Europe and enjoy
visiting them as tourists or business travellers. Indeed many use Eurostar's
excellent trains to get there.

But very few wish to be ruled as an outpost of a European empire or to have the
major financial decisions that affect their lives made in Brussels and
Frankfurt.

Usually it is public sector Eurocrats who need reminding of this. But the
Eurostar episode reminds us that international corporations also have a tendency
to disrespect national sensibilities.

The people who run Eurostar will surely wish to ensure they never again give the
impression that British money is not good enough for them. Otherwise they may
find the British people taking them at their word.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Real truth behind EU con over energy-saving bulbs

BYLINE: Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 625 words


BANNING the humble 60-watt light bulb to make way for so-called energy-saving
ones and "help save the planet" was last night exposed as an elaborate EU con.

Tests show production and disposal of the new bulbs uses up more energy than
traditional lights.

Energy-saving bulbs, known as compact fluorescent lamps, also pose health risks
for an estimated two million people in Britain.

Professor John Hawk, president of the European Society for Photodermatology,
said: "They emit small amounts of ultraviolet radiation that is significant for
people with photosensitivity skin disorders.

"Some emit enough radiation for people who are constantly close up to them to
have a significant increase in ultraviolet exposure over the years, which may
well make skin cancer more likely.

Crusading

"Incandescent bulbs should remain on sale while expert scientific committees are
still reviewing all aspects of the matter in detail."

Ultraviolet rays can also lead to severe migraines or aggravate other existing
medical conditions.

Lighting expert Lucy Martin told the Daily Express, which is crusading for a
referendum to pull Britain out of the EU: "The carbon footprint of
manufacturing, distribution and disposal of a compact fluorescent bulb is far
greater than the energy usage of a standard bulb.

"There is a health issue in disposing of them but also for people who work under
them. The EU is treating us like children."

The EU's outlawing of the 60-watt bulb follows similar bans on the 100-watt and
75-watt varieties but people will still be able to buy the traditional bulbs
until stocks in shops run out. The 40-watt bulb will go the way of the others
next year.

Energy-saving bulbs can cost as much as £4 compared with around 60p for a
standard 60-watt light.

Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall said: "They are full of mercury, so are
hazardous if they break, especially to children. Once again we are being bullied
by the EU into introducing nonsensical and dangerous legislation to fight
against so-called manmade global warming, which is based on pretty dodgy
science."

EU spokesman David D'Arcy said the new bulbs had the potential to reduce CO²
emissions equal to taking seven million cars off the road. Homes would save £40
a year.

And a Government spokesman said old-style bulbs wasted 95 per cent of energy as
heat.

OPINION: PAGE 12

UV FROM 'GREEN' LIGHTS LEAVES ME IN AGONY

FORMER teacher Brenda Ryder has been a prisoner in her own home since she was
diagnosed with the devastating autoimmune disease lupus in 1998. But her plight
has been made worse by the new energysaving bulbs. They emit more of the
ultraviolet light which she cannot tolerate.

Mrs Ryder, 58, comes out in a horrific skin rash, vomits violently and has
migraines when she is near the bulbs. "I am completely housebound and feel like
a prisoner in my own home," she said.

She has stockpiled scores of boxes of the now-banned 60-watt bulbs and takes her
own lamp to dentist's or optician's appointments.

Her illness means she cannot step outside her house in Godshill, Isle of Wight,
without a mask, gloves and a headscarf made of the UVreflecting material used in
spacesuits.

Why we love the old-style 60-watt bulbs

They have been a household favourite for more than 100 years and we love their
cosy warmth

They light up at once

They are available in a wide range of fittings

They are cheap

They are preferred by interior designers because they do not distort colours

Why we don't like the new energy-saving bulbs

They are not as bright and cannot be dimmed

They give out unpleasant, unnatural light

They contain mercury and are difficult to dispose of

A break can trigger an asthma attack

They take a long time to come on.

They can trigger fits, cause migraine and skin cancer and aggravate health
problems

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FURY AS THE GBP IS BANNED

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 704  words


Sterling is not good enough say barmy Eurostar bosses

OUTRAGE erupted yesterday after Eurostar stopped passengers from using British
cash to buy snacks on b oard its trains.

The crazy ban was part of a controversial plan to ditch the pound on the
company's cross-Channel services and force passengers to pay in euros instead.
Ukip MEP Gerard Batten last night branded the idea ludicrous.

"It would mean we couldn't use our own currency on a train in our own country to
buy a British cuppa and a Kit-Kat, " he said.

Tory MP Philip Davies said the scheme was "totally outrageous". But last night
the Daily Express forced Eurostar bosses to back down.

We contacted the multinational firm after hearing from an outraged reader about
his experience of the proposed new system.

Eurostar initially said it was unsure when it would reach a final conclusion on
the move to ban cash payments in sterling because it had to review customer
reaction to a seven-day trial which ended this week.

But hours later it said customer feedback had convinced it to continue accepting
the pound.

The move was warmly welcomed as a victory for common sense, although critics
remained aghast that the company had even considered making the change in the
first place.

London MEP Mr Batten took up the issue after being contacted by a constituent.
He said: "Banning the pound on Eurostar was a ludicrous idea in the first place.
Thank goodness the Daily Express took up my constituent's complaint and that
Euro tar has seen sense and back-tracked."

Daily Express reader James Beedell discovered the ban on a return trip to France
last Sunday with his wife and daughter and her boyfriend.

On going to pay for coffees and snacks at the bar he was astounded to be told
that as part of a pilot scheme he could pay cash only in euros, although on
board literature still quoted prices in both euros and sterling.

Retired printer Mr Beedell, 65, said he had to talk staff into letting him pay
in pounds on his debit card after they said that also could be done only in
euros - although the company says that was a mistake because it always intended
to continue allowing card payments in sterling.

Regular Eurostar user Mr Beedell said: "I felt shocked. I thought it was
outrageous that passengers couldn't pay in sterling. My wife, Nicole, who is
French, also thought it was absolutely disgraceful."

On his return to the UK, Mr Beedell complained but Eurostar couldn't tell him
how long the pilot scheme would last.

Mr Beedell said: "I made the point that the train does a good part of its
journey in Britain where the euro doesn't exist.

"I have a card that I can use, but other people might not or might not want to.

"They might have been on a short holiday to France or Belgium and spent all
their euros and have only pounds left in their pocket."

Tory MP Mr Davies said:

"This idea was totally outrageous. When I was working in the private sector I
didn't care how people paid as long as they paid. You tried to make it as easy
as possible for customers to hand over the money, not difficult.

"The fact they even thought about it seems to show total contempt for their
British customers.

"It's extraordinary they even thought it might be acceptable.

All power to the Daily Express for helping to stop them in their tracks."

Anthony Smith, of rail user watchdog Passenger Focus, said: "Passengers tell us
they want choice when it comes to using the railway. We're pleased Eurostar have
listened to passengers and dropped this idea."

A Eurostar spokesman said yesterday: "Like all businesses we continually monitor
the range of products and services we offer to our customers and from time to
time we trial new initiatives in order to better understand their views.

"Over recent years we have seen a decline in the number of cash-based sterling
transactions as more customers choose to pay using debit cards.

"This prompted us to run a brief trial on board to gauge customers' views about
the possible withdrawal of this payment method at our buffets.

"Having listened carefully to the feedback from our customers it is clear that
for many this is their preferred payment method and as a result we have decided
to continue accepting cash-based sterling payments on board all our trains."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The notice alerting passengers to the ban on the pound which was
displayed in the buffet cars on Eurostar trains
Mr Beedell: I felt shocked

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Eurostar forced to drop plan to ban the GBP

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 468  words


OUTRAGE erupted yesterday after Eurostar stopped passengers from using British
cash to buy snacks on board its trains.

The crazy ban was part of a controversial plan to ditch the pound on the
company's cross-Channel services and force passengers to pay in euros instead.
Ukip MEP Gerard Batten last night branded the idea ludicrous.

"It would mean we couldn't use our own currency on a train in our own country to
buy a British cuppa and a Kit-Kat, " he said.

Tory MP Philip Davies said the scheme was "totally outrageous".

But last night the Daily Express forced Eurostar bosses to back down. We
contacted the multinational firm after hearing from an outraged reader about his
experience of the proposed new system.

Eurostar initially said it had to review customer reaction to a sevenday trial
which ended this week. But hours later it said customer feedback had convinced
it to continue accepting the pound.

The move was welcomed as a victory for common sense, although critics remained
aghast that the company had even considered making the change in the first
place.

London MEP Mr Batten took up the issue after being contacted by a constituent.
He said: "Banning the pound on Eurostar was a ludicrous idea in the first place.

"Thank goodness the Daily Express took up my constituent's complaint and that
Euro star has seen sense and back-tracked."

Daily Express reader James Beedell discovered the ban on a return trip to France
last Sunday with his wife and daughter and her boyfriend. On going to pay for
coffees and snacks at the bar he was astounded to be told that as part of a
pilot scheme he could pay cash only in euros.

Retired printer Mr Beedell, 65, said: "I thought it was outrageous that
passengers couldn't pay in sterling. My wife, Nicole, who is French, also
thought it was absolutely disgraceful.

"I made the point that the train does a good part of its journey in Britain
where the euro doesn't exist."

Tory MP Mr Davies said: "This idea was totally outrageous. When I was working in
the private sector I didn't care how people paid as lon g as they paid. You
tried to make it as easy as possible for customers to hand over the money, not
difficult."

Anthony Smith, of rail user watchdog Passenger Focus, said: "Passengers tell us
they want choice when it comes to using the railway. We're pleased Eurostar have
listened to passengers and dropped this idea."

A Eurostar spokesman said: "Over recent years we have seen a decline in the
number of cash-based sterlin g transactions as more customers choose to pay
using debit cards.

"This prompted us to run a brie f trial on board to gauge customers' views about
the possible withdrawal of this payment method at our buffets.

"Having listened carefully to the feedback from our customers we have decided to
continue acceptin g cash-based sterling payments."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Real truth behind EU con over energ y-sav ing bulbs

BYLINE: By Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 411  words


BANNING the humble 60-watt light bulb to make way for so-called energy-saving
ones and "help save the planet" was last night exposed as an elaborate EU con.

Tests show production and disposal of the new bulbs uses up more energy than
traditional lights.

Energy-saving bulbs, known as compact fluorescent lamps, also pose health risks
for an estimated two million people in Britain.

Professor John Hawk, president of the European Society for Photodermatology,
said: "They emit small amounts of ultraviolet radiation that is significant for
people with photosensitivity skin disorders.

"Some emit enough radiation for people who are constantly close up to them to
have a significant increase in ultraviolet exposure over the ears, which may
well make skin cancer more likely.

"Incandescent bulbs should remain on sale while expert scientific committees are
still reviewing all aspects of the matter in detail."

Ultraviolet rays can also lead to severe migraines or aggravate other existing
medical conditions.

Lighting expert Lucy Martin told the Daily Express, which is crusading for a
referendum to pull Britain out of the EU: "The carbon footprint of
manufacturing, distribution and disposal of a compact fluorescent bulb is far
greater than the energy usage of a standard bulb.

"There is a health issue in disposing of them but also for people who work under
them. The EU is treating us like children."

The EU's outlawing of the 60-watt bulb follows similar bans on the 100-watt and
75-watt varieties but people will still be able to buy the traditional bulbs
until stocks in shops run out. The 40-watt bulb will go the way of the others
next year.

Energy-saving bulbs can cost as much as GBP 4 compared with around 60p for a
standard 60-watt light.

Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall said: "They are full of mercury, so are
hazardous if they break, especially to children. Once again we are being bullied
by the EU into introducing nonsensical and dangerous legislation to fight
against so-called manmade global warming, which is based on pretty dodgy
science."

EU spokesman David D'Arcy said the new bulbs had the potential to reduce CO²
emissions equal to takHomes would save GBP 40 a year.

And a Government spokesman said old-style bulbs wasted 95 per cent of energy as
heat.

Why we love the old-style 60-watt bulbs

They light up at once

They are cheap

They are not as bright and cannot be dimmed

They contain mercury and are difficult to dispose of

They take a long time to come on.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Don't mention the migrants!

BYLINE: By Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 585  words


Where are all the English people says John Cleese

COMEDIAN John Cleese has waded into the row over Britain's immigration policy by
saying London is "no longer an English city".

The Monty Python star says people in the capital now feel like foreigners in a
city where the "parent culture has dissipated".

Cleese, 71, made his comments during an appearance on Australian television.

He is currently in Sydney for a run of sell-out shows at the Opera House.

During the interview, the funnyman was asked what he makes of British culture,
particularly after the recent rioting.

He said: "I'm not sure what's going on in Britain. Let me say this, I don't know
what's going on in London because London is no longer an English city and that's
how they got the Olympics.

"They said 'we're the most cosmopolitan city on Earth' but it doesn't feel
English.

"I had a Californian friend come over two months ago, walk down the King's Road
and say to me 'well, where are all the English people?'

"I love having different cultures around but when the parent culture kind of
dissipates you're left thinking 'well, what's going on?' " Earlier this year
Cleese - an ardent Liberal Democrat supporter - said he preferred living in Bath
to London.

He said: "I love being down in Bath because it feels like the England that I
grew up in."

With a population of eight million London is recognised as one of the world's
most ethnically-diverse cities with 300 languages spoken and more than a quarter
of the population from an ethnic minority.

Last night, Ukip leader Nigel Farage welcomed Cleese's comments. "John Cleese
has said what an increasing number of people in London are thinking, " he said.

"It is sad, and may not be 100 per cent accurate but people do seem to be
feeling that they are becoming foreigners in their own land.

"What makes these comments even more surprising is that Mr Cleese is a
well-known Liberal Democrat supporter having starred in their party political
broadcasts.

"For him to make these remarks certainly shows a tremendous strength of feeling
on this matter. Of course other cultures are welcome but Mr Cleese is right to
point out that it should not be at these expense of the parent culture."

Alp Mehmet, vice-chairman of MigrationWatch, said: "John Cleese is an astute
man.

"London has of course changed hugely in recent years. He is also not the first
to point to the failures of multi-culturalism - the Prime Minister has said much
the same thing.

"London is not the city I knew as a child and it saddens me that many of the
unwelcome developments have largely been the result of mass and rapid
migration." Somersetborn Cleese is currently dating jewellery designer Jennifer
Wade.

His marriages to Connie Booth, with whom he wrote Fawlty Towers, Barbara
Trentham and Alyce Faye Eichelberger all ended in divorce.

It was his GBP 12million settlement with Eichelberger, a US psychotherapist, in
2009 which forced Cleese out of retirement for a series of oneman shows known as
the "alimony tour".

In the interview with ABC show 7.30, Cleese also said he no longer finds
television comedy funny.

He said: "It's a disaster and I feel very sad about it. English television from
the Fifties to the Nineties was the least bad in the world and now it's just as
bad as it is anywhere."

Cleese added that he did not want to appear on the BBC again but needed to keep
on working.

He said: "I really don't want to work for the BBC any more - I feel that
strongly about it. But the alimony is one million dollars a year.

That's a lot."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cleese with Jennifer Wade in Bath, left, where he feels more at home
than among the Muslims and Polish shops of the capital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Angr y buyers rush to beat EU ban on our 60w lightbulbs

BYLINE: By Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 548  words


SHOPPERS rushed to get their hands on stocks of the last remaining traditional
60-watt lightbulbs yesterday after they became the latest victims of an EU ban.

Manufacture of the bulbs, which have been stocked by hardware stores for
decades, was outlawed yesterday in an attempt by the eurocrats to force people
to switch to more expensive energy-saving alternatives.

Last night the move was universally condemned by consumers and politicians who
claimed replacement lowenergy bulbs are not bright enough and could even make
people ill.

Campaigners are hoping to overturn the ban after claiming as many as two million
Britons could be adversely affected by the new bulbs.

Studies have shown they emit ultraviolet rays and can lead to severe migraines
or aggravate existing medical complaints.

The outlawing of the humble 60-watt lightbulb follows similar bans on the
100-watt and 75-watt varieties. The 40-watt bulb will go the way of the others
next year.

Furious Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall said: "This is a very real example of
how the EU increasingly dominates and controls our lives. They have no regard
for people's right to choose and absolutely no concern for the terrible impact
this will have on those with light-sensitive health conditions.

"Time and again we watch with despair as the EU churns out legislation with
unintended consequences.

We are being bullied into this in the name of climate change but what about the
mercury contained in the new energy-saving bulbs? I have no doubt that the issue
of their disposal has not been given proper consideration.

"It is not just these new bulbs that are dim, but also the flawed and
dictatorial logic behind the ban."

The Daily Express is crusading for a referendum on Britain's EU membership.
Sheila Gilmore, Labour MP for Edinburgh East, is so disturbed at the
interference of Brussels in our domestic affairs that she has tabled an early
day motion in the Commons calling for incandescent bulbs to remain available for
those with light-sensitive illnesses.

Catherine Hessett, of the health charity Spectrum Alliance, said: "We estimate
there are up to 2million people in the UK who could suffer adverse health
effects.

"Make no mistake about it, lowenergy lightbulbs make some people ill.

This is a very serious issue and we have pressed the Government to go back to
the EU and ask them to look again at whether they are safe."

Energy-saving bulbs cost as much as GBP 4 compared with around 60p for a
standard 60-watt bulb but use a quarter of the energy. It is estimated the owner
of an average-size house could save GBP 9 a year by switching.

Yesterday shops reported huge demand for traditional bulbs and said people will
still be able to buy them until stocks run out. EU energy commissioner Gunther
Oettinger last night defended the ban and said: "Edison's lightbulb, which has
produced light for more than 100 years, is simply no longer the state of the
art. They consume too much energy for the light they produce."

A spokesman for the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs,
said: "Although European Commission experts found there was no evidence
energy-saving bulbs aggravate migraines, Defra and the Department of Health
pushed to keep halogen bulbs as an alternative for people suffering
light-sensitive conditions."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 126 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Letters & emails

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 120 words


DROP us a line at Readers' Letters, Daily Star, 10 Lower Thames Street, London
EC3R 6EN. Email: starletters@dailystar.co.uk MASS immigration under Labour
forced my pay way down.

So I swallowed the pre-election pledge of Cameron to cut it and voted Tory for
the first time.

Now we find they are no better than Labour. Whose fault will it be if voters
turn to the BNP or UKIP? JIM BURNS, Altrincham IF you want to encourage wealth
here, then scrap Inheritance Tax.

Allow people to keep what they have legally acquired and pass on to their
family, so as not put them in a position of perhaps needing help from benefits.

Also, do not tax savings within building society accounts to help people put
money aside.

RICHARD GRANT, by email

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
