
                               1 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 31, 2011
                                 First Edition

If you like...;
Your personal TV selector

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1040 words


... British Drama 8pm

Coronation Street ITV1, 7.30pm & 8.30pm

Didn't they all look cross, getting pipped to that National Television Award by
EastEnders.

EastEnders BBC1, 8pm

Phil tries to convince Shirley his proposal was genuine. Mmm...

Silent Witness BBC1, 9pm

Murder at the Dutch embassy. In two parts.

Sharpe's Challenge ITV3, 10pm

The Duke of Wellington asks Sean Bean to sort out a spot of bother in India.

Being Human BBC3, 10.30pm

Teenage vampires. Do they lay in bed all night?

Skins E4, 11.05pm

Meet the class of 2011, as last week's opening episode is repeated.

Mosley Channel 4, 1.10am

Oswald seeks power. Jonathan Cake plays the man in black.

... Sport 3.15pm

Ski Jumping Sky Sports 4, 3pm

From Turkey, for a change. It's the World University Games.

Tennis: Australian Open Brit. Eurosport, 3.15pm

The whole of the women's final is followed by highlights from the men's final.

International Football Brit. Eurosport, 7.15pm

Highlights of Saturday's Asian Cup final between Australia and Japan.

Irish Football Sky Sports 1, 7.30pm

Glenavon v Cliftonville in the Irish Premiership. Glenavon's ground has the
rather wonderful name Solitude.

Football: South American Under-20 Championship Brit. Euro. 2, 9.45pm

Expect half the crowd to be made up of club scouts from Europe.

The Late Kick Off BBC1, 11.05pm

Football League highlights from your area.

...Cookery shows 2.05pm

Cookery School Channel 4, 2.05pm

New cookery combines instruction with Ready Steady Cook style contests. Chef
Richard Corrigan hosts.

Instant Restaurant BBC2, 2.15pm

Menus inspired by the sea. That'll be fish then.

Jamie's 30-Minute Meals Channel 4, 5.30pm

Bish-bash-bosh crispy salmon with rice, baby courgette salad, berry spritzer and
guacamole.

Barefoot Contessa Food Network, 7pm

Ina's "pot-luck dinner" includes cheddar dill shortbread and stewed fresh
berries.

Baking Made Easy BBC2, 8.30pm

Her top-three flavour enhancers and baking tools. Plus, the history of creme
brulee. I bet some French madame burnt the cream.

Hell's Kitchen USA ITV2, 9pm

A ravioli dish challenge with a helicopter ride for the winner. Strange.

... Factual 9pm

The Battle for Bomb Alley: Panorama BBC1, 8.30pm

Being Sangin in Afghanistan, which cost 106 British lives. Are the US Army
faring better?

Outside the Court BBC2, 9pm

People filmed as they hang around outside court waiting judgement.

Kind of revealing.

Horizon: The Secret World of Pain BBC2, 9pm

Seen 127 Hours? Here a man chops off his arm when stuck in a boiler.

Music, Money and Hip-Hop Honeys BBC3, 9pm

The dark side of the music video industry.

One Born Every Minute Channel 4, 9pm

A man can't be contacted during his girlfriend's labour. Did they try the pub?

Storyville: Meet the Climate Sceptics BBC4, 10pm

UKIP peer Christopher Monckton to be precise.

... Classic Movies 10pm

Pickup on South Street Channel 4, 12.35pm

Richard Widmark is a weasely wonder as a pickpocket in Samuel Fuller's film
noir.

Dial M for Murder TCM, 7pm

Grace Kelly ties to reach the phone in time.

3:10 to Yuma Sky Classics, 9pm

Entertainingly re-made with Russell Crowe and Christian Bale, here's the 1957
original western with Glenn Ford and Van Heflin.

Get Shorty ITV4, 10pm

The best screen adaptation of Elmore Leonard until the TV show Justified.

Breathless TCM, 11.30pm

Richard Gere in enjoyable enough thriller, as long as you don't treat it as a
Godard remake.

The Believer Film4, 1.05am

Young Jewish Ryan Gosling develops anti-Semitic opinions.

...Reality TV 8pm

Snog, Marry, Avoid? BBC3, 8pm

An A-star student who wants to be taken seriously. By appearing on this?

Hotter than My Daughter BBC3, 8.30pm

A teenager embarrassed by her parents' wardrobe.

Don't Forget the Lyrics Sky 3, 8pm

Shane Ritchie tries to finish some songs.

The Biggest Loser Channel 4, 9pm

Their biggest challenge yet, as they say each week.

America's Next Top Model Living, 9pm

The girls pose with wrestlers. Kinky.

Tool Academy E4, 10pm

The bad boyfriends learn about romance, bless.

Four Weddings US Living, 10pm

Nuptials contest.

... Quiz shows 3.10pm

Countdown Channel 4, 3.10pm

MasterChef's shouty Gregg Wallace is in Dictionary Corner.

Perfection BBC2, 4.30pm

Even if they say so themselves.

The Chase ITV1, 5pm

Bradley Walsh versus...

Weakest Link BBC1, 5.15pm

Anne Robinson.

Eggheads BBC2, 6pm

Radio 2 talk show chap holds all the cards.

University Challenge BBC2, 8pm

Queen's College, Cambridge versus the University of Bristol.

A Question of Sport BBC1, 10.35pm

Who's that at home washing his car? Oh, it's Andy Gray.

Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? Channel One, 3am

As they say in Cabinet.

... Property shows 10pm

May the Best House Win ITV1, 2pm

In Cornwall.

Escape to the Country BBC2, 7pm

A £550,000 budget in rural Devon.

Homes under the Hammer Disc. Real Time, 7pm

How much for this bungalow in Lincoln?

Grand Designs More4, 7.55pm

A dilapidated 18thcentury home in France has Kevin McCloud lurking outside.

Relocation, Relocation More4, 9pm & 12.15am

K&P scour the whole of Scotland.

Ruth Watson's Hotel Rescue More4, 10pm

In Suffolk.

Extreme Makeover Home, 11pm

Eight orphans in California get the seven-day home makeover.

... Comedy 10pm

Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em Gold, 6.20pm

The Spencers plan a trip to the seaside. How we laughed.

Frasier Comedy Cent. Xtr, 8pm

Double episode. Helen Mirren guests in the first; Laura Linney in the second.

Glee E4, 9pm

Pairings for a duet project are arranged, but Kurt decides to go solo.

Outnumbered Gold, 9pm

Sue (Claire Skinner) loses her keys.

Episodes BBC2, 10pm

There's more incisive Hollywood-on-Hollywood comedy in five minutes of Entourage
than four episodes so far of this show. Matt LeBlanc gets drunk in a bar.

Peep Show Dave, 10.40pm

Mark is disappointed at being passed over for promotion as series one continues
to rerun.

... Arts7.30pm

The TV Book Club Channel 4, 12.35pm

The Junior Officers'' Reading Club, Patrick Hennessey''s insider look at
soldiering.

Film 2011 with Claudia Winkleman BBC2, 1.45pm

Hereafter gets a lukewarm review.

Ego: the Strange and Wonderful World of Self-Portraits BBC4, 7.30pm

Laura Cumming explores five centuries of selfportraiture.

Hamlet Sky Arts 2, 8pm

The New York Met's production of Ambroise Thomas's opera.

Frank Lloyd Wright Sky Arts 1, 11.05pm

The architect's influence on the Welsh landscape.

The Genius of British Art Channel 4, 2.10am

Janet Street-Porter on contemporary art.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 31, 2011
                                 First Edition

When a prison stint is one of the daily hazards of the job;
TV Preview

BYLINE: Gerard Gilbert

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 452 words


Outside / 9pm BBC4

BBC4's Justice season throws up this unusual documentary in which filmmaker Mark
Isaacs spends three months outside Highbury Magistrates' Court in north London,
camera slung over his left shoulder, asking highly personal questions of the
various apprehensive/thoughtful/rueful individuals taking a break outside as
they are processed by the legal system. It's surprising how many seem keen to
chat, rather than, say, politely push Isaacs' sound boom down his throat. My
favourite line came from a 51-year-old career thief, nicked three times in seven
years, who says of his latest appearance before the beak, "It's an occupational
hazard". Not quite sure what it all adds up to, perhaps just an insight into a
procession of losers who pass beneath a magistrate's nose each day.

Music, Money and Hip-Hop Honeys / 9pm BBC3

This wasn't available for preview, but its story sounds as old as the casting
couch. Ever wondered about the dancers gyrating, scantily-clad, in the
background of so many music videos? Perhaps you fancy becoming one. Either way
it's a cut-throat business with a seamy dark side, discovers Nel Hedayat, who
meets dancers who dream of appearing in the videos - a situation ripe for abuse
on so many different levels, but predominantly on a sexual one.

Storyville: Meet the Climate Sceptics / 10pm BBC4

We met a few climate sceptics recently in Sir Paul Nurse's excellent Horizon
film, Science Under Attack, but the focus in this documentary by Rupert Murray
(he made the fishing industry exposé End of the Line) is on UKIP peer
Christopher Monckton, 3rd Viscount Monckton of Brenchley, a journalist and
former policy adviser to Margaret Thatcher, whose mission is to tour the world
spreading his "sceptic" message. Author of such pamphlets as '35 Inconvenient
Truths: the Errors in Al Gore's Movie' and 'Apocalypse? No!', Monckton is
followed as he delivers his message to politicians and members of the public.

Mad Men / 11.20pm BBC2

Eagle-eyed followers of television schedules may have noticed that various
digital channels have been pushing out their classic American series of late -
FX and Five USA both re-running Breaking Bad, for example - and now BBC2 are
showing again, four nights a week, the most recent series of Mad Men (above).
The reason is not hard to discern, being the imminent arrival tomorrow night of
Sky Atlantic, with its exclusive HBO deal and the rights to the next season of
Mad Men. So those who can't-paywon't-pay for a satellite dish, here's a chance
to watch or record season four of Matthew Weiner's sublime and always surprising
masterpiece.

Method in their madness: UK digital channels have been busy pushing out some
classic American series of late

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 29, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Pick of the day;
MONDAY 31 JANUARY 2011

BYLINE: GERARD GILBERT

SECTION: THE INFORMATION; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 246 words


Horizon: The Secret World of Pain

9PM BBC2

How a chap called Jonathan Metz, who cut off his own arm to survive after it
became lodged in a furnace (shades of Danny Boyle's '127 Hours'), and three
generations of an Italian family who do not feel extreme temperatures, are
helping scientists better understand pain.

Glee

9PM E4

The best episode yet of the new series (and "the queerest episode of any
series", according to the lesbian website AfterEllen.com) sees New Directions
being teamed in duets, cheerleaders Santana and Brittany kissing and Kurt
singing a solo of "Le Jazz Hot!" from 'Victor/Victoria'.

Outside the Court

9PM, 12MDN'T & 3AM BBC4

As part of the 'Justice - a Citizen's Guide' season, director Marc Isaacs ('All
White in Barking') spends three months outside Highbury Magistrates Court to
gain an insight into the lives of people passing through the legal system. He
speaks to armed robbers, thieves, addicts and their relatives as they wait for a
judgment to be made, building a mosaic of the sort of stories magistrates hear
every day.

Storyville: Meet the Climate Sceptics

10PM BBC4

We met a few in Sir Paul Nurse's excellent 'Horizon' film 'Science under
Attack', but this film focuses on Ukip peer Christopher Monckton as he tours the
world with his sceptic message.

Mad Men

11.20PM BBC2

The most recent series of Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce hijinks reruns. Make the
most of it if you don't plan to subscribe to the new home of 'Mad Men', Sky
Atlantic. Starring Jon Hamm.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IF


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 111  words


THE bumbling nonentity otherwise known as Herman van Rompuy, pictured, president
of the European Council, has been displaying his artistic bent.

Yesterday he emerged from his Brussels seclusion with a haiku - a form of verse
that originated in Japan - that he saw fit to publish on Twitter.

It read: "In the dead of night/an owl's hoot echoes in the void/Hardly a soul
listens."

Is this a fiendish metaphor for how he himself is regarded by the great European
public?

UKIP leader Nigel Farage evidently thinks so. "I read today that German support
for the EU has fallen to an all-time low, " he says. "Only four per cent of
Germans know who Herman van Rompuy is." That many?

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 27, 2011 Thursday 4:07 PM GMT

Record UKIP poll ratings - only a matter of time before they overtake the Lib
Dems

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 712 words


Two recent YouGov polls have put UKIP on 5 per cent including one which,
hilariously, put them above the Liberal Democrats in the 18-24-year-olds age
group.

It certainly belies the joke that all it would take to wipe out UKIP would be
one cold winter, and while they could be rogue samples,five per cent is quite
impressive for a minor party. An article on ConservativeHome by Dr Robert Ford
of the University of Manchester and Dr Matthew Goodwin of Nottingham may explain
why.

Entitled "Might UKIP succeed where the BNP has failed?" they speculate that UKIP
may well become a permanent feature on the political landscape as the
anti-establishment party, succeeding where the toxically-branded BNP have
failed. For those who haven't been following, the BNP have recently imploded
with the same Pythonesque squabbling that destroyed the National Front. The
academics write:

UKIP also has an important advantage over the BNP - it is not tainted by a
violent, fascist past. Free of extremist baggage, it is able to appeal to groups
of voters such as women who regard the BNP as unacceptably extreme. Evidence of
UKIP's broader appeal can already be seen: it won nearly twice as many votes as
the BNP at the 2010 general election; and nearly three times as many votes at
the 2009 European elections.

So what does all this mean for the Conservatives? It suggests UKIP has now
emerged as a potent competitor on two very different fronts. On the one hand,
UKIP is tapping into widespread Conservative scepticism about Europe to win over
large numbers of Tory voters at European Parliament elections. But in
Westminster elections, UKIP is also attracting a very different following. The
party is becoming an outlet for the frustrations of voters who are angry about
rising immigration, anxious over the presence of 'threatening' Muslim
communities, and cynical about mainstream politics, but repelled by the BNP's
reputation for racism and fascism. For example, more than seven out of every ten
UKIP voters in our sample agreed councils allow immigrants to jump the queue for
social housing, believe immigration has not helped the economy, and do not trust
their local MP. Also, almost two thirds think Islam poses a serious danger to
Western civilization.

If UKIP chooses to embrace this electorate, its future looks bright: continued
public concern over immigration, growing anxiety over settled Muslim
communities; and continuing popular outrage over issues like bankers' bonuses
provide a rich array of domestic issues to capitalise upon. Clearly, UKIP is
aware of the potential appeal of radical right messages: like the BNP, at the
general election it advocated a halt on immigration (via a five year freeze),
the ending of policies to promote multiculturalism and bans on the burka and
niqab. It also invited the Dutch populist politician Geert Wilders over to show
an anti-Islam film in the House of Lords.

Of course in many ways the parties are very different; UKIP's libertarian
economic policy is the polar opposite of the BNP's 1950s-era clunky
nationalisation, and the former come from the classical liberal tradition which
instinctively rejects the pathological patriotism of the far-Right. Classical
liberals are general in favour of elite immigration, and don't have any great
belief in race as such, but don't favour mass immigration. Besides which, none
of the new brand of European nativist parties are from the Fascist tradition,
the Dutch Freedom Party and Swiss People's Party being prime examples - the Left
may call them "Fascist" but they call virtually anyone who opposes them that.

And the parties do have many things in common, as Rod Liddle has pointed out,
and so unquestionably appeal to many of the same voters. What puts people off
the BNP is not their claim that mass immigration is damaging the country, which
it clearly is, but its neo-Nazi past, its lingering weirdness and its eccentric,
sinister or thuggish personnel. Most people would happily go out for a drink
with UKIP activists safe in the knowledge that the night won't end with them
kicking someone's head in.

Nigel Farage might not like the comparison with Nick Griffin's gang but will
certainly be pleased with the upward poll ratings. At this rate they'll soon
overtake the Liberal Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

Labour poll lead increases despite doubts over leader: Ed embraces David's idea
to empower communities Lord Sainsbury to bankroll first phase of campaign

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 451 words


Labour has extended its lead over the Conservatives but voters have yet to warm
to Ed Miliband as a potential prime minister, according to a Guardian/ICM poll.

Carried out before yesterday's poor GDP figures were published, but after the
resignations of Andy Coulson and Alan Johnson, the poll confirms that Labour's
overall position has strengthened since the autumn. The party is on 39%,
unchanged from the last ICM poll of 2010 and up 10 points since Britain voted
last May.

The Conservatives are on 35%, down two to their joint-worst ICM score since the
general election. The Liberal Democrats are on 15%, up two. Other parties are on
a combined share of 11%, including Scottish and Welsh nationalists on 4%, Greens
on 3% and Ukip with 2%.

The Lib Dem score is higher than in some recent online polls. That may be down
to differing methodology but could also be a sign the party's position has
stabilised. A YouGov poll this week also put the Lib Dems up - to 11% - although
further polls will be needed to confirm any trend.

Labour's static score also hides flux among voters. ICM adjusts its raw data by
the likelihood of people to vote, and by how they say they voted in the past, to
produce more accurate results. Had these measures not been applied, Labour
support would have been higher this month and Conservative support lower.

For the moment at least, David Cameron remains more popular than his party, and
Miliband less so. Asked who they think would make the best prime minister, 38%
name Cameron and 25% Miliband. Only 12% pick Nick Clegg.

Cameron also remains the most popular among his own supporters. While 62% of
current Labour supporters - and 58% of people who backed the party last May -
think Miliband would make the best prime minister, 83% of current Tory voters
say the same of Cameron. Clegg is least popular with his own party: only 38% of
definite Lib Dems say they think he would make the best prime minister, although
that result is not out of line with the long-term score of third party leaders.

The coalition also retains, narrowly, an advantage over Labour for being best
placed to deal with Britain's problems. Asked to choose, 41% pick the coalition
and 36% Labour. Male voters appear to be more enthusiastic about the coalition
than women, and older ones keener than younger ones. But only a narrow majority
of Lib Dems prefer the coalition to Labour - 54% to 20%, with 26% liking
neither.

* ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,000 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 21 and 23 January 2011. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BUS YOBS FURY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 69 words


A COUNCIL has been blasted for "rewarding" yobs with free bus rides to college -
while law-abiding students are charged up to £676 a year.

Teenagers who have gone through the Youth Offending Service are exempt from
transport charges introduced after £3million budget cuts in Cambridgeshire. UKIP
claimed the move "rewarded misbehaviour" but the council said it wanted to keep
offenders in education and off the streets.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Alternative Vote means wooing BNP;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 296 words


Sir, In the event of a change in the voting system, how does Parliament become
legitimate when the doctrine of mandate is destroyed ("Alternative Vote is the
only choice", letter, Jan 24)? Parliament becomes illegitimate rather than
legitimate. The Coalition Agreement saw both partners set aside manifesto
commitments, much to the surprise of their electors. And while coalitions may
not be the inevitable outcome of a change in the voting system they are the most
likely.

Nor does a change in the voting system guarantee that every MP shall have a
majority within the electorate, since 100 per cent of the electorate do not
vote. Those who do not vote waste their vote along with those who vote for
candidates who have no hope of being elected, but all have the opportunity of
voting in an election that has the simple task of voting in a government.

The nature of campaigning shall change should the alternative voting system be
introduced, since the main political parties shall have to appeal to those
second and third preference votes and ever onward, with more than a wink and a
nod to the Green Party, UKIP or - it has to be said - the BNP. I would not wish
to participate in a general election where I am seeking the second preference
vote of the BNP.

The UK has a seat on the Security Council of the United Nations, is holder of
the nuclear deterrent, head of the Commonwealth, and a major player within the
European Union. Such important world roles require firm government and not a
government reduced to the lowest common denominator that the alternative vote
would provide, where voters vote not once but several times, waking up on the
morning after polling day surprised at the consequence of their vote. sir stuart
bell, mp Chairman, Labour No to AV House of Commons

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 24, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

BBC bans the word 'reform' in debate over voting reform

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 538 words


The BBC has banned the use of the phrase electoral "reform" in its coverage of
the referendum on whether to change the voting system. "Reform" is apparently
too positive a word, the corporation has decided, and so should be avoided by
its journalists ahead of the referendum due on 5 May - angering supporters of
change and bewildering wordsmiths.

In an internal BBC memo leaked to The Independent, Ric Bailey, the corporation's
chief political adviser, says: "Please can we make sure that we don't describe
this - in our own scripts, headlines, etc - as the referendum on 'electoral
reform'. When the [BBC's] Guidance is published ahead of the referendum period,
it will make clear that, in the context of the referendum, that is not an
impartial term - 'reform' explicitly contains a definition of 'improvement'."

"This is ridiculous, but consistent, behaviour from the management of the BBC,"
said Paul Sinclair, the director of communications for the 'Yes' campaign, set
up to lobby for a switch from the current first-past-the-post system to the
alternative vote (AV).

"If BBC managers are suggesting that by using the word 'reform' in 'electoral
reform' they are implicitly recommending it to viewers and listeners, then by
their own standards they have spent the last week advocating the Government's
NHS reforms and the Government's education reforms before that because that is
what they have called the measures."

Mr Sinclair added: "Adopting the alternative vote is electoral reform. There is
no other way to describe it.

"We have consistently had problems with the BBC where they have refused to take
our spokespeople. They even allowed the 'No' campaign to dictate who we could
put up against them. A 'No' campaigner was allowed to insist that they didn't
face a Labour MP who was representing the 'Yes' campaign. This cannot be
described as impartial or even-handed behaviour."

The BBC sacrifices considerable resources on the altar of accuracy.

Last year it revised its Editorial Guidelines in October 2010, as it does every
four or five years. Keen, or possibly bored, journalists can take twenty
training modules on issues including, but not limited, to Accuracy,
Impartiality, Strong Language, Violence, Consent, Secret Recording, Conflicts of
Interest and Children.

In 2006 it published a style guide on Israeli/Palestinian coverage. Among many
recommendations was the advice to journalists use the term "West Bank Barrier"
to describe the system of fences, walls, ditches and barbed wire which Israel is
currently building. The official Israeli term is "Security Fence", the
Palestinians call it an "Apartheid Wall". Individual reporters were told that,
when standing in front of a particular section they were still free to refer to
a "fence" or "wall" behind them.

For the Oldham and Saddleworth by-election, producers were asked to ensure the
three main parties receive similar levels of coverage, with the BNP and UKIP
being entitled to "some coverage, over and above those candidates or parties
with little evidence of electoral support," which may go some way to explaining
the barely double figure votes receive by Loz Kaye and David Bishop, of the
Pirate Party and Church of the Militant Elvis Party respectively.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let's get this pointless AV vote out of the way

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 508 words


HARDLY a week goes by that there is not sweaty speculation on the outcome of the
next general election, whenever that may be and not necessarily in
four-and-a-half years.

There is talk of the Lib Dems withering away to nothing, of Labour surging back
as millions with the memory of a boll weevil overlook the 10-year Brownite
wreckage of our economy.

What is less mentioned is the danger of a mass emigration from the traditional
Tory vote to UKIP if the Conservative leadership goes on regarding its
"cast-iron" pledges on our craven submission to the EU in all things as
irrelevant.

The Lib-Con leadership predictably got its dreadful Constitutional Bill through
the Lower House. But the rebellion by those prepared to put conscience and the
majority views among their constituents ahead of deference was far too large for
comfort on Millbank.

More and more are coming to realise that the real Tory Right is actually a small
peninsula of about 30 MPs. The Left is the leadership, payroll vote and
promotion hopefuls.

About 70. But between them are the 200 who comprise the Conservative mainstream.

It is this mainstream that represents the great majority of party members,
activists and voters.

Alienate them and you can whistle Dixie at any future election. If they are
antagonised enough they will sit on their hands. And they are being antagonised
by things such as Clause 18 and the pathetic lie that it guarantees us a
referendum on future transfers of even more power from London to Brussels.

NoW comes a report from the Left-leaning Institute of Public Policy Research
which should act as a wake-up call. The IPPR proves that the way our 650
constituencies are structured, with its built-in bias to Labour, is worth a huge
eightpoint advantage. Labour only needs a three-point lead to swing a
constituency its way, the Conservatives need an 11-point advantage to win. The
usual Headshed wimps are suggesting we should swerve away from the
first-past-the-post system that has served us admirably. We should convert to
the alternative vote (AV) system that the Lib Dems lust for because they know it
would produce one hung parliament after another and give them office in
perpetuity. Utter rubbish.

Around the world I have seen this and other variants of proportional
representation produce gridlock, impotence, multi-party coalition, failure and
corruption. our system works well so long as (a) the constituencies are fairly
drawn, (b) the voters trust their politicians and (c) there is a national pride
that only true sovereignty can justify.

David Cameron may have granted Nick Clegg a referendum on a voting change
because he had to. oK, let us have the wretched thing and say a big No. Then the
Tories should order the Boundaries Commission to give us 500 rigorously
fair-drawn constituencies in time for 2015.

If they did that they could amend the cowardly Clause 18 to give it real teeth
(a referendum as a statutory right, not a "maybe" concession) and challenge
Clegg to walk out. He wouldn't dare but the tail-waggingthe-dog farce would be
over.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Hungary's leader goes to Brussels for a short lecture on democracy

BYLINE: David Charter Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 420 words


Hungary's hardline Prime Minister was accused of sliding towards totalitarianism
with repressive new media laws as he traded insults with MEPs yesterday.

Viktor Orbán came to the European Parliament to set out Hungary's plans for its
six-month presidency of the EU but ended up accusing Socialists, Greens and
Liberals of insulting his people.

The diminutive Mr Orbán later defended his robust performance by comparing
himself to President Sarkozy of France, another leader of Napoleonic stature who
is quick to defend national honour.

Hungary's populist leader was criticised by MEPs for using his two-thirds
parliamentary majority to bring in media laws that give a government-appointed
committee the power to enforce "balance" and issue fines for "offending human
dignity". He faced rows of politicians from across Europe who wore gags or held
up blank posters to protest at censorship.

The attack was led by Martin Schulz, the German Socialist group leader, who
said: "In a democracy, it is the media that scrutinise power. What you are doing
is that the power is scrutinising the media."

Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the German leader of the Greens, added: "Mr Orbán, you are
on the road to becoming a European Chavez, a national-populist who does not
understand democracy. Your law does not correspond to the values of Europe. Do
you understand that Europe was born in a struggle against totalitarianism and
liberty is freedom of expression?" Later, Mr Orbán hit back: "An MEP said
Hungary was becoming a totalitarian dictatorship. Wow! That from a German!"
Stung by criticisms that he was antidemocratic, the Prime Minister, 51, who came
to prominence opposing Soviet rule in Hungary, said: "I couldn't stop the people
- the Hungarian electorate - from voting for me." He added that the attacks were
"a slap in the face of the Hungarian people. You cannot just go about wounding
people in this way."

Asked by a French journalist why he considered criticism of his politics an
attack on the Hungarian people, Mr Orbán said he was only acting like President
Sarkozy. "I have been at many meetings with him when he said that legitimate
criticism was OK but to insult the French nation is not OK - and he is right."

There was some support for Mr Orbán from Nigel Farage, leader of the UK
Independence Party. "It is nice to see an elected prime minister from a proper
country," Mr Farage said, referring to the previous presidency, Belgium, which
is still being run by a caretaker administration seven months after an
inconclusive poll.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Green MEPs held a silent protest at censorship while Mr Orbán spoke

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 17, 2011 Monday

Reply: Letter: A battle for the soul of progressive politics

BYLINE: Michael Meacher

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 258 words


Your report on the Oldham East byelection says that the Lib Dem candidate
increased his vote slightly from 31.6% last May to 31.9% now, and that Nick
Clegg said as a result "we remain a strong, united, independent party whose
values continue to attract support" (Disappointed Tories urge a refocus on
historic party roots, 15 January). The facts of this byelection show the
opposite to be true.

The key point is, what happened to the Tory vote? Last May the Tories got 11,700
votes; last Thursday they polled just 4,400. Where did 7,300 Tory votes go awol?
It's possible a few hundred switched direct to Labour, and probably a small
trickle went to Ukip and the BNP. Perhaps a small number of Tory voters decided
to abstain this time, though they had no obvious motive to do so. That must
leave at least 5,000 Tory votes unaccounted for.

The only place they could have gone was to prop up a tottering Lib Dem vote.
That presents an entirely different picture. The "real" genuine Lib Dem vote
last week wasn't the 11,160 recorded, but probably around 6,000; the "real" Tory
vote was probably about 9-9,500, against an actual Labour vote of 14,718. The
truth about Oldham East therefore is that the Lib Dem vote halved, exactly as
the polls have shown a decline in the Lib Dem share of the national vote from
18% last May to 8% today. The Labour majority over the main challenger, the
Tories, was at least 5,200, the biggest majority Labour has ever had in Oldham
East, far bigger than in the 1997 landslide.

Michael Meacher

Labour, Oldham West and Royton

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 17, 2011 Monday

Reply: Letter: A battle for the soul of progressive politics

BYLINE: John Haworth

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 151 words


Last Thursday I stood for three hours in the cold and damp at a polling station
in Oldham, along with a Liberal Democrat and a Ukip supporter, recording voting
card numbers so that we didn't have to canvas the voters again that evening.

There was no Tory supporter doing this, which on polling days in my constituency
of Blackburn with Darwen never happens. Ed Miliband says there is a progressive
majority in Britain, and that Labour still has to change (Comment, 15 January).
At the last general election the progressive majority voted for policies which a
Lab-Lib coalition would have implemented. The only reason we have a Con-Dem
coalition is because the Lib Dem hierarchy betrayed its progressive supporters
and joined the Tories. A progressive Labour party needs to progress, but let's
not forget why we are currently faced with such disastrous policies for the
country.

John Haworth

Blackburn, Lancashire

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 17, 2011 Monday 10:54 AM GMT

The Government should not fear friendly criticism from its own backbenchers

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1153 words


There will be some great struggles in Parliament over the coming days and weeks.
First in the House of Lords, where the Labour Party has been filibustering in
their opposition to the Parliamentary Voting and Constituencies  Bill. I share
many of their criticisms of the Bill. Even where it seeks to equalise the size
(in terms of the electorates) of constituencies, it is clumsily conceived. Nor
would I agree to reduce the total number of MPs without reducing the numbers of
Ministers and others on the payroll vote. As it stands there would be far too
few backbenchers on the government side to act as friendly critics of their
government.

As to the proposed referendum on AV voting, which is another rotten bone thrown
to the Lib-Dems, I and many other peers of all parties and none think there
should be threshold vote to validate a decision to change the electoral system,
designed to decrease the chance of any party gaining a majority.

However, the Lords should come to decisions on these matters, not just waste
time in order to frustrate the timetable for both the Boundary Commission to
report before the next election and the holding of the referendum on AV voting.

At present it looks as though the Lords will sit through Monday night and on
into Tuesday for as long as it takes to get the votes taken. Personally, I think
that the determination of the Labour Party will crack when Labour peers realise
that however long the House sits on into Tuesday, or even Wednesday, without
rising that would be only one Parliamentary day - and of course only one day's
allowance.

In the Commons the Government whips will soon face another awkward vote on the
European Union Bill. The Clappison amendment, which is attracting support from
eurosceptics, would give Parliament - not Ministers - the ultimate say on
whether a treaty amendment or transfer of powers to the EU was significant
enough to require a referendum.

The Parliamentary channel may become compulsive viewing.

Elsewhere, I must I'm afraid risk upsetting some of my critics again by
referring readers to the leader column from the Spectator of 15th January. It is
well worth reading in its entirety, but for those who cannot gain access to it,
I summarise the key paragraph:

Noting that a suicide bomber had killed 21 Coptic Christians in Egypt just
before the Coptic Christmas on 7th January, it recounted what happened at a
Coptic Church in Cairo that day in an incident unreported in our British press.
"As Egypt's Christians made their way to Mass, they found they protection;
hundreds of Egyptian Muslims who, in protest at the Jihadists' agenda, had come
to offer themselves as human shields by gathering outside the church. The front
pew of a church in the Cairo district of Omraneya was filled with Muslims taking
a stand against terror."

When I write about finding common ground with Muslims, that is exactly what I
mean. My hard head tells me that this will not be easy, but the alternative is
not exactly a bed of roses either.

...

Here on this blog site the problems of the "multicultural society", more
correctly of the two societies in one land, continued to evoke comment. Some of
that seemed to me only to be likely to make matters worse. I think avataruk was
wise to point out that many Muslims are lawfully British citizens with the same
rights as the rest of us. We should listen to what people such as lord sizzle
say, as well as warlord, benarnfulffsen and somewhere in the south, speaking
from experience, say. And I am grateful to john the bear cub and others for
their support.

Of course bersher and jamesflockhart are right to ask whether Margaret Thatcher
could have done more to avert the dangers. Perhaps so, but as David Murphy said
it would have been difficult for her to reject the Scarman Report. Her Home
Secretaries were not (except David Waddington) her greatest supporters and for
much of her time in office she was in coalition with 'the wets'. I think it was
bersher who asked about Enoch Powell. It will be his birthday later this month
and, as for many years past, a small group of his admirers will meet at a dinner
in his memory. If she is well enough, Margaret Thatcher will, as usual,  be
there, as will I.  He is not forgotten.

There was a mood of great pessimism in many of your comments on the defeat of
the Cash amendment on the European Union, particularly from roger murray clark,
paratwat, john ward. Then ben-anulffsen made a quite long, well considered
contribution ruminating on how, as he saw it, the Tory Party had lost its
self-confidence sometime between 1916 and 1945. I wonder if it was more than the
Tory Party. Particularly in the 1914-1918 War we lost so many of the finest
young men of their generation. The men who were patriotic, brave and leaders.
The first over the top charging into the enemy fire. It would take a long time
for any stock to recover from the loss of that gene pool, and then it happened
again in 1939. The numbers were smaller, but again it was the finest who
suffered the greatest losses.

Perhaps that explains the lack of will to install in the first post-war
generation the values for which those who never became fathers had died.

I was slightly suprised at the number of you, including i-detect-a-riot,
pogleswoodsman, dilzs, rural idiot, boudicca, and alanbutler79, who watched the
Cash amendment debate. I agree with alanbutler79 that one of the best
contributions was from Richard Shepherd, a tough and independent Tory, but as
many of you said, there were all too few of them.

There were a few laughs too. Assegai was a bit over the top saying that UKIP
would be lucky to come better than sixth at Oldham. and when olcrom's rant about
redundancies at Manchester Council was answered by avataruk's suggestion that
they could start with the CEO who, as darkseid pointed out, is paid 100,000 more
than the Prime Minister.

So far as the Oldham election goes, there is not much more to say. I can assure
wilson that I know better than to criticise Beryl Goldsmith's letter in the
Telegraph! I am sure that if jock-mcsporran thinks about it he will agree that
the Lib-Dems did very much better than their national poll ratings would have
led anyone to expect and they owe a debt of gratitude to Mr. Cameron for that.
As for suboptimal planet's question of whether a Tebbit Conservative Party would
have done worse, I have to remind him that when Tebbit was chairman and Thatcher
was leader, we did rather better, securing 13.8 million votes and a majority of
over 100. At the recent election Mr Cameron scraped up only 10.7 million and no
majority. Perhaps even david in rome might agree that hers was the better
performance. And just to rub it in, might I remind him that her 1979 vote of
13.7 million was 3.3 million greater than Heath's 10.4 million in October 1974,
whilst Cameron managed only 1.9 million more than Howard in 2005.

What do they say? Game, set and match?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                January 16, 2011
                                 First Edition

Ed needs business more than big wins;
The Lib Dems lost the by-election but claimed success. Labour won it but it's a
terrible result for them

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 990 words


Chris Huhne, the Secretary of State for Energy and possible successor to Nick
Clegg as leader of the coalition's junior party, said on the BBC on Friday that
the Oldham East and Saddleworth by-election helped to make the case for the
Alternative Vote. Which only goes to show that by-elections are like dreams:
they mean what you want them to. The interpretation of them says more about the
interpreter, and about their unconscious, than about the voter. Still, at least
he didn't say that he felt he was falling, naked, after trying to get away from
an oncoming train.

In the dull grey light of the waking world, Labour would probably have still won
in Oldham under AV, just. People would have voted differently - the Tory
candidate would have got more first-preference votes from supporters who voted
tactically for the Lib Dem on Thursday. But not enough to overtake the Lib Dem,
so the outcome would have depended on how the preferences of Tory, UKIP and BNP
voters split between the front-runners and non-voting. Recent opinion poll
evidence on second preferences suggests that Labour would have won by about 1.5
points.

That would have made the count quite exciting. And it was an ingenious way for
Huhne to turn the interviewer's question, along standard BBC lines of "you're in
a mess aren't you?" to forward-looking advantage. It will buck up Lib Dem
activists to think that, if they win the referendum on AV in May, they could go
on to win by-elections such as Oldham.

Our ComRes poll today suggests that the referendum is winnable. When we put the
official question drafted by the Electoral Commission to the voters, the Yes
vote came out six points ahead. But Huhne's argument will raise the hackles of
Labour activists, many of whom can only dimly remember why they supported
electoral reform in the first place. Why should they campaign to change a system
that has just delivered such a satisfying victory?

Therein lies the actual meaning of the Oldham by-election. Its significance for
the Lib Dems is limited. It may have bought Nick Clegg a breathing space because
the Lib Dem vote held up, but that is as much use to him as an oxygen mask when
one of the plane's wings has fallen off. There are not many seats like Oldham,
with a strong, local Liberal tradition and a big transferable Tory vote, and the
Lib Dems didn't win, and wouldn't win even under AV. Which is why it was
interesting (this may be too conspiratorial) to see Huhne, Clegg's rival, out
and about and talking about a vote that the Lib Dems could win.

No, the by-election is important because it was a terrible result for Labour. It
means that the incipient crisis of Ed Miliband's leadership is averted. It is no
use the Labour leader, in his speech yesterday, saying he wasn't going to
"gloat" over Oldham and that there is a long, hard road ahead. It may have been
astute of him to avoid a lap of honour in the constituency and to head straight
for marginal southern seats in Brighton and Reading. But none of that will stop
him and the New Generation that has "got our party back" from thinking, in the
inner recesses, that the Oldham result is a vindication of the Ed Miliband
strategy.

None of it will stop Cameronian ministers from saying, as one said to me last
week, "We've got them right where we want them." And so they have, despite
coming a distant third on Thursday. The only subject that could be called an
"issue" in the local campaign was cuts in police numbers. And that works for
Labour only because it plays to the New Labour theme of "tough on crime", not
because it is about "the cuts".

So far, the Ed Miliband strategy, with the important and honourable exception of
Douglas Alexander on welfare spending, has been to oppose the cuts and to
complain about broken promises. It is fine for by-elections but no use for
general elections.

A Labour Party that goes into the next general election offering to spend more,
borrow more or tax more is not going to win, and those perceptions have already
attached themselves to the leader. He did well in a Bash-a- Banker bout (Punch
and Judy rules) against David Cameron last week, but the Prime Minister is too
agile to lose that one: he pointed out that the total tax take from the banks
this year would be higher than under Labour. And that, too, is a fight that Ed
Miliband can only lose by winning.

Bashing bankers is popular - our poll today confirms that - but it comes with a
price. It reinforces the perception that Miliband does not understand an
enterprising and productive economy. Perhaps the most telling finding from our
poll is that voters are not convinced that a Labour government under Ed Miliband
would be "better at protecting people's jobs" than the coalition. That is a
harsh judgement. The belief that Labour would protect jobs was the only plank
rescued from the wreckage that kept the unelectable Gordon Brown afloat last
year, so that he denied the Conservatives a majority.

Disastrously, Labour could not persuade a single business leader to support it
in the 2010 election campaign. That perception of Labour as out of touch with
the making of money has to be reversed, and yet Ed Miliband yesterday declared
that Labour had been wrong to "put markets and commerce before the common good".

Yesterday's speech was trailed as an admission of Labour's economic mistakes.
When it came to it, he said "we didn't get banking regulation right" and were
"too reliant on financial services". Not quite, you notice, "Sorry we made the
deficit worse than it should have been."

As a leader elected by the trade unions, he is dangerously exposed. Last week,
Cameron hinted at tighter rules on strike ballots. Miliband, who promised in the
leadership campaign to review union law in the opposite direction, can only lose
that contest.

Anyone who allows the result of the Oldham by-election to obscure that reality
is living in a dreamworld.

twitter.com/JohnRentoul independent.co.uk/jrentoul

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                January 16, 2011
                                 First Edition

Nice, but dangerous;
He's the charming Old Etonian who made a fortune spread-betting, and gave £5m of
it to the Tories. Now, he's snubbed them over Europe, and has switched loyalties
to Ukip Matthew Bell meets Stuart Wheeler

BYLINE: Matthew Bell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1749 words


The thing about Stuart Wheeler is that he seems perfectly harmless, a
snowy-haired giant in a shambling suit. Peering out from square-rimmed glasses,
the 75-year-old doesn't strike you as a multimillionaire card shark, the man who
invented spread-betting, and whose firm IG Index netted him £90m 10 years ago.

Charming and witty, he is one of those embarrassed Old Etonians. He dines at
White's, he's good at bridge ("I'm about the two- or three- thousandth best
player in England"), and he divides his time between Mayfair and Chilham Castle,
a Jacobean jewel in Kent that he bought nine years ago. So far, so P G
Wodehouse.

But then, you come to Europe. For reasons that never become entirely clear
during a two-hour conversation in his Berkeley Square penthouse, Wheeler has a
Basil Fawlty-ish hatred of the European Union. It destroyed our fishing
industry, he says; it's a massive drain on funds; and we've never got anything
out of it. Britain, he says, must withdraw at all costs. And this is not just
some wistful golf club fancy; his conviction was made flesh last week when he
was appointed treasurer of the UK Independence Party.

The move is a massive boost for his friend Nigel Farage, ahead of the 2014
European elections, in which Ukip now has a strong chance of making gains. It is
also a major blow to the Conservative Party which, only 10 years ago, was
enjoying Wheeler's support in the shape of a cheque for £5m. It remains the
biggest single donation to a political party in British history.

To have lost access to Wheeler's deep pockets seems, by any standards, careless.
He was expelled from the party in 2009 for donating £100,000 to Ukip. According
to him, Eric Pickles, then the party chairman, sent him an email to inform him
of this, though Pickles claimed he told him on the phone. "Why lie about
something so unimportant?" snorts Wheeler.

Whatever the truth, the loss to the Tories is more than just financial. More
damaging is Wheeler's very vocal disenchantment with David Cameron, who, he
says, has betrayed the right wing. "Before the election, everyone said Cameron
can't come out as being too Eurosceptic. They all said: 'Just you see what he
does when he comes to power.' Well, he's there now, and he's made no efforts
whatsoever to curb the influence of the EU. He has given up, and it's disastrous
for our country."

The trouble for Cameron is that Wheeler is well connected, in business and in
the same smart society circles in which he himself moves. Wheeler played bridge
with Lord Lucan two days before he disappeared, and Omar Sharif was once a
partner. His wife is the photographer Tessa Codrington, and they have three
daughters, including the model Jacquetta Wheeler. And he clearly feels he is not
alone in being disappointed with Dave. "Mervyn King said Cameron and Osborne
made their judgements almost entirely on electability. I think it's quite fine
that that's come out."

But here, perhaps, is the rub. For, while the views of the Governor of the Bank
of England on the suitability of the Prime Minister are of some national
importance, those of a spread-betting tycoon probably aren't. At least, they
probably shouldn't be. And yet, of course, they are. Ninety million pounds can
go a long way in politics, as Wheeler is happy to admit. "I wouldn't have got
involved in politics if I hadn't got this money," he says. "It's only since then
that I've started going to think-tanks. And it has been terribly interesting."

You get the feeling politics is all a bit of a laugh for Wheeler, something to
keep him amused in his retirement. "Whatever makes you happy, Daddy," was the
reaction of one of his daughters when told of his new job last week. When he
made the £5m donation, another of his daughters burst into tears, though it was
the money that she minded more than giving support to the Tories: "I was like,
'What? What have you done? What a ridiculous, ludicrous thing to do. Think of
the dresses I could have bought!"

Actually, they probably have all the dresses they need, as Wheeler has been a
generous father, though there's no guarantee there'll be much left to inherit.
Gambling is still his hobby, be it online poker or bridge weeks in Tangier,
where his wife inherited a house. In the end, he puts his wealth down simply to
good luck. In fact, he's not that effective at managing his fortune, which is
down from £90m to £40m after some ill-timed share sales, and the purchase of his
"so-called castle". He says the cost of running Chilham means his income is less
than half his outgoings. "I completely underestimated the cost of refurbishing
and furnishing it, and the 23 per cent capital gains tax. So I don't feel rich,
because it's eating into my capital the whole time. Not that I expect anyone to
shed a tear for me."

How he came to be sitting in a multi-million pound penthouse beneath a portrait
of Margaret Thatcher, which he bought for over £250,000, is an extraordinary
story. Born to a 42-year-old spinster in 1935, she gave birth in secret and
immediately put him up for adoption. He was brought up by an American banking
heir, Alexander Wheeler, and his wife Betty Gibbons, the daughter of a baronet.

Although he always knew he had been adopted, he researched his real mother only
late in life, once she was dead, eventually meeting his surviving relatives in a
poignant reunion in Edinburgh. A film of Chrissy, his mother, had been found,
showing her walking bolt upright with her hands behind her back - just like her
son. It turned out that she too had been a lifelong bridge player.

Wheeler's public life only really began, as he knew it would, with that £5m
donation. After Eton, he did national service in the Welsh Guards before reading
law at Oxford, working as a barrister and a merchant banker before setting up IG
in 1974. Politics became his hobby in 2000, when he was introduced to William
Hague at a dinner at White's and, impressed by the young leader, made a donation
of £15,000. Soon after, in the run-up to the 2001 election, Labour received a
couple of million-pound donations, and, seeing the Tories' finances were in a
pitiful state, he decided to step in. "I had just got all this money, and I
remember thinking, what difference does it make if I have £90m or £85m? Whereas,
£5m made all the difference to the party."

It's in this blow-with-the-wind whimsy that Stuart Wheeler emerges as a
potentially dangerous figure. He once said that the influence donors wield on
politicians is "absolutely natural and unobjectionable". When I ask why money
should buy access to the Prime Minister's office, he shrugs and says, "That's
just how life works." So it's alarming to discover that his ardent
Euroscepticism is not born of a long-held ideology, but is rather a new
acquisition. In the 1970s, for instance, he voted for Britain to stay in the
Common Market, and he only became positively anti-Europe "in the late Ninetiess,
or maybe the early Zeros, or whatever you call them."

Vagueness is something of a conversational tic, masking, one would imagine, an
equally fierce intelligence. Sometimes, though, it's a little disconcerting.
Does his anti-Europeanism mean he is pro-American? "I don't know. I haven't
really thought about it," he says. At other times, it doesn't quite ring true.
When he gives directions to the flat, he says it's in the same building as "that
Italian restaurant all the smart people go to". What, Cipriani? "That's the
one." Could he really not know the name of the restaurant in his own building?

To get a clearer picture of where Wheeler is coming from, I turn to his
pamphlet, A Crisis of Trust, published last year in the wake of the expenses
scandal. While most people might satisfy themselves by writing a letter to The
Telegraph, Wheeler dashed out a whole treatise, explaining how trust in
politicians had been eroded by the creation of a self-interested political
class. He also used it to explain his position as a climate-change denier. Maybe
he's right, but where does all this conviction come from?

His arguments are compelling and forcefully made, but they're not always
consistent. In the pamphlet, for instance, he wrote: "I do not necessarily want
to leave the EU: there are problems and issues if we do." Today, though, he has
changed his mind and is adamant that withdrawal from Europe is the only
solution.

And then there is climate change. He argues that global warming is a hoax got up
by irresponsible alarmists. He cites the case of the leaked emails from the
Climate Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, in which scientists
appeared to have manipulated data to support their theory. But he doesn't deny
that the earth's temperatures are rising. And when I point out that all the main
political parties agree on the existence of climate change, and that it's only
in the world of conspiracy theories where you find claims that a darker force is
frightening us into believing it, he agrees that maybe it is. "But has Cameron
read the facts? I don't think he has. He's a very busy man."

Maybe he is right about Europe. And maybe climate change is a hoax. He is
certainly convinced about both those things, or at least he is today. But who
knows what he might believe tomorrow?

CURRICULUM VITAE

1935 Born 30 January in Harrow, north-west London. His mother, Chrissie Cleland,
42, puts him up for adoption.

1937 Alexander Wheeler, a 55-year-old former Army officer and banking heir, and
his young wife, Betty Gibbons, adopt Stuart and a girl, Susan, on the same day,
4 January.

1942 His adoptive father dies of leukaemia, and the family moves from Devon to a
suburb of Oxford.

1957 After attending Eton and doing national service with the Welsh Guards, he
graduates from Oxford with a second-class degree in law.

1974 After stints as a barrister and in merchant banking, Wheeler sets up IG
Index, a company that allows UK residents to speculate on the price of gold, at
a time when you couldn't buy it, except at a premium.

1993 IG branches into spread betting on sports, which becomes a huge industry.

2000 Flotation of IG Index earns him £90m in shares.

2001 Donates £5m to the Conservatives' election campaign.

2002 Sells shares worth £7.3m to help buy Chilham Castle, left, a Grade-I listed
mansion near Canterbury.

2008 Brings legal case against the Government over its failure to hold a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

2009 Expelled from the Conservative Party after donating £100,000 to Ukip, in
protest at Cameron's stance on EU.

2011 Appointed treasurer of Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 16, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK THAT WAS

BYLINE: PAUL CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 600 words


OLDHAM SWINGS

Ed Miliband, Leader of the Opposition, breathed a sigh of relief after scoring
an open goal in Oldham East and Saddleworth. In the first by-election held
during this parliament, Labour extended its majority with a swing of 11.6 per
cent, largely seen as a protest against the Coalition's spending cuts. Tactical
voting by local Conservative constituents helped the Liberal Democrat count rise
slightly, leaving the third-place Tory vote in the three-way marginal to plunge
to 12.8 per cent.

Last week's countrywide opinion polls made for equally grim reading for the
Government. A YouGov survey suggested that support for the Coalition had cooled,
with its approval rating now at minus 17, and a majority of the public (51 per
cent) disapproving of its policies.

Rubbing salt into the Conservatives' wounds, Stuart Wheeler, the spread betting
tycoon and former Tory donor who in 2001 gave the party £5 million in a single
handout, joined Ukip as its treasurer.

BRISBANE SWAMPED

The floodwaters that have submerged Australia's eastern coast reached its third
city, Brisbane. Some 30,000 properties were swamped, leaving thousands homeless
as an estimated 7.5 billion tons of water covered south-east Queensland during
last week's superstorm, equivalent to the contents of four Sydney Harbours
raining down every day. Two bull sharks were spotted in the flooded streets of
Goodna, while 10 Brisbaners were arrested for looting. The death toll across the
eastern coast since the storms began in November stands at 34.

Chaotic weather patterns were experienced in the Philippines, where a fortnight
of unusually heavy monsoons left at least 47 people dead. In Brazil, hundreds
were killed and thousands declared missing after heavy rain in the mountainous
area near Rio de Janeiro caused devastating mudslides. Brazil's recently
installed president, Dilma Rousseff, declared it the country's worst ever
natural disaster.

In the UK, the Environment Agency issued six flood warnings on Friday as six
inches of rain was predicted to fall in just two days. Machynlleth in Powys,
Wales, was virtually cut off as rising river levels and flash flooding forced
the closure of the town's bridge.

GREEN SPY

The trial of six environmental campaigners accused of conspiring to shut down a
coal-fired power station in Ratcliffe-on-Soar collapsed after an undercover
police officer who had infiltrated the group offered to give evidence in their
defence. With his long hair, goatee and tattoos, PC Mark Kennedy lived at the
heart of a loose network of green protesters for seven years, under the assumed
name Mark Stone; he earned the nickname "Flash" as he always seemed to have more
money than the environmental campaigners whose activities he reported to
Scotland Yard. Since his cover was blown, by his activist friends finding
documents exposing his double life, two other undercover officers have been
unmasked.

Anna Chapman, the flamehaired former Russian spy deported from the US last year
after being caught in a sleeper cell, landed a new job as a television host.
From this Friday, Chapman - née Kushchyenko, before she married an unsuspecting
Briton - will present a weekly documentary on Russian television called Secrets
of the World.

The ultimate undercover agent, James Bond, will return. Daniel Craig will play
007 in the franchise's 23rd film (which is as yet untitled) next year, in time
for the 50th anniversary of the spy's first cinematic outing, Dr No. The latest
film project was shaken, not stirred, last April when MGM Studios, saddled with
debts, filed for bankruptcy protection.

PAUL CLEMENTS

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                January 16, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's now the U-turn Tory

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 900 words


Imagine the excitement at no10 as the Oldham by-election result came in. "Open
the champagne! Just what we wanted! The Tory candidate finished a poor third and
our vote down by half. Tremendous!" What is the point of having a candidate if
you aren't going to support him? Tory whips usually tell mPs they'll get a black
mark if they don't canvass in by-elections. in Oldham it was just the opposite.
They were actively discouraged from doing anything to upset the Lib Dems.

i once overheard mP alan Clark talking to a colleague who feared losing his seat
because of margaret Thatcher's unpopularity.

Far from sympathising al said: "i am afraid you must regard yourself as an
expendable battalion which must be sacri-ficed to win the wider war." That's how
the hapless Conservative Party candidate in Oldham, Kashif ali, must be feeling
today.

i'll say this for the Cameroons. They certainly know how to lose elections.
Cameron's strategy from the moment he became Tory leader five years ago was to
upset and alienate his party's most traditional supporters. He talked of the
"nasty party", hugging "hoodies" and insulted Tory defectors to UKiP as
"fruitcakes and closet racists". Predictably in the last general election
millions of ex-Tory voters remained just that. even gordon Brown's car-crash of
a campaign couldn't hand Cameron an outright victory.

So how are the coalition parties going to fight the next general election? They
will each share responsibility for the government's record so they can hardly
slag each other off. is there to be a de facto pact to give whichever party is
strongest against Labour a free run, as in Oldham? How would that work without a
formal alliance? John major has actually proposed creating a new
Liberal-Conservative Party.

Many right-wing backbenchers feel Cameron has marginalised them and the nearer
we get to the next election the more restive they will become. With some
justi-fication they think the Cameroons are far cosier with Clegg & Co than with
them. Tory mPs are fractious enough now at the way Cameron has bent over
backwards to accommodate nick Clegg.

if a Tory minister had behaved as idiotically as Vince Cable (talking of
bringing the government down if he didn't get his way and "declaring war" on
Rupert murdoch) he would have been sacked. Liberal mPs such as Simon Hughes can
follow their consciences, rebel and get promoted. if Tories try to follow suit
the whips threaten rack and thumbscrews.

Tory policies such as repatriating powers from Brussels, cutting inheritance tax
and stopping voting rights for prisoners are vetoed by the Liberals. The armed
Forces are squeezed while overseas aid is ring-fenced. Two new aircraft carriers
are to be built but only one will be commissioned and it will not have any
planes until 2020. most dangerous of all the Liberals forced Chancellor george
Osborne to spread spending cuts over four years, rather than getting the pain
out of the way early in this Parliament, allowing a quicker recovery before the
next election.

in some ways the Cameroons are as obsessed with spin as Tony Blair and Peter
mandelson. Remember the disgraceful attempt last autumn to put Cameron's
personal photographer on the public payroll? Cameron also bitterly attacked
Brown and Blair for appointing so many "special advisers" (spin doctors and
image masseurs) yet he has appointed 26 "advisers" without advertising their
posts publicly, including a bag-carrier for his wife.

ministers were ostentatiously told to take public transport whenever possible
yet their red boxes travel by chauffeurdriven car. This echoes an early Cameron
fiasco when he cycled to Parliament to demonstrate his "green" credentials but
sent his shoes ahead by car.

more importantly, having first jumped on the bandwagon of outrage at bankers'
bonuses, a few days ago came the inevitable climbdown. nothing is to be done,
even in the banks where the government is majority shareholder. Last week there
was yet another flip-flop. Before the election Cameron encouraged voters to
believe he would bring in a fuel tax stabiliser. if the world price of oil rose,
prices would be smoothed by cutting the tax.

What is wrong with a fuel stabiliser? The tax will rise again when prices fall
so it shouldn't cost the Treasury anything in the long term. needless to say he
has now backed away from this attractive idea. Two weeks ago he said it was all
too difficult. at Prime minister's Questions on Wednesday he dithered again and
said the Treasury would "look at it". Looking is all very well. What we want is
some action.

OiL iS not a luxury for most but in Britain 80 per cent of the forecourt petrol
price is tax, the most punitive level in the world. This is made worse by
Cameron's green energy fixation, as fuel taxes are to keep on rising to pay for
more useless windmills. most goods are transported by road so higher fuel costs
feed into the economy, pushing up inflation indices. increasing fuel taxes
further is idiotic.

U-turns were anathema to mrs Thatcher, whose resolve saved us from disaster
after the 1979 winter of discontent. She said: "U-turn if you want to. The
lady's not for turning."

Things are different now. We want some U-turns. The trouble with Cameron's is
they are in the wrong direction, on the wrong policies. no wonder UKiP's vote
rose 40 per cent in Oldham.

'Tories are fractious at the way the PM has got so cosy with the Lib Dems'

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN A SPIN: David Cameron frequently changes tack ... against Tory
policies

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                January 16, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Murder charge for mother who tried to get her son back

BYLINE: Helena Smith ; James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 856 words


SARAH NoRtoN found paradise on the sun-drenched island of Cyprus with a handsome
husband, two beautiful children and a Mediterranean lifestyle to match the
fantasies of a Shirley Valentine.

Arriving 20 years ago as a teenager on holiday with her mother she was struck by
the beauty of her surroundings and the charm of the people so delightful she
decided to stay for good. She found the man of her dreams in Andros Antoniou, a
waiter like the character Shirley falls for in the film.

together they set up home and the future seemed full of promise, blessed by
their son, Alexander, and her daughter Sophia from a previous relationship.

today, however, her dream is in tatters.

Sarah, 38, is currently languishing in a jail cell facing the possibility of
life in prison after being accused of hiring hitmen to kill her estranged
husband and kidnap their son, now five.

Sarah, his wife of six years, is accused of paying two men £30,000 to murder
him. She is also accused of smuggling their son out of Cyprus to Britain for six
weeks as the marriage fell apart.

Sarah's family strongly protest her innocence and insist she is the victim of a
smear campaign. Speaking from her home in Hertford, Sarah's mother Pat, 63, told
the Sunday Express: "the life's been cut out of her. She had a spark but now
it's gone.

"She's desperate, she's in a cell with eight other women and has lost weight and
is very depressed. She's not my daughter any more. Both our lives have been
turned upside down."

Sarah's relationship with Andros, 45, began to sour a year and a half ago as the
couple fought constantly over the health of Alexander, who had suffered a spinal
injury.

She wanted to follow doctors' advice and bring the boy to the UK but her husband
refused to let him go, instead putting him on a security watch list at ports and
airports.

In desperation, Sarah then broke the law and took her son into the divided
island's internationally unrecognised turkish-controlled north in June 2009,
travelling on into turkey itself and finally to her mother's home.

Andros alerted Cypriot authorities who in turn advised British authorities to
act under EU law. Weeks later Alexander was reunited with his father in Cyprus
and Sarah returned too.

Having already been charged with Alexander's kidnap, she was arrested last
November and charged with conspiracy to murder. Since then she has been held at
Nicosia's general prison, a jail even Cypriot authorities admit falls well short
of EU regulations.

Sarah is allowed only 10 minutes' worth of telephone calls a week and the stress
of her situation is seriously affecting her health.

Former legal secretary Pat, who is flying out to Cyprus to support her, said:
"She is facing 30 years in prison on false charges. We're talking about a woman
who is on social security because she has been unable to find work and look
after Alex. She doesn't have £30,000 to give anyone, let alone men to kill her
husband. I know she came here with the boy but she wasn't kidnapping him, she
stayed at my house.

"taking Sarah to Cyprus on holiday 20 years ago was the biggest mistake in my
life."

Pat said she has written to the Foreign office, Foreign Secretary William Hague
and Prime Minister David Cameron, as well as MPs and the organisations Fair
trials Abroad and Prisoners Abroad, only for her pleas to fall on deaf ears.

She said: "My daughter was born and bred in England and we've paid taxes all our
lives and yet the people in power are unwilling to extend a helping hand."

Now Ukip MEP Stuart Agnew has taken up the case, personally delivering a letter
to Demetris Christofias, the Cypriot president, outlining his concerns. In
particular, Mr Agnew has criticised the way police identification parade was
conducted.

two Nigerian men, who said they had been hired for the contract killing,
initially singled out another woman as the person they had met. only later did
they identify Sarah. He said: "the evidence they gave was totally con-flicting.
I am deeply troubled about the substance of a case that in so many ways
highlights the problems that emerge when bi-cultural marriages break down.

"Not only does the accusation of murder not fit any description of the character
of Mrs Antoniou, there is a large sum of money involved. It is highly unlikely
she would have had access to anything like such sums."

He added: "the allegations against her are very serious but she is being held on
the most flimsy of evidence. our hope is that Cyprus's attorneygeneral Petros
Clerides will grant Sarah bail and drop the accusation of conspiracy to murder
to a lesser charge. Physically and mentally she is a broken woman."

Cypriot government officials, including the attorney general's office, have
refused to comment.

Mrs Norton and Sarah's daughter Sophia, who is currently staying with Pat in
England, are desperate to to be re-united with her and Alexander.

Pat said: "We haven't seen Alex since November. We couldn't even give him a
Christmas present because his father wouldn't allow it.

"He probably thinks we don't love him when nothing could be further from the
truth."

'Taking Sarah on that holiday was the biggest mistake of my life'

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEPT APART: Sarah Norton with her beloved son Alexander, five. He is
now with his father while she languishes in a Cypriot prison cell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                January 16, 2011

EU 'vanity project' squanders £25million

BYLINE: James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 501 words


A DISNEY-STYLE visitors' centre at the european parliament which is swallowing
millions of pounds of taxpayers' cash has been condemned as a "glorified
amusement arcade" which should be scrapped.

The initial budget of £12.8million has already spiralled to £19.5million, it was
revealed this week, and it is nearly two years behind schedule.

The final cost of the centre in Brussels could be as high as £25million.

Last night Ukip MePs called for the centre to be abandoned. Mike nattrass, a
member of the eU transport and tourism committee, said: "While Britons struggle
to tighten their belts we have Brussels bureaucrats squandering millions on an
eU propaganda project."

He mocked plans for interactive displays and a virtual reality game in which
visitors can experience life as an MeP and take part in a simulated vote.

"The centre will be like a glorified amusement arcade and visitors to the centre
will become super Mario MePs in a world of eU spin and fantasy," he said.

"The eU parliament is already 'Fantasia' and here we have a Mickey Mouse eU
vanity project which will turn the parliament into Disneyland."

Fellow Ukip MeP Marta Andreasen said: "As with all fabulous projects promoted by
the eU, the visitors' centre is on the way to costing twice what was originally
planned. the project should be discontinued immediately.

"It is truly incredible that news of this huge overspend comes out the day that
the european Commission demands that eU member states cut back their budgets
even more and accept deeper austerity cuts." this week the parliament admitted
it had gone over-budget but, it argued, by "only" £3million. it still claims the
visitors' centre will cost only about £18million.

On thursday, Klaus Welle, the parliament's secretary-general, told the budgetary
control committee that one reason for the delays was a shortage of qualified
staff to manage the centre.

Stephen Booth of the independent think-tank Open europe said: "this is yet
another example of the waste and mismanagement of taxpayers' money by eU
institutions. this project, in particular, smacks of gross incompetence. it
really shouldn't be so hard to bring it in on time and on budget."

Bureau crats pledged to have the centre open in time for the european elections
in June 2009. now they are pinning their hopes on this October.

They want the attraction to be a european equivalent of the Capitol Visitor
Center at the home of the Us congress in Washington.

The EU centre, which will take up three floors in the Willy Brandt building of
the Brussels Parliament, will open seven days a week in a bid to attract 500,000
visitors a year.

A huge £665,000 animated billboard will crown the entrance and there will be
recorded greetings and a film on how the parliament works projected on to a
wrap-around 360-degree-screen.

Welle also told MePs he hoped there would not be a similar delay in the
construction of the House of european History, a museum scheduled to open in the
eastman building of the Brussels Parliament in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPENSIVE DREAM: A mock-up of the over-budget EU visitors' centre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Murder charge for mother who tried to get her son back

BYLINE: From Helena Smith and James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 848  words


SARAH NORTON found paradise on the sun-drenched island of Cyprus w ith a
handsome husband, two beautiful children and a Mediterranean lifestyle to match
the fantasies of a Shirley V alentine.

Arriving 20 years ago as a teenager on holiday with her mother she was struck by
the beauty of her surroundings and the charm of the people so delightful she
decided to stay for good.

She found the man of her dreams in A ndros Antoniou, a waiter like the character
Shirley falls for in the film.

Together they set up home and the future seemed full of promise, blessed by
their son, Alexander, and her daughter Sophia from a previous relationship.

Today, however, her dream is in tatters.

Sarah, 38, is currently languishing in a jail cell facing the possibility of
life in prison after being accused of hiring hitmen to kill her estranged
husband and kidnap their son, now five.

Sarah, his wife of six years, is accused of paying two men GBP 30,000 to murder
him. She is also accused of smuggling their son out of Cyprus to Britain for six
weeks as the marriage fell apart.

Sarah's family strongly protest her innocence and insist she is the victim of a
smear campaign. Speaking from her home in Hertford, Sarah's mother Pat, 63, told
the Sunday Express: "The life's been cut out of her. She had a spark but now
it's gone.

"She's desperate, she's in a cell with eight other women and has lost weight and
is very depressed. She's not my daughter any more. Both our lives have been
turned upside down."

Sarah's relationship with Andros, 45, began to sour a year and a half ago as the
couple fought constantly over the health of Alexander, who had suffered a spinal
injury.

She wanted to follow doctors' advice and bring the boy to the UK but her husband
refused to let him go, instead putting him on a security watch list at ports and
airports.

In desperation, Sarah then broke the law and took her son into the divided
island's internationally unrecognised Turkish-controlled north in June 2009,
travelling on into Turkey itself and finally to her mother's home.

Andros alerted Cypriot authorities w ho in turn advised British authorities to
act under EU law. Weeks later A lexander was reunited with his father in Cyprus
and Sarah returned too.

Having already been charged with A lexander's kidnap, she was arrested last
November and charged with conspiracy to murder. Since then she has been held at
Nicosia's general prison, a jail even Cypriot authorities admit falls well short
of EU regulations.

Sarah is allowed only 10 minutes' worth of telephone calls a week and the stress
of her situation is seriously affecting her health.

Former legal secretary Pat, who is flying out to Cyprus to support her, said:
"She is facing 30 years in prison on false charges. We're talking about a woman
who is on social security because she has been unable to find work and look
after Alex. She doesn't have GBP 30,000 to give anyone, let alone men to kill
her husband. I know she came here with the boy but she wasn't kidnapping him,
she stayed at my house.

"Taking Sarah to Cyprus on holiday 20 years ago was the biggest mistake in my
life."

Pat said she has written to the Foreign Office, Foreign Secretary William Hague
and Prime Minister David Cameron, as well as MPs and the organisations Fair
Trials Abroad and Prisoners Abroad, only for her pleas to fall on deaf ears.

She said: "My daughter was born and bred in England and we've paid taxes all our
lives and yet the people in power are unwilling to extend a helping hand."

Now Ukip MEP Stuart Agnew has taken up the case, personally delivering a letter
to Demetris Christofias, the Cypriot president, outlining his concerns. In
particular, Mr Agnew has criticised the way police identification parade was
conducted.

Two Nigerian men, who said they had been hired for the contract killing,
initially singled out another woman as the person they had met. Only later did
they identify Sarah. He said: "The evidence they gave was totally conflicting. I
am deeply troubled about the substance of a case that in so man y ways
highlights the problems that emerge when bi-cultural marriages break down.

"Not only does the accusation o f murder not fit any description of the
character of Mrs Antoniou, there is a large sum of money involved. It is highly
unlikely she would have had access to anything like such sums."

He added: "The allegations against her are very serious but she is being held on
the most flimsy of evidence.

Our hope is that Cyprus's attorneygeneral Petros Clerides will grant Sarah bail
and drop the accusation o f conspiracy to murder to a lesse r charge. Physically
and mentally she is a broken woman."

Cypriot government officials, including the attorney general's office, have
refused to comment.

Mrs Norton and Sarah's daughte r Sophia, who is currently staying with Pat in
England, are desperate to to be re-united with her and Alexander.

Pat said: "We haven't seen Alex since November. We couldn't even give him a
Christmas present because his father wouldn't allow it.

"He probably thinks we don't love him when nothing could be furthe r from the
truth."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEPT APART: Sarah Norton with her beloved son Alexander, five. He is
now with his father while she languishes in a Cypriot prison cell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU 'vanity project' squanders GBP 25million

BYLINE: By James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 503  words


A DISNEY-STYLE visitors' centre at the European parliament which is swallowing
millions of pounds of taxpayers' cash has been condemned as a "glorified
amusement arcade" which should be scrapped.

The initial budget of GBP 12.8million has already spiralled to GBP 19.5million,
it was revealed this week, and it is nearly two years behind schedule.

The final cost of the centre in Brussels could be as high as GBP 25million.

Last night UKIP MEPs called for the centre to be abandoned. Mike Nattrass, a
member of the EU transport and tourism committee, said: "While Britons struggle
to tighten their belts we have Brussels bureaucrats squandering millions on an
EU propaganda project."

He mocked plans for interactive displays and a virtual reality game in which
sitors can experience life as an MEP and take part in a simulated vote.

"The centre will be like a rified amusement arcade and visitors to the centre
will become Super Mario MEPs in a world of EU spin and fantasy, " he said.

"The EU parliament is already Fantasia' and here we have a Mickey Mouse EU
vanity project which will turn the parliament into Disneyland."

Fellow UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen said: "As with all fabulous projects promoted by
the EU, the visitors' centre is on the way to costing twice what was originally
planned. The project should be discontinued immediately.

"It is truly incredible that news of this huge overspend comes out the day that
the European Commission demands that EU member states cut back their budgets
even more and accept deeper austerity cuts." This week the parliament admitted
it had gone over-budget but, it argued, by "only" GBP 3million. It still claims
the visitors' centre will cost onl y about GBP 18million.

On Thursday, Klaus Welle, the parliament's secretary-general, told the budgetary
control committee that one reason for the delays was a shortage o f qualified
staff to manage the centre.

Stephen Booth of the independent think-tank Open Europe said: "This is yet
another example of the waste and mismanagement of taxpayers' mone y by EU
institutions. This project, in particular, smacks of gross incompetence.

It really shouldn't be so hard to bring it in on time and on budget."

Bureaucrats pledged to have the centre open in time for the European elections
in June 2009. Now they are pinning their hopes on this October.

They want the attraction to be a European equivalent of the Capitol Visitor
Center at the home of the US congress in Washington.

The EU centre, which will take up three floors in the Willy Brandt building of
the Brussels Parliament, will open seven days a wee k in a bid to attract
500,000 visitors a year.

A huge GBP 665,000 animated billboard will crown the entrance and there will be
recorded greetings and a film on ho w the parliament works projected on to a
wrap-around 360-degree-screen.

Welle also told MEPs he hoped there would not be a similar delay in the
construction of the House of European History, a museum scheduled to open in the
Eastman building of the Brussels Parliament in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPENSIVE DREAM: A mock-up of the over-budget EU visitors' centre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron's now the U-turn Tory;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 36

LENGTH: 887  words


IMAGINE the excitement at No10 as the Oldham by-election result came in. "Open
the champagne! Just what we wanted! The Tory candidate finished a poor third and
our vote down by half. Tremendous!" What is the point of having a candidate if
you aren't going to support him? Tory whips usually tell MPs they'll get a black
mark if they don't canvass in by- elections. In Oldham it was just the opposite.
They were actively discouraged from doing anything to upset the Lib Dems.

I once overheard MP Alan Clark talking to a colleague who feared losing his seat
because of Margaret Thatcher's unpopularity. Far from sympathising Al said: "I
am afraid you must regard yourself as an expendable battalion which must be
sacrificed to win the wider war." That's how the hapless Conservative Party
candidate in Oldham, Kashif Ali, must be feeling today.

I'll say this for the Cameroons. They ertainly know how to lose elections.

Cameron's strategy from the moment he became Tory leader five years ago was to
upset and alienate his party's most traditional supporters. He talked of the
"nasty party", hugging "hoodies" and insulted Tory defectors to UKIP as
"fruitcakes and closet racists". Predictably in the last general election
millions of ex-Tory voters remained just that. Even Gordon Brown's car-crash of
a campaign couldn't hand Cameron an outright victory.

So how are the coalition parties going to fight the next general election? They
will each share responsibility for the Government's record so they can hardly
slag each other off. Is there to be a de facto pact to give whichever party is
strongest against Labour a free run, as in Oldham? How would that work without a
formal alliance?

John Major has actually proposed creating a new Liberal-Conservative Party.

MANY right-wing backbenchers feel Cameron has marginalised them and the nearer
we get to the next election the more restive they will ecome. With some
justification they think the Cameroons are far cosier with Clegg & Co than with
them.

Tory MPs are fractious enough now at the way Cameron has bent over backwards to
accommodate Nick Clegg.

If a Tory minister had behaved as idiotically as Vince Cable (talking of
bringing the Government down if he didn't get his way and "declaring war" on
Rupert Murdoch) he would have been sacked. Liberal MPs such as Simon Hughes can
follow their consciences, rebel and get promoted.

If Tories try to follow suit the whips threaten rack and thumbscrews.

Tory policies such as repatriating powers from Brussels, cutting inheritance tax
and stopping voting rights for prisoners are vetoed by the Liberals. The Armed
Forces are squeezed while overseas aid is ring-fenced. Two new aircraft carriers
are to be built but only one will be commissioned and it will not have any
planes until 2020. Most dangerous of all the Liberals forced Chancellor George
Osborne to spread spending cuts over four years, rather than getting the pain
out of the way early in this Parliament, allowing a quicker recovery before the
next election.

In some ways the Cameroons are as obsessed with spin as Tony Blair and Peter
Mandelson. Remember the disgraceful attempt last autumn to put Cameron's
personal photographer on the public payroll?

Cameron also bitterly attacked Brown and Blair for appointing so many "special
advisers" (spin doctors and image masseurs) yet he has appointed 26 "advisers"
without advertising their posts publicly, including a bag-carrier for his wife.

Ministers were ostentatiously told to take public transport whenever possible
yet their red boxes travel by chauffeurdriven car. This echoes an early Cameron
fiasco when he cycled to Parliament to demonstrate his "green" credentials but
sent his shoes ahead by car.

More importantly, having first jumped on the bandwagon of outrage at bankers'
bonuses, a few days ago came the inevitable climbdown. Nothing is to be done,
even in the banks where the Government is majority shareholder. Last week there
was yet another flip-flop. Before the election Cameron encouraged voters to
believe he would bring in a fuel tax stabiliser. If the world price of oil rose,
prices would be smoothed by cutting the tax.

What is wrong with a fuel stabiliser? The tax will rise again when prices fall
so it shouldn't cost the Treasury anything in the long term. Needless to say he
has no w backed away from this attractive idea. Two weeks ago he said it was all
too difficult. At Prime Minister's Questions on Wednesda y he dithered again and
said the Treasur y would "look at it". Looking is all very well.

What we want is some action.

OIL IS not a luxury for most but in Britain 80 per cent of the forecourt petrol
price is tax, the most punitive level in the world. This is made worse by
Cameron's green energy fixation, as fuel taxes are to keep on rising to pay for
more useless windmills. Most goods are transported b y road so higher fuel costs
feed into the economy, pushing up inflation indices. Increasing fuel taxes
further is idiotic.

U-turns were anathema to Mrs Thatcher, whose resolve saved us from disaste r
after the 1979 winter of discontent. She said: "U-turn if you want to. The
lady's not for turning."

Things are different now. We want some U-turns. The trouble with Cameron's is
they are in the wrong direction, on the wrong policies. No wonder UKIP's vote
rose 40 per cent in Oldham.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN A SPIN: David Cameron frequently changes tack . . . against Tory
policies

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

School selection works;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 151 words


SIR - Adam White rightly states that private schools do better because they
choose the brightest pupils (Letters, January 14), but that applies equally in
the selective state sector. The evidence is to be found in the tables of schools
achieving the English Baccalaureate. The figures for those counties that have
retained grammar schools stand out a mile.

Why is Ukip the only party campaigning for their return?

Roger Smith

Meppershall, Bedfordshire

SIR - As the husband of a teacher who has spent many years in both state and
private education, I must respond to Mr White's claim that the majority of
private school teachers wouldn't last very long in the state sector.

Of course they would not, but this has nothing to do with their teaching
abilities. Rather, it is their unwillingness to devote much of their day to
crowd control, an essential skill in some state schools.

Bob Anderton

Holgate, North Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Your £250m bill to fund college places in UK for foreign students

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 643 words


A NEW storm over student fees broke out last night as it was revealed that more
than £250million a year of British taxpayers' cash is blown on university
education for students from other EU countries.

The "sickening" bill comes as British youngsters are being warned they will
graduate with debts of tens of thousands of pounds when tuition fees treble to
help fund cash-strapped colleges.

And even more money could go to European students under draft Government plans
to extend state funding for poor students at English universities to all EU
citizens.

Any proposed discounts or fee waivers when the new higher fees come in would
have to be open to EU students on an equal basis, the plans say.

Senior Conservative MP Philip Davies said: "Given that we already subsidise the
EU to the tune of billions of pounds a year, it's a bit sickening that we then
have to subsidise on top of that all the European students who come to study
here.

"Most people think the EU gets more than enough money from the UK without
putting this icing on the top as well."

Michael Heaver, Youth Chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "Surely the
UK would benefit more if we could afford to educate our own students better
rather than fund EU students.

"Are we not already diverse enough in the UK for this Government or is it that
they prefer others to us? They should be focusing on improving our own skills
base.''

In the last full academic year, some 64,255 students from other EU countries
enrolled at higher education institutions in England and Wales.

With annual Government funding to subsidise university teaching averaging some
£4,000 per student, the total suggests that at least £257million a year of
public grant money in England and Wales alone could be going to support the
education of young people from other EU countries.

Like UK students, EU undergraduates also have access to British state-backed
loans to help pay their tuition fees, which are set to rise to a maximum £9,000
a year next year for students from England. Students from outside Europe pay
full fees, often of £10,000 a year or more to cover all costs. Ministers will
now face pressure to resist subsidising EU students.

But Brussels rules requiring equal treatment on a range of benefits for EU
citizens in EU countries, including Britons overseas, will prove hard to
overturn. The Business Department, which oversees universities, said: "The UK
and UK universities positively benefit from the participation of overseas
students in terms of diversity, enrichment of academic life and research. EU
students who study here have to pay for their living costs, contributing to our
economy in doing so. Reciprocal arrangements mean UK students who want to study
in other EU countries benefit too."

OPINION: PAGE 16

PROTEST AS cOST Of EU LOOPHOLE HITS £75m

THE Scottish government is to protest in Brussels against European laws which
require it to pay for EU students taking courses at its universities.

Scottish Education Secretary Mike Russell said the cost of their tuition fees
and teaching subsidy had quadrupled in 10 years to £75million a year.

Unlike those from the rest of the UK, Scottish students do not pay tuition fees.
Instead Scotland's government - funded with a block grant out of general UK
taxation - pays the money, currently £1,820 a year, to the universities for
them.

Students from the rest of Britain who attend Scottish universities have to pay
Westminster-set tuition fees of more than £3,000 a year, but those from other EU
countries have the same benefits as Scottish students. The number of EU students
at Scottish universities has soared by 94 per cent since 2000-01, to 15,930 last
year.

Mr Russell called the loophole "no longer tenable". He added that Scottish
universities should not become "a cheap option for students who have to pay to
go to university in their home countries".

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Students in UK include 64,000 from the EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Your GBP 250m bill to fund college places in UK for foreign students

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 461  words


A NEW storm over student fees broke out last night as it was revealed that more
than GBP 250million a year of British taxpayers' cash is blown on university
education for students from other EU countries.

The "sickening" bill comes as British youngsters are being warned they will
graduate with debts of tens of thousands of pounds when tuition fees treble to
help fund cash-strapped colleges.

And even more money could go to European students under draft Government plans
to extend state funding for poor students at English universities to all EU
citizens.

Any proposed discounts or fee waivers when the new higher fees come in would
have to be open to EU students on an equal basis, the plans say.

Senior Conservative MP Philip Davies said: "Given that we already subsidise the
EU to the tune of billions of pounds a y ear, it's a bit sickening that we then
have to subsidise on top of that all the European students who come to study
here.

"Most people think the EU gets more than enough money from the UK without
putting this icing on the top as well."

Michael Heaver, Youth Chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "Surely the
UK would benefit more if we could afford to educate our own students better
rather than fund EU students.

"Are we not already diverse enough in the UK for this Government or is it that
they prefer others to us? They should be focusing on improving our own skills
base.'' In the last full academic year, some 64,255 students from other EU
countries enrolled at higher education institutions in England and Wales.

With annual Government funding to subsidise university teaching averaging some
GBP 4,000 per student, the total suggests that at least GBP 257million a year of
public grant money in England and Wales alone could be going to support the
education of young people from other EU countries.

Like UK students, EU undergraduates also have access to British state-backed
loans to help pay their tuition fees, which are set to rise to a maximum GBP
9,000 a year next year for students from England. Students from outside Europe
pay full fees, often of GBP 10,000 a year or more to cover all costs. Ministers
will now face pressure to resist subsidising EU students.

But Brussels rules requiring equal treatment on a range of benefits for EU
citizens in EU countries, including Britons overseas, will prove hard to
overturn. The Business Department, which oversees universities, said: "The UK
and UK universities positively benefit from the participation of overseas
students in terms of diversity, enrichment of academic life and research. EU
students who study here have to pay for their living costs, contributing to our
economy in doing so. Reciprocal arrangements mean UK students who want to study
in other EU countries benefit too."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Students in UK include 64,000 from the EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Miliband keeps the champagne on ice as PM faces wrath of Tory right;
Conservative leadership accused of pulling punches to protect Clegg as Labour
claims result is first step towards rebuilding

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 630 words


DAVID CAMERON faced the fury of the Tory Right as it blamed his "half-hearted"
campaign for the collapse in the party's vote in the Oldham East and Saddleworth
by-election.

They accused the Conservative leadership of pulling its punches in an effort to
shore up support for the Liberal Democrats.

Labour's Debbie Abrahams secured a comfortable victory in the Coalition's first
major test, winning the seat with a majority of 3,558 over the Liberal Democrat
Elwyn Watkins. Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, will today call for the party to
use it as a springboard to rebuild itself as "the standard-bearer of the
progressive majority".

Nick Clegg was relieved that the predicted haemorrhage of support for the
Liberal Democrats, who have hit single figures in national polls, failed to
materialise. Instead it was the Tory share of the vote that collapsed by more
than half, triggering right-wing protests over Mr Cameron's softly-softly
approach to his coalition partners.

The Prime Minister is facing growing attacks from restless backbenchers - 27 of
whom rebelled against the party whip over Europe this week - complaining that he
is conceding too much influence to Mr Clegg's party. Some even fear Mr Cameron
is considering a Con-Lib Dem electoral pact at the next general election.

The former party chairman Lord Tebbit described the Oldham East performance as
"dreadful" and added: "Mr Cameron may be pleased that his decision to run a
half-hearted campaign and offer good wishes to their candidate helped save the
Liberals, but Conservatives will be downcast.

"The Liberals fought an excellent campaign and with the help of Mr Cameron they
avoided total disaster." He claimed that the Tory tactics had played into the
hands of the UK Independence Party, who came fourth with more than 2,000 votes.

The MP Douglas Carswell protested that the Tory candidate, Kashif Ali, had been
"let down" by the leadership. "It is usually a good idea if you want to do well
as a party to make it clear that you are serious about trying to win. We have
paid the price on the doorstep and our leaders should reflect on that," he said.

Bernard Jenkin, the MP for North Essex, said: "The Conservative candidate did
well, considering there was such ambivalence from the leadership about whether
they wanted to the Conservative Party to do well."

Frustration among Mr Cameron's allies over the continued sniping from party
critics was laid bare by the Tory chairman, Baroness Warsi, who denied running a
token campaign in the by-election. She added: "As far as the right-wing of our
party are concerned, I would say this to them: We had many, many MPs turning up.
We had some who made much comment about the fact that we weren't fighting a
strong enough campaign but, interestingly, didn't turn up to campaign."

The contest was called after Phil Woolas, who won the seat last year by a margin
of 103, was found guilty of lying about his Liberal Democrat opponent in the
general election. Both Labour and the Liberal Democrats poured huge efforts into
the campaigning in the Greater Manchester seat, and both drew comfort from their
vote holding up.

Mr Miliband's position was bolstered by the result after criticism that he had
failed to make more of an early impact as leader.

He will tell a Fabian Society conference in London today that it was a clear
rejection of coalition policies. He is due to say: "Forgive me if I decline to
join those of you gloating at the expense of the Liberal Democrats.

"Their decision to join a Conservative-led government was a tragic mistake, and
I hope they come to see that in time. Labour over the next four years must
become again the standard bearer of the progressive majority."

Weekend Politics

Pages 21-23

This by-election could be an important marker

Leading article, page 42

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The roles are reversed after this result - now it's Cameron's turn in the hot
seat;
Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 544 words


Until Thursday night, both Nick Clegg and Ed Miliband faced unease within their
parties. David Cameron, by contrast, was still riding reasonably high. After
Oldham those roles will, for the time being at least, be reversed.

Mr Miliband has struggled to make a favourable impression on the public - of
recent opposition leaders, only Michael Foot and William Hague had worse
personal poll ratings after three months in the job. So the Labour leader needed
a good win in Oldham to allay fears that his apparently lacklustre performance
was harming his party at the polls.

Oldham duly delivered. Currently the national opinion polls put Labour some 10
points or so above where they were last May. And in Oldham, in real ballot
boxes, Labour's share of the vote increased by the same margin. Indeed, with 42
per cent of the vote, the party was back locally to where it had been when it
last won a general election, in 2005.

Mr Clegg, meanwhile, has seen his party take a hammering in the polls since it
entered into coalition with the Conservatives. Many a recent poll has put the
party's standing below 10 per cent. The decisions to sign up to the Tory
position on cutting the deficit and to reverse the party's position on tuition
fees were sharply at odds with what many of its supporters expected.

But in Oldham there was no sign of the meltdown suggested by the national
opinion polls. The party fully retained the 32 per cent share of the vote it won
last May. True, in similar circumstances in the past - including in next door
Rochdale in 1972 - the party has pulled off spectacular by-election successes.
But at least those Liberal Democrat councillors and politicians in the Scottish
Parliament and Welsh Assembly who have to face the electorate in May have been
given an apparent ray of hope - and Mr Clegg some much needed breathing space.

Still, the Liberal Democrats will want to ponder the apparent reason for their
success - a spectacular collapse in the third placed Conservative vote. Tory
spokespeople were keen to argue yesterday that parties that start off in third
place typically get squeezed in by-elections.

However, the 14-point drop the Tories suffered on Thursday was larger than
anything they have suffered in previous by-elections where they started off
third behind Labour and the Liberal Democrats - including the 10-point drop they
suffered in 1972 in Rochdale.

Evidently, as opinion polls published last weekend suggested, Conservative
voters in Oldham switched tactically to the Liberal Democrats in unprecedented
numbers - clear evidence of how the formation of the Coalition has started to
rewrite some of the rules of the British electoral game.

Together with UKIP's relatively rare success in saving its deposit, the Tory
reverse will provide ammunition for those on the party's right who fear the
consequences of the Coalition.

Tactical voting in Oldham also means that Mr Clegg's respite could easily prove
short-lived. Liberal Democrats facing Conservative opponents in May cannot
expect the favour to be repeated. Those fighting Labour may find that tactical
support from erstwhile Conservatives is not enough to save their skins. Mr Clegg
needs to use his breathing space well.

The writer is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

What does the Oldham result mean for Miliband, Clegg and Cameron?

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1561 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: This byelection result will strain coalition unity in all sorts
of ways but will not do Labour that much good either

FULL TEXT

"Never read too much into a byelection result," is generally good advice,
especially such a paradoxical one as Oldham East and Saddleworth,  in the early
hours of today.

All the same, this one will strain coalition unity in all sorts of ways without
doing struggling Labour much good either. The public interest may best be served
by discouraging narrowly-defeated candidates like Lib Dem Elwyn Watkins from
taking rival election literature to court. As at Winchester in 1997 - where a
Tory defeat by two votes became a re-run defeat by 21,000 - the "bad loser"
legal strategy has failed.

Phil Woolas's fliers were indeed unsavoury, as Justices Teare and Griffith
Williams decided. He won by just 103 votes. But the two judges who heard
conflicting evidence in Saddleworth town hall were clearly out of their
political depth - and their 42-page judgment makes uncomfortable reading. "Stay
out of politics, your honours," is the wisest conclusion. So whatever else it
was, Oldham may also have been a small - rare - victory of elective politics
over judicial activism. Were voters saying: "We decide, not you."

Back at Westminster the familiar excuses were being trotted out before the
ballot closed. "Labour had 258 seats before this byelection and it will have 258
seats when the votes have been counted. What's the story?" shrugged a senior
Tory minister as he headed out of Westminster, already writing off "Old and
Sad".

A nice try, but not good enough. The Conservative candidate, Kashif Ali, was a
likeable locally-born barrister, whose share of the vote collapsed from 26.4% on
6 May to 12.8% as Tory supporters stayed at home. By contrast both Ukip and the
BNP marginally increased their share on a 48% turnout. Voting was down from 61%
in May, but respectable for a judge-induced re-run in the January dark.

Nick Clegg's version of the Tory shrug was, "it was always going to be a big ask
to take this seat from Labour given the circumstances" of unpopular cuts. But it
was the DPM's own party which moved the writ for a contest in the cold, wet
depth of winter - the first such vote in January since 1966 - when it could have
been delayed until spring when ... actually, when the anti-cuts mood may be far
worse. Paradox No 1.

Labour called wholesome Debbie Abrahams' victory a vindication of Ed Miliband's
leadership. By risking frequent visits to Oldham on the eastern fringe of the
Greater Manchester sprawl - while Tory ministers were skiing - he showed courage
and "led from the front", explained loyal Andy Burnham, an ex-cabinet local boy
who spent even more time on the campaign trail.

Fair enough and it is usually better to win than lose, though David Cameron may
be privately relieved that his candidate was humiliated - "what we need here is
a pointless sacrifice" - not Clegg's. That was paradox No 2. Everyone wanted the
Tory to lose - including some in Downing St, anxious to shore up the coalition
that keeps Cameron in power.

That perception will not be lost on the restless Tory right, increasingly
unhappy, as  and as demonstrated by its 30-vote revolt on William Hague's
window-dressing European bill showed on Tuesday night.

Rightwinger  ("You're not fucking Royalty, Mr Speaker") in a Commons corridor
yesterday is a symptom of political distress as well as of declining manners.

The Westminster hothouse is one thing. During the campaign Cameron said little
(his contribution to a Lib Dem gain?), Clegg distanced his party from the Tories
and justified tough choices and cuts, while Miliband distanced himself from
Gordon Brown. Still a long way to go for all three.

But what happened locally on the ground in Old and Sad, a stretch of the
Pennines with robust dissenting traditions where all three main parties have won
the seat in recent decades?

In short, Labour's campaign message, that here was a chance to send the
coalition a warning over cuts - especially tuition fees and the educational
maintenance allowance (EMA) - prevailed over Clegg's wishful assertion during
his visits that Old and Sad had been given the chance to elect a brave and
independent local candidate in Elwyn Watkins.

No surprise there, national factors usually prevail, which is why no government
has taken a seat from a rival party since the very odd Mitcham contest at the
height of the Labour-SDP split in 1982.

Despite his brave face - demonstrating to fretting party activists that he still
runs a wholly independent party - Clegg probably knew it would be like this.

But local factors including the complex politics of British Pakistani and
Kashmiri voters in the seat - the UK-Bangladeshi ex-mill voters are concentrated
in Oldham West - and the character of candidates can sometimes tip the balance.
The Lib Dems also run Oldham council with Tory help, which can't help either

Snow might have been another such local factor, keeping people at home. Early
yesterday it rained over Oldham and pretty villages up the Pennine slope with
names like Delph and Diggle. But a bit of sun came out later.

Even more helpful to Labour perhaps, yesterday morning nearby Manchester council
announced even worse job losses than expected - over 2,000 - as a result of
coalition spending cuts. It was the second item on Radio 4's breakfast news.
Miliband's campaign manager in Old and Sad, Iain Wright MP, could hardly have
planned it better himself. Plenty of Oldhamers commute to Manchester.

As for the character question, even fleeting visitors to the byelection could
sense factors which might work in Labour's favour. Locally respected though he
is, Kashif Ali was not the lean and hungry campaigner who might make the
difference and London was widely suspected of going through the motions on his
behalf.

Last May the  - the first such case since 1911 - rested on getting white voters,
especially Tory floaters, fired up by the charge that Elwyn Watkins had courted
extremist Muslim groups and not disowned their threats of violence against
Woolas.

There was also a claim that Watkins had not fulfilled his promise to move from
nearby Rochdale, where he used to be a councillor, to Old and Sad, as promised,
though - the court concluded - he did eventually rent a house in Delph, and
Woolas's team must have known. The extremist charges were also rejected by the
judges - again because Woolas and his campaign team must have known they were
untrue.

Fair enough on a reading of the judges report, though such skulduggery is hardly
unknown in election campaigns, not unknown to Lib Dems either, according to
their rivals around the country. Oldham has long had a reputation for rough
stuff and there have also been police investigations into voting fraud.

But on the overnight results it does look as if, after coming a very respectable
third on 6 May (26% of the vote against 31% apiece for his rivals) Ali could not
get Tory voters - white or not - to support one last heave. With 14,718 votes
Debbie Abrahams actually polled 500 or so more than Woolas.

The difference was that they represented 42% of the poll. Watkins slipped from
14,083 in May to 11,160 - 31.9% against 31.6% at the general election. He held
his share, but not his voters. Judging by what he said before the result he will
not try again.

It is unfair to blame - or credit - the candidate in a byelection. A former
immigration minister and ex-NUS president, Phil Woolas was an energetic,
populist constituency member, aware that his seat is always vulnerable.
Abrahams, local enough, married to Lancashire cricketer, John, and tough enough
to resign as a primary care trust (PCT) chairman over Patricia Hewitt's NHS cuts
(irony!), proved attractive on the doorstep and not prone to gaffes.

As for Elwyn Watkins, he exuded the strengths and weaknesses of a loner,
determined but solitary. Local gossip said he acted alone - risking up to
£200,000 of his own money in court fees too - in taking Woolas to an election
court without evident enthusiasm from colleagues. On the doorstep he bristled
with a sense of his own virtue - a man brave enough to take them on.

The two judges reported him as being a personal assistant and business adviser
to Sheikh Abdullah Ali Al Hamrani in Saudi Arabia, whose business interests - he
imports textile plant and equipment among other things - are mostly there,
though he has lately lived in Germany. He turns round ailing companies.

A bachelor, he almost lost his Rochdale council seat for non-attendance in 2008,
the judges noted. How much did the sheikh pay him? The Woolas fliers hinted that
he had funded the Watkins election campaign in May to the tune of £200,000 - an
illegal donation, but not true, the judges decided. In 2008 the Sheikh paid him
£19,994 for some 30 days work. In 2009 his gross earnings were £107,844 and -
from January to August 2010 - £18,076.

An exotic candidate for Oldham's red-brick terraced streets and even for the
Pennine stone villages, Elwyn Watkins seems likely to resume his peripatetic
business career. But his name will survive in the footnotes. He didn't win but
he made political history of a kind.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Oldham result relied on borrowed votes

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 766 words

ABSTRACT

Julian Glover: The real talking point of the Oldham byelection is not the Labour
victory, but the redistribution of votes between the main parties

FULL TEXT

Touted in advance as a byelection that would tell us everything about the state
of politics, the  has ended up revealing nothing certain at all. The headline
figures for each party are misleading and the real interest lies in about the
remarkable redistribution of votes between them. This was a contest in which all
relied on something borrowed, something yellow and something blue.

Labour won well and that counts: not just in adjusting the Westminster mood,
which is growing less critical of Ed Miliband, but in confirming that an
immediate general election would almost certainly leave Labour as the largest
party and perhaps give it a majority. The coalition is already trading on the
country's patience, less than a year after its creation and before cuts really
hit. More than that, Labour fought a capable campaign with lots of activists, a
capable candidate and a clear pitch to voters. It has not, as some feared, lost
the habit of winning with the departure of the generation of politicians who
took the party into power in 1997.

Yet this reassurance could be misleading. Labour's share of 42.1% is good but
not brilliant in a seat the party won even in May 2010. Quite a few of those
voters must be former Liberal Democrats, especially in the Oldham wards of the
constituency, starkly divided between urban Lancashire and rural, former
Yorkshire Saddleworth. Perhaps they are now Labour's to keep - but the Liberal
Democrat advance in the north was already petering out before  and the . Today's
result should not be taken as proof that the same outcome could be expected in
marginal seats in the south.

For the Liberal Democrats this was, as the party's president Tim Farron said, a
Dunkirk moment, so much less bad than it might have been that it almost counts
as a success. There was no meltdown and indeed even a tiny increase in the share
of the vote. In opposition the party would have hoped to win the seat: second
place is a warning.

But remember that even in 1995, in a byelection held on different (and to Labour
less favourable) boundaries, the Lib Dems only beat Labour by a majority of
1,993 votes, on 38.5% of the vote. This has never been a Lib Dem stronghold.

Had the Lib Dems imploded - even come third - the coalition would now be in
crisis. Arguably, this outcome instead strengthens it. Tory voters have shown
themselves willing to move to the Liberal Democrats in the hope of stopping
Labour and in doing so responded sensibly to the deal between the parties.

The problem for the Lib Dems is that this leaves them as a sort of facade, a
structure that looks solid from the outside but which may lack solid support or
purpose. In Oldham many long-established Lib Dem supporters must have moved to
Labour, while the party's share was sustained by votes borrowed from the
Conservatives. There is no reason to think these new supporters have any real
commitment to the Lib Dems. Nick Clegg must now give them reasons to stay.

Meanwhile the Conservative vote, which saw the biggest fall of all three main
parties, was in some ways the least worrying to the leadership. David Cameron
would have been unhappy had he done well at the expense of the Lib Dems. Much of
the rest of his party disagrees with such purple treachery and will certainly
grumble at getting only 12.8% in a seat the Tories held until 16 years ago (on
different boundaries). But it is significant that Tory voters chose back the Lib
Dems rather than move to the right. Ukip's vote went up by only 1.9% and the BNP
fell back. People knew what the leadership wanted them to do.

That is a success of sorts for Cameron, but if byelection third places become a
habit the Tories will grow bitter. There will be contests soon in , after the
former Labour MP , and probably  where the Labour MP may become the city's
mayor. It would be extraordinary if Labour did not keep both seats (though the
Lib Dems won the post-Iraq war Leicester South byelection in 2004). The
coalition's problem is that in neither place does it have an obvious challenger.
There could be bad blood between the partners - even without the prospect of a
showdown in what used to be a staple of byelection sensations, a Lib
Dem-Conservative marginal. Now that would be fun.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 14, 2011
                                 First Edition

From the blogosphere

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 201 words


Michelle Malkin, possibly the most influential, and certainly one of the most
prolific, female bloggers in the world, thinks Sheriff Clarence Dupnik of Pima
County - that's Tucson, Arizona, by the way - is the worst sheriff in America.
Also on her blog is more condemnation of the blamestream media. As in, not the
mainstream media, geddit? Tammy Bruce, the radio host and best-selling author,
approvingly links to Sarah Palin's belated response to the massacre. And, for
that matter, a hilarious cartoon "for the journalistically challenged"by Michael
Ramirez of Investors.com. At Feministing, the compulsive feminist blog, a
'Courtney' has interesting ruminations on why motherhood is a "radical feminist
act". At The Spectator, Rod Liddle responds to an uppity reader who admonished
him for using the term "far right" in such a way as to associate the BNP and
UKIP. Liddle lists the points on which their most recent manifestos are united.
The list has 26 entries. We await responses from both parties. Guido Fawkes, who
is inventive with PaintShop, puts a pig's trough on Eric Illsley, the
Dishonourable Member for Barnsley, who will keep troughing for a month". That,
Guido says, is insult upon injury.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 14, 2011 Friday 12:11 PM GMT

Oldham East and Saddleworth by-election: another win for the 'Sofa Party'

BYLINE: By Neil O'Brien

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 370 words


You could be forgiven for thinking that the result in "Old and Sad" wasn't very
exciting - the result was about what the polls had suggested.

Looking back over the last couple of elections, last night's result is pretty
typical. The "odd one out" is the 2010 election. Kashif Ali, a personable, local
candidate, took the other parties by surprise, and managed to break into the
Oldham vote for the first time(previous Tory candidates had been effectively
confined in the pretty villages of Saddleworth).  This time round he faced a
much tougher challenge in all kinds of ways.

Julian Glover argues that votes probably flowed from Lib Dems to Labour and then
from Tory to Lib Dem.  That sounds perfectly plausible, but we have no real way
of knowing.

And that kind of analysis ignores the single most important party in any modern
UK election.  It's not UKIP or the BNP, but the stay-at-home party.  While
Labour have the red rose and the Tories have their tree, the symbol of the
stay-at-home-party is the sofa.

The Sofa Party was the real winner of this by-election, given that 52% of people
didn't vote at all (compared to just 26% in 1997). The vote share of the three
main parties was down to 30,000 (compared to 50,000 in 1997). Down they go
together:

The flows in and out of voting are at least as important as flows between the
parties, and that makes analysis much harder.

The result doesn't change Westminster politics very much.  Ed Miliband's
leadership of Labour is less wobbly this morning.  There's a negative backwash
for David Cameron. Above all, the Lib Dems' hunt for a new rationale will be
further intensified. In the Telegraph today I have written about where they are
going.

Clegg has a very clear long term strategy: to prove, over the next four years,
that coalition works; to show that the Lib Dems are a serious party; and to
achieve a more liberal Britain over the course of the parliament.

And the Deputy PM is gradually developing his themes: a fairer Britain, the
decentralisation of power, and the rebalancing of the economy.  It seems to me
that the Lib Dems can fight back over the next five years.  But their plan is a
work in progress. Clegg and his team need to think fast.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 14, 2011 Friday 11:35 AM GMT

What really won Oldham East and Saddleworth for Labour?

BYLINE: By John McTernan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 631 words


Ed Miliband should be satisfied this morning. He won well enough, but not too
well. The swing of 10 per cent confirmed what the national polls have been
saying - Labour has got back the voters it lost in the long slide of
unpopularity after Iraq.

For all the talk of local factors and the Liberal vote holding up, Oldham East
and Saddleworth went as the nation went. It strengthens Ed that real votes cast
by real people mirror opinion polls so clearly. And it strengthens him more that
there was no tidal wave towards Labour. That means he can be assured that the
increase in Labour's support is real, not an electoral spasm. And he, his team
and the Shadow Cabinet can see just how big a task remains to consolidate and
grow that support. So, for Ed, to parrot a clich (and what are by-elections if
nor occasions for more clichss than a Cup Final) this is not the beginning of
the end, but the end of the beginning.

Nick Clegg may draw some crumbs of comfort from the fact that the Lib Dem vote
was the same proportion as it was in the General Election. Unfortunately the
swing to Labour meant that his candidate lost more decisively than even in 1997
at the peak of Labour's powers. And on a smaller turnout. That is a poor return
for the man who is by some length making the best, most thoughtful, well argued
speeches in the Cabinet.

Clegg has an analysis and a politics and a position now to promulgate them, but
it's not doing enough in the seats he has to win or win back. It's often
overlooked that the Liberal Democrats lost in the General Election very badly.
Not only did they fall back from the peak of the post-debate bubble, they
actually lost seats - mainly to the Tories. Oldham East and Saddleworth now
looks like a target seat too far for him if he can't close the gap on Labour
even with the complicity of Conservative Central Office actively seeking to lend
Tory votes to him.

David Cameron has the most to be gloomy about. This was a humiliating vote for
the Prime Minister, and it can't be explained by simply saying that "governments
don't win by-elections, oppositions do". After 1997 Tony Blair kept winning
by-elections and the Tories kept losing them. The apparent dominance of the
coalition derives from parliamentary arithmetic not popular consent. Worse was
the fact that Tory voters - so hard won between 2005 and 2010 - are apparently
so promiscuous. UKIP are back, saving their deposit and getting close to half
the votes of the Tories they showed that Right-wing voters have a choice. And
this is before votes for prisoners and new rights for terrorists, sorry, the
abolition of control orders. But some voters also jumped straight to Labour.
After both 1979 and 1997 voters who had switched to the Conservatives and Labour
respectively felt that they had made a major investment and stuck with it for
over a decade. Though the national polls seem to show a buoyancy in the Tory
vote it is actually quite brittle.

If I were in No 10 I would take no comfort at all from the fact that a lot of
Tories clearly voted Lib Dem to beat Labour. These northern and urban voters are
precisely the ones that Cameron needs if he is ever to govern on his own in the
future with a real Tory majority. It was the systematic loss of city seats and
Scottish seats that marked the death-knell for one-nation Toryism. It is now
relatively easy to sketch a future in which the Tories strengthen their grip on
the South-West at the expense of the Liberal Democrats, but they are denied any
further footholds in the North by the same Liberal Democrats. And a Lib Dem
parliamentary party post-2015 that is strong in Scotland, the North and London
is going to find it even harder to partner with the Tories. Another reason for
Ed Miliband to have a spring in his step this morning.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 14, 2011 Friday 8:28 AM GMT

A dreadful night for the Conservatives

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 106 words


This was a very good result for Labour and Ed Miliband - and better than
expected for the Liberal Democrats. It was a dreadul night for the
Conservatives. Mr Cameron may be pleased that his decision to run a half-hearted
campaign and offer good wishes to their candidate helped save the Liberals, but
Conservatives will be downcast.

The Liberals fought an excellent campaign and with the help of Mr Cameron they
avoided total disaster.

Oldham is not UKIP territory, but it can be pleased to have increased its vote
and put the BNP into fifth place. If the Tory leadership fails to support its
own candidate in future, UKIP is set to prosper.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 14, 2011 Friday 8:08 AM GMT

Talk about low expectations! Champagne corks are popping at Labour HQ because
they managed to hold on to a seat

BYLINE: By Toby Young

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 243 words


Gordon Bennett. Judging from the whooping and hollering of Debbie Abrahams'
supporters in Oldham East and Saddleworth, you'd think Labour had won a General
Election. In fact, they haven't even gained a seat. All they've done is hold on
to one - which is exactly what you'd expect the Opposition to do at a
by-election. I guess they're just relieved that they didn't lose. Ed Miliband's
leadership might not have recovered.

Here are the stats: LAB 14,718 (42%), CON 4,481 (12.8%), LIB DEM 11,160 (31.9%),
UKIP 2,543 (5.6%). Not great for the Tories, not catastrophic for the Lib Dems.
David Cameron will get some stick for only half-heartedly backing his own
candidate, but it would have been worse for the Coalition if the Lib Dem
candidate had been humiliated.

The ultra-modernisers in the Conservative Party may take some succor from this.
It proves, if proof were needed, that Labour are the beneficiaries of the
collapse of the Lib Dem vote. If the Lib Dems don't recover between now and the
next election, there's a strong case for an electoral pact or full-scale merger.
A new centre party - the Liberal Conservatives.

But it's a by-election and therefore meaningless. The real test of how all three
parties are doing will be the elections in May. There'll be little David Cameron
can do to spare Nick Clegg's blushes then. If the Lib Dems are routed on 1st May
- and the referendum on AV returns a "No" vote - the ultra-moderniser will have
a compelling case.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 13, 2011 Thursday 8:22 AM GMT

Tory MPs are expecting amazing results for UKIP in 2014

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 232 words


I was having a beer with Nigel Farage recently when he came out with a most
remarkable statement. "UKIP," he declared, "will win the next European
election."

Win? Win? Certainly, like most Conservatives, I'd love a UKIP victory if it
gives us some chance of ending our disastrous membership of the EU. But, come
off it, I thought, this must be the beer talking. Yes, UKIP came second in 2009,
but this was after the MPs' expenses scandal and it is still a minority party -
a protest vote. A UKIP victory, I told myself, is out of the question, however
much of a soft spot I have the party.

Until, that is, I spoke to some Tory MPs - and not Better Off Out MPs, but
run-of-the-mill Tories. I had expected them to say that Farage is mad or deluded
or just talking up his chances. Instead, when I relayed what Farage had said,
they looked crestfallen.

The Tories didn't think that Farage was promoting a deluded line at all, but
that the UKIP threat was a genuine worry. One expressed his fear that UKIP would
be extremely well funded, having secured Stuart Wheeler, who once gave 5 million
to the Conservatives, as their treasurer.

This ought, of course, to make the Tory leadership toughen up its lines on
Europe. But the politics of the Coalition mean that Cameron and company will
remain wet on Europe and that, come 2014, many of us who were once loyal Tories
will be lending our votes to Farage.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday

ANDREW ALEXANDER

LENGTH: 856 words


Column

PARANOIA AT THE HEART OF U.S. POLITICS

The killing spree in Tucson has set off a fierce debate about the harsh language
of U.S. politics. Does it promote violence? It is easy to connect the two. But
this has to be seen against two facts.

One is that violence has long been a part of the American way of life. We see it
today in gang wars, the worship of guns and the appetite for brutality on the
screen. The American folk hero was long the tough gunslinger. His more modern
counterpart is the bold cop whose role reaches a climax in a hail of gunfire and
corpses.

The second unpalatable fact is that a strong vein of paranoia runs through
American life. Conspiracy theories run riot there , as they always have. In the
1930s the racist Catholic priest, Father Coughlin, could attract radio audiences
of 30 million for his weekly attacks, especially on Jews and Freemasons. His
bishop refused to stop him until World War II.

Before him, the Ku Klux Klan could claim a membership as high as six million. In
the 1950s the rabid Senator McCarthy's witch hunt for Communists in the most
unlikely places made him a national hero.

Unfortunately paranoia has also been at the heart of American foreign policy
which bore fruit in Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan. If the North won in Vietnam,
ran Washington's claim, all South East Asia would 'go Communist'. It did win and
South East Asia remained intact. The prolonged invasion of Iraq was inspired by
Saddam's imagined Weapons of Mass Destruction.

Against this sort of background we need to ponder whether the Tucson slaughter
is all that much out of the ordinary. The language of political debate may be
fierce, as it has often been in the past, but we have to wonder whether it was
enough to tip a mentally unstable man over the edge and into massacre.

We should be fair. If our weapons laws were as casual as those in the U.S.,
various loonies here might well match the Tucson outrage. Even our much stricter
rules about gun ownership did not prevent the Hungerford massacre of 1987, which
left 16 people dead.

A further question is whether the ferocity of political debate in the U.S. spurs
on violence or whether it acts as a safety valve for dangerous extremists. What
would go on in the mind of a potential assassin if he thought that his
instinctive views were never voiced by anyone else?

Would he become more or less dangerous ? In the nature of things, this is an
unanswerable question.

What we can say is that it is foolish to suggest that Sarah Palin's metaphorical
gunsights , set on particular seats held by Democrats , inspired the Tucson
killer.

And there is one advantage in the violent language used by some eager supporters
of the Republican cause. It warns us that paranoia remains alive and well in the
U.S.

nWhat is it about Saddleworth that makes it an epicentre for convoluted
by-elections? Tomorrow the electors of Oldham East and Saddleworth will be
voting after a contest where the Tory leadership has played a very soft role. It
is seen locally as an invitation to Conservatives to vote for the Lib-Dem, a
very good second in the general election.

Some may remember the key by-election of 1963, where Saddleworth was a prominent
part of the old seat. The Tory Government hoped , no, prayed! , that
Conservatives would vote Labour. This was to keep out the Liberal who was within
range of defeating Labour.

It was tricky for the local Tory candidate who, as it happens, was me. The party
bigwigs were scared stiff because the Liberals had just won a series of
sensational by-elections in normally safe Conservative seats.

Now the appalling prospect arose that the Liberals, a good second last time,
would show that their party could also win a Labour seat.

They would then become unstoppable. It was a hard message to convey, especially
canvassing normally Tory voters who thought I might be quite pleased to know
they were switching to Liberal . . . anything to keep Labour out.

Well, it's not quite that straightforward, I would explain, or try to. Of
course, one could praise the Labour candidate's character , and be accused of
having too much generosity of spirit. And one could marvel at the foolishness of
Liberal Party policies. But it was a complicated business.

We just won, i.e., Labour got in. The Tory leadership heaved a huge sigh of
relief. I came bottom, as expected, and even required.

The Tory candidate in tomorrow's contest, third last time (I know how he must
feel), will have a difficult result. His life is made more complicated by Lord
Tebbit's suggestion that Tories should consider voting UKIP.

There is also a BNP candidate, likely to attract at least as many Labour as Tory
voters in an area much divided on immigration. However, (with some help from
greedy bankers) a hefty Labour win seems likely with or without a slump in the
Lib-Dem vote.

The Tory party should not get too worried about it. An Opposition win in a
by-election would be normal in an economy undergoing major surgery.

And if the Lib-Dems are routed, they will have every reason to cling ever more
closely to the Tories.

'Always keep a-hold of nurse, for fear of finding something worse.'

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU accounts 'full of fraud but auditors covered it up'

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 437 words


THE EU's financial watchdog has systemically "sabotaged" investigations and
caved in to intimidation from countries including France and Italy to cover up
fraud, according to a senior official.

Maarten Engwirda, a Dutch member of the European Court of Auditors for 15 years,
who retired 10 days ago, has alleged that abuse of EU funds was swept under the
carpet by an auditing body that was supposed to expose wrongdoing.

"There was a practice of watering down if not completely removing criticism," he
told the Volkskrant newspaper yesterday.

Slim Kallas, the European Commission's vice-president, who was responsible for
anti-fraud measures from 2004 to 2010 and is now the EU transport chief, is
accused of putting "heavy pressure" on investigators to tone down findings of
abuse.

Mr Kallas also clashed with the Court of Auditors over its use of strict
accounting standards which meant that, embarrassingly, the EU's annual accounts
have never been given a clean bill of health.

Mr Engwirda, 67, also described an endemic "cover-up culture" within the court
and wider EU institutions that had prevented the true extent of fraud from being
disclosed.

"All these abuses never came out into the open because of the Kremlin-style
information we provided. But it didn't enhance our reputation one bit," he said.
The former Dutch national auditor highlighted strong pressure from France to
bury a notorious fraud case involving the Fléchard dairy and abuse of EU butter
export subsidies worth tens of millions in the 1990s. "I had to threaten to
resign as head of the investigation and to inform the outside world," he said.

A spokesman dismissed any suggestion that the commission would be "stupid"
enough to interfere with the work of auditors during regular "close dialogue".

"The court is very glad to have this very fruitful dialogue and this has been
noted," he said. "There may well be dissenting voices, however we can only refer
to the position of the court as an institution and not people who have left."

Mr Kallas's spokesman has said that Mr Engwirda's opinion did not accord with
"the recollection of the work during that period at all".

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and a member of the European Parliament's budgetary
control committee, said she had come under "huge pressure to conceal the truth
about EU expenditure" before being sacked as the commission's chief accountant
for whistle-blowing in 2002. "I witnessed the arm twisting of the auditors each
time they attempted to reveal the failures in the EU accounting and control
systems," she said. "They came under huge pressure to keep the accountancy fraud
hushed up."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How 'Kremlin-style tactics are used to hide EU excess'

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 500  words


THE lid was lifted yesterday on the European Commission's grubby attempts to
cover up its unchecked finances which led to billions of pounds being
squandered.

A series of explosive revelations blast the EC's spending watchdog for its
"culture of cover-up" and "Kremlin-like" censorship of facts.

It was claimed the European Court of Auditors systematically tampered with the
figures in its annual fiscal report.

Former member Maarten Engwirda said that any criticism levelled at European
colleagues was usually "swept under the carpet".

The European Commission seemingly distanced itself from introducing a stricter
monitoring system, Mr Engwirda said in a Dutch newspaper.

Mr Engwirda, who was a member of the Court of Auditors for 15 years, also
claimed several countries, including France and Italy, often resorted to fraud
and intimidation in the national interest.

"All these misunderstandings never came out into the open because of the
Kremlinstyle manner of furnishing information, " he said. "But it certainly
didn't enhance our reputation one bit.

"There was a culture of cover-up. Nothing was said when colleagues tried to
muffle up criticism of their own countries when it came, for example, to
problems with subsidies paid."

Mr Engwirda said that in some cases the court's reports were being "sabotaged".
The auditors' role is to check the EU's 126.5billion euro (GBP 105billion) funds
are properly collected and legally spent.

Mr Engwirda, a former MEP with and leader of the pro-EU D66 party, said the
worst practices took place before 2004.

But he claims that in 2009 3.8billion euros (GBP 3.1billion) was incorrectly
spent. The Dutchman also suggested that there was pressure from the EU's
anti-fraud commissioner at the time, Siim Kallas, to "relax its standards".

The allegations add weight to the Daily Express crusade for Britain to leave the
EU.

Marta Andreasen, former European Commission Chief Accountant and UKIP MEP, said
last night: "The EU talks of transparency but crushes whistleblowers. It speaks
of probity but is a byword for financial corruption and waste.

As a political entity, the EU stinks to high heaven. All that surprises me about
the revelations of Mr Engwirda is that they did not come sooner."

She added: "When I was chief accountant of the EC I experienced huge pressure to
conceal the truth about EU expenditure and not voice any criticism. I can back
up what Mr Engwirda said as I witnessed the arm twisting of the auditors each
time they attempted to reveal the failures in the EU accounting and control
systems. They came under huge pressure to keep the accountancy fraud hushed up."
Mr Kallas is now Vice President of the commission.

His spokeswoman, Helen Kearns, said that is "not how Mr Kallas recalls the work
in that period". She said: "Very significant progress was made in that period
towards positive statements of assurance."

The Court of Auditors has refused to give the EU's spending a clean bill of
health for 16 years. The court was unavailable for comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Whistleblower Maarten Engwirda told of finance 'cover-up'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday

GUINNESSES REUNITED IN FAMILY CRYPT

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1144 words


EVEN by the eccentric standards of the British aristocracy, it marks a poignant
final chapter in a saga of love, money and reconciliation.

Thirty years ago, the separation of the Earl of Iveagh , the vastly rich boss of
the Guinness empire , and his glamorous countess was the talk of the shires.

But now, just days after Lady Iveagh, 70, succumbed to cancer , and 19 years
after her former husband passed away , their children have decided to reunite
the couple in death.

At the time of their separation, it was said that Lord Iveagh's love of the
family beverage was a prime factor in Scottish landowner's daughter and former
debutante Miranda Smiley leaving him after 21 years and four children.

It was also, indirectly, the reason why she subsequently ended up in the arms of
another wealthy man, Irishman Tony Ryan, founder of low-cost airline Ryanair.

But despite their divorce, relations between Benjamin and Miranda Iveagh
remained civilised, and when the Earl fell ill with cancer, it was his former
wife who nursed him until his death at the age of just 55.

Lady Iveagh, whose funeral takes place in London today at St George's Church,
Hanover Square, will be laid to rest alongside her former husband in the family
crypt at Elveden, the Guinnesses' 10,000-acre estate in Suffolk. Neither Miranda
nor Lord Iveagh married again after their divorce.

Miranda's romance with Tony Ryan lasted six years.

Afterwards, she bought Wilbury Park, a Palladian mansion near Salisbury,
Wiltshire, which is the former home of Tennessee Williams's literary executor,
Maria St Just, widow of Lord St Just.

'It was her children's wish , in particular her eldest son Arthur, who inherited
the title , that their parents, though separated in life, should be reunited,'
says a family friend.

The family crypt is in the graveyard of St Andrew and St Patrick's Church,
Elveden, near the vast stately home Elveden Hall, which has remained empty in
recent years.

It was the location for Stanley Kubrick's last film, Eyes Wide Shut, but the
current earl lives in a more manageable house elsewhere on the estate.

With Syrian-born arms dealer Wafic Said as her father, it was only a matter of
time before Rasha Said (pictured) demonstrated her entrepreneurial flair.

After finding her feet with the charity Kids Company, Cheltenham Ladies'
College-educated Rasha, 26, is starting her own business.

'It's still early stages, but I'm setting up an enterprise that for now can be
best described as a social-networking site,' she says.

'I am by no means an IT whizz, but because I want to run this company on my own,
I have taken to the books, studying all those necessary things I as yet do not
know.'

Rasha tells me that her big idea came to her some time before the release of
Hollywood film The Social Network, which chronicles the story of Facebook.

'Although I don't mind what people think, my company predates the film by a long
stretch,' she says.

'Whatever way it goes, it will be a win-win situation. If it's a success, I'll
have helped people. If it isn't, I'll have picked up invaluable experience. As
long as I've tried something new and been independent, I'm happy.' SHE was once
refused admission to the Queen's polo lawn at Windsor, but the red carpet will
be rolled out for Katie Price in Prince Charles's favourite ski resort this
month.

I can reveal that Katie, 32 , better known as glamour model Jordan , will be
guest of honour at the exclusive Berenberg snow-polo tournament in Klosters.

The socialites and bankers who pour into the village for the event should hold
no fear for Jordan, who once claimed to be bosom friends with the Queen's
granddaughter, Zara Phillips.

'I'm used to mixing with posh people,' she told me last year. Trust me, there
will be some very posh people in town , not forgetting the finance ministers and
economists from across the globe gathering in nearby Davos for the World
Economic Forum. She will certainly bring a dash of allure not usually seen in
staid Klosters.

Katie's fashion brand, KP Equestrian, is sponsoring the junior tournament. She
also tells me she will be playing a few chukkas herself on the ice-hard pitch.

A horse rider since the age of seven, Katie has taken part in dressage and has
even played polo alongside Prince Harry.

Front woman: Katie Price is guest-of-honour at the polo

FOUR years after falling out with his father , who has since died , and being
sacked from the family club, Annabel's, Robin Birley's dream of his own
exclusive venture has taken a giant step forward.

The Mayfair club, which as I revealed is to be called Rupert's after Robin's
brother, who drowned off the coast of Africa 25 years ago, is quietly taking
shape in Shepherd Market.

This is thanks to the efforts of Birley and his partner Hugh Warrender, who have
raised more than 625million to get the elaborate project off the ground.

Edgy Turkish-born designer Rifat Ozbek has been engaged to give the five-storey
club a contemporary feel, though there is bound to be a nod towards Annabel's,
which Robin's father Mark opened in Berkeley Square in 1963.

The new club , which will include bars, restaurant, bedrooms and an open-air
humidor, to get round the smoking ban , is scheduled to be ready for business
for a planned 1,200- strong membership by the autumn. Despite an on-going
romance with Susie Orbach , who was Princess Diana's psychotherapist , writer
Jeanette Winterson spent New Year with only her cats.

'Susie had gone on holiday with friends, and I really needed time to think,
walk, tidy up and plan,' says the Oranges Are Not The Only Fruit author, who
fell for Orbach 18 months ago, after her split from theatre director Deborah
Warner.

Fortunately, Jeanette, 51, was not lonely.

'I like being on my own,' she says. 'It was lovely to roar up the fire and have
a drink with the cats on my knees.' BBC honchos are still chewing over Emily
Maitlis's access-all-areas interview with touchy tycoon Donald Trump, which was
screened late last year. Despite asking the big question , about his comb-over
hairstyle , colleagues unkindly suggest glamourpuss Emily gave Trump an easy
ride. But what did the lothario hotelier think? 'Emily never heard from Trump
after the show aired, but he did FedEx a signed photograph of himself to her
home address,' I am told. What a smoothie!

PS

Bad news for David Cameron. He appears to have lost the support of one of his
most high-profile and glamorous supporters. Joan Collins, who rejoined the
Tories in 2005 after a brief fling with Ukip, has taken to Twitter to voice
doubts about the Coalition.

'These multi-millionaire bankers,' she tweets. 'Bonuses in UK are an absolute
aberration with petrol prices rising. What a government , I really hoped for
better.' The actress has never been afraid to express her views, once claiming
Labour 'don't care about the British people' and saying Cameron has 'a face like
a pudding'.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday

65M TORY DONOR DEFECTS TO UKIP

BYLINE: BY DANIEL MARTIN AND JAYA NARAIN

LENGTH: 241 words


A major Tory donor defected to the UK Independence Party yesterday.

Stuart Wheeler, a spread betting tycoon who once gave 65million to the
Conservatives, was unveiled as UKIP's new treasurer.

Although he was expelled from the Tory Party in 2009 for donating 6100,000 to
its Eurosceptic rivals, Mr Wheeler's decision to defect will still be a major
blow to David Cameron.

He said the Prime Minister faced the prospect of thousands of Tory voters
switching to UKIP.

'The Conservative Party was already very concerned about what UKIP is doing and
this will make David Cameron even more concerned,' he said.

'I left the Conservative Party because I was expelled for voicing my support for
UKIP. It was not my decision to get out of bed with the Conservative Party, it
was theirs.' Party leader Nigel Farage said: 'Our policies are now mainstream in
British politics: all that is holding us back is a lack of funds and I believe
that a highly respected Eurosceptic like Stuart will help us do the job.'

A spokesman for the Tories would only say: 'He left the Conservative Party two
years ago.'

MPs are today preparing for a crucial vote on an EU Bill in the Commons Z with
some Tory backbenchers threatening to rebel.

Eurosceptic Bill Cash has tabled amendments, saying the legislation does not
enshrine the supremacy of Parliament and gives the courts too much power.

Yesterday Labour leader Ed Miliband said his party would be voting against parts
of the EU Bill.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tory rebels step up fight to sabotage the EU Bill

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 450  words


ANGRY Conservatives last night intensified their revolt over Britain's
membership of the European Union ahead of crucial Commons votes tonight.

MPs are due to debate the full details of the Government's European Union Bill.

It is designed to prevent any further surrender of power from Westminster to
Brussels without a national referendum.

But Eurosceptic Tories are threatening to side with Labour in a bid to make the
measures far tougher.

Bill Cash, Conservative MP for Stone, Staffordshire, last night added an
amendment to the Bill seeking to make clear that Britain's sovereignty lies with
Parliament.

He said: "This Bill is in danger of creating ambiguities and the consequence
could end up being opposite to what the Government intends.

"It could end up weakening rather than strengthening the sovereignty of
Parliament and transfer more power to the judiciary. This legislation should be
about giving power to the people, not to European Court judges." A separate
amendment from Tory backbencher Peter Bone seeks to introduce a clause
triggering a national referendum on whether Britain should quit the EU if any
further treaty proposes surrendering more power.

Despite the growing discontent on Tory backbenches, Government whips were last
night relaxed about the debate. One Tory source said:

"It does not feel as if this rebellion has really caught alight." The European
Union Bill includes a "sovereignty clause" introducing the so-called "referendum
lock" promised in the Conservative election manifesto. This would oblige any
future government to hold a referendum before agreeing to a treaty that
transfers sovereignty to Brussels.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said David Cameron could not be
trusted after breaking his promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. He
said: "I bet this Bill will not be worth the paper it is written on. It will not
protect the sovereignty of the British Parliament against EU treaty commitments.
The only action that will restore parliamentary sovereignty is for Britain to
pull out of the political union that is the EU."

Critics have condemned the Bill as "smoke and mirrors", designed as a sop to
Eurosceptics. They fear it gives ministers too much discretion, allowing a
future government to cede power without a referendum.

But in an article at the weekend, Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "Only in
a few minor areas does it give the ministers of the day any discretion at all
about the calling of a referendum - and then only if they can persuade
Parliament and the courts that they are right."

Labour MPs are expected to vote against the clauses. Shadow Foreign Secretary
Yvette Cooper rubbished the proposals as a "dog's dinner".

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No surrender - Tories Bill Cash, left, and Peter Bone and Ukip's Nigel
Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UK 'must refuse to bail out Portugal'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 369  words


PRESSURE was mounting on Chancellor George Osborne last night to rule out any
British contribution to a possible GBP 66billion bail out for Portugal.

EU leaders are considering a rescue package after similar deals for Ireland and
Greece.

The threat that UK taxpayers could be forced to hand over cash to prop up
another failing euro zone nation prompted fury.

Though Treasury sources said a direct loan was "highly unlikely", Britain could
be liable via the International Monetary Fund and the GBP 50billion euro zone
"stability mechanism".

Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "It would be outrageous at a time of
dramatic cuts at home for us to be stumping up more money to bail out the euro.
If ministers had been on the job from day one of the Coalition, they would have
read the small print and seen that we were in danger of being liable for the
euro zone's failures.

"They weren't - and we are now all paying the price." And Matthew Sinclair of
the TaxPayers' Alliance described the euro zone as "a fiscal car crash".

He added: "At some point we are going to have to accept that we are throwing
good money after bad. The Government needs to reject this bail out."

UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "We should not be writing a
blank cheque to Portugal. Why is the EU bailing out the bad students instead of
sanctioning them?"

The prospect of a third euro zone bail out came after speculation that Portugal
could be forced to accept emergency loans and financial support of up to
80billion euros (GBP 66billion) in days.

Tomorrow the Portuguese government is due to issue GBP 1billion in bonds in a
bid to raise extra cash. But investors warn the auction will worsen the
country's debt crisis.

France and Germany are both understood to be keen to help Portugal to stop a
financial panic that could lead to a fourth bail out, this time of Spain.

Portugal says it doesn't need help but similar denials were issued by Ireland
and Greece.

Labour Shadow Chancellor Alan Johnson said: "The first call must be on the euro
area.

Ireland was different because we have close connections.

"Portugal doesn't fall into that category and it is up to the euro area to look
at a bail out before any involvement by the UK."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip snaps up GBP 5m donor to Tories

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 339  words


ANTI-EU party Ukip got a massive boost yesterday when it signed a
multi-millionaire former Tory donor to run its finances.

Spread-betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler gave the Conservatives a gift of GBP
5million in 2001 - believed to be the biggest single political donation ever
made in Britain.

Mr Wheeler was expelled by David Cameron in 2009 after donating GBP 100,000 to
Ukip in protest at the Tories' stance on Brussels.

He has since given another GBP 253,000.

He went on to found the Trust Party to restore faith in politics after the
expenses scandal and stood unsuccessfully in a Tory stronghold at last year's
general election.

Now he has joined Ukip as treasurer, in charge of fundraising and finances.

Unveiling the move while campaigning for Thursday's Oldham East and Saddleworth
by-election, party leader Nigel Farage said: "Our policies are now mainstream
and potentially we have enormous electoral support. All that is holding us back
is a lack of funds and I believe a highly respected Eurosceptic like Stuart will
help us do the job."

Mr Wheeler commented: "Being a member of the EU is costing people of this
country so much they will be better off out." He strongly backed the Daily
Express crusade to get Britain out. Writing in this newspaper last November, he
welcomed the launch of our crusade as "wonderful news".

He wrote: "I brought a court action to try to force the Labour government to
keep its promise to have a referendum on what is now called the Lisbon Treaty,
and I got myself expelled from the Conservative party, in spite of having been
their biggest donor, for supporting and voting for Ukip.

"But having a respected national newspaper coming out for leaving the EU will
make all the difference."

Last week Tory grandee Lord Tebbit urged Oldham voters to back Ukip's Paul
Nuttall to help push the Lib Dems into fourth place at Thursday's by-election.

Labour is bookies' favourite. Labour exminister Phil Woolas narrowly beat the
Lib Dems at the general election but was stripped of the seat for lying about
his rival.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anti-EU crusader Stuart Wheeler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 11, 2011
                                 First Edition

Disillusioned Tory donor joins Ukip;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Daniel Bentley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 153 words


Former Tory donor Stuart Wheeler has joined the UK Independence Party (Ukip) as
its treasurer, it was announced today.

The multi-millionaire spreadbetting tycoon gave £5 million to the Conservative
Party in 2001, but became disillusioned with David Cameron over Europe.

He was expelled from the Tories in 2009 after endorsing and giving money to Ukip
, which campaigns for Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. Ukip leader
Nigel Farage said the recruitment of Mr Wheeler as treasurer would help the
party to "raise serious money".

Mr Wheeler, who founded the IG Index in 1974, said: "I believe what they are
doing is absolutely crucial to our country. Being a member of the EU is costing
people of this country so much they will be better off out."

Speaking in Oldham East and Saddleworth, where a by-election is to be held on
Thursday, Mr Farage said Ukip was the only party that "represents the people of
the UK".

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

DIAMOND'S POUNDS 8M CUT;
OUTRAGE AT BARCLAYS CHIEF'S BONUS AS BANK AVOIDS POUNDS 1BN TAX

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE; JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 899 words


BARCLAYS boss Bob Diamond today faces a savage mauling from MPs over his pounds
8million bonus.

The super-rich banker - once branded the "unacceptable face" of banking - will
be grilled on why he is taking the massive payout while the rest of the country
struggles in austerity Britain.

The bonus is on top of his pounds 1.35million annual salary and part of pounds
2.5billion Barclays is considering handing out to its senior staff.

Mr Diamond's showdown with MPs comes after David Cameron refused to punish banks
which hand out bumper payouts.

"The banks are there to support the economy through lending," said Mr Cameron's
spokesman.

Mr Cameron's refusal to act came as he suffered the body blow last night of
multi-millionaire Stuart Wheeler - the man who gave the Tories pounds 5million
in 2001, Britain's biggest ever political donation - defecting to the UK
Independence Party.

American-born Mr Diamond, 59, who has raked in pounds 75million in the past five
years, will also face tough questions on Barclays' use of tax havens.

The most recent figures show the bank has 143 companies in the Cayman Islands,
which potentially allows it, and the firms it represents, to dodge millions of
pounds a year in UK tax.

Barclays Group is alleged to be making about pounds 1billion a year from its web
of financial schemes which help it avoid tax in Britain and abroad.

Mr Diamond is paid via an American-based subsidiary so he can keep his lavish US
healthcare benefits. There is no question that he has ever avoided paying full
tax in the UK and the US.

When he faces the all-party Commons Treasury select committee today MPs will
quiz chief executive Mr Diamond over his claim that his multimillion pound
package is "appropriate" when the rest of Britain is struggling with the
Tory-led Government's austerity measures.

Britain's best paid banker, Mr Diamond is entitled to claim a total package of
pounds 11.25 million this year - pounds 3.75 million in bonuses of which 20% is
paid in cash - and pounds 7.5 million in long-term incentives.

But industry sources say he is expected to claim around pounds 8 million. Mr
Diamond waived his bonus last year but recently said it was "appropriate" this
year and that the time for "gestures" has passed.

Labour MP and Treasury select committee member Chuka Umunna said: "Mirror
readers will want to know that these banks recognise the support the taxpayer
has provided them and they are prepared to pay a fair share towards reducing the
country's debts which they caused.We want Diamond to acknowledge the pounds
1.2trillion the taxpayer has put into the finance sector to enable banks like
his to function."

The bonus season for City fatcats kicks off on Friday when the US bank JP
Morgan, which employs 11,000 people in Britain, is expected to lavish pounds
4.4billion on staff salaries, benefits and performance-related pay. But all eyes
will be on state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland, whose chief executive Stephen
Hester, 49, is poised to pocket pounds 2.5 million in bonus pay.

Lloyds TSB's Eric Daniels is in line for pounds 2.3 million, HSBC's Mike
Geoghegan pounds 4 million and Standard Chartered's Peter Sands pounds 2.3
million.

In total, the London based investment banks are set to pay out pounds 7 billion
in bonuses including more than 1,500 payments of at least pounds 1 million.

Mr Cameron yesterday refused to order the banks to scrap the pay deals. A
spokesman said they wanted the banks to show some "restraint and responsibility"
but added: "We are not going to set bonus pools for individual banks."

And Nick Clegg would only meekly call on the finance houses to "show some
sensitivity".

Labour leader Ed Miliband demanded that ministers extend the windfall tax on
bankers' bonuses which raised pounds 3.5billion last year.

He said the Government had given the banks a "tax cut" by imposing a levy which
would only raise pounds 1.5billion while also giving them a corporate tax cut
worth at least pounds 2.5billion. "It is unfair and it is wrong economic
judgment to be cutting taxes for the banks at a time when everybody else is
paying more," Mr Miliband said.

RMT general secretary Bob Crow last night blasted the government saying: "If you
want to see the class war mentality of this elitist Government of millionaires
look no further than their attempts to force pay freezes on nurses and other
public service staff while there's a bonus bonanza ripping through the City.

"RMT members didn't create this crisis and those that did are laughing all the
way to the bank. We will fight for pay deals that protect members' standards of
living and we will take no lectures about austerity from the Government or
employers while the boardrooms and bordellos of the City are awash with our
cash."

And David Hillman of the Robin Hood Tax campaign said: "Bob Diamond's pay
package alone could have funded 540 junior doctors."

LABOUR has opened up an eight-point lead over the Tories as the pain of tax
rises and cuts bite, a poll reveals today. The party is on 42%, up three points
on last month in the survey by ComRes, with the Conservatives down three on 34%
and the Liberal Democrats up one on 12%.

pounds 40,000 Cost of hiring private jet for trips between London and New York

pounds 20MILLION London home Diamond sold for a pounds 10m profit

pounds 15MILLION The banker's family home in Massachusetts

pounds 12MILLION Diamond has exclusive New York apartment

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUMPER BONUS Bob Diamond is smiling all the way to the bank HAVEN
Barclays have 143 companies in the Cayman Islands

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wheeler joins UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 57 words


Stuart Wheeler, a former donor to the Conservative Party, joined the UK
Independence Party as its treasurer. The multimillionaire founder of IG Index, a
spreadbetting company, was expelled from the Tory party in 2009 for his support
of UKIP. Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said that Mr Wheeler would now help his
party to "raise serious money".

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 10, 2011 Monday 11:58 AM GMT

Like it or not, we must find common ground with British Muslims who stand up to
fanatics

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1318 words


My blog post on the Oldham by-election drew some very strong reactions, not
least from those who do not believe that Muslims can integrate and remain at
peace with others who do not share their religion.

I understand those fears and have long said that multiculturalism is a dangerous
concept of society.It riskscreating the climate for a struggle for supremacy
between incompatible cultures. There are not many examples in the world of
peacable, prosperous well-ordered multicultural societies and all too many of
civil wars.

Amongst the long-standingpopulation of this kingdom there is a weakening of
faith in the Christian religion upon which our culture and our society is based.
Indeed many of the new political and intellectual classes are hostile to the
Church and faith-based ethics, but seem to have difficulty in defining any
convincing reason for their moral constructs which seem woollier than an average
happy-clappy sermon.

Mostly it seems that this rather characteristic British muddle leaves many Jews,
Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs and assorted animists able to rub along with the
majority of Christians and post-Christians.Probably the fact that their numbers
are relatively small helps as much as anything else.However, it leaves us in a
weak position when facing a culture based on a religion with many passionate
adherents.

Our Muslim minority is in a rather different position. It is quite large and
growing and many of its adherents hold their views very strongly and take
literally the injunctions of the Koran on how non-believers should be regarded.
At present, the front line between aggressive Islamists and the host
populationlies principally on the boundaries between the historically
working-class white areas and the immigrant enclaves.

As a result, manyformer traditional Labour voters displaced by, or under
pressure from immigrant settlers, have either opted out of politics or
gravitated towards the BNP, and Labour politicians from those front line areas
are becoming increasingly concerned at the tensions building up.

Not many rational people would condemn Jack Straw as a racial bigot, but his
remarks on the attitude of some young Muslims of Pakistani origin towards white
women would until now have come only from spokesmen for the BNP. Nor, I think
would have one expected until recently to find on a New Statesman blog an
article like that posted recently by Medhi Hasan in which he quotes extensively
from Professor Pervez Hoodbhoy's article "Why do they pick on us
Pakistanis?"which is a plea for Pakistani Muslims to understand the culture of
the host society in which they live.

There are Muslims out there seeking an accommodation with our society. They may
not be able to defeat the Islamist fanatics, but we would be foolish to reject a
hand held out in understanding and reconciliation. There is common ground to be
found and the alternative is far from attractive.It must however be made clear
that there can be no possibility of any legal status for Sharia. Law is a matter
for the state, not the Church nor Mosque. Nor should there be any recognition of
polygamy, nor toleration of forced or child marriage.

But we must not fail to look at the defects of our own society. A young Muslim
man looking over the ghetto wall on a Friday or Saturday nightin a northern
urban areaand seeing the flower of English youth, drunk, vomiting, urinating,
fighting and copulating in the street might well ask himself whether it wasa
society worth joining.

There is some hard thinking to be done on both sides of what is becoming a
dangerous divide.

...

I realise that it is rather early in the year to announce the post of the year,
but I thought that the suggestion of rastusctastey to ask a friendly EU state to
take the suspected terrorists subject to control orders off our hands by way of
the European Arrest Warrants (which require no evidence) and keep them locked up
without evidence or charge for years on end in their jails has about it the mark
of genius.

That is more than I can say about some of the exchanges here over the last few
days.

It is all very well of scrivens to feel upset, but if he reads what I wrote he
will find it self-evidently true.He does put what he sees as the rights of
suspected terrorists to go about freely ahead of the rights of the undoubted
innocents not to be murdered or maimed. He has a perfect right to hold that
view, as Ido not to share it.He does not even have to explain why he seems to
think that those engaged in the protection of British people, including those of
Asian origins,from being blown to bits on buses, the tube or in aircraft would
make up unfounded accusations against alleged innocent people.

Howvever, I do worry about his judgment.He felt it right to accuse bella for
being "obsessed with the idea of bearded dark-skinned men being protected".Of
course bella had not mentioned bearded dark-skinned men, so I have to wonder who
is obsessed.

He believes my brains are addled, that I am not qualified to write about these
matters because my wife and I (and I might add a number of my friends) have
suffered at the hands of terrorists. By the same rerasoning Jews have no
standing to criticise Hitler, nor Palestinians to criticiseIsraeli settlers who
have stolen their land. Mind you, I got off lightly from infidel who
merelythinksthat I have a "total lack of intelligence" and that I am a
"Gestapo-like rabid authoritarian" and even more lightly from highlandjock who
found me to be just "mentally challenged", whereas poor bersher was denounced as
a paranoid schizophrrenic for agreeing with me.

I hope I will be forgiven for doubting whether any of that (and there was plenty
more like it) contributed a great deal to raising the standards of debate.

It was wearisome to find that the infidel still harbours the delusion that
Hitler was a right winger despite being the leader of the German National
Socialist Workers' Party. It was then weak-sans-vin who smugly asked: if Hitler
was Left-wing, why did he not join with Stalin? As imarcher pointed out, he did,
as every Pole remembers.

I have already referred to thestresses imposed on society by the misguided
doctrine of multiculturalism and the Blair plan to break our society into
warring factions.I think that bob 3 summed up my feelings when he wrote that if
he could go back 60 years towhen we had grammar schools but no immigrants, and
no EU, he would... and so would I, but as he said we have to deal with the
situation as it is.I was sorry to find myself in disagreement with many of you
who are usually on my side.However, we either seek to absorb those of other
cultures, and they have to be prepared to be absorbed or there is nothing but
tears ahead.The odds may be against us.It may requireus, the inheritors of a
culture based on a religion no longer widely practised, to ask ourselves some
very difficult questions about the moral authority which buttresses our society,
but sloganising our way out of our problems is unlikely to work.

Asto the by-election itself, I noted the depressingbookies' odds quoted by john
the bearcub.However, I fancy that a couple of thousand on any of the candidates
would change those odds a lot.Anyway, we have only a few days to wait for the
result.

It was boudicca who thought that what I wrote was "as close to an endorsement of
UKIP as we'll get" and aptitude speculated that I might wish UKIP could win and
I do not think it wise to comment on that, whilst lord-tarquin rightly drew some
hope for the Tories from the general election result

Finally, I would recommend the quite long post on Friday at 11.05by darkseid It
is well worth reading.Phil Kean suggested that I face a dilemmain remaining in
the Tory Party andI should thank dougie for what he said about my motives in
doing so.He is right.I do not want to be driven out by recent immigrants from
other partiestrying to replace our traditional culture and values.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                January 9, 2011
                                 First Edition

The Feral Beast

SECTION: Pg. 80

LENGTH: 489 words


Crick sticks with Uncle Rupert

Next time you see Michael Crick (top) reporting on Rupert Murdoch's bid to
takeover BSkyB, bear this in mind: he is himself a shareholder. Newsnight's
political editor has admitted owning thousands of pounds worth of News
Corporation shares, and 100 shares in BSkyB, calling them "relics from the days
when I was writing a never-published book on Murdoch". The question is, why has
he still got them? "Because it's a bit of a fag to sell just 100 BSkyB shares,
and any foreign shares," he tells me, slightly lamely. "They are all declared on
BBC declaration of interests forms. The numbers are exceedingly trivial. And
most things we do in life involve potential conflicts of interest. Am I
disqualified from reporting on the NHS if I might need it?" But you can't buy
shares in the NHS, Michael.

It's your pull-out pull-out...

Express readers are this weekend being treated to a 24-page pull-out called "Get
Us Out Of The Euro". With such an unambiguous message, surely it might appeal to
UKIP? Indeed so: their leader, Nigel Farage (middle), has penned a piece for it.
But any suggestion that the party, or Farage himself, is making a financial
contribution to distribute this useful propaganda kit is, I'm assured, wide of
the mark. "It's true that we've taken out an advert on Sunday and on Monday,"
says a UKIP spokesman, "and it would have been great for UKIP to do more. But
the Express is trying to maintain some degree of independence."

Hacks at odds on hacking

News that police have asked the News of the World for more evidence on phone
hacking following their suspension of news editor Ian Edmondson heaps fresh
embarrassment on the red top. But the ordure is not theirs alone. It will have
caused a few red faces at the Daily Mail, which on Friday ran a news story
headlined: "Yard rules out fresh probe into hacking". It was especially odd
given The Daily Telegraph story that day headlined: "Police set to reopen phone
hacking case".

Why so churlish, chaps?

Is the Telegraph's normally excellent Mandrake column becoming a mouthpiece for
aggrieved executives? In recent days it has run three savage attacks on
journalists who had the temerity to question the paper's Lib Dem sting. Robert
Peston, Jonathan Isaby and Jan Moir all got it with both barrels, most
unpleasantly Moir for her weight. On all three occasions, the paper omitted to
mention these are all former Telegraph writers. TheTel is happy to dish it out -
why can't they take it?

The critic who ate his words

Baz Bamigboye (bottom), the Daily Mail's showbiz expert, has been railing
against the West End musical Legally Blonde since it opened. "A pile of goo" and
a "toxic blancmange" he calls it, predicting it wouldn't run more than a year.
It has, so hats off to him for donating £100 to the Actors' Charitable Trust,
and for being photographed eating his hat, albeit a rather tasty sponge one,
knocked up by cake maker Jane Asher.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

A bone to pick I [...];
POINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 119 words


A bone to pick I read with much interest Dominic Lawson's rather sad piece on
pets ("Why cry? It's only a pet we've put down", Comment Online, last week).
Lawson obviously does not understand the relationship between a man and his dog.
Dogs, admittedly, are self-centred beasts but no more, in my experience, than
children. That great, muchmissed theologian George Austin, when I asked him if
animals had a soul, answered with much diplomacy and wisdom: "When and if I get
to heaven, I would be surprised and disappointed if I did not find my old dog
waiting for me and wagging his tail." Says it all. But then if you are not a dog
person - poor Dominic. Godfrey Bloom UKIP MEP for Yorkshire and North
Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A bone to pick;
POINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 118 words


I read with much interest Dominic Lawson's rather sad piece on pets ("Why cry?
It's only a pet we've put down", Comment, last week). For the past 25 years I
have reserved my sympathy for a colleague who told me he "did not understand
opera". Lawson obviously does not understand the relationship between a man and
his dog. That great, much-missed theologian George Austin, when I asked him if
animals had a soul, answered with much diplomacy and wisdom: "When and if I get
to heaven, I would be surprised and disappointed if I did not find my old dog
waiting for me and wagging his tail." Says it all. But then if you are not a dog
person - poor Dominic.

Godfrey Bloom UKIP MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Time to close the border to immigration;
GET BRITAIN OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: FEATURES; 07

LENGTH: 893  words


THERE was a time when the impact of European Union membership on Britain's
immigration system was limited despite its law allowing free movement of people
across its entire domain. However, that all changed when Brussels decided to
"enlarge" its empire.

Previously there had been a modest net inflow of people from other EU nations to
Britain. While the EU was confined to industrially advanced countries with
similar living standards and levels of welfare provision such as Germany, France
and Holland, the scale of the influx was small.

But when the EU began to expand southwards and eastwards absorbing countries
with much lower standards of living the inevitable happened with the populations
of those countries beginning to migrate in very large numbers to the richer EU
member states of Western Europe. Since many had English as a second language
Britain became their destination of choice.

In the run-up to the massive EU enlargement of 2004, which absorbed most of the
nations of Eastern Europe, the Daily Express warned repeatedly that Britain
would be inundated with migrants.

The last government insisted this newspaper was scaremongering and predicted
only 13,000 incomers would arrive. In the event as many as a million Poles,
Czechs and other Eastern Europeans pitched up in Britain, just as we had warned.
Since then the even poorer nations of Romania and Bulgaria have joined the EU,
allowing their citizens to settle in Britain, too.

Yet all our so-called "mainstream" political parties are now supporting the bid
of Turkey to join the EU.

Such a move would give 70 million mainly Muslim foreign nationals the right to
live and work in Britain.

Even if only a small fraction took up the opportunity, immigration could still
soar by millions, swamping many of our towns and cities.

Countries currently in the EU are already busily issuing passports to people
from outside it, entitling them to settle in Britain. When the Dutch issued
passports to large numbers of people who had arrived from Somalia, around 20,000
used their new status to move to Britain.

Meanwhile, Hungary is offering passports to millions of ethnic Hungarians who
live outside its borders, while it is estimated that a million Moldovans have
already been given passports by Romania.

In effect, Romanian and Hungarian politicians have more say over who can come to
the UK than do British MPs.

A report by the left-of-centre Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) found
the Conservatives will not be able to fulfil their pledge of reducing net
immigration from the hundreds of thousands to the tens of thousands because of
an expected upsurge in migration from other EU countries.

The IPPR forecasts that the net level of migration is unlikely to fall much
below 200,000 over the next 12 months as more people arrive from struggling
European countries such as Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece. There will also
be a continuing inflw from Eastern Europe, including the Baltic states of
Lithuania and Latvia.

"If you want the British people to decide who comes to live, work and settle in
this country then the choice is clear, we must leave the EU, " said UKIP leader
Nigel Farage. "With the failing euro we will continue to see the trend of the
past few years, non-EU migration falling and EU migration rising. The
immigration that we have absolutely no control over is the very area we need to
control and yet the Government seems unwilling even to discuss it."

Philip Davies, Conservative MP for Shipley, added: "Any attempt to tackle
immigration, asylum or to maintain the independence of our justice system is
spitting in the wind while Britain remains a member o f the EU. We simply have
not got control over our own borders and will not regain it unless we leave the
EU."

With unemployment in Britain having risen sharply and vacancies having fallen in
the recession, many British youngsters are struggling to find work and face
beginning their adult life on the dole. A new wave o f EU migration will further
harm their prospects of finding a job.

The same is true of long-term benefit recipients due to be moved back into the
workforce under government plans for welfare reform.

In 2007 a poll conducted by ComRes found that 80 per cent o f people would vote
to leave the EU i f it meant Britain could once again control immigration.

Last month the Open Europe think tank warned that EU bureaucrats aim to snatch
even greater control over Britain's immigration system.

Proposals being discussed in Brussels at the moment envisage a "Common European
Asylum System" that could lead to Britain bein g forced to accept a new quota o
f asylum seekers under plans for "burden sharing" across the EU.

The European Commission is committed to "establishing a mechanism to review the
member states' national asylum systems and identify issues related to capacities
which will enable member states to support each other in buildin g capacity, "
says one EU document.

Open Europe's report warns that "the creation of a burden-sharin g mechanism for
the reception o f asylum seekers would fundamentally alter the UK's control over
its borders and in practice would be almost impossible to reverse".

In the coming years it seems inevitable that public disquiet about excessive
immigration will become a prime source of criticism of the EU.

Only by pulling out can Britain properly address the issue.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MARCHING IN: Asylum seekers in the French port town of Calais looking
to find a way across the Channel to Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Forget the EU, we must forge stronger links with the Commonwealth;
GET BRITAIN OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: By Winston McKenzie Former boxer, London mayoral candidate and UKIP
spokesman for Culture, Media and Sport

SECTION: FEATURES; 10

LENGTH: 986  words


I ARRIVED in this, the mother country, from Jamaica in 1961 when I was five
years old.

Commonwealth countries have a specific attitude towards the mother country. We
adore our Queen and the hospitality and attention offered by Commonwealth
nations is known to be warm and welcoming. Seldom do you hear the English
complain that they did not feel welcome on holiday within the Commonwealth.

The night I set foot on British soil with my brother Clinton we were on a
mission to join the rest of the family in London. We boarded the coach taking us
to the airport "acceptance area" where we would meet my father Dudley for the
first time. As the coach slowed I saw this man waving wildly at me. I was
petrified.

"What does he want?" I asked.

My dad held my hand but I bolted.

If you thought Linford Christie was fast you should have seen me run.

Eventually I was collared by a beautiful blonde stewardess. "Hello, " she said,
"And where are you going?"

I replied in my patois accent, "I'm running away from that man." Tears were
streaming down my face. The lady was kind and I thought "Wow!"

I have loved blondes ever since.

I grew up in Croydon in a family of six brothers and one sister who was as tough
as any of us. We were all alpha males and my dad ruled with a steely attitude.

To this day I am proud of my father. He and my mother Daphne gave me the start I
needed to face life's ups and downs. They produced four champion boxers and a
second generation Premiership footballer.

W HEN I joined the UK Independence Party (UKIP) people would often ask, "Why? It
is a single issue party." But the general public is not informed of the issues.
UKIP has since held two leadership elections, the second quite recently in which
I was a candidate and I have now been appointed spokesman for Culture, Media and
Sport.

I commend the Daily Express for having such foresight to launch its anti-EU
crusade, as this is a fight for freedom and must be open to public debate.

It is a fight that must be won. In boxing terms, they say "jab and move or
you'll be hit".

I believe that one day this country and all its inhabitants, with our vast
knowledge of survival, skill and resilience, shall be free from the domination
of the EU.

Recently I have been diagnosed with cataracts: a constant thin cloud blurring
the vision. It can be corrected with a simple operation that is over in minutes.
This nation's vision is clouded. We need new lenses to see the issues clearly.

Having survived two world wars we now find ourselves under a dictatorship with
some 72 per cent of our laws being created by Brussels. The imposing might of
faceless bureaucrats, who appear like thieves in the night, is costing the
British taxpayer some GBP 8.2billion net per annum.

What happened to democracy?

This once great nation will very soon find itself bringing up the rear with no
drive or ambition to win.

Commonwealth nations share a common language, legal and democratic systems and
account for a third of the world's population and a quarter of world trade.

Some of the world's largest, smallest, richest and poorest countries make up the
Commonwealth and are home to over two billion citizens of all faiths and
ethnicities.

It is a voluntary organisation of 54 countries that were supposed to support
each other and work together towards shared goals in democracy and development.

It is UKIP's policy to establish an alternative to the EU, a Commonwealth Free
Trade Area (CFTA) that would enable all countries to trade freely with Britain
without the exorbitant tariffs imposed by the EU.

It is vital that trade deals between Britain and the Commonwealth are
reinvigorated. Jamaica, which prides itself on its bananas and sugar cane, and
Ghana, for its tomatoes, are losing their livelihoods to the subsidised policies
of the EU.

The Commonwealth Business Council estimates that a CFTA would account for more
than 20 per cent of all international trade and investment, facilitating annual
trade exchanges worth more than GBP 1.1trillion and direct foreign investment
worth GBP 64billion.

Why has the Commonwealth been so shamefully neglected and betrayed by British
governments? India, an aspiring and great Commonwealth nation, will soon become
the second largest world economy. We should be proud.

Britain should not be tied to the dead weight of the European Union. There are
more than 125,000 EU directives and regulations in force in the UK, including
the European Court of Justice and EU Arrest Warrant, which beggars belief.

Our Queen's silhouetted head printed on postage stamps and the Royal Mail are
part of our sovereignty and way of life. Legislation to pave the way for a
sell-off (more than likely to Germany) must be abandoned with immediate effect.

The original concept of the then Common Market was just that. A friendly trade
agreement between neighbouring countries, joining together in peace after the
Second World War. This has turned into a complete takeover of our way of life, a
United States of Europe. What happened to the Commonwealth?

We should be doing more to promote sporting events. The Commonwealth Games is
the third largest multi-sport event in the world. They are known as "the
friendly games" and are seen in the eyes of many budding sportsmen and women of
all nations as the starting block to greater things.

Sport would benefit immensely from the knock-on financial effect o f the
reinvigoration of trade between Britain and the Commonwealth.

Dignitaries from the latter that I have interviewed recently insist they need:
"Trade not aid".

We must champion our Commonwealth. We have so little to gain but so much to lose
by being a member of the EU. Yet our ties with the Commonwealth are diminishing.

Those who originate from the Commonwealth are not aware of the implicit damage
the EU has caused to their native lands. We are runnin g out of time. Soon we'll
be runnin g scared in our own country.

It takes a revolution to make a solution.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BORN FIGHTER: Former boxer Winston believes Britain needs to hit back
GOOD TIMES: The recent Indian Commonwealth Games point the way forward
BANANAS: The EU hurts Commonwealth nations like Jamaica

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We must all stand proud and put the Great back into Britain;
GET BRITAIN OUT OF THE EU

SECTION: FEATURES; 18

LENGTH: 1545  words


YOU have flooded the Daily Express with your messages of support for our great
crusade to take Britain out of the EU.

Your verdict on the EU is damning. The vast majority see Brussels as a
bureaucratic monster that swallows our taxes, takes liberties with our laws and
way of life and provides little of substance or benefit in return

OUR crusade will not only rid us of the EU yoke that is around our necks but
will honour the memory of those who gave their lives in two world wars for our
freedom.

We have suffered too much under the heel of an undemocratic Brussels.

Enough is enough.

Tom Collins, Stansted, Essex

THANK you for your front-page headline and leader ("Britain must take back
control of its destiny", November 25).

The Daily Express has summarised what many of us know to be true but many of our
arrogant politicians and bureaucrats refuse to accept.

Referendums on major national issues would lead to better decisionmaking all
round. Those in authority don't have a monopoly on good sense.

Let's hope that your crusade develops the momentum to get us out of the EU.

David Carrington, Chester

GOOD luck with your crusade to get Britain out of the EU.

Now the Daily Express needs to muster an enormous groundswell of public support
and opinion and adopt an aggressive (though non-violent) attitude in its
dealings with our elected leaders so that they sit up and take notice.

This issue should be debated and our hopes and fears aired, as from the time of
Edward Heath through to the present day, successive governments have ignored our
opinions.

I suspect the coalition Government will keep on surrendering our nation bit by
bit to the EU instead of standing up to it until there is no UK to govern as an
independent entity.

Peter Morrison, Bedford

Doctor Protu Atang, 69, a retired surgeon from Kingston, Surrey

For years Britain has been isolated anyway. I don't see what we gain by being in
the EU.

We're paying more out when we should be concentrating on our own country, and
the human rights regulations are barmy. When you look how cushty prisoners get
things now it encourages crime. I think we should come out and stand on our own.

I WOULD like to add my thanks to the Daily Express for having the courage to
speak out over Britain and the EU.

What a state of affairs when it's left up to a national newspaper to do what is
necessary because our MPs simply don't possess the courage to stand up for their
constituents.

The sooner we get out of the EU the better and I am sure the majority agree with
me.

In addition, I am appalled that five major transfers of power to Brussels have
taken place since the coalition Government came to power in May.

Under the EU Bill the Government will not have to hold a referendum on the
transfer of power to Brussels if ministers consider the changes as being "not
significant".

This is unacceptable given that the Labour government reneged on a promise to
give us a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

Marie Norminton, Middlesbrough

GOOD work by the Daily Express for launching your call for Britain to quit the
EU.

Maybe now, at last, the people of this country can get the politicians to scrap
our membership of this corrupt, inward-looking organisation that offers us no
discernible benefit and has never done so.

Let us follow the example of Norway and Switzerland and instead become only
trading partners with Europe.

I believe this country would then undergo a renaissance in various areas,
including justice, social cohesion and fiscal responsibility.

Terry Spooner, Harlow, Essex

THE elephant in the room has been revealed and we implore you to tell all in
Government that it is time to remove their rose-tinted EU spectacles, make haste
to get us out of Europe and commence negotiations for a Commonwealth free trade
area without delay.

Chris Watkin, By email

I WAS near delirious with joy to see that a national paper has had the courage
to publish the unprintable: that the EU is the root cause of all our woes.

Hopefully others will follow suit, in particular the BBC. It will give heart to
UKIP to continue and may force the other parties to take notice of anger against
politicians.

W McGeary, Dumfries

I'VE only recently returned to the UK after nearly 40 years spent overseas.

Could somebody please explain to me the advantages (if any) of us being in the
EU?

It seems to me, as a comparative outsider, that we're throwing vast amounts of
money into a system which is giving us nothing in return except totally
irrelevant regulations.

Davie Kerr, Lochaber, Scotland

IT is unbelievable that Brussels bureaucrats are pouring billions of pounds of
taxpayers' cash into helping countries such as Turkey and Albania join the EU.
Please tell me this is a joke. We are facing drastic cuts in our country and
many people are struggling to survive.

When will David Cameron have the courage to pull us out of Europe?

Ann Masters, By email

WELL done to all at the Daily Express for championing the cause of democracy and
fairness for the taxpayer with your crusade to pull Britain out of the EU.

Investment in public services is hamstrung by political correctness and all its
attendant bureaucracy inflicted upon long-suffering British taxpayers through
continued membership of the EU.

Freed of the deluge of regulations from Brussels we could prioritise spending on
healthcare, policing, defence and education and do so efficiently and
economically.

We would regain our right of self-governance and return prosperity to this
once-great country of ours.

T Dowdall, Rotherham, S Yorks

BRILLIANT! At long last a national newspaper, the fantastic Daily Express, is
willing to stand up and speak out for the people of this country.

Maybe now those in power will sit up and take notice.

The money saved by quitting the EU would go a long way towards helping our own
poor and needy, including pensioners faced with the upsetting prospect of
selling their homes to get the help to which they should be entitled.

Keith Patrick, Bristol

BRITAIN'S membership of the EU has been a disaster.

Why does a country need two parliaments with all the bureaucracy involved?

The cost is enormous and even the auditors of the EU accounts can't find where
all the money, billions of pounds, disappears to.

However, we blindly ignore this and ever more increase our contributions to help
keep the juggernaut rolling.

Our economy has never been in such a poor state in peacetime, so being a member
of the EU has not helped and we have to borrow money to help make our massive
contributions. The money goes into supporting the thousands of employees of the
EU with no obvious advantages to the UK.

The petty regulations that the EU feel they must make to justify themselves,
from employment law to food, we could and always have made ourselves and don't
need interference from outside.

J Jessop, Chester

I WOULD like to congratulate you on your crusade against membership of the EU.

How refreshing it was for a national newspaper to remind us of the dictatorial,
costly, interfering and thoroughly unpleasant nature of the EU.

I can think of nothing in the political world that would make me, and I suspect
millions of others, happier than a British withdrawal from the EU.

Good luck with the crusade you have launched.

James Connelly, Leuchars, Fife

COUNTLESS opinion polls tell us that most voters want this nation permanently
out of the EU, a demand ignored by successive arrogant "we know best" British
governments since 1972.

Political union with the rest of Europe, no. Healthy tradin g partnership, yes.

With the Daily Express leading the growing resistance movement we can only look
forward to victory in Europe.

Roger Prescott, Plympton, Devon Ian Mcgurk, 27, a telecommunications worker from
Liverpool

We should stay out of Europe. The taxes are too high and Britain will lose too
much money if it joins the euro. I think it has damaged global trade
relationships.

We used to do a lot of business outside Europe but now we only focus on the EU.
We have enough problems at home without being dragged into European issues too.

Susan McKendry, 24, is a nurse from Ballymena, Co Antrim

Britain is losing too much money and giving away too much control.

I don't like the idea of giving away control to a central body. Britain should
retain its identity.

American lobbyist Allyson Harte, 44, from Minneapolis, says she has travelled in
Europe extensively and seen countries deteriorate as a result of the EU

Countries lose their cultural identity when they join the EU. I think it's
really important for a country to stand on its own. There's a loss of
accountability too as people don't always get to choose exactly who makes all of
their decisions.

Enid Brumpton, 62, a retired office worker from Newark-on-Trent, Notts

I do think it puts restrictions on us. I think we pay for a lot of bureaucrats
over there who don't always fight our corner well. I also think we have to
follow too many of their laws when we've got enough of our own, so I fully
support the crusade.

Frank Brumpton, 65, is a retired steel worker from Grimsby, Lincs

I think we should come out of it. There are too many rules and regulations.
We've been bailing out too many people. I think we should look after our own
people. That's what we were taught in school, to look after number one, and
that's what I think we should be doing.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Self-governing Britain will again hold its head high;
GET BRITAIN OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: By Nigel Farage

SECTION: FEATURES; 22

LENGTH: 336  words


IS it time to leave the European Union, would we be "Better Off Out"? As the
Daily Express courageously insists: of course we would.

Over the past 20 years I have been promoting the very simple idea that our
country would be doing itself, its people and the rest of the world a great
favour by returning to self-governance.

This is why. We would be Better Off Out financially by not paying the GBP
48million a day to the EU. This would be better spent at home with priorities
set by our elected representatives rather than returned in part with European
conditions.

We would be Better Off Out financially minus the dead weight of regulation that
makes the life of our businesspeople a misery. From small businesses to the
City, all are hidebound by EU regulations. We would be Better Off Out
politically. We could regain our democracy and the liberty to hire and fire the
politicians who make our laws.

Today, with about 75 per cent of our laws made in Brussels, that is just
impossible. Millions of Britons have fought for that freedom and the Daily
Express is joining that noble fight.

We would be Better Off Out because we would regain self-confidence as a nation.
We would not have laws dictated to us by those who know us little and care about
us less. We would no longer be ordered by foreign judges to give prisoners the
vote.

We would once again be a nation that could hold its head high, govern ourselves
and trade with the rest of the world. By leaving the European Union we could
ditch the failed ideas of the 20th century and embrace the 21st with hope and
confidence.

We are a trading nation, ready to take our place in the competitive world. This
should not faze us, it should enthuse us. We have the ingenuity, the people and,
given our freedom, would have success.

I welcome the few isolated figures from the Conservatives and Labour who share
this view. But I must point out only UKIP has steadfastly held the line which
the Daily Express is now championing.

It will be a long, hard fight. But it will be won.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EUROPEAN BATTLER:
UKIP's Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

End this gravy train;
GET BRITAIN OUT OF THE EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: FEATURES; 15

LENGTH: 962  words


Politicians who reap the rewards in their Brussels retirement home

THE EUROPEAN Union is living proof that, for failed politicians at least, there
is an after-life.

Numerous politicians who have seen their careers die at Westminster have found a
gilded existence in Brussels as members of the European Commission and other
senior Eurocrat posts.

Given the lavish taxpayer-funded rewards to be snaffled up, those who make the
journey into EU bureaucracy must sometimes feel like they have died and woken in
paradise.

Lord Kinnock and Lord Mandelson are perhaps the most notorious examples in
recent years.

The Machiavellian Mandelson was twice sacked in disgrace from the Cabinet and
the ludicrous Kinnock was overwhelmingly rejected by the voters in two general
elections.

Both harboured ambitions to be prime minister and were, mercifully for the
nation, thwarted.

Yet both won sweeping powers to meddle in the lives of British citizens by
securing superannuated jobs as European commissioners. They did so without
winning a single vote.

Those who see the EU machine at close quarters are struck by the cohorts of
failed politicians.

"Seeing all the political retreads reliving their former glories in the
fleshpots of Brussels and Strasbourg brings home what the European Union is: a
retirement home for failures, has-beens and never-weres, " UK Independence Party
leader and Euro-MP Nigel Farage said.

Brussels is a bloated anti-meritocracy where the mediocre inherit the earth. Few
beyond the most studious addicts of political trivia will recall Bruce Millan,
Arthur Cockfield, Ivor Richard, Stanley Clinton Davis and Christopher Tugendhat.
Ring any bells?

They were all MPs who failed to climb far up Westminster's greasy pole, yet went
on to become European commissioners.

The rewards for failure have grown vastly. EU commissioners command six-figure
salaries, lavish expenses for travel, accommodation and entertaining,
chauffeur-driven limousines, subsidised restaurants and massive pensions.

Lord Mandelson, with his penchant for fine living, is estimated to have been
paid up to GBP 1.2million in salary and expenses during his fouryear stint as
European commissioner for trade, according to think tank Open Europe. His annual
salary was GBP 182,500 in his final year.

He is expected to receive a further GBP 1million in allowances and EU pension
payments in the years ahead.

Lord Kinnock's 10-year stint as transport commissioner was also marked by a
sky-high salary. His lifestyle at the expense of taxpayers is all the more
infuriating given that his early career was marked by firm opposition to
Britain's membership of the Common Market.

Those views were forgotten by the time he reached Brussels. Indeed, the failed
Labour leader's family has benefited from the wealth and privilege available to
the Euro-elite.

His wife Glenys has been a longserving Labour Euro-MP while their children
Stephen and Rachel have both worked as research assistants in the EU. Stephen
Kinnock's wife Helle was also a Euro-MP.

Lord and Lady Kinnock are estimated to have received around GBP 10million in
pay, allowances and pension from the EU. The figure, calculated by Open Europe,
included GBP 1.85million in wages for Lord Kinnock and GBP 277,000 in
allowances.

His wife earned GBP 775,000 in her 15 years as a Euro-MP. She claimed the
controversial daily allowance, currently worth GBP 270, which is available to
MPs who sign a register in the European Parliament.

Even though the Kinnocks shared a house in the Belgian capital they both were
able to claim accommodation allowances. In their retirement, they benefit from
five publicly funded pensions worth an estimated GBP 4.4million and paying
around GBP 180,000 a year.

Despite the huge sums, Lord Kinnock's decade in Brussels is best known for a
failed attempt to force every motorist in Europe to drive with their headlights
on in daylight.

Indulgence has not been confined to Labour politicians. Former Tory ministers
Leon Brittan and Chris Patten, now Lord Brittan and Lord Patten, were both
high-flying Cabinet ministers who became EU commissioners. Brittan had quit the
Cabinet in the row over Westland helicopters while Patten lost his seat at the
1992 general election.

Many critics believe the gluttonous rewards-for-failure culture is to blame for
growing disenchantment with the Eurocrat elite.

Stephen Booth of Open Europe said: "Brussels has made many politicians
millionaires. It's no wonder there's such a huge divide between public and
political elite opinion."

It is not just greed which angers voters in Britain and the other 26 nations in
the EU. The appointment of politicians who have been rejected by their own
national electorates is seen as an affront to democracy.

Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell, the Eurosceptic MP for Clacton, said: "It is
as if we promote people who have been rejected by the voters to cash in at our
expense."

The clearest example yet of the EU's contempt for democracy was shown by the
appointment of British quangocrat Baroness Ashton to the post of European
foreign affairs supremo last year, commanding an annual salary of GBP 270,000
despite never having won an election.

A former Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament employee, her path to Europe's ruling
class included a series of quango appointments and a seat in the unelected
Lords.

She now heads the EU external affairs established under the Lisbon Treaty, a
vast diplomatic bureaucracy with a staff expected to rise to around 7,000 civil
servants and a budget of around GBP 5.8billion a year.

Her rise without trace is a symbol of the perverse culture of the EU.

In Greek mythology the dead crossed the River Styx to a new existence in the
underworld. In politics those who have suffered career death board the Eurostar
gravy train to Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALL ABOARD: Former Members of Parliament Chris Patten, Peter Mandelson
and Neil Kinnock have all enjoyed the lifestyle that comes with being a leading
member of Europe's political elite

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A crusade for freedom;
GET BRITAIN OUT OF THE EU

SECTION: FEATURES; 03

LENGTH: 431  words


MORE than 150,000 people have signed up to the Daily Express crusade for Britain
to quit the European Union.

This newspaper has been deluged with overflowing mailbags packed with our
special crusade coupons calling on David Cameron's Government to launch an
orderly withdrawal from the EU.

Support hit the six-figure mark within days of the historic crusade being
launched. The astonishing response is on course to become the fastest-growing
campaign in newspaper history.

The colossal surge of support, a clear signal of public frustration at
politicians' dithering, is a stark warning to Brussels that Britain has had
enough of meddling and an ever-growing tax burden.

Tory MP Philip Davies, a member of the Better Off Out group of MPs, said:

"This is an absolutely amazing response.

It reveals the pent-up frustration among the public that none of the mainstream
political parties is speaking up for what it believes in."

UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson said: "This is a huge level of support
from the great British public to the greatest British newspaper.

The strength of feeling shown by Daily Express readers reflects the growing
support across the country for withdrawal."

A survey by pollsters Angus Reid showed that 48 per cent of voters asked want
Britain freed from the yoke of Brussels while 59 per cent believe EU membership
has damaged the UK.

Support among Daily Express readers for withdrawal from the EU is overwhelming,
with 99 per cent of the tens of thousands of callers who rang this newspaper's
exclusive phone poll backing an exit. Reader Stephen Beattie, a 69-year-old
retired electrician from Leicester, said: "The Get Britain Out crusade is the
best news I have heard in a long time. I hope everyone gets behind the lead
taken by the Daily Express."

Brian Goldie from Stenhousemuir wrote to us to applaud our groundbreaking
crusade and spoke for the silent majority by calling time on interference from
Brussels.

He said: "In a move that will send shock waves through the eurozone and
hopefully our own Parliament, the majority of British people who took part in
the poll have declared enough is enough and it is time we returned to the
business of trading with Europe instead of being swallowed by this relentlessly
creeping abomination.

"While the faceless ones in Brussels oversee the catastrophe that is the single
currency, we have to demand from our Government an answer to the question on
everyone's lips: 'How far can we allow this fiscal mismanagement to go and how
long can we continue to bail out countries in the currency to which we do not
subscribe?"'

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIGHTING SPIRIT: Just some of the hundreds of thousands of coupons sent
in to the Daily Express by readers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

VOTE UKIP IN BY-ELECTION TO SINK LIB DEMS URGES TEBBIT

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 303 words


TORY grandee Lord Tebbit has called for voters to back the UK Independence Party
in the Oldham by-election in a bid to push the Lib Dems into fourth place.

The former cabinet minister sought to derail David Cameron's tacit deal to help
the Lib Dems win the seat from Labour. He warned that a victory for Nick Clegg's
party would push the Coalition further to the left.

In a statement on UKIP's website, Lord Tebbit said: 'Of course, as one who
believes that the people of this kingdom should govern themselves, I have an
instinctive sympathy with the UKIP candidate and I hope that at the very least
he puts the Lib Dems into fourth place.

'A Lib Dem win would tilt the coalition even farther left and away from
Conservative policies.

'A Labour win would give the wild men of the TUC great encouragement to launch a
campaign to usurp the Government by a campaign of industrial action.'

Lord Tebbit's intervention was potentially embarrassing since it came as the
Prime Minister made his only campaign trip to the constituency of Oldham East
and Saddleworth, where voters go to the polls next Thursday.

The by-election was called after Labour MP Phil Woolas was stripped of his seat.
He had been caught lying about his opponent during the general election.

The Lib Dems are the main challengers but Mr Clegg's unpopularity after his
party's U-turn on tuition fees has created fears in senior government circles
that they might drop behind the Tories.

Mr Cameron denied the Tories were giving their Coalition partners a clear run.
He said: 'If we get the most votes, we can win. Obviously we start in third
place. We're fighting a proper campaign.'

Mr Cameron's aides declined to comment on Lord Tebbit's remarks. A Tory
spokesman said only: 'We are fighting to win every vote which is why the Prime
Minister was up in Oldham today.'

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 7, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Absent Baroness leaves no one to speak for Britain

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 443  words


BRITAIN'S only representative at the Brussels' top-table faced new questions
yesterday over her suitability after it emerged she missed or left early from
twothirds of key EU meetings over the past year.

Records show that Baroness Ashton failed to attend 40 per cent of the last 42
meetings of the EU Commission "college".

These are gatherings where the 27 Commissioners make important decisions,
including regulations that might affect the UK.

The Labour peer, who is the EU's foreign affairs supremo, chalked up her 17th
missed meeting this week, owing to a work visit to the Middle East.

She left a further 26 per cent of meetings early, though aides said she was
there for the "meat" of most of them.

David Heathcoat-Amory, a former Tory Europe minister, said: "She is not up to
the job and everyone knows it. I opposed the creation of an EU foreign minister
but I at least thought we would get someone who would bother to turn up."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said:

"There is nobody speaking for Britain at the top table in Brussels."

Tory MEP Ashley Fox said:

"Important decisions are taken around the Commission table and the UK needs
someone fighting its corner all the time."

But Lady Ashton's aides insisted she was fully involved and had an excellent
record given her globe-trotting role as Europe's high representative for foreign
affairs.

She was backed by then Prime Minister Gordon Brown for the new GBP
230,000-a-year post in December 2009, despite her lack of experience. She is
also vicepresident of the EU Commission and is Britain's only full
representative on the body.

The new figures follow criticism in October when it emerged she was at a summit
in Mauritius while her Commission colleagues met to discuss axing Britain's GBP
3billion-a-year rebate on its EU contributions.

In Lady Ashton's absence, her seat is often taken by her British chief of staff,
James Morrison, but he does not have the same speaking rights. Aides yesterday
hit back at the latest attack as a "distortion and misrepresentation" of the
truth.

They insisted it was an "astonishing" achievement to have attended more than 60
per cent of meetings given that she was filling roles previously done by three
people while at the same time setting up the EU's new diplomatic service "from
scratch".

A Commission spokesman said: "Catherine Ashton is well known as one of the
hardest working people in Brussels."

He denied claims she was reluctant to work at weekends because she preferred
being with her family in London.

He also dismissed concerns that her absence left Britain's views unrepresented,
since EU Commissioners were required to be neutral and not promote national
positions.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lady Ashton has to travel widely

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 696 words


It was clear to Judge Jonathan Teare that not everyone would agree with the
compassion he showed on Wednesday to 18 environmental activists convicted of
planning to break into Nottingham-on-Soar power station. Handing down the legal
equivalent of a rap on the knuckles, Judge Teare said the public might see his
compassion as "impossibly lenient", but explained he had been swung by the moral
standing of those arraigned before him, as set out by counsel of the defence in
mitigation. They included Dan Glass, 27, a member of Plane Stupid who, his
barrister explained to the apparent approval of the judge, was a committed
social worker who had won an award for his community work. Alas, the judge's
brief on the situation was not as full as it might have been. For what actually
happened was that on collecting the Sheila McKechnie Foundation award at a
Downing Street reception in 2008, Glass stepped forward and then moved, with
partial success, to superglue his hand to that of the then prime minister Gordon
Brown to highlight the iniquities of the proposed third runway at Heathrow
Airport. As a cocker of snooks, Glass has form, one might say.

And amid growing concern about the failure of Gordon's successor as Labour
leader, Ed Miliband, to connect with the electorate and "articulate his vision",
members are still wondering about the Christmas cards they received from the new
leader, particularly the motif on the back for his "Project Game Plan". Is
"Project" as here deployed, a noun or a verb? And a game plan, they say.
Wouldn't that be nice.

Sad to record, as did yesterday's Telegraph, the death of David Hart, who got
his hands dirty on Margaret Thatcher's behalf during the miners' strike -
smearing opponents and rallying dark forces against the NUM. Those were the
days. Quite the fixer he was, and this included the pivotal role he played in a
rather grubby little tract called British Briefing, which had as its raison
d'etre the publication of black propaganda against figures on the left, most of
whom were branded communists. Much time has passed. Of those who starred in this
sordid little episode, Hart has now moved on to that free market in the sky.
Jimmy Goldsmith, from whom finance was sought if not given, was there already.
Yet, there is one notable still with us and ready as ever to make mischief. Long
live Murdoch, who gave Hart £150,000.

So it's up, up and away for the rate of VAT, and from the BBC we learn that the
impact of the leap to 20% will be widely felt. Not least within the corporation.
"I am sharing with you," writes Paul Lewis, the financially savvy presenter of
Radio 4's Money Box programme, "an analysis of the large price rises by BBC
catering on the excuse of the rise in VAT - which should add an average of 2.1%
to prices. In fact the average percentage rise on the examples given is 12.3%,
ranging from a 25% rise in the price of a cup of tea to the lowest rise of 7.1%
for a latte and for chips." Food is more expensive overall, he says. "Indeed the
Office for National Statistics records that the retail prices of food and
non-alcoholic drinks have gone up by 5.5% over the 12 months to November. But
even if that is added on it does not justify a 12.3% rise." Anger at the
watercooler. Water is all they can afford.

And from the Department for Business, more proof that this is a go-ahead
government. "Fixed sizes for unwrapped bread will be scrapped so bakers will be
free to innovate," says universities and science minister David Willetts.
Freeform bread. Thanks, Dave.

Finally, we have mail, and it's our man in Europe, Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip MEP
for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire - still smarting from his disgrace in
Brussels, where he was ejected from the chamber of the European parliament for
calling a German a Nazi, but nevertheless cheered by more recent events back
home. "The Sunday Telegraph listed me as 5th from bottom in British MEP 'value
for money'," says Godders. "The last time I was graded in order of merit was
Sandhurst 1976 where, I am proud to say, I came bottom." He's a high-flier is
Eight Pints; there's no doubt about it. His constituents: they must be so proud.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ambridge and its putsch of the posh

BYLINE: Allison Pearson

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 826 words


There is a wonderful moment in P G Wodehouse when Bertie Wooster is told that
Jeeves has described him as "mentally somewhat negligible but with a heart of
gold". It's a perfect description for dear departed Nigel Pargetter.

Poor Nigel plunged to his death on Sunday night in order to make a bit of a
splash - or a splat - for the 60th anniversary of The Archers. The bumping off
of Nigel - let us hear no more talk of "accidents" - was planned by fiendish
mastermind Vanessa Whitburn. The producer wanted to deliver the double whammy of
a birth and a death in a special birthday edition of Radio 4's daily drama.

Some celebration. The plot backfired when it became clear that a) listeners
found the much-heralded tragedy less convincing than a mixed-infants production
of The Cruel Sea and b) were in open revolt at the loss of a muchloved
character. The BBC website is smoking with incandescent Archers fans threatening
to switch off for good.

Actor Graham Seed, who played Nigel with great warmth for 30 years, added to the
general dismay when he told the Today programme that he didn't volunteer to
slide off the roof of Lower Loxley Hall. He was pushed.

"Why me?" is what Seed asked Miss Whitburn when she phoned to deliver the bad
news. A very good question, and I reckon I have the answer. The death of Nigel
Pargetter marks the passing of The Archers' last gent.

Nigel, who began every second sentence with "I say!", was decent, indefatigably
optimistic, slightly dippy, a devoted husband and father, beautifully spoken,
undeniably upper class and therefore unlikely to be mistaken for one of the
cheating, gambling, anorexic, sperm-donating, multicultural, blood-feuding Cain
and Abels who seem to pass for everyday Ambridge folk these days. Make no
mistake, dear reader, Nigel's death was the putsch of the posh. The
bloodcurdling ululation as the master of Loxley Hall tumbled from the roof of
his stately pile was the dying falsetto of the rural gentry being ousted by
bossyboots New Labour values.

Only recently, Nigel had been debating with Lizzie whether to send their son,
Freddie, to boarding school. Well, after that, the stuck-up git deserved to die,
didn't he? Private education is anathema to right-on BBC producers, even though
in a village like Ambridge many farming families and other well-to-do locals
naturally send their offspring to fee-paying schools. I'm afraid that what is
natural in the country doesn't concern Vanessa Whitburn. Her barely disguised
agenda is to use the show to air issues that sit comfortably in a metropolitan
club, not a village hall. In fact, Miss Whitburn once said: "To be politically
correct is really to be moral. It is having a correct moral stance. PC is, in
fact, my moral plank." The witches in Macbeth warned of the disaster that would
unfold if Birnam Wood came to Dunsinane; well, Radio 4 has gone one worse:
Camden Council has come to Borsetshire.

If Nigel had been a Lithuanian, potatopicking asylum seeker instead of a bit of
a nitwit in Boden cords, do you imagine he would have been made to take the fall
for the big six-O anniversary? Not a chance. All endangered minorities are
welcome in Ambridge, except the gentry. Do you suppose there is a Tory left
among them? (Hmm... Maybe Brian Aldridge, although he might vote Ukip if Vanessa
would let him.)

Personally, I am still in mourning for Nigel's late mother, Julia Pargetter, she
of the tetchy nicotine drawl and exhilarating snobbery. Julia was typical of a
brisk, unself-pitying Duchess of Cornwall sort of countrywoman who saddles up
the gelding when told she has terminal cancer. Real English villages are full of
her redoubtable kind - but not Ambridge.

The trouble with letting someone like Vanessa Whitburn run The Archers is that
liberal townies never truly get the countryside. As Tony Blair admits in his
autobiography, he had no feeling whatsoever for rural customs. "On fox-hunting I
had a complete lapse... I started to realise that this wasn't a small clique of
weirdo inbreds delighting in cruelty, but a tradition, embedded by history and
profound community and social liens, that was integral to a way of life."

Quite so. As my Norfolk farming friend points out, landowner Nigel Pargetter
would never have climbed on to his own roof to take down a banner. He would have
got one of the estate workers to do it. His death was not just unbelievably
shocking, it was shockingly unbelievable, which is fatal to good drama.

Thanks to this sensationalist plot line, Archers listeners, who tune into the
show for comfort and entertainment, will, over the coming months, have to endure
hushed voices, recriminations and daily sobbing. We can get that in the real
world with spending cuts.

I am not suggesting that Vanessa Whitburn should be pushed off a roof herself,
or into one of the Grundys' slurry pits, but a move to Albert Square, where she
can have as many drive-by shootings as she likes, would do her - and us - the
world of good.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Why me? Graham Seed played Nigel Pargetter for decades

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday

Politics: Clegg defends fee rise and turns fire on Labour: Parties on trail in
Oldham East and Saddleworth Leader tries to link Woolas case to opposition's
record

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 607 words


Nick Clegg yesterday moved to defuse the tuition fee controversy that threatens
to destroy Liberal Democrat hopes of a byelection triumph in Oldham East and
Saddleworth when he told the constituency's voters that most graduates will
either pay less than they do now under the coalition's reforms, or not be
required to pay off their entire loan.

On a flying visit to the Lancashire three-way marginal, which has been won by
all three parties in the past 20 years, the deputy prime minister combined a
positive message about the coalition's help for children, students and
pensioners with repeated attacks on Labour's record under Gordon Brown and
"under the duvet" evasion since Ed Miliband became leader.

Admitting it is proving hard to get the tuition fees message across after last
month's student protests, Clegg said the "paradox" was that though fees will go
up - to £9,000 a year at top universities - "as more young people look at the
scheme, they will realise that it will be cheaper and easier to go to university
than it is now," especially for "bright kids from poor families".

He said that a social care worker on £21,000 a year, on an average career path,
would pay back £7 a month, compared with £80 under Labour's current scheme. "A
majority of graduates will not pay back all their loans," he told voters in
meetings and media exchanges. Three students protesting against the policy in
Shaw, near Oldham, later complained that at least one young woman, Jennifer
Leah, had been manhandled by party activists.

In interviews, Clegg repeatedly linked former MP Phil Woolas's ejection from
parliament after he was found to have lied about Lib Dem rival Elwyn Watkins to
Labour's economic record. He said Labour had "robbed" Britain of billions, just
as the local MP had "robbed" voters of a fair election. Labour won the seat by
just 103 votes, only to lose in court.

Denouncing the "outrageous" behaviour - for which neither Woolas nor Labour have
apologised, he said - Clegg accused the former MP of having been found guilty of
"lying his way through the campaign and of stoking up racial tensions," a
reference to the legacy of three days of riots in 2001. Labour is certain to
dispute that description.

In what amounted to an admission that the probable winner of the 13 January
contest will be either Labour's Debbie Abrahams or Elwyn Watkins, Clegg also
attacked the post-Brown leadership of Ed Miliband for both failing to accept
blame for the economic crisis, and ducking hard decisions about what to do next.

"This is the wrong time for indecision. This is the wrong time to duck tough
choices and I think the people here deserve more than a blank sheet of paper
from Labour. They deserve answers and what we are doing, the Liberal Democrats,
is rolling up our sleeves to sort out the mess we have inherited from Labour to
provide a better future for people here and indeed the rest of the country,"
Clegg said.

Miliband has also paid two visits so far to the constituency, and David Cameron
is expected later this week. Health secretary Andrew Lansley, who has been
criticised for downgrading plans to improve a local health centre, campaigned
yesterday.

Among the smaller parties - there are 10 candidates in all - both Nigel Farage,
leader of Ukip, and the BNP's Nick Griffin have also been active. Yesterday
Farage distinguished between the BNP and his party, which wants to control
immigration - patriotic but not extreme, he said. The byelection provided a
chance to "send the BNP to destruction".

Captions:

Nick Clegg tours Diggle, near Oldham. He said the tuition fee regime would help
poorer students Christopher Furlong/Getty

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Clegg braves chill on campaign trail - but gets the cold shoulder;
Andy McSmith joins the Deputy PM as he goes out and about in Oldham East

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 843 words


NOBODY CAN say that Nick Clegg has given up trying. He braved grey skies,
drizzle and temperatures close to freezing yesterday to go out without an
overcoat or scarf and meet voters in the constituency that is to be the first
political testing ground of 2011.

The Oldham East and Saddleworth by-election is just a week away, and if the
Liberal Democrats were still an opposition party, the pundits would be
confidently predicting that they would walk away with it. Winning parliamentary
by-elections has traditionally been the third party's strong suit, and in this
seat they came a very close second last May, only 103 votes behind Labour.

Their candidate, Elwyn Watkins, has since succeeded in gaining an unprecedented
court ruling which annulled the May result because the Labour incumbent, Phil
Woolas, lied about him in campaign literature. The bad news for Mr Clegg,
though, is that almost all the voters he spoke to in Oldham yesterday seemed
reticent about saying they would vote Liberal Democrat.

The Deputy Prime Minister put on a brave face when asked about the poll of polls
published in yesterday's Independent which showed his party on only 11 per cent
nationally, their worst showing in more than 20 years. "Polls go up and down,"
he said, skirting quickly past the point that since May the polls have gone in
only one direction for the Liberal Democrats - down.

One of the voters Mr Clegg encountered as he went door to door in the village of
Diggle, north of Oldham, was an elderly lady - who asked not to be named - who
voted Labour in May but will probably not do so again out of disgust. "I have
met Phil Woolas. He was very pleasant," she said. "But when I read that leaflet,
I wasn't happy about it. I was appalled."

But like other voters Mr Clegg spoke to, she was unwilling to commit when asked
if she was going to vote Liberal Democrat. People here are not hostile to the
idea of coalition government, nor are they much interested in the tuition fees
row. But Mr Clegg met a lot of people who were less than forthcoming.

This by-election has been described as a two-way contest between Labour and the
Liberal Democrats, which is not what it should be. Parts of the constituency
were represented by a Tory MP until 1995, and the local newspaper, The Oldham
Chronicle, described it as a three-way marginal - a description with which the
Tory candidate, Kashif Ali, concurs. He means it when he says he is fighting
this seat to win.

The question is whether the well-funded Tory party machine sincerely wants to
win - or has merely taken its cue from a comment by David Cameron, when he said
of Mr Watkins: "I wish him well." The Prime Minister knows that a humiliating
result for the Liberal Democrats would add to the strain on an already fraught
Coalition.

Mr Cameron will pay a campaign visit to Oldham East and Saddleworth today in
what appears to be a push to firm up the Tory vote. But if that is the intention
it seems to have been left a bit late. Other parties' posters appear to be more
prominent. The Tory campaign has puzzled the former health secretary Andy
Burnham, who has been in Oldham for two days with the Labour candidate Debby
Abrahams, fronting a campaign against the rise in VAT. "That was a very strange
thing for Cameron to say," said Mr Burnham. "It created a very negative
impression of their campaign. It looks like they aren't really fighting the
seat. I think they are misjudging the constituency if they assume the
Conservative vote will go to the Lib Dems, or vice versa. This has traditionally
been a seat where all three main parties poll well. We are quietly confident of
winning, but we expect the result to be close."

Stephen Morris, who was out yesterday doing his best to interest people in
voting for the fringe right-wing party the English Democrats, has also noticed
Liberal Democrat activity, but claimed to have seen no Conservative canvassers,
nor even a Tory leaflet. "We can see it on the ground here that the
Conservatives are just making a token effort. They are not taking it seriously,"
he claimed.

Faced with such criticism, Mr Ali, the son of Pakistani immigrants who was born
and brought up in Oldham, said: "If the Conservatives are going to have an
outright majority in the Commons in future elections, it's going to be by
winning seats like Oldham East and Saddleworth. So we need to get out there and
work hard."

He insisted: "The party is going out 100 per cent. I'm going out 100 per cent.
We got off to a slow start because this was not a target seat in May, so we
didn't have a campaign in place. But I had a 9 per cent swing and a 50 per cent
increase in our vote despite the party not treating this as a marginal seat. I
did that as a local lad and by working hard."

The vocal Tory right has little cause for anxiety

Steve Richards, Viewspaper, page 2

OLDHAM EAST: 2010 ELECTION

(Result annulled after court ruling)

Phil Woolas (Labour) 14,186

Elwyn Watkins (Lib Dem) 14,083

Kashif Ali (Conservative)

11,773 Alwyn Stott (BNP)

2,546 David Bentley (Ukip)

1,720 Gulzar Nazir (Christian Party) 212

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 6, 2011 Thursday 6:00 AM GMT

A Lib Dem win in Oldham would push the Coalition further Left. I hope they come
fourth

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1460 words


Next week the electors of Oldham East and Saddleworth, or more likelyabout half
of them, will turn out for the first by-election of this Parliament.The Prime
Minister, so it seems, is anxious that the Lib Dems should not be humiliated, as
the national polls suggest might be the case.So anxious that he has set a
precedent, which some of the rest of us might like to follow, by wishing the
candidate of another party well before offering any support to that of his own.

I have to say that, as I listen to what some members of my Party are saying both
about the government in which I served and theneed to rid the new, modern,
compassionate Party of what they see as their toxic inheritance from Margaret
Thatcher, I am very tempted to do the same.

After a great deal of thought and a conversation with the Conservative candidate
in that by-election, I have concluded that would be unwise. Of course, as one
who believes that the people of this kingdom should govern themselves, I have an
instinctive sympathy with the UKIP candidate and I hope that at the very leasthe
puts the Lib Dem into fourth place.Indeed I would like to see him run
second.Oldham however does not havea natural UKIP electorate and he has a tough
fight on his hands.

The most important thing, it seems to me,isthat neither Labour nor the Lib Dems
win this election. A Lib Dem win would tilt the Coalition even farther Left and
away from Conservative policies. A Labour win would give the wild men of the TUC
great encouragement to launch a campaign to ursurp the government by a campaign
of industrial action. Of course much will be made of the result whichever way it
goes, but from what the Conservative candidate, Kashif Ali,tells me the great
national issues are not much talked of on the doorsteps of Oldham. There are
plenty of local issues which he knows well enough, although clearly those of
jobs and the local economy are closely tied to national policies. Kashif Ali has
a lot going for him.He is Oldham born and bred and has the momentum of a quite
spectacularly good result last May. He is a Cambridge-educated lawyer (not many
of those from Oldham), a persuasive talker, althoughunsurprisingly anxious to
stay on the official party line,

He is a Muslim, which is helpful to him in Oldham, but I do not see him as
having any time for the radical Islamists.His legal work involves him with human
rights work and the problems of sorting out the problems of visas for visits of
relatives of his constituents from the attempts at illegal immigration. I am
sure there will be times if he is elected when I willhave strong disagreements
with Kashif Ali, but I would have almost nothing with disagreements with either
the Lib Dem or Labour candidates.

I know that I will bring down coals of fire upon my headfrom many readers of
this blog for backing an Asian Muslim who is not standing on an anti-EU
platform.I can say only that this is not a seat that UKIP could win, that there
is a large Muslim population of Asian origins and I would rather seek to
integrate that population that push it back into ghettoes.

...

First of all may I thank all those of you who sent good wishes for the new year,
especially those who remembered that victim of terrorism, my wife.I do
appreciate that in the minds of those who oppose control orders, her indefinite
imprisonment in a wheelchair and banning from many of the normal pleasures of
life is of no account whatsoever against the rights of those who use terrorism
either as a means of achieving political ends they could not achieve by peaceful
democratic means, or thosewho, in pursuit of a fanatical religious objective,
murder in the expectation of a reward in paradise. They should understand that I
take a different view.The victims of terrorism are the innocents, and there are
a lot more of them than there are suspects subject to control orders.

I am sorry for the commenter called freaks who thinks that his, or her, fear of
flying may have sprung from my having been an airline pilot.Very gently, for he
or she is clearly somewhat fragile, can I assure him or herthat I never killed
anyone and very few airline pilots do, nor would they expect posthumous rewards
for doing so. On the other hand she may remember the 9/11 attacks on New York
and Washington, which killed rather a lot of airline passengers.

Scrivens declared that my 'brains were addled',whilst fledermaus (and I'll
resist the temptation to say he must be bats) thinks I do not understand that
suspicion is not proof. Of course I understand that.So too does Lord Carlile,
the Lib Dem peer who has for some years (until now)been the Government-appointed
reviewer of all these matters. He is noNazi (and Jebedee should hang his head in
shame at branding him as such),his brains are not addled, he is a distinguished
lawyer, widely respectedacross the political spectrum, and he takes the same
view as I do.

Darkseid implored me to be objective (whilst accusing me of supporting ID Cards,
which the record shows I opposed).Does he think Lord Carlile lacks
objectivity?Or is the problem that Lord Carlile knows more about these matters
than my critics.

Whilst I am at it, I must rub scrivens' nose in the dirt of his own
irrationality.Our intelligence services told Blair that the intelligence about
Iraqi weapons of mass destruction capable of hitting British bases in Cyprus and
being made ready for use in 45 minutes was unreliable. It was Blair who deceived
by 'sexing up' that unreliable intelligence to justify his war.What is more, the
quality of scrivens' argument is not enhancedwhen he accuses some of those who
disagree with him of being 'nail bomber types'

It was catweazle who got it absolutely right and mrslant who got it
wrong.Theeight or nine peoplewho are subject to control orders are believed by
the intelligence services to be involved in terrorism, or the planning of
terrorist acts, not on something fanciful, but on the basis of evidence which if
produced in court would endanger our sources of information.As catweazle also
says, this is not a problem in France. There they can lock people up without
charge for a very long time.Sadly, as boudicca reminded us,the Clegg/Cameron
government has agreed to the European Union Arrest Warrant system which allows
British people to be extradited without evidence and imprisoned for years
without trial, whilst control orders stick in their throats.

Perhaps the critics of thismouse of control orders might campaign against the
elephant of that EAW which does not do much to protect us from terrorism, but
puts British people at risk on indefinite detention in foreign jails, should
just hang their heads in shame over their abusive and inaccurate attacks on
those who know more and have more experience of these matters than them.

The first duty of a government is to defend the territory of the state and its
people against attack.Dead citizens have lost all their rights. There are
moments when we have to give up some liberty to defend ourselves.Those who lived
through the war know that. Where those lines should bedrawn is a matter for
debate, but that debate is better conducted without screaming abuse at those who
would draw the line in a different place.

There were some interesting posts by Johnny Rottenborough, bersherand others on
the dangers of worseningthe already dangerous divisions in society created by
multiculturalism by further uncontrolled immigration, an ever present problem.

On the subject of wind-generated electrical power I have to say that I have no
evidence that the commercial interests of the families of Mr Cameron or Mr
Clegghave influenced their decisions either more or less thanquasi-religous
warmist beliefs. I am grateful to fenbeagle for providing the very telling
statistics of the utter failure of this vast subsidised industry to produce
useful amounts of power during December (as petah put it, 'b-- all')and to
frenchliz for the links to Littlejohn and Booker's good articles. My task is to
persuade the Government to own up officially to those figures.I do not expect
that to be soon, or easy. There were so many other interesting posts that I
simply cannot take up all of them, but I am grateful to so many of you for your
support and it was good to see Lazy Bloke and lord-tarquin agreeing that fascism
is a Left-wing creed. Rastusctastey, who hopes I might become president of the
Independent Conservative Party, left an interesting question:Is leaving the EU a
Left- or a Right-wing policy?As it unites Tony Benn and me, perhaps it is on the
common ground.

Finally, I should tell assagai that not only was Beryl Goldsmith right to say of
the Conservative modernisers that 'all this self-loathing was unnecessary', but
she is still my secretary and sends him her thanks.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Decline of major parties makes reform essential'

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 379 words


Coalitions and minority governments are where the future lies even if the
electorate decides to keep the present voting system, according to a report
published today by a prominent think-tank.

The report will be used as ammunition by the "Yes" campaign in next May's
referendum, which will give UK voters their first chance to alter the method for
electing MPs.

Defenders of the first-past-the-post system argue it delivers stable government,
because most general elections result in one of the two main parties emerging
with a majority in the Commons. But today's report, from the Institute for
Public Policy Research, claims that argument is out of date.

In last May's general election, more than a third of those who voted put their
crosses next to the names of candidates who were neither Labour nor
Conservative. Almost 12 per cent did not vote for the Liberal Democrats either,
but supported fringe parties such as Ukip or the Greens.

This is the latest sign of the long-term decline in support for the big
political parties. In the general election of 1951, 96.8 per cent of votes cast
were for either Labour or the Conservatives. Last year, the two main parties
claimed 65.1 per cent of the total vote.

The political analysts Guy Lodge and Glenn Gottfried, who co-wrote the report,
The Worst of Both Worlds, claim this trend has destroyed the argument that the
present system is democratic because it produces clear cut results and lets
voters throw out unpopular governments.

Even if Liberal Democrat support collapses at the next election, there is still
the possibility that the smaller parties between them could have as many as 85
MPs, which means that if one of the main parties is to have an overall majority,
it would have to be 86 seats ahead of the other main party.

"The 2010 election result was not a one-off aberration; it reflects long-term
changes in voting patterns - declining support for the two main parties and
divergent support for them across the regions of the UK - that significantly
increase the likelihood of hung parliaments in the future," the report's authors
claim. "Unless first past the post is reformed, the UK will be left in the worst
of both worlds: a system that neither delivers fair representation nor
single-party majority government."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             January 2, 2011 Sunday

SIX JAILED, 13 ARRESTS: TONY HETHERINGTON'S BEST HAUL

LENGTH: 464 words


IT has been a vintage year for Financial Mail Readers' Champion Tony
Hetherington, who has proved himself a supremely effective early warning system.

During the course of 2010

, firms he warned against have been shut down, directors have been disqualified
and a record number of crooks have been jailed.

Six white-collar crooks were jailed after Hetherington named them or their firms
in time to protect readers' savings.

The longest stretch went to larger-than-life character Kevin Foster. The one
time cabbie from Kent ran KF Concept, which promised huge returns but produced
no accounts. He is now bankrupt, with debts of 636 million, and in April was
sentenced to ten years in prison.

A further 13 people connected to shady companies named by Hetherington are under
arrest and awaiting trial.

Legal action by the Insolvency Service saw boardroom bans slapped on 11
offenders who ran shady businesses named by Hetherington. They include Michael
Tingey, Andrew Louka and Kieran Cassidy, who charged car sellers for
introductions to buyers. As Hetherington warned readers, the buyers did not
exist.

Peter Garlick, Steven Cohen and Brian Cohen were also banned. They were behind
bogus claims management companies that offered empty promises and charged
upfront fees. Financial Mail warned months ago that one of their companies was
based in an empty house while another was secretly run from Spain.

Three companies linked to betting tipster Wayne Montgomery were closed by the
High Court. Hetherington has been alerting readers since the Nineties to
Montgomery's own record of losing punters' money.

And the Financial Services Authority shut down stockbroker Wills & Co in the
wake of a series of reports exposing it for selling high-risk shares to
investors who wanted to play it safe.

The FSA also brought down the shutters in November on Digital Satellite Warranty
Cover for selling insurance without a licence. Hetherington had warned in
January that boss Michael Sullivan previously ran a data-protection scam.

The City watchdog fined broker Hythe Securities 6200,000 for ripping off
customers, following a report that revealed how two pensioners lost 69,000 after
the firm falsely classed them as experienced share dealers out to take risks.

And it booted bent solicitor Andrew Greystoke out of the industry for life after
Financial Mail readers were warned of his links to crooked boiler room share
pushers.

Also Ukip dumped Stephen Cleeve as an Election candidate after Financial Mail
supplied the party with Hetherington's reports of his rip-off schemes for
investing in land and wine.

And after a series of reports on how Lloyds TSB was failing to give receipts for
cash deposits, then denying it had customers' money, the bank reversed its
policy and announced it was reintroducing receipts.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 68 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hush-hush by-election;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 45 words


SIR - I am registered to vote in this month's Oldham East and Saddleworth
by-election. I have received four electoral communications from the Lib Dems,
five from Labour and one from Ukip.

I have received nothing from the Conservative Party. Why?

Philip Gaul

Oldham, Lancashire

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 68 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Estonia on board the 'Titanic' euro

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 153 words


ESTONIA joined the troubled eurozone today - in a move that was compared to
boarding the Titanic after it hit the iceberg.

The former Soviet state held lavish national celebrations with fireworks and a
gala concert last night to mark the midnight switch from the Estonian kroon to
the euro.

It will be the eurozone's poorest member, with an economy of only £12.2billion
and a population of just 1.3 million.

But critics made the Titanic comparison after the euro battled through a tough
12 months, with both Greece and Ireland needing to be bailed out.

The Centre for Economic and Business Research think-tank said yesterday the euro
had only a 20 per cent chance of survival.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage commented: "It is quite incredible that Estonia would
want to join.

"Given that the poorest country in Europe will end up bailing out Greece,
Ireland, Portugal and likely Spain, this is a terrible move by Estonian
politicians."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
