
                               1 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 31, 2011 Monday

GET A GRIP ON CLEGG, TORIES TELL CAMERON

BYLINE: By Jason Groves in London and Tim Shipman in Perth

LENGTH: 564 words


PRESSURE was mounting on David Cameron last night to slap down Nick Clegg over
Europe Z after Mr Clegg accused eurosceptic Tories of pushing Britain towards
'economic suicide'.

The Deputy Prime Minister enraged backbench Tories with an outspoken attack on
'extremists' who want to claw back powers from the European Union.

He said: 'Being shoved to the margins (of Europe), or retreating there
voluntarily, would be economic suicide Z a surefire way to hurt British
businesses and lose jobs.'

Mr Clegg, a former MEP who cut his political teeth in Brussels, has also
threatened to veto a Tory-inspired 'smash-and-grab raid' on the EU aimed at
bringing control of issues such as immigration, human rights and employment law
back to Britain.

Mr Cameron yesterday acknowledged the growing divide between the Coalition
partners on Europe, saying: 'We do not agree about every aspect of European
policy by any manner of means.'

He said the Government would act 'as a coalition' to achieve a 'more
satisfactory' deal on Europe. But he gave few clues as to how he would resolve
the tensions with Mr Clegg.

Last night he was under growing pressure from Tory MPs to assert his authority
over his Lib Dem deputy. Tory Peter Bone even suggested Mr Clegg should be
sacked over his comments.

He said: 'I don't understand how the Deputy Prime Minister even remains in his
post tonight when his comments implicitly criticise the Prime Minister.

'The Prime Minister wants powers back from Europe. Yet it seems to be Mr Clegg
and a few Lib Dems dictating policy Z it is outrageous. '

Tory MP Julian Lewis added: 'I am a conservative Conservative: if I had wanted
to be a Liberal, I would have joined the Liberal Democrat party, and if the
country had wanted the Liberals to be having as much influence as they have got,
they'd have voted for them in rather larger numbers.'

Fellow Tory Douglas Carswell pointed out that the latest opinion poll put
support for the Lib Dems at just 8 per cent Z only one point ahead of the
anti-EU UK Independence Party.

Mr Carswell said: 'Nick Clegg needs to be reminded that he is leading a party
which is now running neck and neck with UKIP. If he wants to trigger a General
Election on this issue then good luck to him.'

The row broke as an exclusive new poll revealed that virtually all card-carrying
Conservatives want to see powers clawed back from Brussels to Westminster.

The survey of almost 2,000 Conservative Party members, commissioned by the Daily
Mail, reveals that 97 per cent want to 'change the terms' of Britain's
membership of the European Union. Some 92 per cent believe Mr Cameron should
veto any new treaty on shoring up the Eurozone unless it is accompanied by a
major negotiation aimed at returning power to the UK.

More than three-quarters (77 per cent) believe there should also be a referendum
on Britain's continuing membership of the EU.

Mr Cameron was so unsettled by the deepening crisis over Europe that he was
unable to sleep on the 20-hour flight to the Commonwealth summit in Australia,
it emerged yesterday.

The Prime Minister, who is normally a good sleeper, is said to have stalked the
aircraft cabin restlessly on Thursday. He is said to have been so tired on
arrival in Australia that several engagements were delayed to allow him time to
rest.

Comment Z Page 14

Andrew Pierce Z Page 18

'Economic suicide': Nick Clegg

'Lib Dems are dictating policy'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                October 30, 2011
                                 First Edition

The Deputy PM's wife, Dechert, the EU and 'conflicts of interest'

BYLINE: Richard Northedge

SECTION: Pg. 86

LENGTH: 447 words


The recruitment of Nick Clegg's wife, Miriam Gonzalez Durantez, as head of EU
affairs at a firm of American lawyers could embarrass the Lib Dem leader as much
as it presents conflicts of interest for her, say critics.

Ms Gonzalez has resigned as head of trade and government relations at lawyers
DLA Piper to head Dechert's EU trade and EU government affairs practice.

Eurosceptic political rivals to the Deputy Prime Minister say conflicts could
arise from Mr Clegg's government work and his wife's new role. But he may also
find her new firm's clients test his liberal credentials.

Dechert acts for Lehman Brothers' independent directors and this month persuaded
US courts to dismiss a class action against them over the bank's collapse. Last
month it represented Google in which a class action by customers was dismissed.
The firm is also involved in corporate deals, including this summer's £120m
takeover of the Moonpig greeting cards company by PhotoBox; it is currently
advising MWB. In the Bernard Madoff scandal, it acted for Ezra Merkin, an
associate of the US financier behind the $65bn Ponzi scheme who was charged with
civil fraud.

Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip, said: "Given her husband's role in government, you
have to ask whether this was the wisest job to take."

Spanish-born Ms Gonzalez is a specialist on EU law and wrote a book on the World
Trade Organisation's telecom agreements after working as a negotiator in
Brussels for its director-general, the former UK trade secretary Leon Brittan.

She spent 12 years at the European Commission and was senior adviser to
commissioner Lord Pattern, another former Tory minister. She met her husband
there when he was a trade negotiator with Lord Brittan, who was last year made a
trade adviser to the coalition government.

Ms Gonzalez says Dechert provides a platform for building her legal practice.

Andrew Levander, the chairman of Dechert's policy committee, said: "She will be
a terrific asset to the firm. We seek to hire men and women with sharp minds."

Ms Gonzalez was previously a Foreign Office policy adviser on the Middle East
and is now a director of Acciona, a Spanish renewable energy group. But Mr
Farage says: "The Deputy Prime Minister will be the first to know about EU
policy and trading, while Ms Gonzalez's new role sees her as an EU trade chief
for an international company. By taking this position she will face ongoing
accusations of conflict of interest."

Her defenders compare her position with that of Tony Blair's wife, Cherie, who,
as a barrister, sometimes fought cases that conflicted with government policy.
Dechert insiders say any conflict is little different to Ms Gonzalez's work at
DLA Piper.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                October 30, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Will the euro crisis be Cameron's Waterloo?;
PM has just six months to defeat Europeans and save our economy

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 854 words


DAVID CAMERON has six months to draft "concrete proposals" to pull powers back
from Brussels or Britain risks being left in the dust by a two-speed Europe.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is forging ahead with plans for fiscal
integration for the 17 eurozone countries in the wake of the Greek debt crisis.

Experts believe that requires a Treaty change and talks, which begin next month,
are set to come to a head by next spring - giving the Prime Minister a six-month
window.

With the change requiring the support of all 27 union members, Conservative MPs
believe Britain's veto is the ideal opportunity to barter powers back from
Brussels.

The Prime Minister has toughened talk on Brussels after 79 Conservative MPs
voted last Monday in support of a referendum on Britain's relationship with the
European Union.

Downing Street revealed yesterday all Whitehall departments had been ordered to
accelerate a review on all aspects of Britain's membership.

For the time being, Mr Cameron's tougher talk on Brussels has appeased the
reformists but their patience will break if rhetoric is not swiftly matched by a
strategy for a power clawback.

Tim Montgomerie, editor of ConservativeHome, is cautious about the Cameron
conversion.

He said: "It now seems that David Cameron's whole attitude has changed. It
remains to be seen whether it has changed for good.

"The Prime Minister is adept at launching initiatives but not so good at seeing
them through."

Mr Cameron has highlighted control over the City of London as a key
battleground.

Ahead of the G20 summit in Cannes next week, he accused France and Germany of
orchestrating "constant attacks" on Britain's economic power house. Britain has
already signalled its hostility to proposals for a financial transaction tax but
experts warn far more is needed as Brussels has a "slew" of up to 50 directives
and regulations planned for the financial services sector.

Mats Persson, director of Open Europe, said the Prime Minister's analysis was
correct but he seemed to be thin on solutions.

He warned recent history offers cautionary tales of British prime ministers
talking tough on Brussels but coming up empty-handed.

Tony Blair infamously gave up some of Britain's hard-won rebate and demanded
urgent reforms of the Common Agricultural Policy which never came.

Mr Persson said: "What the Government needs to do is come up with a plan of what
it intends to do. It needs to go beyond broad political assurances.

"And this is where the Government is potentially in trouble, they don't seem to
have any ideas where to take this."

Added to this is the problem posed by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, a
roadblock for the reformists.

Mr Clegg said last week there was "no question" of Britain "unilaterally"
repatriating powers.

If Ministers seem to be floundering, parliamentarians are in no doubt what steps
to take next.

THE All Party Parliamentary Group on European Reform has commissioned research
on wresting powers back from Brussels on everything from financial regulations,
to constitutional matters and social policy.

The EU Budget, due for a major round of negotiations next year, the Common
Agricultural and Fisheries Policies, policing, crime, immigration, environmental
legislation and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg are all to be
subjected to forensic research.

The group's first report, on employment laws which could be taken back, is due
"imminently".

Getting Britain out from under EU red tape would save private small and medium
sized companies a fortune. Eurosceptic MPs warn the creation of a 17-strong
eurozone "club within a club" means Britain's sovereignty is under threat as
never before.

Chancellor George Osborne warned MPs last week of the danger of a eurozone
"caucus" flexing its muscle by qualified majority voting on employment and
financial laws.

One observer warned a eurozone caucus represented "one of the biggest threats"
to the City in 40 years. The UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage accused
Mr Cameron of hypocrisy.

He said: "He should check the voting records of his own MEPs before vowing to
defend the City.

"Under his leadership, his MEPs voted in favour of draft legislation which
caused significant damage to the City of London."

They supported one directive that drove an estimated one-in-four hedge funds
from London.

European hostility to Britain has been fuelled by a suspicion among the Brussels
political elite that the behaviour of our "light touch" regulated City caused
the 2008 credit crunch. The good news is despite growing tension between
Brussels and Britain, we are simply too powerful to be ignored.

Mr Persson said: "This is what I think a lot of people in Britain don't
appreciate, that it is one of the major voices in Europe. It is one of the
biggest budget contributors and it's a big market. It is not as if Europe can
simply ignore Britain."

COMMENT AND OPINION: PAGE 36 What do you think - SHOULD WE QUIT THE EU NOW? YES
- 0901 030 0982 ? NO - 0901 030 0983 YES text SXYES to 80088 ? NO text SXNO to
80088 Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rate.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DÉJÀ VU: France's Napoleon was defeated on the Belgian battlefield of
Waterloo by the Duke of Wellington's army - but Cameron may be facing political
defeat over Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

50 Tory councils rebel over planning reform

BYLINE: James Gillespie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words


DAVID CAMERON is facing a rebellion among his grassroots Conservatives as more
than 50 Tory-controlled councils demand changes to the government's
controversial planning reforms.

An investigation by The Sunday Times has found that councils across the country
- from London boroughs to shire counties - have warned the government that it
could face chaos if it pushes ahead with the National Planning Policy Framework
(NPPF), which cuts more than 1,000 pages of planning guidelines to just 52.

The scale of the grassroots opposition from Tory heartlands will dismay the
party leadership as it demonstrates they have failed to convince their own
supporters. Many of the councils' objections to the NPPF are similar to those
raised by opponents such as the National Trust and the Campaign to Protect Rural
England. One council, Waverley in Surrey, which has 56 Tory members and one
independent, describes it as a "developers' charter" while others condemn the
vague definitions and lax framing of the document.

The councils are particularly angry at the "presumption in favour of sustainable
development" which is enshrined in the NPPF and yet the document gives no strict
definition of the words. Councils fear endless legal challenges over what the
phrase actually means.

Such a strong reaction raises the prospect of further problems in the Commons
for Cameron, soon after the anti-European Union rebellion from his own
backbenchers.

The political consequences for the Tories at local level could be devastating.
In Meopham, Kent, developers want to build 1,000 homes in the staunchly
Conservative village. At a by-election for the Meopham North ward, the UK
Independence party (UKIP) stood for the first time and ran a campaign claiming
the NPPF would lead to the "concreting over" of Meopham.

The Tories lost almost half their vote, although they managed to retain the
seat. UKIP came second.

Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, said: "The result shows that the planning
issue has destroyed trust at a very basic level between the big three parties,
especially the Conservatives and their former supporters.

There isn't a marginal seat across the country that is safe for them now."

The comments from many of the Tory councils will make stark reading for Greg
Clark, the minister in charge of pushing through the reforms.

Additional reporting: Cal Flyn, Gemma Meredith

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Bumbling EU chief's 5-star faux pas

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski ; Mark Hookham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 683 words


BARONESS ASHTON, the vicepresident of the European commission, is at the centre
of controversy this weekend as she enjoys a luxury break at a five-star hotel in
Australia while European politicians continue their battle to save the euro.

On Wednesday, as leaders gathered in Brussels for a crucial summit about the
mounting debt crisis, Ashton flew to Perth to attend the three-day Commonwealth
heads of government meeting (CHOGM) that began on Friday.

After the opening day, however, she left for Melbourne to begin a three-night
"private" stay at the exclusive Club Spa Suite in the Langham hotel on the banks
of the Yarra river. Critics, who described her trip to the CHOGM meeting as
"completely irrelevant" to her job, were further enraged by news that her stay
at the summit had been so brief.

Ashton has previously attracted controversy for her failure to attend other key
summits and for being slow to react to international crises.

Details of Ashton's stay at the Langham, which boasts magnificent views of the
Melbourne skyline, emerged in an internal memo about her itinerary seen by The
Sunday Times. It details how aides were asked to make the booking at the hotel
alongside her official engagements. Although the cost of the break was not
mentioned in the memo, she is paying for the trip. It is understood that the
hotel bill could be £430 a night.

Ashton, who is also the EU's foreign affairs representative and whose annual pay
package is worth £328,000, is due to meet Kevin Rudd, the Australian foreign
minister, in Canberra on Monday. However, it is understood from sources within
the European External Action Service, the EU's foreign office, that those talks
were added to her schedule only after Rudd learnt she was joining Commonwealth
leaders in Perth. On September 13, after the discovery, he wrote to her
requesting a meeting.

A spokesman for Ashton said: "The Australian government was keen to have a
bilateral element to the visit in addition to the Perth leg. She is therefore
meeting Minister Rudd on Monday in Canberra at his invitation."

After her meeting with Rudd, Ashton is due to fly to Sydney, where she is
scheduled to dine at Aria, one of the city's finest restaurants, which overlooks
the opera house and harbour bridge. She will then travel to Japan, where,
according to a draft itinerary, she has expressed a wish, should time allow, to
go shopping or visit a market.

In a survey of EU officials, Ashton, believed to be the first senior EU official
to attend a Commonwealth summit, was recently rated as "disappointing" or "below
average". Her husband Peter Kellner, the pollster and chairman of the Royal
Commonwealth Society, was also at the summit in Perth. A spokesman for the the
Commonwealth secretariat said Ashton had been invited to Perth because the theme
of the summit was women as "agents of change". Aides insisted it provided her
with an opportunity to network with prime ministers and foreign ministers from
54 countries. However, one official working for the peer said: "Cathy refuses to
go to key events and gatherings despite advice from aides, but she decided to
travel to Australia for a Commonwealth meeting that is frankly completely
irrelevant for her work."

Christopher Howarth of the think tank Open Europe said: "Baroness Ashton has not
set the world on fire to date."

Geoffrey Van Orden, a Tory MEP, said: "I am very surprised that she is going to
the Commonwealth meeting. If she is going there to be reminded of the importance
of the Commonwealth and the British role in the world, then the trip could help
her education."

Nigel Farage, an MEP and head of the UK Independence party, said: "Catherine
Ashton has absolutely no business travelling to the Commonwealth meeting and
every taxpayer penny spent on her trip there is a total waste."

Ashton drew criticism last year when, despite her role as the head of security
for Europe, she missed a joint EU and Nato security summit in Majorca. Her
failure to fly to Haiti after the earthquake and her late response to the Arab
spring revolutions in northern Africa also drew adverse comments.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton has been staying at The Langham hotel in Melbourne
GLEN ALLISON/IAN LANGSDON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Will the euro crisis be Cameron's Waterloo?

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 858  words


PM has just six months to defeat Europeans and save our economy

DAVID CAMERON has six months to draft "concrete proposals" to pull powers back
from Brussels or Britain risks being left in the dust by a two-speed Europe.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is forging ahead with plans for fiscal
integration for the 17 eurozone countries in the wake of the Greek debt crisis.

Experts believe that requires a Treaty change and talks, which begin next month,
are set to come to a head by next spring - giving the Prime Minister a six-month
window.

With the change requiring the support of all 27 union members, Conservative MPs
believe Britain's veto is the ideal opportunity to barter powers back from
Brussels.

The Prime Minister has toughened talk on Brussels after 79 Conservative MPs
voted last Monday in support of a referendum on Britain's relationship with the
European Union.

Downing Street revealed yesterday all Whitehall departments had been ordered to
accelerate a review on all aspects of Britain's membership.

For the time being, Mr Cameron's tougher talk on Brussels has appeased the
reformists but their patience will break if rhetoric is not swiftly matched by a
strategy for a power clawback.

Tim Montgomerie, editor of Conservative Home, is cautious about the Cameron
conversion.

He said: "It now seems that David Cameron's whole attitude has changed. It
remains to be seen whether it has changed for good.

"The Prime Minister is adept at launching initiatives but not so good at seeing
them through."

Mr Cameron has highlighted control over the City of London as a key
battleground.

Ahead of the G20 summit in Cannes next week, he accused France and Germany of
orchestrating "constant attacks" on Britain's economic power house. Britain has
already signalled its hostility to proposals for a financial transaction tax but
experts warn far more is needed as Brussels has a "slew" of up to 50 directives
and regulations planned for the financial services sector.

Mats Persson, director of Open Europe, said the Prime Minister's analysis was
correct but he seemed to be thin on solutions.

He warned recent history offers cautionary tales of British prime ministers
talking tough on Brussels but coming up empty-handed.

Tony Blair infamously gave up some of Britain's hard-won rebate and demanded
urgent reforms of the Common Agricultural Policy which never came.

Mr Persson said: "What the Government needs to do is come up with a plan of what
it intends to do. It needs to go beyond broad political assurances.

"And this is where the Government is potentially in trouble, they don't seem to
have any ideas where to take this."

Added to this is the problem posed by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, a
roadblock for the reformists. Mr Clegg said last week there was "no question" of
Britain "unilaterally" repatriating powers.

If Ministers seem to be floundering, parliamentarians are in no doubt what steps
to take next.

THE All Party Parliamentary Group on European Reform has commissioned research
on wresting powers back from Brussels on everything from financial regulations,
to constitutional matters and social policy.

The EU Budget, due for a major round of negotiations next year, the Common
Agricultural and Fisheries Policies, policing, crime, immigration, environmental
legislation and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg are all to be
subjected to forensic research.

The group's fist report, on employment laws which could be taken back, is due
"imminently".

Getting Britain out from under EU red tape would save private small and medium
sized companies a fortune. Eurosceptic MPs warn the creation of a 17-strong
eurozone "club within a club" means Britain's sovereignty is under threat as
never before.

Chancellor George Osborne warned MPs last week of the danger of a eurozone
"caucus" flexing its muscle by qualified majority voting on employment and
financial laws.

One observer warned a eurozone caucus represented "one of the biggest threats"
to the City in 40 years.

The UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage accused Mr Cameron of hypocrisy.

He said: "He should check the voting records of his own MEPs before vowing to
defend the City.

"Under his leadership, his MEPs voted in favour of draft legislation which
caused significant damage to the City of London."

They supported one directive that drove an estimated one-in-four hedge funds
from London.

European hostility to Britain has been fuelled by a suspicion among the Brussels
political elite that the behaviour of our "light touch" regulated City caused
the 2008 credit crunch. The good news is despite growing tension between
Brussels and Britain, we are simply too powerful to be ignored.

Mr Persson said: "This is what I think a lot of people in Britain don't
appreciate, that it is one of the major voices in Europe. It is one of the
biggest budget contributors and it's a big market. It is not as if Europe can
simply ignore Britain."

What do you think - SHOULD WE QUIT THE EU NOW?

YES - 0901 030 0982 NO - 0901 030 0983

YES text SXYES to 80088 NO text SXNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rate.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DÉJÀ VU: France's Napoleon was defeated on the Belgian battlefield of
Waterloo by the Duke of Wellington's army - but Cameron may be facing political
defeat over Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Cameron's six-month deadline for Europe plan

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 407  words


DAVID CAMERON has six months to draft "concrete proposals" to pull back powers
from Brussels, or Britain risks being left in the dust by a two-speed Europe.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel is forging ahead with plans for fiscal
integration of the 17 eurozone countries in the wake of the Greek debt crisis.

Experts believe that requires a Treaty change. Talks, which begin next month,
will end by next spring - giving the Prime Minister a six-month window.

With the change requiring the support of all 27 union members, Tory MPs believe
Britain's veto is the ideal opportunity to barter powers back from Brussels.

The Prime Minister has toughened talk on Brussels after 79 Conservative MPs
voted last Monday in support of a referendum on Britain's relationship with the
European Union.

Downing Street revealed yesterday all Whitehall departments had been ordered to
accelerate a review on every aspect of Britain's membership.

For the time being, this has appeased the reformists, but their patience will
break if rhetoric is not swiftly matched by a strategy for a power clawback.

Added to this is the problem posed by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, a
roadblock for the reformists. Mr Clegg said last week there was "no question" of
Britain "unilaterally" repatriating powers. If ministers seem to be floundering,
parliamentarians are in no doubt what steps to take.

The All Party Parliamentary Group on European Reform has commissioned research
on wresting powers back from Brussels on everything from financial regulations,
to constitutional matters.

Getting Britain out from under EU red tape would save small and medium sized
companies a fortune. Eurosceptic MPs warn the creation of a 17-strong eurozone
"club within a club" means Britain's sovereignty is under threat as never
before.

Chancellor George Osborne warned MPs last week of the danger of a eurozone
"caucus" flexing its muscle by qualified majority voting on employment and
financial laws.

The UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage accused Mr Cameron of hypocrisy.

He said: "Under his leadership, his MEPs voted in favour of draft legislation
which caused significant damage to the City of London."

European hostility to Britain has been fuelled by a suspicion among the Brussels
political elite that the behaviour of our "light touch" regulated City caused
the 2008 credit crunch.

However, despite growing tension between Brussels and Britain, we are simply too
powerful to be ignored.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STRATEGY: The PM has work to do

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Osborne to block IMF cash for euro bail-out;
Rescue fund for euro is not enough, say economists

BYLINE: Robert Winnett; Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 790 words


BRITISH taxpayers will not help to pay for the euro bail-out, George Osborne
pledged yesterday.

The Chancellor made the promise in the Commons as he faced growing pressure from
his own party to repatriate powers from Europe.

Mr Osborne said he would not allow the International Monetary Fund, which is
partly bankrolled by British taxpayers, to provide money for the new euro
bail-out fund.

The announcement was a fillip to Conservative backbenchers who have demanded
that the Government acts to claw back powers from Brussels.

The Daily Telegraph has learnt that Tory MPs will meet next month to begin
drawing up a detailed plan calling for the return of employment and social laws
following the back-bench rebellion over a European referendum.

Mr Osborne told MPs: "Britain will not be putting money into the bail-out fund
either directly or through the IMF."

He ruled out IMF involvement amid indications that the international
organisation may be asked to help bankroll the (EURO)1trillion (£880million)
fund to lend money to beleaguered countries in the single currency.

"The IMF exists to support countries, it does not exist to support currencies,"
Mr Osborne said. "The IMF contributing money to the eurozone bail-out fund, no;
Britain contributing money to the eurozone bail-out fund, no. That is Britain's
clear position."

The Chancellor also sought to reassure rebellious Tory backbenchers. "This
Government will protect Britain's interests again as discussions on a possible
limited treaty change begin," he said.

"We will seek to rebalance the responsibilities between the EU and its member
states which in our view have become unbalanced."

Amid the uncertainty over IMF involvement in the bail-out, Nicolas Sarkozy, the
French president, approached the Chinese government yesterday for funds.

Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds are also expected to be asked for
financial support.

Mr Sarkozy was also quoted as saying last night that it was "a mistake" to let
Greece join the euro because its economy was not ready to form a monetary union
with others in the club.

Stock markets around the world rose sharply after European leaders emerged from
all-night talks. The FTSE 100 index closed up three per cent at 5,713 and the
euro hit a two-month high. The package will involve banks writing off about half
their loans to the Greek government, taxpayer support for European banks and the
bail-out fund. Countries with large, unsustainable debts, such as Italy, have
also set out plans to cut public spending.

Mr Osborne said the eurozone must provide "more detail over the next few weeks".
David Cameron, due to arrive in Australia this morning for a Commonwealth
summit, welcomed the eurozone proposal but called for further detail.

However, there are growing doubts over the source of funding for the bailout
fund - and whether it is large enough. A poll of 48 leading economists found
that 26 warned that (EURO)1trillion was not enough to "stave off" worsening
problems in Italy and Spain.

The IMF is underwritten by countries around the world and Britain has a total
exposure of about £20billion to the fund. There have been calls for the IMF to
double in size to allow it to tackle the global economic turmoil. Yesterday,
ministers urged the EU to turn its attention to wider reforms, with more
integration between members of the single currency to stop another crisis
developing.

A new president of the eurozone area is likely to be appointed and Britain is
pushing to ensure it is not excluded from decisions affecting all EU countries.

Eurosceptic MPs and peers are organising an unofficial summit to draw up a
"menu" of reforms they want the Government to extract from the eurozone.

The initiative has been organised by Tory MPs behind the Fresh Start project,
which favours a new relationship between Britain and the European Union.

An email from the Tory MP Andrea Leadsom invites all MPs and peers to the
"inaugural meeting" of an all-party parliamentary group on European reform.

It says: "We are holding the inaugural meeting at 10am on Thursday November 10.
We will be inviting representatives from think tanks, the TUC, the CBI and FSB
to join us."

Ms Leadsom said 60 MPs and peers have said they wanted to join, with
"considerable interest" from both Houses.

The research will result in a "draft White Paper on European Reform", due to be
published by next July. The paper will examine up to a dozen different policy
areas including financial services, the Common Agricultural Policy, fisheries
and structural funds.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party, said Tory MPs
might defect to his party after Monday's revolt over an EU referendum.

Editorial Comment: Page 31

Fraser Nelson: Page 30

Business: B1, 2, 4 & 5

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EC president José Manuel Barroso sighs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

French told: All aboard the jobs train to Britain

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 394  words


A FRENCH plot to send hordes of unemployed workers to snatch our jobs sparked
outrage last night.

Authorities in France are masterminding a scheme that could see more than 1,000
jobless "exported" to the UK on cut-price tickets from the French unemployment
capital, Calais.

Plans are being hatched to run French low-cost trains through the Channel Tunnel
which would allow them to work here by day and return home at night.

Calais has almost 9,000 jobless, making it France's highest unemployment rate at
23 per cent.

French expats in the UK say there are thousands of jobs available in Ashford,
Kent - just 30 minutes away by rail.

Ashford has an unemployment rate of just 2.6 per cent.

The hugely controversial idea, revealed for the first time today by the Daily
Express, takes advantage of the EU's much trumpeted "free movement of workers"
principle.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, a Kent MEP, said: "We export jobs due to the high cost
of regulations and import the unemployed to take the few jobs we have.

"The Government cannot pretend to have the interests of British people,
especially the most vulnerable unemployed people at heart if they allow this to
happen. Of course being in the EU means they can do nothing about it. This just
laughs in the face of Britain's jobless." Ashford MP and Immigration Minister
Damian Green said: "I don't think moving unemployment between Kent and northern
France is very sensible."

But France's Consul General in London, Edouard Braine, said:

"This should definitely happen.

You only have to look at a map to see how well these two regions could
complement each other."

The French proposal is to use Calais regional commuter trains on Eurostar
high-speed tracks but at day-return ticket prices.

Frenchman Olivier Cadic, 49, who set up an electrical business in Ashford 15
years ago, said: "We need a cross-Channel shuttle service so the unemployed on
each side of the Channel can find work on the other side and get back to their
homes in the evening. There are now many French companies in Ashford highly
anxious for a low-cost shuttle from Calais."

France's train operator SNCF and the Calais Chamber of Commerce had "responded
positively" to the idea, he added.

But in Ashford, Ellie Palmer, 19, said: "I have been looking for a job since the
summer and there's nothing out there. If the French are coming we might as well
pack it in."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: French plan cheap train tickets

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 28, 2011 Friday

Comment: Tory addiction to the Europe myth could cost them 2015: The
Conservative party is seriously out of touch if it thinks voters care for the
referendum. It is the economy that matters

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1090 words


All political parties risk falling prey to their own mythologies about the
voters. In the 1970s, Labour persuaded itself that the public yearned for a more
leftwing programme. Yet when Labour offered them one, the voters demurred. For
decades, the Liberal Democrats have been similarly convinced that the public
would vote for electoral reform. But when given the chance earlier this year,
the voters firmly declined.

The Conservative party's equivalent myth is about Europe. Give anti-European
feeling its head, runs the belief, and voters will flock to the Tories. At the
grassroots of large parts of the party this first myth has now fused with a
second, of more recent origin. If only David Cameron had been more anti-European
and more traditionally Tory in 2010, it runs, the Tories would have won the
general election outright and would not now be cursed with coalition.

It is this combustible fusion that explains both the size of this week's Commons
Tory revolt against Cameron over a referendum on EU membership and also why that
revolt is so dangerous to the party. For if there is one thing that the great
majority of Tories are united about, it is the belief that they can win the 2015
election outright. So strong is this conviction that anything less than the
fulfilling of it - even if it takes the shape of a second coalition government
with the Lib Dems - would trigger a serious threat to Cameron's leadership.

It is important to understand this point in order to appreciate why Monday's
vote is more likely to be the harbinger of things to come than the one-off
moment of "making our point" which otherwise loyal MPs would have you believe.
The Thatcher generation's aversion to anything European continues to be
massively potent within the Conservative party. But the Cameron generation's
anger about the failure to win an election that many Tories had persuaded
themselves was in the bag cannot be underestimated either.

It is in the nature of such mythologies that they will always trump the facts.
But a more objective view would start with the finding in this month's Ipsos
Mori/Economist poll that only 1% of voters think Europe is the most important
issue facing Britain, and only 4% think Europe is among the most important. The
economy, by comparison, rates 50% and 68% on these indexes.

The capacity of true believers to wriggle away from such inconvenient truths is
huge. Argue the case and the voters will quickly come round, say some. Remind
people of the practical effects, rather than focusing on abstract issues, and it
will soon be different, say others. It's all about getting the message past the
liberal pro-Europe establishment in the BBC, is a third view. These are the
arguments of a political party in denial.

But don't just take my word for that. Much the most devastating rebuttal of such
claims this week has come from no less an authority than Lord Ashcroft, the
former Tory party treasurer and free-spending mastermind of the party's 2010 key
seats campaign. Ashcroft's withering verdict on Monday's revolt is full of
ironies, given that his money and expertise was responsible for many of the new
intake rebels having the opportunity to vote against Cameron this week in the
first place. But he certainly does not mince his words.

"What do we know about voters' priorities?" asks Ashcroft. "We know they are
anxious about the economy, in terms of growth and jobs, not just cutting the
deficit. We know they care more about the NHS than they think we do, that they
believe it is subject to cuts and that they do not know how our reforms are
supposed to benefit them . . . And we know that for many people, the main
barrier to voting Conservative is that they do not think we share the concerns
of people like them. But which issue has the last week shown still seems to
exercise our party above all others?"

Monday's display was damaging, Ashcroft continues, "because it suggested to
ordinary voters that the Conservatives are far away from them when it comes to
priorities - the most important issues facing the country, and their families".
Instead, he says, "we are back in the territory of telling voters why they
should share our priorities, instead of showing that we share theirs".

Ashcroft has consistently proved himself to be an unsentimental judge of the
party's electoral performances. The Tory party would be well advised to take his
verdict seriously this time, too. It is true that Tory arguments over Europe in
the 2010s are less ferocious than in the 1990s - so far, at any rate. As the
ancients said, one never steps into the same river twice. But the Tories are
deluding themselves if they think the issues are less serious. Under Cameron, as
under John Major, there is still an argument between pragmatists and
fundamentalists. And voters are practical people; they also have longer memories
than they are given credit for.

The politics of the next few years will be shaped more than anything else by the
need to offer practical answers for dealing with bad times. The voters recognise
the need to hunker down as best they can. They will accept their share of
sacrifices if they can ride out the storm. The political argument will be about
whom you trust most to help you hold on to what matters most - your job, your
house and your essential services. It will be about getting through, with as few
losses as possible, to better times. Aspiration and vision will matter less,
except perhaps in the Scottish context, than they have done in recent years.
Those things will mostly be for tomorrow.

The Conservative party risks looking seriously out of touch by focusing on
Europe as it did this week. The overriding issue in Europe is practical,
equipping the European economy to survive and then grow again. Arguments about
treaties and powers are simply secondary. Yet large parts of the party remain
addicted to them. Many Tories are more worried about the threat from Ukip in the
European elections in 2014 than about stabilising the eurozone now. These are
not the priorities of a party that wants to win the argument about how to see
Britain through the storm.

Cameron and George Osborne know this. So does Ashcroft. Lots of Tories just look
the other way. But knowing it does little to resolve the Tory dilemma. If they
lose votes to Ukip on their right, it follows they must win more votes in the
centre to capture that elusive overall majority. Cameron failed to pull it off
in 2010. And after Monday, he looks more like failing to do it in 2015 as well.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 28, 2011 Friday 3:56 PM GMT

Labour gains in Midlands marginals

BYLINE: Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 347 words


Labour gained two West Midland marginals from Tories in the latest council
by-elections.

Candidate Elsie Bates triumphed at Newchapel, Newcastle-under-Lyme Borough,
Staffordshire on a further switch to the party since it took another ward   seat
in May.

And Julie Fitzpatrick followed up her husband's victory earlier this year at
Bloxwich East, Walsall Borough.

In Scotland, Labour defended a seat at Coatbridge North and Glenboig, North
Lanarkshire Council.

There was a swing to the SNP compared with the last main council polls in 2007
but a net movement back to Labour since a 2009 by-election.

Analysis of 17 comparable by-elections in October suggests a projected 3%
nationwide Labour lead over Tories.

A calculation based on eight wards fought both times by all three major
parties gives a line-up of: Lab 37.9%, C 34.8%, Lib Dem 17.2%.

Results:

Cornwall County - Bude North and Stratton: Lib Dem 958, C 395, Lab 120,   Ind
93. (June 2009 - Lib Dem 1557, C 595). Lib Dem hold. Swing 4.4% Lib Dem   to C.

Lancashire County - Wyreside: C 2178, Lab 877, Ukip 361, Green 339.   (June 2009
- C 3582, Green 1147, Lab 710). C hold. Swing 9.1% C to Lab.

Newcastle-under-Lyme Borough - Newchapel: Lab 248, C 160, Ukip 118, Lib   Dem
17. (May 2011 - Lab 304, C 254, Ind 168, Ukip 143, Lib Dem 60). Lab gain   from
C. Swing 5.4% C to Lab.

North Yorkshire County - Thornton Dale and The Wolds: C 1122, Lib Dem   574.
(June 2009 - C 1665, Lib Dem 804, Lab 239). C hold. Swing 0.3% Lib Dem   to C.

North Lanarkshire Council - Coatbridge North and Glenboig: Lab 1527,   SNP 1139,
C 174, Lib Dem 78. (May 2007 - Four seats SNP 1983, Lab 1982, 828,   C 714, Ind
604, Lab 416, Scottish Socialist Party 219. Elected: Lab 2, SNP   1, Ind 1. June
4 2009 by-election: Lab 1529, SNP 1254, Ind 557, C 361, No   description 217,
Green 115, SSP 81). Lab hold. Swing 2.5% Lab to SNP.

Walsall Borough - Bloxwich East: Lab 922, C 834, Ukip 98, English   Democrats
49, Green 16. (May 2011 - Lab 1205, C 1191, Ukip 229, Democratic   Labour Party
107, Lib Dem 81). Lab gain from C. Swing 2% C to Lab.

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 28, 2011 Friday 2:15 PM GMT

Once again, Britain must save the masters of Europe from self-destruction

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1554 words


We bloggers and columnists are presented this week with a bewildering choice of
material. The wider implications of the events at St Paul's, the projections of
national and worldwide population trends, the extraordinary escalation of
executive pay in terms of bonuses for mediocre or substandard performance, the
determination of the Government to continue the Blairite scheme to fill the
senior ranks of the civil service on the basis of the ethnicity, sexual
orientation, disabilities, or even the religious and philosophical beliefs of
officials, rather than their capabilities, all demand attention. However I am
afraid that like many of my colleagues, I feel bound to follow the remarkable
events on the European stage.

What stands out far above this week's kicking of the euro crisis further down
the road at the cost of a few more trillion euros, dollars or pounds, is the
growing reluctant, sullen realisation and even admission by the Europhile
establishment, that we sceptics have been right all along in what we said about
the quandary posed by the creation of the euro.

As I put it to the then Chancellor Ken Clarke all those years ago, "Ken, can you
name a currency which has more than one Chancellor of the Exchequer to its
name?" A currency union has to go on to be a political union or it will
collapse. The question is whether the people (not the political establishment)
of Europe are ready to accept a political union.

That is the question which the Europhiles have been dodging for years. We
far-sighted critics have been abused uphill and down dale as nutcases,
fruitcakes, little Englanders, and ignorant self seeking quarrelsome
reactionaries standing in the path of progress for asking it. Now, one by one,
our critics are admitting that we were right to do so.

Last Monday, I asked in the House of Lords whether an agreement by the seventeen
eurozone member states to make agreements outside the Council of Ministers and
then to vote in the Council as a bloc for such agreements would constitute a
transfer of powers sufficient to trigger a referendum here. Lord Strathclyde,
the Government Leader in the Lords, understood my point clearly enough. That was
that the eurozone group can always outvote the remaining member states. What we
said or how we voted would have no effect on the decisions which they reached.

Tom Strathclyde confirmed that as no treaty amendment was involved, no
referendum would be triggered. Now it seems that the Prime Minister has
understood the problem. We and the other nine states outside the eurozone have
been disfranchised on many of the key questions of taxation and commercial
regulation.

There are three possible ways to resolve the matter. One is to surrender our
remaining independence, join the euro and advance to political union. Another is
to simply leave the EU and stand back as it is engulfed in economic and
political crisis, not next week, perhaps not next year, but inevitably because
political union over such disparate nations will not work. We would however be
badly harmed by that collapse. The third is to at least try to develop an
alternative European architecture to preserve open and free markets in our
mutual interest, ready for when even the eurocrats are compelled to face
reality.

At present that looks to be formidable, perhaps an impossible, task. However,
the history of this kingdom has been one of having to intervene in our own
interest to save the masters of Europe from their follies. So now once again it
may be our future.

...

There were some great posts in response to my blog post of Tuesday and sadly
some which were simply crass or abusive.

Looking first at the bright side I enjoyed richyork's fable of buying a car.
Great stuff! Then redbob (who I think is a Labour Europhile ) rightly made the
point that my blog post was not about the EU but about the way that the Commons
motion was handled and quite correctly reminded us all that we have a
representative democracy in which MPs are not delegates, whilst he agreed that
the 3 line whips were a mistake.

Then several of you commented on their own MPs; summermir was well pleased with
Stuart Andrew, marcusbrutusjunius with Henry Smith and amatrix with Jacob
Rees-Mogg, and revkevblue praised Adam Holloway, but Delboy was disappointed by
Connor Burns who I had recommended. I can only say that so was I. He has been
very outspoken in the past but succumbed to lobbying by the Prime Minister.

I was very glad that shaft 120 and others mentioned the quality of the Labour
MPs who defied their whips, particularly Kate Hooey, Frank Field, Gisela Stuart,
and Ian Davidson as well as the Tories.

On the wider issue of the nature of the Conservative Party davidaslindsay wrote
a long and interesting piece leading to the conclusion that there are now not
many Conservatives in it!

As ever I will ignore the vulgar and abusive comments. A mind which cannot frame
an argument without descending into gutter language is not worth engaging with.
That, however, does not preclude me from trying once again to direct some of my
critics to what I wrote, not what their fetid imaginations make up about what I
wrote, or to simple matters of fact.

Immanuel Kant claimed that Iain Duncan Smith gave me a peerage. Come, come. I
was made a peer when I stood down at the 1992 election, at which IDS first
entered the House. Does Kant really think that he took his Honours list to the
Queen so soon? Then leslie claimed I do not accept that someone not of white
Anglo-Saxon origins could be an Englishman of equal standing to myself. I was
obliged to bersher who asked him for evidence of that, but answer came there
none.

None the less, I should remind leslie that to be English is a matter of
ethnicity. That is to say I could no more be a Zulu than Chief Buthelezi could
be English. Secondly, I am not of Anglo-Saxon origin. Thirdly, of course I
respect anyone for what they are, not their ethnic origins. Lastly, he might
like to buy a copy of Icki Iqbal's recently published book "The Tebbit Test" and
acquire a little knowledge and even perhaps some humility.

As for winston rollo, who described me as a little Englander who had never
travelled, he might take the trouble to discover how I earned my living from
1953 to 1970. Perhaps trevorcharante who asked "How about (my) promise or threat
to join UKIP?", might spend his spare time finding some record of such a promise
before he submits another post.

Then there was poor tepidcocoa1983. He was offended that I should have suggested
he might be incapable or unwilling to read what I wrote and hotly declared that
no one is under an obligation to read what I write. No, of course not, but he
should surely accept that it is best to do so before commenting upon it.

Wearlily I would also point out that I have many times explained why half a
century ago I was a fervent Europhile and how experience drove me to my
hostility to the plans for a Euro super state. I will not repeat that despite
the idiotic abuse from those too ignorant to contribute anything but cat-calls
to the sensible exchanges on Telegraph Blogs.

It was rastusctastey who led the pack calling on me to let myself be ousted from
the Conservative Party and join UKIP, but I think magnolia had the better
argument in suggesting that those who supports UKIP's programme might be better
employed in getting into the Conservative Party and putting it straight. Then
cwarner asked my opinion of UKIP.

I am afraid that I do not regard it as very well organised at present and still
too prone to internal bickering, which I accept has about it a bit of kettles
and pots. Several posts from man friday, chancer and others asked why Prime
Ministers seem to be captured by the Europhiles, and analyst suggested they take
the easy way out.There is some truth in that. There is always so much to be
done. The Falklands, the Cold War, the attempted TUC insurrection for example,
that the thought of the huge task of carrying public opinion through the process
of disengaging from the EU is quite intimidating. Jaquesgarden asked what would
I have done last Monday had I been in the Cabinet. It would be easy to posture
about that, but it is a hypothetical question. However, if the Telegraph report
is correct that was a question which Iain Duncan Smith found none too easy. He
had to balance the need to complete his work to rid us of the why work cult
against making a splendid gesture, but still only a gesture. What is more,
Charles Moore, who has been a great defender of the Prime Minister, writes in
The Spectator that Owen Paterson came very near to resigning too.

I am sorry that I could not engage here with more of the 800 or so comments on
my blog post, and not the many which took views similar to my own, but also to
try to gently suggest that to wish to govern our own country ourselves is not to
make us "enemies" of the Prime Minister, nor "little Englanders", lunatics, nor
other abusive descriptions. Nor is it a desire to fight the 1939-45 War again to
remind our friends why we have fought so many wars to preserve our democracy and
help our them to advance to theirs. It is much more to avoid another bloody and
needless European conflict.

Finally my thanks to those who broadly supported my view that the Prime Minister
mishandled this affair. I think we were in the majority.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Scandal of £116bn budget

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 187 words


EURO-MPs defied public outrage at the spiralling cost of Brussels last night by
agreeing a "scandalous" £5.7billion hike in the European Union's annual budget.

While European leaders tackled the euro zone debt crisis in Brussels the EU's
parliament in Strasbourg voted for an inflation-busting 5.23 per cent increase
for 2012.

The hike will mean the EU grabbing an extra £834million from British taxpayers,
raising the cost to every UK household to £575 next year.

The EU's budget will reach an eyewatering £116billion in 2012, including
£14.4billion from British taxpayers.

Treasury officials warned the move will force further cuts on public spending at
home while critics said it will increase the public backlash against the EU.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "It is scandalous that during a time of austerity
that the European Parliament is calling for a budget increase." Euro-MPs voted
by 431 against 120 in favour of adopting the new budget, with 124 abstentions.

Supporters hailed the package as a "budget for growth, employment and
innovation" that would "support development and democracy in neighbouring
countries."

/sou

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Scandal of GBP 116bn budget

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 189  words


EURO-MPs defied public outrage at the spiralling cost of Brussels last night by
agreeing a "scandalous" GBP 5.7billion hike in the European Union's annual
budget.

While European leaders tackled the euro zone debt crisis in Brussels the EU's
parliament in Strasbourg voted for an inflation-busting 5.23 per cent increase
for 2012.

The hike will mean the EU grabbing an extra GBP 834million from British
taxpayers, raising the cost to every UK household to GBP 575 next year.

The EU's budget will reach an eyewatering GBP 116billion in 2012, including GBP
14.4billion from British taxpayers.

Treasury officials warned the move will force further cuts on public spending at
home while critics said it will increase the public backlash against the EU.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "It is scandalous that during a time of austerity
that the European Parliament is calling for a budget increase."

Euro-MPs voted by 431 against 120 in favour of adopting the new budget, with 124
abstentions.

Supporters hailed the package as a "budget for growth, employment and
innovation" that would "support development and democracy in neighbouring
countries."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 27, 2011 Thursday 9:28 PM GMT

George Osborne to block IMF cash for eurozone bail-out;
British taxpayers will not help to pay for the euro bail-out, George Osborne has
pledged.

BYLINE: By Robert Winnett and Christopher Hope

LENGTH: 746 words


The Chancellor made the promise in the Commons as he faced growing pressure from
his own party to repatriate powers from Europe.

Mr Osborne said he would not allow the International Monetary Fund, which is
partly bankrolled by British taxpayers, to provide money for the new euro
bail-out fund.

The announcement was a fillip to Conservative backbenchers who have demanded
that the Government acts to claw back powers from Brussels.

The Daily Telegraph has learnt that Tory MPs will meet next month to begin
drawing up a detailed plan calling for the return of employment and social laws
following the back-bench rebellion over a European referendum.

Mr Osborne told MPs: "Britain will not be putting money into the bail-out fund
either directly or through the IMF."

He ruled out IMF involvement amid indications that the international
organisation may be asked to help bankroll the (EURO)1 trillion (£880 million)
fund to lend money to beleaguered countries in the single currency.

"The IMF exists to support countries, it does not exist to support currencies,"
Mr Osborne said. "The IMF contributing money to the eurozone bail-out fund, no;
Britain contributing money to the eurozone bail-out fund, no. That is Britain's
clear position."

Amid the uncertainty over IMF involvement in the bail-out, Nicolas Sarkozy, the
French president, approached the Chinese government yesterday for funds.

Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds are also expected to be asked for
financial support.

Stock markets around the world rose sharply after European leaders emerged from
all-night talks to announce the broad outline of a deal for the single currency.

The FTSE 100 index closed up three per cent at 5,713 and the euro hit a
two-month high.

The package will involve banks writing off about half their loans to the Greek
government, taxpayer support for European banks and the bail-out fund. Countries
with large, unsustainable debts, such as Italy, have also set out plans to cut
public spending.

Mr Osborne said the eurozone must provide "more detail over the next few weeks"
about the bail-out.

David Cameron, who was due to arrive in Australia this morning for a summit with
Commonwealth leaders, also welcomed the eurozone announcement but called for
further detail.

"They made very good progress," he said. "They need to keep up the momentum and
work urgently to fill in the remaining details".

However, there are growing doubts over the source of funding for the bail-out
fund - and whether it is large enough. A poll of 48 leading economists found
that 26 warned that (EURO)1 trillion was not enough to "stave off" worsening
problems in Italy and Spain.

The IMF is underwritten by countries around the world and Britain has a total
exposure of about £20 billion to the fund. There have been calls for the IMF to
double in size to allow it to tackle the global economic turmoil.

Yesterday, ministers urged the EU to turn its attention to wider reforms, with
more integration between members of the single currency to stop another crisis
developing.

A new president of the eurozone area is likely to be appointed and Britain is
pushing to ensure it is not excluded from decisions affecting all EU countries.

Eurosceptic MPs and peers are organising an unofficial summit to draw up a
"menu" of reforms they want the

Government to extract from the eurozone.

The initiative has been organised by Tory MPs behind the Fresh Start project,
which favours a new relationship between Britain and the European Union.

An email sent to all MPs and peers from the Tory MP Andrea Leadsom invites them
to the "inaugural meeting" of a new all-party parliamentary group on European
reform.

It says: "We are holding the inaugural meeting at 10am on Thursday November 10.
We will also consult on the first substantive piece of research, which is on
Social and Employment Law. We will be inviting representatives from think tanks,
the TUC, the CBI and FSB to join us."

Ms Leadsom said 60 MPs and peers so far have said they wanted to join, with
"considerable interest" from both Houses of Parliament.

The research will result in a "draft White Paper on European Reform", due to be
published by next July. The paper will examine up to a dozen different policy
areas including financial services, the Common Agricultural Policy, fisheries
and structural funds.

Nigel Farage, leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party, said Tory MPs
might defect to his party after Monday's revolt over an EU referendum.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The public is losing faith in a Parliament where party whips prevent a free vote
on the EU referendum;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 899 words


SIR - Due to three-line whips imposed by Conservative, Labour and Lib Dem
leaders, our MPs have voted four-to-one against a policy favoured by a
significant majority of the electorate. Is it any wonder that the public has
little faith in Parliament and politicians? Chris Harlow Cirencester,
Gloucestershire

SIR - The polling evidence following the 1997 election shows that rebelling over
Europe or issuing an anti-EU election address had no effect on individual
constituency results.

Moreover, one of the main reasons voters expressed for deserting the Tories was
the party's lack of unity and obsession with Europe.

The most likely and lasting impact of the back-bench rebellion will be fewer
votes for the Conservatives and the election of more fanatically pro-EU Labour
and Liberal Democrat MPs.

Philip Duly Haslemere, Surrey

SIR - Many Conservative MPs have ignored the sentiments of their constituents by
choosing to vote instead on party lines. In theory, they can be held to account
at the next general election. In practice, however, many voters would find it
uncomfortable to vote for an alternative party's candidate.

So how can we vote out the candidate while retaining loyalty to the party? Is
the answer to move to a system of primary elections to choose the candidate to
fight the election? Peter Marshall Kingswood, Surrey

SIR - Roland Rudd, the chairman of Business for New Europe (Letters, October
25), uses two arguments against a referendum.

First, it would be a distraction. For whom? European leaders are already well
aware of a strong anti-EU feeling among many British people. If the thought of a
referendum in 2013 distracts our own Cabinet ministers from today's tasks, they
need to distinguish between urgent and important.

Secondly, he says: "We have a long and proud tradition of elections fought by
political parties campaigning on clear and comprehensive political platforms."
Exactly. At the last election all three major parties included a referendum in
their manifestos. Had they not done so, we might have seen a much larger vote
for Ukip.

That those three parties now oppose a referendum is seen as a betrayal by many
voters. The brave MPs who honoured a promise to their constituents by voting
against their party line in Monday's parliamentary debate are the true
champions.

Alistair Macdonald Eastbourne, East Sussex

SIR - David Cameron has vowed to reclaim powers from the EU. What happens when
Brussels inevitably says No? Gwyn Price Evans Whitland, Carmarthenshire

SIR - Regardless of rebellions and rhetoric, every government since 1970 has
taken us ever further into Europe. This one promises to be no different. Alec
Ellis Liverpool

SIR - Yet again, Mr Cameron has betrayed us. He promised a vote on the Lisbon
Treaty and went back on his word. He promised that petitions would be voted on
and then (with the help of all the other vested interests) frustrated a free
vote in Parliament.

Are we still a democracy? Mr Cameron is scared of a vote on the EU as he knows
what the result would be: we would be leaving. Only politicians want us to be in
the EU. I wonder why.

Nick Taylor Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire

SIR - I am soon to be 45 years old. I have never had a direct vote on membership
of the EU.

It appears that no time will ever be good enough for an arrogant political elite
who govern against the wishes of the electorate but who quite happily wasted
millions of pounds of taxpayers' money on the AV referendum, which few wanted
except a minority of politicians.

Richard Deery Camberley, Surrey

SIR - The Government decided that any e-petition receiving more than 100,000
supporters could be debated in backbench MPs' debating time, to make the
executive more accountable to backbenchers and the electorate.

Therefore any votes resulting from an epetition should be free votes. To rule
otherwise is to say that backbenchers and the electorate who voted for them are
not to be trusted. If so, then scrap the epetition scheme now.

Valerie Crews Beckenham, Kent

SIR - May I suggest that another petition is set up, asking the same question,
so that it can be debated again? If this fails, we can ask again, and again,
until, as with the European Union style of democracy, we eventually get the
right answer.

Paul Codrington Isle of Sheppey, Kent

SIR - If the people could overturn the poll tax why can't they do the same to
this Parliament's undemocratic decision? Ian Boylett London N9

SIR - Your happy colour photo of the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh in Brisbane
(Letters, October 25) shows a sovereign in a sovereign country. In Britian it
would be no such thing. We have been a prefecture of Brussels in all but name
since 1973, and with only 111 MPs coming anywhere near recognising such a
travesty, we will remain in that disgraceful limbo. James Lewis
Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex

SIR - Now we need a referendum on leaving the United Kingdom. Brian Gilbert
Hampton, Middlesex

SIR - David Cameron is right when he reminds me that my first duty is to help my
neighbour when his house is on fire.

However, I should insist that the neighbour stops storing inflammable petrol in
his garage, and expecting me to follow suit.

Of course, if he carries on with his foolish ways, I can always move. Malcolm
Allen Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire

SIR - My understanding is that, when a place is burning down, the correct action
is to evacuate the building.

John Kelsey Ludham, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Badge of honour: a protest outside Parliament by Gloria Martin against
EU membership
OLI SCARFF/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Enough is enough ...kick out St Paul's rabble

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 671 words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's cathedral today face calls to pack up and
go.

There is a growing public backlash against the anti-capitalist campaigners who
have closed the historic building for the first time since the Second World War
and are threatening religious services marking events such as Remembrance Sunday
and Christmas. Politicians, business leaders and small traders united yesterday
to say "enough is enough" and called on the tented rabble to leave.

The Daily Express today adds our voice to the calls, launching a "Boot Them
Out!" crusade to clear the 200 protesters from the London landmark.

Despite repeated requests to leave, a hardcore among the campers say they will
remain for "at least 18 months".

This could force the cathedral to remain closed for Remembrance Sunday on
November 13, the Lord Mayor's Show the previous day and the festive period. Not
only would this disappoint worshippers, it would severely reduce the cathedral's
income from visitors.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night said: "I fully support this crusade by the
Daily Express which will receive the backing from many people across the UK.

"The protesters should do the decent thing and be gone ahead of Remembrance
Sunday."

The protesters, part of a global "Capitalism Is Crisis" campaign, originally
tried to occupy nearby Paternoster Square, home to the London Stock Exchange,
but were moved on to the cathedral area.

Wrangle

The cathedral Dean, the Right Reverend Graeme Knowles, has written an open
letter to the protesters advising them that church authorities have had to close
the cathedral until further notice.

The church and the City of London now face a potentially lengthy legal wrangle
to evict the campers.

An interim order, previously an option to enforce action before court
proceedings, is no longer possible under Human Rights legislation.

A City of London spokesman said: "It is clear the campers have to go, there can
be no place in a dense urban environment for camping.

"It obstructs the highway, stops businesses, and interferes with everyone's
lawful enjoyment of the city.

"Peaceable protest has always been part of the city, and always will be, but
camping is not."

The campers have been criticised for sending out mixed messages about their
purpose, with many accused of protesting just for the sake of it.

Dozens are in fact leaving their tents each evening. Police using thermal
imaging have photographed the tents at night and most are dark, indicating there
is no one inside.

One protester, Robin Smith, 48, a former Tory councillor, admitted to being
there only part-time.

He said: "I'd say about 25 per cent of the people go away and come back. They've
got jobs or a family to keep, so they've got to look after their kids or go to
work." Another protester, named only as John, 27, and unemployed, said: "I have
been here since last Saturday although I haven't camped every night."

Despite being anti-capitalist he admitted: "We have been using Starbucks for
their facilities."

City of London councillor Alex Deane said: "The fact that most of these tents
seem to be unoccupied is pretty farcical.

The fact these protesters are parttime squatters may make it easier to evict
them.

"They have to go. Residents hate it, businesses hate it and everyone around the
Square Mile hates it."

Paternoster Square has been blocked off with metal barriers because of the
protest camp and its cafes and restaurants have been badly hit. Gerhard Jacobs,
manager of Paternoster Chop House, said: "I believe in freedom of speech, but
surely when you're exercising it you should take into consideration the effect
on those around you."

Last night a protester, who gave his name only as Josh, said: "We are going to
stay here for as long as it takes."

Should protesters be booted out before Remembrance Day? q

Yes: 0901 030 8342

No: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWeDYes to 80088

No text DXWeDNo to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

CRUSADE

BOOT THEM OUT!

THERMAL IMAGE

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This thermal image shows only a few of the tents glowing orange, the
rest are pitch dark, indicating no one is inside as the part-time protesters are
home in bed
Pictures: Ti THERMAL IMAGING, NICK EDWARDS/NATIONAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Enough is enough . . . kick out St Paul's rabble

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 664  words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's cathedral today face calls to pack up and
go.

There is a growing public backlash against the anti-capitalist campaigners who
have closed the historic building for the first time since the Second World War
and are threatening religious services marking events such as Remembrance Sunday
and Christmas.

Politicians, business leaders and small traders united yesterday to say "enough
is enough" and called on the tented rabble to leave.

The Daily Express today adds our voice to the calls, launching a "Boot Them
Out!" crusade to clear the 200 protesters from the London landmark.

Despite repeated requests to leave, a hardcore among the campers say they will
remain for "at least 18 months".

This could force the cathedral to remain closed for Remembrance Sunday on
November 13, the Lord Mayor's Show the previous day and the festive period. Not
only would this disappoint worshippers, it would severely reduce the cathedral's
income from visitors.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage last night said: "I fully support this crusade by the
Daily Express which will receive the backing from many people across the UK.

"The protesters should do the decent thing and be gone ahead of Remembrance
Sunday."

The protesters, part of a global "Capitalism Is Crisis" campaign, originally
tried to occupy nearby Paternoster Square, home to the London Stock Exchange,
but were moved on to the cathedral area.

The cathedral Dean, the Right Reverend Graeme Knowles, has written an open
letter to the protesters advising them that church authorities have had to close
the cathedral until further notice.

The church and the City of London now face a potentially lengthy legal wrangle
to evict the campers.

An interim order, previously an option to enforce action before court
proceedings, is no longer possible under Human Rights legislation.

A City of London spokesman said: "It is clear the campers have to go, there can
be no place in a dense urban environment for camping.

"It obstructs the highway, stops businesses, and interferes with everyone's
lawful enjoyment of the city.

"Peaceable protest has always been part of the city, and always will be, but
camping is not."

The campers have been criticised for sending out mixed messages about their
purpose, with many accused of protesting just for the sake of it.

Dozens are in fact leaving their tents each evening. Police using thermal
imaging have photographed the tents at night and most are dark, indicating there
is no one inside.

One protester, Robin Smith, 48, a former Tory councillor, admitted to being
there only part-time.

He said: "I'd say about 25 per cent of the people go away and come back.

They've got jobs or a family to keep, so they've got to look after their kids or
go to work." Another protester, named only as John, 27, and unemployed, said:

"I have been here since last Saturday although I haven't camped every night."

Despite being anti-capitalist he admitted: "We have been using Starbucks for
their facilities."

City of London councillor Alex Deane said: "The fact that most of these tents
seem to be unoccupied is pretty farcical. The fact these protesters are parttime
squatters may make it easier to evict them.

"They have to go. Residents hate it, businesses hate it and everyone around the
Square Mile hates it."

Paternoster Square has been blocked off with metal barriers because of the
protest camp and its cafes and restaurants have been badly hit. Gerhard Jacobs,
manager of Paternoster Chop House, said: "I believe in freedom of speech, but
surely when you're exercising it you should take into consideration the effect
on those around you."

Last night a protester, who gave his name only as Josh, said: "We are going to
stay here for as long as it takes."

Q Should protesters be booted out before Remembrance Day?

YES: 0901 030 8342 NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088 No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This thermal image shows only a few of the tents glowing orange, the
rest are pitch dark, indicating no one is inside as the part-time protesters are
home in bed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Enough is enough. . . kick out St Paul's rabble

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 261  words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's cathedral last night faced growing calls to
pack up and go.

A furious public backlash developed against the anticapitalist campaigners who
have closed the historic building for the first time since the Second World War
and are threatening key events such as Remembrance Sunday and Christmas.

Politicians, business leaders and small traders united yesterday to say "enough
is enough" and called on the tented rabble to leave.

There is a growing demand to clear the 200 protestors from the area around the
London landmark.

Despite repeated requests to leave, the hardcore among the campers say they will
dig their heels in for "at least 18 months".

Nigel Farage, UKIP Leader, said last night: "The protesters should do the decent
thing and be gone ahead of Remembrance Sunday."

The protesters, part of a global campaign against capitalism, originally tried
to occupy Paternoster Square, home to the London Stock Exchange, but were moved
on to the neighbouring cathedral area.

Tory MP Patrick Mercer said: "I hope the protesters realise just how much
sympathy they are losing by doing this."

The campers have been criticised for sending out mixed messages, with many
accused of protesting for the sake of it.

Dozens are leaving their tents each evening. Police using thermal imaging have
photographed the tents at night and most are dark inside.

City of London councillor Alex Deane said: "The fact most of these tents seem to
be unoccupied is pretty farcical.

The fact these protesters are part-time squatters may make it easier to evict
them."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Part-time protesters at St Paul's are exposed by thermal imaging
pictures which show most of their tents are left empty at night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Door is open for a party with the right policies;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 26

LENGTH: 81  words


IT is evident to all that the European Union is an unmitigated disaster, which
in only a short matter of time will totally decay and crumble. In my submission
it is better to witness this from the outside than to be caught up in the death
throes.

Whatever party in the next election has in its manifesto a free referendum on
Europe, a sensible attitude towards immigration, and a reappraisal of the Human
Rights Act will sweep into power - UKIP stand by.

David L Thomson, Kinglassie, Fife

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Anger over Tories who did U-turns

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 311  words


CAMPAIGNERS last night rounded on senior Tories who helped block a European
Union referendum this week after calling for such a poll in the past.

David Cameron, William Hague, Peter Lilley, Sir Malcolm Rifkind and other
high-profile Conservatives voted against the crunch Parliamentary motion on
Monday calling for a plebiscite on Britain's membership of the EU.

Yet under the previous Labour Government, they backed calls for a binding
referendum on the EU's Lisbon Treaty. Last night one critic savaged the Tory
U-turns as "shameful".

Euro-MP Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "These
are a rogue's gallery of the ambitious, the weak and the fearful. When history
is written, theirs will be a shameful page."

In 2007, Mr Cameron famously vowed to trigger a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty
if he became Prime Minister.

He said: "I will give this cast-iron guarantee: If I become PM, a Conservative
Government will hold a referendum on any EU treaty that emerges from these
negotiations."

However, in Monday's debate Mr Cameron told MPs: "Just because the last
Government failed to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty does not mean that
we should vote tonight for a referendum on an in-or-out option that was not in
any of our manifestos."

In 2007, Mr Hague said: "As we campaign for a referendum the people of our
country are solemnly promised, we are fighting not only for them to have their
say now but for them always to have their say."

But on Monday the Foreign Secretary said: "I do not believe that most people in
Britain want to say yes to everything in the EU or no to everything in the EU. I
believe that they want to know that no more powers will be handed over to
Brussels without their explicit consent."

Former Cabinet ministers Mr Lilley and Sir Malcolm also voted for a Lisbon
Treaty plebiscite but voted against Monday's motion.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: William Hague changed tack Ex-Cabinet man Peter Lilley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 26, 2011 Wednesday 7:00 AM GMT

The public is losing faith in a Parliament where party whips prevent a free vote
on the EU referendum;
The electorate wants a say on Europe.

LENGTH: 1010 words


SIR - Due to three-line whips imposed by Conservative, Labour and Lib Dem
leaders, our MPs have voted four-to-one against a policy favoured by a
significant majority of the electorate. Is it any wonder that the public has
little faith in Parliament and politicians?

Chris Harlow                      Cirencester, Gloucestershire

SIR - The polling evidence following the 1997 election shows that rebelling over
Europe or issuing an anti-EU election address had no effect on individual
constituency results.

Moreover, one of the main reasons voters expressed for deserting the Tories was
the party's lack of unity and obsession with Europe.

The most likely and lasting impact of the back-bench rebellion will be fewer
votes for the Conservatives and the election of more fanatically pro-EU Labour
and Liberal Democrat MPs.

Philip Duly                      Haslemere, Surrey

SIR - Many Conservative MPs have ignored the sentiments of their constituents by
choosing to vote instead on party lines. In theory, they can be held to account
at the next general election. In practice, however, many voters would find it
uncomfortable to vote for an alternative party's candidate.

So how can we vote out the candidate while retaining loyalty to the party? Is
the answer to move to a system of primary elections to choose the candidate to
fight the election?

Peter Marshall                      Kingswood, Surrey

SIR - Roland Rudd, the chairman of Business for New Europe (Letters, October
25), uses two arguments against a referendum.

First, it would be a distraction. For whom? European leaders are already well
aware of a strong anti-EU feeling among many British people. If the thought of a
referendum in 2013 distracts our own Cabinet ministers from today's tasks, they
need to distinguish between urgent and important.

Secondly, he says: "We have a long and proud tradition of elections fought by
political parties campaigning on clear and comprehensive political platforms."
Exactly. At the last election all three major parties included a referendum in
their manifestos. Had they not done so, we might have seen a much larger vote
for Ukip.

That those three parties now oppose a referendum is seen as a betrayal by many
voters. The brave MPs who honoured a promise to their constituents by voting
against their party line in Monday's parliamentary debate are the true champions

Alistair Macdonald                      Eastbourne, East Sussex

SIR - David Cameron has vowed to reclaim powers from the EU. What happens when
Brussels inevitably says No?

Gwyn Price Evans                      Whitland, Carmarthenshire

SIR - Regardless of rebellions and rhetoric, every government since 1970 has
taken us ever further into Europe. This one promises to be no different.

Alec Ellis                     Liverpool

SIR - Yet again, Mr Cameron has betrayed us. He promised a vote on the Lisbon
Treaty and went back on his word. He promised that petitions would be voted on
and then (with the help of all the other vested interests) frustrated a free
vote in Parliament.

Are we still a democracy? Mr Cameron is scared of a vote on the EU as he knows
what the result would be: we would be leaving. Only politicians want us to be in
the EU. I wonder why.

Nick Taylor                      Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire

SIR - I am soon to be 45 years old. I have never had a direct vote on membership
of the EU.

It appears that no time will ever be good enough for an arrogant political elite
who govern against the wishes of the electorate but who quite happily wasted
millions of pounds of taxpayers' money on the AV referendum, which few wanted
except a minority of politicians.

Richard Deery                      Camberley, Surrey

SIR - The Government decided that any e-petition receiving more than 100,000
supporters could be debated in back-bench MPs' debating time, to make the
executive more accountable to backbenchers and the electorate.

Therefore any votes resulting from an e-petition should be free votes. To rule
otherwise is to say that backbenchers and the electorate who voted for them are
not to be trusted. If so, then scrap the e-petition scheme now.

Valerie Crews                      Beckenham, Kent

SIR - May I suggest that another petition is set up, asking the same question,
so that it can be debated again? If this fails, we can ask again, and again,
until, as with the European Union style of democracy, we eventually get the
right answer.

Paul Codrington                      Isle of Sheppey, Kent

SIR - If the people could overturn the poll tax why can't they do the same to
this Parliament's undemocratic decision?

Ian Boylett                      London N9

SIR - Your happy colour photo of the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh in Brisbane
(Letters, October 25) shows a sovereign in a sovereign country. In Britian it
would be no such thing. We have been a prefecture of Brussels in all but name
since 1973, and with only 111 MPs coming anywhere near recognising such a
travesty, we will remain in that disgraceful limbo.

James Lewis                      Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex

SIR - Now we need a referendum on leaving the United Kingdom.

Brian Gilbert                      Hampton, Middlesex

SIR - David Cameron is right when he reminds me that my first duty is to help my
neighbour when his house is on fire. However, I should insist that the neighbour
stops storing inflammable petrol in his garage, and expecting me to follow suit.

Of course, if he carries on with his foolish ways, I can always move.

Malcolm Allen                      Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire

SIR - My understanding is that, when a place is burning down, the correct action
is to evacuate the building.

John Kelsey                      Ludham, Norfolk

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

BYLINE: LIBYANS CAN RULE THEIR OWN AFFAIRS...LUCKY BLIGHTERS

LENGTH: 673 words


QUENTIN LETTS ON A DAY OF FRANTIC ACTIVITY IN THE HOUSE

MOST MPs were limited to five minutes in their speeches. As a result, much of
yesterday's big debate had a fast-forward quality, our elected tribunes speaking
almost at Pinky and Perky speed as they tried to push home points.

Hurry, hurry, ab-dab jabber. This hurtling pace gave the event a faint air if
not of loopiness, certainly of over-pressed excitement. Jokes were greeted with
laughter a notch or two more hearty than they strictly deserved. Moderate
assertions of integrity ignited ferocious gusts of support.

Ardour was in the air but it had no longer to find a mate than one of those tiny
midsummer dusk flies. William Hague, Foreign Secretary, rushed his speech and
then legged it for the airport to catch a plane to Australia.

Jimmy Hood (Lab, Lanark & Hamilton E) gave a pro-European speech of, even by his
own low standards, amazing incompetence. He was wobbling with tension by the end
of it.

With one or two exceptions, the action was entirely on the Conservative side.
Things became so jumpy that one Tory woman even quoted Gandhi.

Across the Coalition side's back benches there was clucking in the hen house.
Heads pushed to and fro on indignant necks. Lots of arms were crossed. Chins
dropped and rose as their owners showed approval for what their colleagues were
saying.

'Absolutely!' we heard from the more determined demanders for a referendum.
'Yes! Quite! Indeed!'

Mark Reckless (Con, Rochester & Strood) squeezed his knees together. Did he need
his potty? Mr Reckless, one of several Tories to diss David Cameron, rocked on
his buttocks, mumbling, fiddling with his spectacles. If he'd been sitting on a
park bench, the wardens might have moved him on.

There were some pro-Government schlurpy-schlurpers. Most eager greaser was
Nadhim Zahawi (Con, Stratford-on-Avon).

Mr Zahawi is one of those ex-businessmen who keeps saying 'as a former
businessman, IÉ' This titan of commerce assured us that no businessman would
hold a referendum at this time.

The speech of Charles Walker (Con, Broxbourne) comprised just four words: 'If
not now, when?' Brilliant!

Valiant bids for preferment under the Tory whips were heard from Andrea Leadsom
(South Northants), Harriet Baldwin (Con, W Worcs) and Richard Harrington
(Watford).

The back-bench debate was expected to start at 4.30pm but Mr Cameron pre-empted
this by making, effectively, a main-debate speech under the guise of a
ministerial statement at 3.30. He was supposed to be talking about the European
summit last weekend but instead turned it into a defence of his position.

He also announced that it was a day of liberation for the Libyans who would now
be able to rule their own affairs. Lucky blighters. Why can't we do the same?

The Prime Minister blurted his way through his prepared speech and it did not go
down well with many on his side.

Anne Main (Con, St Albans), lower lip protruding, shook her head in
disagreement. Mrs Main later made a speech in which she became so exasperated by
her government that she waved her hands in the air like a disco-dancing locust.

Mr Cameron did better when he took questions from the House. His sunniest moment
came when he mocked the madly pro-Euro stance of the Labour leader, Ed Miliband.
Both Messrs Cameron and Hague suggested that European treaties are going to have
to be redrawn, whatever happens.

Outside the Commons, elderly chaps in colourful clothes carried the purple
banner of the UK Independence Party. An MEP drove round Parliament Square in a
van, its flanks covered with a photograph of a gagged woman.

Inside the Chamber, Mark Pritchard (Con, The Wrekin) defended the conduct of his
fellow Eurosceptics. 'They are not rebels. They are patriots!' he cried. Adam
Holloway (Con, Gravesham) sacrificed his nascent government career by supporting
the rebels. 'I'm staggered that loyal people such as me have been put in this
position,' said Mr Holloway. Fair point. This confrontation was caused only by
Downing Street's stupidity.

All hands on deck: David Cameron yesterday

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

David Cameron is trying to face down not only Tory backbenchers but also the
British electorate;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 558 words


SIR - David Cameron's determination to face down his backbenchers in the
referendum debate was, in reality, an attempt to face down his electorate.

All three major parties promised us a referendum when not in government, but as
soon as bureaucracy gets its hands on them, we are denied our rights.

Richard W. Turner

Nazeing, Essex

SIR - Mr Cameron seems to overlook the history of broken pledges on EU matters,
both by himself and his predecessors.

Now that he assures us he will reclaim EU powers, why on earth should we believe
him?

R. H. Seymour

Stourport-on-Severn, Worcestershire

SIR - With regard to a referendum in Scotland, Mr Cameron said: "The question
needs to be put sooner rather than later." But he denies the democratic rights
of the British people when it comes to Europe.

Who will rid us of politicians promising one thing and doing another?

Michael Leonard

Northampton

SIR - Yesterday's motion on a referendum on membership of the EU was quite
rightly never going to succeed. There are two particular reasons why it would be
wrong to have such a referendum.

First, it would be a distraction. Europe is in the midst of a dire economic
crisis. The Government should be focusing on supporting the eurozone, by far our
largest export market, instead of being ensnared in a debate on EU membership
that would dominate the political agenda in Britain to the detriment of almost
everything else, including our own economy.

Secondly, Britain is a representative democracy. Opinion polls show that Europe
is nowhere near the top of voters' concerns. In Britain we have a long and proud
tradition of elections fought by political parties campaigning on clear and
comprehensive political platforms. That is where people decide what they believe
is important and make their choice. That is why Ukip won 3.1 per cent of the
vote last year.

Calling for a referendum on EU membership is just a tactic in the longrunning
battle of Eurosceptics to get Britain out of Europe. They can't achieve their
aim in general elections, so they demand a referendum.

Numerous minorities in British political life feel strongly about a single
issue. Those calling for a referendum on Europe do not deserve special
treatment.

Roland Rudd

Chairman, Business for New Europe London EC2

SIR - The Prime Minister may well be hoping to repatriate powers from Brussels,
and to renegotiate treaties, but unless he is prepared to back up his
negotiations with a threat of force - in other words, an in/out referendum, he
will, as usual, be ignored.

There's no point in entering into any negotiation unless you are prepared to
walk away if not satisfied. For too long, prime ministers have been prepared to
accept whatever crumbs are on offer rather than make serious threats. Our
so-called partners know this, and, as a result, any deals on offer rarely
benefit Britain.

Since we pay a disproportionate amount to Brussels to continue to prop up the
edifice of fraud and inefficiency, they are naturally reluctant to let us go.

John Hunt Curry

Rivel, Somerset

SIR - The 17 members of the euro are a sub-group of the European Union of 27
countries. As such they are accountable to the EU. Hence we British are entitled
to demand that the eurozone nations get their house in order, for our collective
and common good. President Sarkozy should be put in his place.

Graham R Brown

Ampthill, Bedfordshire

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mob threat to sabotage Poppy Day at St Paul's

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 352 words


CHURCH officials last night came under mounting pressure to get tough against
protesters camped outside the front of St Paul's Cathedral.

The latest move came amid fears the famous landmark would be forced to stay
closed for the Remembrance Sunday service next month.

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said: "Public opinion will start to
turn against those in the camp and with Remembrance Sunday only a few weeks
away, it will be a travesty if a service cannot be held at St Paul's."

He blamed European regulations for forcing the hand of church officials, adding:
"There is a temptation to criticise the cathedral for their decision but frankly
you cannot blame them in the increasingly litigious society we inhabit."

The camp is one of hundreds of sit-ins worldwide inspired by the Occupy Wall
Street movement in New York.

St Paul's was forced to exclude visitors last week amid fears over health and
safety.

Last Friday the Dean, the Right Reverend Graeme Knowles, said: "I have written
an open letter to the protesters advising them that we have no lawful
alternative but to close until further notice. With so many stoves and fires and
lots of different types of fuel around, there is a clear fire hazard. Then there
is the public health aspect, which speaks for itself.

"The dangers relate not just to cathedral staff and visitors but are a potential
hazard to those encamped."

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "If these individuals have any understanding of the
signifi-cance of St Paul's as we head into the Remembrance service period, they
should think twice about preventing people from going to a place of worship."

Mark Field, Conservative MP for the City of London and Westminster, said the
protest had left St Paul's looking "like a shanty town".

He added: "We have Remembrance Sunday and the Lord Mayor's Show coming up in
three weeks. One hopes that this will be resolved by then."

Ronan McNern, who has been at the protest since its first day, said: "We have
done so much to ensure that St Paul's can remain open. It was the cathedral's
decision to close."

OPINION: PAGE 12 CHRIS ROYCROFT-DAVIS: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Part of the camp outside St Paul's Cathedral yesterday
A masked protester with police at St Paul's locked doors yesterday
Picture: TONY SAPIANO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Standing up for democracy

BYLINE: Sara Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 360 words


Express, 10 Lower Thames Street, London EC3R 6EN FROM all corners of Britain
they came in their hundreds yesterday. United by a common cause that has the
backing of most of Britain, protesters calling for a referendum on Europe took
their fight to the Houses of Parliament.

Most were armed with placards demanding elected politicians heed the nationwide
calls for a public vote on leaving the EU. Many held up posters featuring the
Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of Europe.

The throngs, under the purple and yellow banners of UKIP, gathered ahead of last
night's parliamentary vote before they lobbied their MPs to listen to their
conscience rather than party leaders. Angered by the mainstream parties'
decision to try to force MPs to vote against a referendum on the EU by imposing
a three line whip, many felt their stand yesterday was part of a fundamental
fight for UK democracy.

Protesters as young as 15 united with pensioners. At lunchtime an orderly march
snaked round Parliament Square after UKIP leader Nigel Farage was greeted with
cheers.

Placards bearing names of towns across the UK - from Lewes to Sheffield and
Tunbridge Wells to Sunderland - all declared the same: "Give Us Our Referendum
Now".

Mr Farage warned the UK would only be dragged deeper into the eurozone crisis if
we stayed in the EU. He said: "It is time for us to leave and start heading in
the right direction.

The cost of staying is going to come to billions. But this is about more than
just EU membership - mainstream politicians are refusing to allow a proper
national debate."

Oliver Neville, a 20-year-old York University student, said: "The Government are
conspiring to stop the people having a say."

Victor Webb, 67, who still works as a cost lawyer, said: "The parties are trying
to pretend there is still a debate going but there is not. It is always the
right time to get out of Europe. If we stay in, we will infected by the euro
crisis."

His fears were echoed by 79-year-old retired metal broker Sir George Earle, who
travelled from Devon. He said: "The MPs are denying people democracy. I know the
vote will be lost but this is one of the most important issues."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brandishing Daily Express posters for our campaign to get Britain out
of the EU, some of the hundreds of protesters at Westminster yesterday
Picture: TIM CLARKE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Mob threat to sabotage Poppy Day at St Paul's

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 349 words


CHURCH officials last night came under mounting pressure to get tough against
protesters camped outside the front of St Paul's Cathedral.

The latest move arrived amid fears the famous landmark would be forced to stay
closed for the Remembrance Sunday service next month.

But footage from a thermal imaging camera shot by a police helicopter has
revealed just one in 10 of the protesters' tents are occupied overnight.

It showed the ramshackle camp is almost empty during night, suggesting the
majority of the 300 "defiant" protesters return indoors after dark.

The camp is one of hundreds of sit-ins worldwide inspired by the Occupy Wall
Street movement in New York.

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said: "Public opinion will start to
turn against those in the camp and with Remembrance Sunday only a few weeks
away, it will be a travesty if a service cannot be held at St Paul's."

He blamed European regulations for forcing the hand of church officials, adding:
"There is a temptation to criticise the cathedral for their decision but frankly
you cannot blame them in the increasingly litigious society we inhabit." St
Paul's was forced to exclude visitors last week amid fears over health and
safety.

Last Friday the Dean, the Right Reverend Graeme Knowles, said: "I have written
an open letter to the protesters advising them that we have no lawful
alternative but to close until further notice.

"With so many stoves and fires and lots of different types of fuel around, there
is a clear fire hazard."

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "If these individuals have any understanding of the
signifi-cance of St Paul's as we head into the Remembrance service period, they
should think twice about preventing people from going to a place of worship."

Mark Field, Conservative MP for the City of London and Westminster, said the
protest had left St Paul's looking "like a shanty town".

Ronan McNern, who has been at the protest since its first day, said: "We have
done so much to ensure that St Paul's can remain open. It was the cathedral's
decision to close."

OPINION: PAGE 12 CHRIS ROYCROFT-DAVIS: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A masked protester with police at St Paul's locked doors yesterday Part
of the camp outside St Paul's Cathedral yesterday
Picture: TONY SAPIANO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

SCANDAL OVER EU BETRAYAL;
Mps cheat us out of referendum

BYLINE: Macer Hall; Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 657 words


CRAVEN MPs were last night accused of cowardice and betrayal after rejecting a
referendum on the European Union in a crunch Commons vote.

Despite the biggest-ever Tory rebellion on Europe, David Cameron faced down a
courageous attempt by backbenchers to give voters their first say on Britain's
membership of the EU since 1975.

MPs voted by 483 to 111 against the Commons motion calling for a national poll
on whether to cut or renegotiate Britain's ties to Brussels.

The revolt saw almost 100 Tory MPs defy the Prime Minister's three-line whip,
with 79 voting for a referendum and a further 15 abstaining.

Campaigners accused the Tory, Lib Dem and Labour MPs who united to kill the
Commons motion of ignoring a huge surge of public support, triggered by the
Daily Express's 373,000-strong petition calling for Britain to quit the EU.

Jon Gaunt, of the Vote UK Out of EU campaign, said: "These yellow, two-faced MPs
have betrayed the people of the United Kingdom."

Chris Bruni-Lowe, of the People's Pledge campaign for an EU referendum, said:
"It is the people, not the politicians, who should decide this country's future.
The result does not represent the views of the vast majority of the people."

And Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Defeat was
inevitable given that MPs knew how their leaders wanted them to vote.

"Tonight the political elite has snatched that opportunity away from them and
denied people a vote. We should not forgive them.

"However, 111 is a healthy figure that should send a clear message to David
Cameron."

But pro-referendum supporters were happy that the Tory backbench revolt was
twice as big as the previous revolt during Mr Cameron's premiership - and double
the number that fatally undermined John Major's government over the Maastricht
Treaty in 1993.

The size of the Tory revolt took many by surprise with 79 supporting the
referendum motion and 15 abstaining. Also voting for the motion were 19 Labour
MPs, six members of the DUP and sundry members of other minority parties.

Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This has been an extraordinary rebellion, far bigger
than expected.

"The Daily Express crusade has changed people's views and the readers have had a
real influence on MPs.

The Government will need to rethink its policy. This motion may have been
defeated, but a referendum is back on the political agenda." David Nuttall, the
Tory backbencher who proposed the motion, said: "Those who voted against a
referendum have won this small battle but not the war. They will not silence the
demands of the British people to have their say."

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "It shows that regardless of the Westminster
elite MPs are not afraid to express their views. This is just the beginning.

There is a cultural shift taking place."

Yesterday fresh evidence emerged of the huge public support for a referendum
when an opinion poll by ComRes for ITV News at Ten showed that 68 per cent
wanted a vote.

Earlier David Cameron had phoned wavering MPs to persuade them to fall into
line. He told the House: "It's not the right time, at this moment of economic
crisis, to launch legislation that includes an in-out referendum."

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, who quit as Parliamentary Private
Secretary to Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson to back the referendum,
said: "We can no longer exclude the people of this country from decisions about
the future of this country." And Adam Holloway, Tory MP for Gravesham, indicated
he intended to quit as a parliamentary aide to Europe Minister David Lidington,
saying: "If Britain's future as an independent country is not a proper matter
for a referendum, then I have absolutely no idea what is."

CRUSADE

GET US OUT OF THE EU

Should Britons get their say on EU?

YES: 0901 030 8340

NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088

No text DXTUENO to 80088 "

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline Lines close at midnihght tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The PM pleads for MPs to vote no in the House yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

SCANDAL OVER EU BETRAYAL

BYLINE: By Macer Hall and Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 669  words


MPs cheat us out of referendum

CRAVEN MPs were last night accused of cowardice and betrayal after rejecting a
referendum on the European Union in a crunch Commons vote.

Despite the biggest-ever Tory rebellion on Europe, David Cameron faced down a
courageous attempt by backbenchers to give voters their first say on Britain's
membership of the EU since 1975.

MPs voted overwhelmingly against the Commons motion calling for a national poll
on whether to cut or renegotiate Britain's ties to Brussels.

The result was a bloody nose for the Prime Minister and a stark demonstration of
the growing support at Westminster for a referendum.

Campaigners accused the Tory, Lib Dem and Labour MPs who united to kill the
Commons motion of wilfully ignoring a huge surge of public support for a
plebiscite. And they vowed that there will be no let-up in the drive to give the
British people a say on our links with the EU.

Jon Gaunt, of the Vote UK Out of EU campaign, said: "These yellow, two-faced MPs
have betrayed the people of the United Kingdom. The fight goes on. This is just
one battle in a war that the people will win. We will not rest until we have won
our democratic right to vote on our future."

Chris Bruni-Lowe, of the People's Pledge campaign for an EU referendum, said:
"It is the people not the politicians who should decide this country's future.
The result of this vote at Westminster does not represent the views of the vast
majority of the people of this country."

And Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "This predictable
result shows the divide between the political classes and the people they are in
Parliament to represent. In the end, the people's voice will be heard whatever
the political leaders think."

Thousands of protesters crowded outside as MPs debated the referendum motion,
triggered by the Daily Express's 373,000-strong petition calling for Britain to
quit the EU. Yesterday fresh evidence emerged of the huge public support for a
say when an opinion poll by ComRes for ITV News at Ten showed that 68 per cent
want a vote.

But the PM yesterday effectively ruled out a referendum and pleaded with his
backbenchers not to back the motion, slapping a three-line whip to vote against
the proposal. "It's not the right time, at this moment of economic crisis, to
launch legislation that includes an in-out referendum, " he told MPs.

"When your neighbour's house is on fire, your first impulse should be to help
him put out the flames, not least to stop them reaching your own house." Last
night's vote saw the biggest Tory rebellion under Mr Cameron's premiership as
well as the party's biggest revolt over Europe, outstripping the 41 rebels who
voted against the Maastricht Treaty under John Major's government.

Tory whips desperately tried to force potential rebels to side with the
Government while Mr Cameron made a series of phone calls to persuade wavering
MPs to vote against the motion.

But, one after another, backbench MPs made impassioned pleas for voters to be
allowed to have their say on Britain's future. David Nuttall, Tory MP for Bury
North who proposed the referendum motion, said people were "saddened and
disillusioned" at being "fobbed off" by the "political elite who always seem to
stop them having their say".

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, quit as Parliamentary Private Secretary to
Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson to back the referendum. He told MPs.
"We can no longer exclude the people of this country from decisions about the
future of this country."

Adam Holloway, Tory MP for Gravesham, indicated he intended to quit as a
parliamentary aide to Europe Minister David Lidington. "If Britain's future as
an independent country is not a proper matter for a referendum, then I have
absolutely no idea what is".

Q Should Britons get their say on EU?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The PM pleads for MPs to vote no in the House yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

SCANDAL OVER EU BETRAYAL

BYLINE: By Macer Hall and Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 658  words


MPs cheat us out of referendum

CRAVEN MPs were last night accused of cowardice and betrayal after rejecting a
referendum on the European Union in a crunch Commons vote.

Despite the biggest-ever Tory rebellion on Europe, David Cameron faced down a
courageous attempt by backbenchers to give voters their first say on Britain's
membership of the EU since 1975.

MPs voted by 483 to 111 against the Commons motion calling for a national poll
on whether to cut or renegotiate Britain's ties to Brussels.

The revolt saw almost 100 Tory MPs defy the Prime Minister's three-line whip,
with 79 voting for a referendum and a further 15 abstaining.

Campaigners accused the Tory, Lib Dem and Labour MPs who united to kill the
Commons motion of ignoring a huge surge of public support, triggered by the
Daily Express's 373,000-strong petition calling for Britain to quit the EU.

Jon Gaunt, of the Vote UK Out of EU campaign, said: "These yellow, two-faced MPs
have betrayed the people of the United Kingdom."

Chris Bruni-Lowe, of the People's Pledge campaign for an EU referendum, said:
"It is the people, not the politicians, who should decide this country's future.
The result does not represent the views of the vast majority of the people."

And Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Defeat was
inevitable given that MPs knew how their leaders wanted them to vote.

"Tonight the political elite has snatched that opportunity away from them and
denied people a vote. We should not forgive them.

"However, 111 is a healthy figure that should send a clear message to David
Cameron."

But pro-referendum supporters were happy that the Tory backbench revolt was
twice as big as the previous revolt during Mr Cameron's premiership - and double
the number that fatally undermined John Major's government over the Maastricht
Treaty in 1993.

The size of the Tory revolt took many by surprise with 79 supporting the
referendum motion and 15 abstaining. Also voting for the motion were 19 Labour
MPs, six members of the DUP and sundry members of other minority parties.

Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This has been an extraordinary rebellion, far bigger
than expected.

"The Daily Express crusade has changed people's views and the readers have had a
real influence on MPs.

"The Government will need to rethink its policy. This motion may have been
defeated, but a referendum is back on the political agenda."

David Nuttall, the Tory backbencher who proposed the motion, said: "Those who
voted against a referendum have won this small battle but not the war. They will
not silence the demands of the British people to have their say."

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "It shows that regardless of the Westminster
elite MPs are not afraid to express their views. This is just the beginning.
There is a cultural shift taking place."

Yesterday fresh evidence emerged of the huge public support for a referendum
when an opinion poll by ComRes for ITV News at Ten showed that 68 per cent
wanted a vote.

Earlier David Cameron had phoned wavering MPs to persuade them to fall into
line. He told the House: "It's not the right time, at this moment of economic
crisis, to launch legislation that includes an in-out referendum."

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough, who quit as Parliamentary Private
Secretary to Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson to back the referendum,
said: "We can no longer exclude the people of this country from decisions about
the future of this country." And Adam Holloway, Tory MP for Gravesham, indicated
he intended to quit as a parliamentary aide to Europe Minister David Lidington,
saying: "If Britain's future as an independent country is not a proper matter
for a referendum, then I have absolutely no idea what is."

Q Should Britons get their say on EU?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

COMMENTARY

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 528  words


FIRST let us salute the MPs who held their nerve, despite heavy whipping and the
threats and blandishments of their leaders.

That so many stood firm and, after 36 years, got another vote on our
relationship with Brussels counts as a stunning success.

These MPs are the ones who understand that political power can only legitimately
be exercised by public consent. Senior Tory and Labour backbenchers were
foremost among the rebels.

But last night some younger MPs showed their mettle by voting in defiance of
party chiefs.

Anybody searching for new political stars should look to them first. Big
political figures are defined by their readiness to make elbow-room at the top
table rather than just bow to the whips.

On that basis, it will be MPs like Priti Patel (Witham), Zac Goldsmith (Richmond
Park) and Tracey Crouch (Chatham) who will have a big say in the future of the
Conservative Party, for this vote will be long remembered by the British people.
Those MPs who let them down will suffer the consequences at the next election.

The paucity of the arguments against a referendum that came from the front
benches of all the main parties was another striking feature of yesterday's
debate.

One set of arguments could be put under the heading "Not the right time". Well,
it never is. Or at least it hasn't been since 1975 - when Labour leader Ed
Miliband was five and the other two party leaders were eight. If a referendum
does come, it will have to be forced on them by public opinion.

Another set of arguments said it would be a "distraction" from major issues like
the deficit, or welfare reform - but no one raised this last year when the
Alternative Vote referendum was foisted on a disinterested electorate.

Arguably, EU membership is a major factor behind the economic malaise we are
facing.

Welfare reform is unlikely to happen while it remains illegal for Britain to
limit the access of foreigners to its jobs market and the vast sums sent to
Brussels would undoubtedly cut the deficit.

David Cameron's basic case - that he simply doesn't want to leave the EU - is an
insult to democracy. If he does not believe he can carry the country in an
argument for remaining in the EU, then clearly he cannot be very sure of his
case. And running scared of the ballot box does not look good for him as
Premier.

Mr Cameron believes referenda on future transfers of sovereignty to the EU to be
appropriate, but opposing one for transfers that have happened so far defies
logic.

So where does the referendum crusade go now? Well, besides the pressure on MPs
from voters, particularly signatories of the People's Pledge, party leaders may
have to think again if there is a surge of support for Ukip in the 2014 Euro
elections, a year before the General Election. At present it's hard to see how
there won't be.

When the Daily Express launched this crusade 11 months ago, we warned it would
be a long struggle. But stunning progress has been made. Our side has momentum
and, as we saw in the lobby of Parliament yesterday, huge popular support. On
the other side there is a clapped-out political class that is out of touch and
running out of time. Keep the faith, victory will be yours.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

EU referendum Commons vote - live coverage

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 13005 words

ABSTRACT

Parliament votes on proposals for a referendum on Europe - follow the
developments with Andrew Sparrow

FULL TEXT

11.58pm: There's is still no sign of the the full list of rebels. The Press
Association normally produces a list quite promptly, but tonight there's been a
hold-up. I'm off to bed. If the list pops up later, a colleague will post it
here.

Thanks for all the comments.

11.42pm: The Daily Mail's Tim Shipman says on Twitter there were 18 Labour
rebels.

I make it 18 Labour rebels + DUP + Adrian Sanders (LD) and Caroline Lucas
(Green)

11.31pm: I'm still waiting for the list of rebels, but I'll post it as soon as
it's available.

In the meantime, here is some web comment on the result.From James Forsyth at
Coffee House.

This rebellion will encourage the hard-line Euro-sceptics to try again and
again. They will reckon, rightly, that as the parliament goes on the number of
potential rebels will grow. If they can get this number of rebels in year two of
the parliament, imagine how many they'll attract in 2014 when a whole bunch more
MPs have been passed over for promotion. The idea that this vote has lanced the
boil, or dealt with the issue of Europe for the parliament is for the birds.

Cameron needs to be ready for next time. The first thing that is going to
require him to do is to tell Nick Clegg that the government is going to start
developing a full renegotiation strategy. Clegg will object but, with his party
at nine percent in the polls, he is not going to bring the government down over
this.

From Luke Akehurst at LabourList

It's good to be reminded that far from Cameron creating a Tory mirror image of
New Labour and seizing the centre ground, he presides over a deeply divided
party where many MPs have never got over Margaret Thatcher's defenestration as
leader, and want to triangulate with UKIP rather than Labour. It's good to have
a demonstration that this is effectively a three-party Coalition of Lib Dems,
Thatcherites and Cameroons, with a PM who is only wholeheartedly backed by a
small minority in the Commons.

From the Daily Record's Torcuil Crichton

Tonight's Westminster rebellion on the EU must now limit Cameron's room for
maneouvere on Scotland. Downing Street has been mulling over whether to call its
own early referendum on Scotland's future in the UK.

The PM is said to be open-minded on whether to order a simple Yes-No referendum
on Scottish independence ahead of Alex Salmond's plans for a multi-option ballot
sometime beyond 2014.

But to call a referendum on one constitutional issue while denying his own
backbenchers a vote on another will prove highly tricky.

11.26pm: A ComRes poll for ITV tonight has highlighted how much public support
there is for a referendum. Here's an extract from the news release.

Two thirds of the British public (68%) support the idea of a referendum on
whether or not the UK remains a member of the EU. 16% disagree and 16% are not
sure.

More than half (54%) believe that Britain's membership of the EU has been a
costly mistake, with just one in four people (23%) agreeing that overall,
Britain's membership of the EU has delivered more benefits than disadvantages to
Britain. Again, more than half, 51% of those polled, disagree.

Poll results indicate that while opinions are split about a full withdrawal from
the EU - 37% agree, 37% disagree and 26% are not sure - 41% would vote to
renegotiate our relationship with the EU, rather than full withdrawal. One in
three, 33%, would not vote for a renegotiation.

Finally, more than half of the public (54%) agree that they would support
withdrawing from the EU if renegotiating our relationship with the EU was not
possible. One in five (20%) disagree with this sentiment and one in four (26%)
remain unsure.

11.17pm: Here's some Twitter comment on the result.

From Phil Wilson, a Labour MP

Strangers Bar full of Tories celebrating like it is New Year's Eve.

From the Daily Mail's Tim Shipman

I have been through the voting lists myself. Definitive result: 80 rebels + 2
tellers = 82

From the BBC's Andrew Neil

So I have 82 Tories voting for ref and 15 abstaining. Total of 97 Tory rebels
defying whip. Any advance on that?

From Philip Cowley, the academic

A final thought for the night: maybe the correct comparison isn't with
Maastricht. But with Blair's lone parent rebellion of Dec 1997...

From the Guardian's Michael White

Wow, 80 Tory EU rebels, worse than I expected. Serious stuff for Cam and
coalition. Also for your mortgage and taxes if markets get jumpy.

11.10pm: And here's a Downing Street spokesman on the result of the vote.

The House of Commons has clearly voted against this motion.

We understand that many people who voted for it felt very strongly - and we
respect that.

However, the government has to do what is in the national interest.

The easy thing to do would have been for us to have avoided expressing a view.

It was important to take a strong lead - because Britain's best interests are
served by being in the EU.

The PM has made clear that he shares the yearning for fundamental reform of the
EU and is determined to achieve that.

11.07pm: Here's Ed Miliband's full statement on the results of the EU referendum
debate.

This massive Tory rebellion is a humiliation for the Prime Minister.

If he can't win the argument with his own backbenchers, how can the country have
confidence that he can win the arguments that matter for Britain?

Tonight confirmed that the Conservatives are more interested in fighting each
other than fighting for Britain in Europe.

They are a divided party looking inwards not outwards at the needs of the
country.

Just when the government should be trying to get jobs and growth for Britain,
the Tory party is once again tearing itself apart over Europe.

The prime minister should learn his lesson. He has nobody to blame but himself.

10.58pm:Ed Miliband has commented on the vote. As happens these days, he chose
to announce his thoughts on Twitter.

Ed Miliband: "This is a humiliation for the PM. Confirmed Tories more interested
in fighting each other than fighting for Britain."

10.54pm:Michael Fallon, the deputy chairman of the Conservative party, has just
told BBC News that, even if just over 80 Tory MPs rebelled, they still
represented less than half of Conservative backbenchers.

10.52pm: Here's Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, on the result of the vote.

Defeat was inevitable given that MPs knew full well how their leaders wanted
them to vote. However, 111 is a healthy figure that should send a clear message
to David Cameron and the other party leaders.

Today was a bad day for Britain as the people of the UK have been denied the
referendum they so desperately crave. Poll after poll shows the people either
want out of the EU or to radically change the UK's relationship with the EU.

Tonight the UK's political elite has snatched that opportunity away from them
and denied people a vote. We should not forgive them.

10.39pm: Earlier I said that today's debate was important because it would
illuminate at least three important power struggles. (See 8.39am.) Here's an
instant analysis of what we've learnt about all three of them.

1. Cameron versus the Conservative party. Many of my journalist colleagues take
the view that David Cameron's decision to impose a three-line whip on this
debate was a catastrophic tactic error (see12.54pm) and, certainly, tomorrow's
headlines will make grim reading in Downing Street. But, personally, I think not
imposing a three-line whip could have been even more disastrous. I just can't
see how Cameron could have pretended that the government did not have a policy
on whether or not there should be an in/out referendum on the EU, or how he
could have allowed the Commons to vote for one and then told people it did not
matter. (John Rentoul has set out this argument at more length in a post for
Coffee House). But that does not mean that Cameron has been strengthened by this
episode. Tony Blair's decision to make Labour MPs vote for the Iraq war was a
display of strong leadership, but it did not leave him in a stronger position.
The same could be said about tonight. Leaders need steel. But they also need
goodwill, and Cameron has just tipped gallons of Conservative backbench goodwill
down the drain. Tonight's events will certainly damage relations between Cameron
and his backbenchers. As for how seriously, at this stage it's hard to tell.2.
Parliament versus the people. One key theme of the debate tonight was that the
political class are out of touch with public opinion. There is strong support
for a referendum on Britain's relations with the EU (although, as Anthony Wells
explains at UK Polling Report, voters always say yes when asked in a poll if
they want a referendum on something and Europe is not an issue which is seen as
a priority for most people.) The public have not got their referendum, and so in
some respects the gulf between Westminster and the "real world" is as wide as
ever. But, as a result of a new Commons procedure that allows backbenchers to
stage debates on issues that matter to the public, the issue has been aired.
Tonight Westminster seems marginally less out of touch than it used to be. 3.
Britain versus Europe. Tonight's debate won't change Britain's relationship with
Europe one iota. But, having just sat through it all, it's hard not to feel that
the prospect of a referendum at some point this decade is looking more likely.
The Conservative party used to be genuinely split betweeen Eurosceptics and
pro-Europeans. Now the only split in the party is betweeen patient Eurosceptics
and impatient Eurosceptics. Cameron is encouraging his party to think that there
could be a referendum at some point in the future, following a renegotiation
with the EU. But he has tried playing this card before (see1.55pm)and it is not
clear for how long he can continue to get away with it.

10.34pm: This rebellion is far larger than any of the rebellions over the
Maastricht treaty . But Sir George Young, the leader of the Commons, has just
told BBC News that Maastricht treaty was government legislation. This was
different, he said, because it was just a backbench motion.

10.20pm: There are various figures doing the rounds for the number of Tory
rebels at the moment, 82, 85 and 86. We'll get a confirmed figure very soon.

Whatever, it seems to be above 80, which is at the high end of expectations.

That means,according to the Cowley/Stuart figures, this is the largest rebellion
over Europe in any party since the war.

But it does not set a record for Conservative rebellions. In 1996 95 Tory MPs
rebelled over plans to impose restrictions on firearms after Dunblane.

10.18pm: The government have won by 483 votes to 111 - a majority of 372.

10.17pm: The Daily Mail's Tim Shipman says on Twitter

Rumour spreads the rebel count is 86

10.16pm: More from PoliticsHome's Paul Waugh.

Labour saying 25 of their side rebelled, which would mean 86 Tory rebels or
thereabouts. Certainly looks like &70 Tories

10.14pm: We'll get the full result shortly. But we won't get a breakdown of the
111 MPs voting for the motion (assuming Chris Bryant is right) by party for
another few minutes.

10.11pm: Paul Waugh has posted this on Twitter.

I hear latest count is rebels have got 111 votes, including Labour, for Eu
referendum motion.

And Patrick Hennessy has posted this.

I hear latest count is rebels have got 111 votes, including Labour, for Eu
referendum motion

And Labour's Chris Bryant this.

111 ayes.

10.09pm: For the record, here are the party strengths in the Commons (ignoring
the speaker and deputy speakers).

Conservatives: 305

Labour: 256

Lib Dems: 57

I'm posting these figures so that you can see how successful the party whips
have been at getting their own MPs to vote against the motion.

10.00pm: John Bercow, the Speaker, has called the vote. The division bells are
ringing. We'll get the result in about 15 minutes.

9.56pm:Peter Bone, a Conservative and a supporter of the motion, is winding up
now. He says there have been 52 speeches so far in the debate. He thanks the
prime minister for setting up the backbench business committee and allowing the
Commons to debate issues which are the subject of popular petitions.

He also reminds MPs that, in a speech before the election, David Cameron said
that he wanted more free votes. He says he hopes MPs will follow Cameron's
advice.

There's a rule of thumb in this House. If all three frontbenches agree on
something, it's absolutely wrong.

9.53pm:Christopher Chope, a Conservative, is speaking now. He says he thinks the
pro-referendum MPs have won the argument. Passing the motion would strengthen
the government's hand in negotiating a good deal in Brussels, he says.

9.46pm:Martin Vickers, a Conservative, said he would support the motion.James
Clappison, a Conservative, said he would back the motion because now was "the
ideal time to hold a referendum".

Sam Gyimah, a Conservative, said he would oppose the motion. He said the
Conservatives did not win elections when they were divided on Europe.Mark
Reckless, a Conservative, said the government had given a referendum to the Lib
Dems on their issue (electoral reform). The Conservatives should have a
referendum on the issue that mattered to them, he said.

Aidan Burley, a Conservative, said he thought there would be a referendum on
Britain's relationship with the EU eventually. But he was opposing this motion
because it would put the recovery at risk. This went down badly with many of his
colleagues. The chamber is filling up now, and Burley was jeered loudly.

9.26pm: Nick Boles, a Conservative, says those supporting an EU referendum have
"passion, courage and idealism". But they lack "common sense", he says. Britain
will only have one chance to renegotiate its relationship with the EU in the
next few years, he says, and it would be best to do that when the Conservatives
have a Commons majority.

9.24pm: ITV's Tom Brady has some fresh intelligence on Twitter on the expected
size of the rebellion.

Tory whips continue to insist the rebellion will be 'more than 70, less than
80.' This may be spin, but the rebels also say 'at least 70'

9.09pm:George Eustice, a Conservative and the founder of the "Fresh Start"
Eurosceptic group, said that he was disappointed that the debate had given the
impression the Conservative party was split on this issue. In fact, it was
united behind a desire to repatriate powers from the EU, he said. He said that
he thought it would be a mistake to have a referendum before a renegotiation, as
the motion proposes. But he said he would not support the government either. (He
tabled an amendment - see 2.15pm - but it was not called.) He also said he was
"very disappointed by the 'jam tomorrow' nature of some of the comments [on the
repatriation of powers] coming from the foreign secretary".

Kris Hopkins, a Conservative, said he was opposed to the motion. There was "an
element of self-indulgence" about this, he said.

I am fairly sure there's a a route to self-destruction if we are not careful.

Richard Shepherd, a Conservative, said he was supporting the motion because the
people needed a referendum.

And Robin Walker, another Conservative, said he would support the motion. He was
not a "Euro-fanatic", he said, and he had "no great desire to earn the label of
rebel". He also said he was not happy with a three-question referendum. But he
thought the advantages of letting the people have their say outweighed the
disadvantages of the three-question proposal. MPs were "representatives, not
delegates", he said. But they had an obligation to listen to their constituents,
he went on. He said that he had done so, and only one person in his constituency
wanted him to oppose the motion.

9.09pm: Here's some Twitter comment on the debate.

From ConservativeHome's Tim Montgomerie

I thought Cameron initially delayed his trip to take part in today's debate? He
hasn't listened to 1 of many excellent backbench speeches.

From the Spectator's Fraser Nelson

@Dannythefink can you think of a worse piece of party management in the last few
years? I'm struggling...

From the Times's Daniel Finkelstein

@frasernels it is preposterous to blame on party management. This is a stupid
idea that couldn't be allowed to pass....

9.02pm: On Twitter Labour's Chris Bryant has explained where Jacob Rees-Mogg
acquired his peroration. (See8.10pm.)

@KerryMP I think it was from Henry V, stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood /
night before agincourt

8.57pm:Graham Stuart, a Conservative, said he would be opposing the motion
because he thought a three-question referendum would be "confusing".

8.50pm: Labour's Steve McCabe said he thought it was wrong for the party leaders
to impose a three-line whip on this vote. "I think I'm entitled to vote how I
damned well like," he said. He also said that he would be voting alongside "some
people I think are frankly mad" - suggesting that he will be going through the
aye lobby with the Conservative Eurosceptics.

8.45pm:Caroline Lucas, the Green party MP, said she was in favour of a
referendum.

Glyn Davies, a Conservative, said he would be opposing the motion reluctantly.
He said that he did not agree with the way it was worded.

Labour's Michael Connarty made a similar point. He said that he thought the
motion was illogical.

Douglas Carswell, a Conservative, said that he was in favour of the motion.
Politicians should trust the people, he said. The era of "deferential democracy"
was over.

8.42pm: Here are some extracts from Stewart Jackson's speech. Like Adam Holloway
(see 6.00pm), he was in practice making a resignation speech.

It is more in sorrow than anger that I go today because I support this
government because of the fantastic work they are doing ...

I defer to the foreign secretary. But I regret the rhetoric he used this morning
about parliamentary graffiti, which was unfortunate. I fear, if I were cycnical,
it's been a long road to Damascus from Richmond, Yorkshire, and I hope I'm wrong
...

If we can have a referendum on fiscal powers for Wales, on the North East
assembly, on Scotland, on Northern Ireland and on other issues - Greater London
government - why can't we have a [referendum] on one of the most important
philosophical differences about our approach to the European Union in a whole
generation ...

I have to say to the foreign secretary, who is on his flight now to Canberra; he
described the euro once as a burning building with no exits. But he seems happy
now to provide new mortice locks for the windows and the doors.

The House of Commons should be allowed a free vote and an unfettered debate on
this issue. The government has no mandate to whip the vote, as they have done
this evening, because no one has a mandate since all parties effectively reneged
on the Lisbon treaty prior to the last general election. As a former whip I
believe this has been a catastrophic mismanagement in terms of my party. We
should have been able to show to the people of this country that we were mature
... Instead we have the heavy-handed whipping we have seen tonight.

For me constituency and country must come before the baubles of ministerial
office. I will keep that faith with my constituents and, with a heavy heart, I
will vote for the motion and I will take the consequences.

8.24pm: Stewart Jackson, who is voting for the motion even though he will have
to lose his job as parliamentary private secretary to Owen Paterson, the
Northern Ireland secrtary, has just finished speaking. He said that, as a former
whip, he thought the decision to impose a three-line whip whip was
"catastrophic". He said that he would put his principles ahead of "the baubles
of office" and that he would vote for the motion "and take the consequences".

8.10pm: Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative, has just finished his speech. He was
very effective. He picked up on David Cameron's point about helping the
neighbours when their house is burning (see 3.55pm)and said that, after your
neighbour's house has burnt down, and when they need to rent your, you are in a
strong position to negotiate the tenancy. He said having a referendum would
strengthen Britain's negotiating position in Brussels. And he ended with a
passage that looks a bit silly written down, but which worked quite well in the
chamber.

So it is for us backbenchers to say to Her Majesty's government, stiffen your
sinews, summon up the blood and imitate the action of a tiger. That is how
should behave towards our European partners, not like Bagpuss.

8.00pm:John Redwood, a Conservative, said that the House of Commons was great
when it had power over all laws in Britain. The British people deserve a vote,
he says.

Labour's Austin Mitchell said he would support the motion because he did not
want to join "a conspiracy against the people". He said he was always worried
when all three main parties agree on a policy.

John Baron, a Conservative, said the political elite needed to understand the
frustration people feel about Europe. People feel they are being denied a
choice, he says.

The time to put it right is now ... The political elite need to understand that
they must at the end of the day answer to their electorate.

7.52pm: Labour's Gisela Stuart, who has signed the David Nuttall motion, urges
MPs to re-read the speech William Hague gave in the debate on ratifying the
Lisbon treaty. She mentioned it earlier to Hague, telling him that he should
watch a DVD of it, and Hague said that it was on YouTube.

Here's a YouTube clip of Hague in the Commons on the Lisbon treaty. I'm not sure
whether it is the speech Stuart meant, but it provides some much needed light
relief.

7.43pm:Bernard Jenkin, a Conservative, is now speaking. He says that the
coalition was formed to rescue the economy and that EU legislation is now a
threat to economic growth.

7.36pm: Labour's Frank Field (left), who has signed the David Nuttall motion,
says Europe has had a "sulphurous" effect on British politics. That's because it
has been "an exercise in deceit from the word go". As examples, he cites Ted
Heath's claim that joining the EEC would not involve any loss of sovereignty and
the last Labour government's decision not to allow a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty.

In the past people who raised the subject of Europe in the Commons were
classified as either "slightly bonkers or very bonkers", he says. That has now
changed, he says, because the Conservative party has embraced Euroscepticism.
But David Cameron's decision to impose a three-line whip on tonight's vote means
that the public will not see "how in tune the Conservative party now is with
Conservative and Labour voters in the country".

7.34pm:Nigel Evans, the deputy speaker, says the time limit on backbench debates
will be cut from five minutes to four minutes because so many MPs want to speak.

7.31pm: Martin Horwood is speaking now. He is the first Lib Dem to speak in the
debate and he is immediately challenged over the Lib Dems' call for a referendum
in their election manifesto. He responds by reading out the precise wording of
the manifesto commitment. (See9.49am.)

7.29pm: Labour's Sir Stuart Bell speaks up for the importance of Britain's
relationship with the EU. He represents Middlesbrough and he says areas like
Teesside depend on trade with Europe.

7.24pm: Labour's Wayne David, a former leader of the Labour MEPs, said he was
opposed to the referendum motion.

Philip Hollobone, a Conservative, said that it was not just rightwingers who
were Eurosceptic. If there were a referendum, most voters in his constituency
would support British withdrawal from the EU, he said. He personally was also in
favour of leaving the EU, he said.

7.07pm:Jake Berry, a Conservative, says he is not supporting the EU referendum
motion. But he says that he expects the commitments given by David Cameron about
repatriating powers to be honoured.

6.58pm: Labour's Kate Hoey says she supported William Hague when he was arguing
for a referendum on the Lisbon treaty. She says she thinks the threat of a
referendum would make it easier for British ministers to negotiate the
repatriation of powers from the EU.

Many Labour supporters want a referendum, she says. Ed Miliband's decision to
have a three-line whip was "ill-advised", she claims.

6.53pm:Bill Cash, the veteran Conservative Eurosceptic, is speaking now. He says
there is no growth because 50% of economic laws come from Europe. Europe is a
failed project, he says. The motion is "for democracy and for trust in
politics".

6.49pm: Labour's Ian Davidson said that Labour's decision to deny voters a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty, even though Labour had promised a referendum on
the very similar EU constitution that it replaced, was a "breathtaking piece of
cynicism and manipulation". He said that whenever all three parties were agreed
on something, that was normally a sign that the policy was a bad idea.

6.41pm:Robert Walter, a Conservative, said in his speech that he would be voting
against the motion. Europe was "here to say", he said.

Labour's Roger Godsiff said that he would support the motion.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, a Conservative former foreign secretary, said he would vote
against. Partly it was because the timing was "highly inapprorpriate", he said.
But largely it was because a referendum would make it harder for British
ministers to negotiate in Brussels. He ended up by quoting Nye Bevan's warning
about a British foreign secretary being sent "naked into the conference
chamber". Bevan was talking the abolition of the nuclear deterrent, but Rifkind
said holding a referendum on the EU would have the same effect.

6.30pm: The debate is still going on, but it's time to take stock. Here's an
early evening summary.

[#xfffd] Adam Holloway has revealed that he is resigning as a parliamentary aide
because he will be voting for a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. He
told MPs: "I'm not now prepared to go back on my words to my constituents."
Holloway, who was PPS to David Lidington, the Europe minister, is the second PPS
to declare that he is resigning over this issue. Stewart Jackson, PPS to Owen
Paterson, the Northern Ireland secretary, has also declared that he will vote
for the motion even if that leads to him losing his job. Holloway's speech has
been the highlight in a debate which started off with some distinctly
second-rate backbench contributions. Most of the Conservatives backbenchers who
have spoken have been in favour of the referendum motion. Their tone has been
one of polite disappointment, rather than one of fury and bitterness, although
there have been complaints about the behaviour of the whips. "Winning votes in
this House using strong-armed tactics does nothing to help rebuild trust in
politicians," said David Nuttall, the Tory MP proposing the motion.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has declared that he is "yearning for fundamental reform"
of Britain's relations with the EU. In a statement to MPs before the debate
began, he said that he agreed with the aims of those supporting the EU
referendum motion but disagreed with the means they were proposing. He said that
he was still "firmly committed" to achieving the repatriation of some powers
from the EU but he sidestepped a questions from Ed Miliband about whether he
expected to achieve this while in coalition with the Lib Dems. (See 3.55pm.)

[#xfffd] An ICM poll for the Guardian has revealed that 49% of voters would
support British withdrawal from the EU.

6.22pm: Natascha Engel, the Labour MP who chairs the backbench business
committee, said there was public support for a referendum. She criticised the
government for opposing a referendum on the grounds that it was inconvenient.

The architects of the European Union have created something of such size and
such complexity that they themselves have admitted it has become too big to
fail. At the same time, for most people the EU becomes ever more remote and ever
more unaccountable. It is a political project which people feel has gone too
far, too fast with many things that affect their daily lives determined by
Brussels and not Westminster. That makes this a matter of sovereignty.

The truth is that the 'not the right time' argument has nothing to do with
markets and everything to do with what people might say. The government is
worried that people might say no and as every experienced politician knows, you
don't ask the question unless you are sure you will get the answer you want.

6.19pm:Charles Walker, a Conservative, was called to speak. He delivered the
shortest Commons speech I've ever heard, and possible the shortest one on
record. Here it is in full.

If not now, when?

6.09pm: Nigel Dodds, the DUP MP, told MPs in his speech that he was supporting
the motion.

And Anne Main, a Conservative, said the Commons should back the motion.
Parliament should represent the will of the people, not "the will of the whips".

6.00pm: Here are some extracts from Adam Holloway's speech.

He said he was enthusiastic about the coalition.

But if you can't support a particular policy, then the honest course of action
is to stand down. I want decisions to be made more closely by the people they
affect, by local communities, not upwards towards Brussels.

Well, I'm not now prepared to go back on my words to my constituents. And I'm
really staggered that loyal people like me have actually been put in this
position. If Britain's future as an independent country is not a proper matter
for a referendum, then I have absolutely no idea what is ...

We do not have the right to give away powers entrusted to us by our
constituents.

To anyone here who's still wondering which way to vote, I guess I would say
this. Don't try and guess what the result of a referendum would be. Don't worry
about wording or timing. Just ask yourself two questions. First, is this the
right thing do to in principle? And, two, what do your constituents want you to
do? Here's our opportunity to show people that actually the system can work,
that representative government does actually continue to function in the land
where it was nurtured and developed ...

For me the bottom line is really quite straightforward. For seven years I've
been wandering round the good people of Gravesham, telling them that, yes I
think we should have a referendum and I've also been telling them that, actually
I think we should renegotiate our position. Well I just say this to you. If you
have done the same, then do it, you've got to support the motion.

5.54pm:Adam Holloway, a parliamentary private secretary to David Lidington, the
Foreign Office minister, seems to be giving a resignation speech.

He says that David Cameron is a brilliant prime minister. And William Hague, the
foreign secretary, is excellent too.

But Holloway says that it is important to stand up for your principles.
Politicians have promised voters a referendum. They should honour that promise,
he says.

5.46pm: Labour's David Crausby is speaking now. He says that he does not support
the motion because the decision to propose a three-way referendum makes it "a
dog's breakfast". But he says the time will come when it will be right to have a
referendum on this issue.

5.35pm:Mark Pritchard (left), the secretary of the Conservative 1922 committee,
is now speaking.

He says the debate is taking place because more than 100,000 people have signed
an e-petition. (He's wrong about that - see 3.10pm - but never mind.) He says
this shows the debate reflects widespread popular demand.

Pritchard says the motion does not propose an immediate referendum. If it did,
he would not support it, he says.

The 1975 referendum result has passed its sell-by date, he says.

A referendum now would empower the prime minister to go to Brussels to
negotiate.

Pritchard says Tory MPs have come "under some pressure".

They are not rebels. They are patriots.

The only obsession on the Tory backbenches is an obsession with growing the
economy, he says.

There are those that call for a fresh start. What better fresh start than a
fresh vote.

5.32pm: Alexander is still speaking.

This government's habit of "sitting on the sidelines" has been genuinely bad for
Britain, he says.

Labour supports reform of the single market. There should be reform of Europe,
not exit from Europe, he says.

5.30pm: Further to my post about the exchange between John Prescott and
ToryPressHQ (see4.56pm),Prescott has now deleted the offending tweet and
apologised.

5.22pm: Alexander says Hague is marooned between "past pandering" (to the
Eurosceptics) and the current reality.

Along with the rest of the front bench, the foreign secretary is marooned
between past pandering and their present position, between the rhetoric of
opposition and the realities of government.

Alexander reads out Nicolas Sarkozy's comments to Cameron.

We are sick of you criticising us and telling us what to do. You say you hate
the euro and now you want to interfere in our meetings.

When he read that, Alexander says, he thought Cameron had joined the 1922
committee.

Cameron claims that he is playing a leading role in Europe, Alexander says. But
when Cameron joins EU leaders at the next summit on Wednesday, he won't have a
leading role. He will be lucky to get a bread roll.

5.17pm: Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, is speaking for Labour
now. He says that David Cameron and Nick Clegg, who are not in the chamber,
should have been there for the opening of the debate. Ed Miliband is still on
the Labour benches alongside Alexander. Alexander says a referendum would be bad
for Britain.

I do not believe Britain's national interest would be served by spending the
coming months and years debating the case for Britain leaving the world's
largest single market ... Businesses deciding whether or not to invest in
Britain at this crucial time would have to make that decision not knowing if it
would still be within the European Union by the time that investment came to
fruition.

(According to James Forsyth in the Mail on Sunday, Clegg was told by Number 10
that it would be helpful to Cameron for Clegg to stay away at this stage of the
debate.)

5.14pm: Hague is still speaking.

Bernard Jenkin, a Conservative rebel, says he has spoken to the chair of the
Electoral Commission and and that the commission is not ruling out a three-way
referendum.

Hague says he is interested to hear the views of another unelected body.

5.04pm: Hague says he has six reasons for opposing the motion.

1. The eurozone crisis makes the timing wrong. Voting for another referendum
would introduce further uncertainty. "It would not help anyone looking for a
job," he says.

It would mean that just as we advocate closer trader links between the EU and
the countries of Northern Africa ... we would be standing back from it.

2. An in/out referendum not in the Tory election manifesto.

3. Parliament has just passed legislation setting out the circumstances in which
a referendum would be held.

Labour's Frank Field asks why the government did not adopt the motion and
specify when a referendum would take place.

Hague says the government will respond to proposals from the EU as they come up.

4. Agreeing now to hold a referendum after 2013 would make it harder for Britain
to reach agreement on reforms in the EU.5. Holding a three-way referendum would
be innovative but "seriously flawed". Any one option would be unlikely to
receive more than 50% of the vote. Would it be a first-past-the-post referendum
or a preferential referendum? Britain has just rejected the preferential
referendum principle - in a referendum, he says. It is also not clear whether
there would have to be a further referendum on the outcome of any renegotiation.

6. The motion does not "do justice to the reality that the European Union is not
a matter of everything or nothing". Britain is in the EU, but not in the euro or
in the Schengen agreement, he says. The reality is more complicated than the
motion suggests.

4.58pm:William Hague, the foreign secretary, is speaking now.

All of the EU treaties of the last 20 years would have been covered by the
government's "referendum lock" legislation, he says.

Hague says the government has already ensured that Britain will no longer have
to contribute to eurozone bailouts.

The government will protect the interests of EU countries that are not in the
eurozone and protect the interests of Britain's financial services industry, he
says.

And it will argue for the completion of the single market, he says.

Hague says that he has called for referenda on many European issues over the
last few years. But this proposition is wrong, he says.

4.56pm: John Prescott is involved in a spat with Tory HQ on Twitter about David
Nuttall's speech.

Prescott posted this.

Watching David Nuttall MP calling for a 'wefewendum on Euwope.' #WeleaseBwian

And ToryPressHQ posted this.

.@johnprescott. Appalled that, whatever your think of David Nuttall's views,
you're mocking his speech impediment. It's really quite sad.

4.55pm: Labour's Jimmy Hood spoke after Nuttall. In a fairly rambling speech,
which included a reference to his time as a miner on strike in the 1980s, he
said that he was opposing the motion because he wanted Britain to stay in the
EU.

4.41pm: David Nuttall is still speaking.

He says, given that millions of people spend their own money week in, week out
voting for contestants in programmes like the X Factor, people will be surprised
that the government is not giving the public a vote on the EU.

At a time when people pick up their phones and spend their own money voting week
in and week out to keep their favourite contestants in programmes like Strictly
Come Dancing and X Factor, many people will be baffled as to why the government
and all those who oppose this motion seem keen to prevent them having their
chance to vote on Britain's future relationship with the EU.

He says it is as if the British people are on a train, with no chance of getting
off and the fare going up all the time.

It's rather like someone who has boarded a train, a slow train going in one
direction. Just as you're settling in, the train starts careering off at high
speed in a completely different direction, adding on carriages left, right and
centre; yet you're locked in and have no way of getting off.

Worse still, the longer you're on the train, the more the fare goes up. But
there's absolutely nothing you can do about it as any negotiation with the
guards or the driver is virtually impossible. This motion would simply allow the
train to stop for a while so the passengers can decide if they want to continue
the journey or disembark.

He says he has had hundreds of communications from people urging him to vote in
favour of the motion. The only communication from anyone wanting him to vote
against came from the whips' office, he says.

Those opposing this motion may well be smiling today. But winning votes in this
House using strong-armed tactics does nothing to help rebuild trust in
politicians or persuade the public that the majority inside this House are
actually reflecting their views. Those who are oppose this motion may well win
this battle. But they most certainly will not win the war.

4.33pm:David Nuttall says the vast majority of the British people want a vote in
a referendum.

The motion only calls for a referendum at an unspecified date. Therefore any
arguments about the timing of a referendum (ie, those advanced by David Cameron
- see 3.55pm) are "irrelevant", he says.

Any argument that now isn't right time for a referendum to be held is, quite
frankly, irrelevant. Even if the motion is passed today, a referendum is still
likely to be years away.

Nuttall says that services are closing at his local hospital because of the EU
working time directives.

Denis MacShane intervenes to say that a young doctor recently died in a car
crash and that her colleagues believe her excessive working hours were a factor.
Do not mock the working time directive, he says.

Nuttall ignores the point.

He says he wants to be "in Britain and run by Britain".

4.31pm: The Cameron statement is over.

John Bercow, the Speaker, says he is not accepting any amendments. (See2.15pm.)

He invites David Nuttall, the Tory MP who tabled the motion, to open the debate.

4.25pm: Asked about the killing of Colonel Gaddafi, Cameron says the pictures of
his death were "not pleasant images". Gaddafi should have faced justice, he
says. The Libyan authorities are investigating the circumstances of Gaddafi's
death, he adds.

4.22pm: Robert Halfon, a Conservative MP, says that many of his constituents
lost their faith in politics because the last government failed to have a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty.

Cameron says he understands that. But he is not in favour of an in/out
referendum because he is not in favour of withdrawal, he says.

4.21pm: Back in the Commons, Cameron says that it would not feasible to allow
MPs to debate an EU referendum and then to ignore the result. "All decisions by
parliament matter," he says.

4.18pm: A Guardian/ICM poll just published suggests that49% of the public would
vote for British withdrawal from the EU.Here's an extract from Tom Clark's
story.

Forty-nine per cent of voters would vote to get Britain out of Europe, as
against just 40% who prefer to stay in.

There is a clear majority for staging a referendum on Britain's relationship
with Europe in each of the social classes and across the regions and nations of
the UK. Men and women are similarly keen, as are supporters of all three main
parties, although rather more Conservative (71%) than Labour voters (65%) are
calling for a poll. Overall, just 23% of all voters say they would be against a
vote that "could ask the public whether the UK should remain in the European
Union or pull out instead".

On the crunch question of which way they would vote, there are marked
differences across the age range, and by party support. Where just 28% of the
youngest voters aged 18-24 would vote to quit the EU, 63% of those aged 65+
would do the same.

An outright majority of Tory voters - some 56% - would vote to leave, as against
34% who would prefer to stay in. By contrast among Labour and Liberal Democrats,
there are majorities for staying in Europe, although there are also sizeable
minorities among both parties' supporters - of 38% and 44% respectively - who
indicate that they would vote to get out.

3.55pm: The full text of David Cameron's statement is now on the Number 10
website.

Here are the key quotes.

[#xfffd] Cameron said that he agreed with those MPs seeking "fundamental reform"
of Britain's relationship with the EU.

I share the yearning for fundamental reform, and I am determined to deliver it.

To those who are supporting today's motion but don't actually want to leave the
EU, I say to you this: I respect your views. We disagree not about ends, but
about means.

I support your aims.

Like you, I want to see fundamental reform.

Like you, I want to re-fashion our membership of the EU so that it better serves
this nation's interests.

The time for reform is coming.

But he also said he was not supporting the referendum motion because that would
be a distraction from this mission.

[#xfffd] He said he was still "firmly committed" to achieving the repatriation
of some powers from the EU. He said this was Conservative party policy at the
last election. The two other planks of Conservative policy at the election -
stopping the passage of further powers to the EU and instituting a "referendum
lock" - have been achieved, he said.

[#xfffd] He said he was opposed to the referendum motion partly because it would
include a question on leaving the EU. "This was not our policy at the election
and it is not our policy now," he said.

[#xfffd] He said it would be wrong to legislate for an EU referendum when the
eurozone is in crisis.

When your neighbour's house is on fire, your first impulse should be to help him
put out the flames, not least to stop the flames reaching your own house.

This is not the time to argue about walking away. Not just for their sakes, but
for ours.

[#xfffd] He said that there was no "grand lesson" to be drawn from the success
of the Libyan operation.

For my part, I am wary of drawing some grand, over-arching lesson - still less
to claim that Libya offers some new template that we can apply the world over.

I believe it has shown the importance of weighing each situation on its merits;
of thinking through carefully any decision to intervene in advance.

But I hope it has also showed that this country has learned not only the lessons
of Iraq, but the lessons too of Bosnia.

When it's necessary, legal and right to act we should be ready to do so.

3.53pm: Asked by Labour's Mike Gapes about his row with Sarkozy, Cameron says
that good allies can speak to each other frankly.

Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Lib Dem leader, says that on Europe Cameron has
been "clearly acting in the national interest".

3.51pm: In response to a question from Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Cameron says that
one problem with the motion for debate this afternoon (see 2.15pm) is that, in a
three-way referendum, you could have one option winning with 34% support.

3.48pm: Cameron is replying to Miliband.

He says Miliband was asked yesterday if he would join the euro. He says Miliband
replied: "It depends how long I'm prime minister for." Cameron says that he does
not know which prospect is more terrifying.

Cameron says that, in his statement, Miliband said the French president "speaks
for Britain" (because Nicolas Sarkozy criticised Cameron). Cameron said that it
is hard for an opposition leader to sell out his country, but that that is what
Miliband does.

Cameron does not address the question about how he would repatriate powers from
the EU without breaking the coalition agreement.

3.41pm: Ed Miliband is speaking now.

He praises the work down by British forces in Libya.

On Europe, Miliband says Cameron did not mention his own achievement at
yesterday's summit. He wrote the euro version of How to Lose Friends and
Alienate People. He went into the summit lecturing the Germans and left it being
shouted at by the French.

(This seems to go down well with the Tories, who are cheering.)

Miliband asks if Cameron regrets pulling the Conservatives out of the European
People's Party. They had a dinner on Saturday night. All the centre-right
leaders in Europe were there. But Cameron was not invited.

Miliband says that Cameron said he wanted to repatriate powers. But that option
is off the table because of the coalition agreement, Miliband says. He points
out that Nick Clegg is nodding at this point.

We are seeing a "re-run of the old movie", Miliband says. The Tories are
fighting again over Europe.

3.39pm: David Cameron is still speaking. He says opportunities to promote the
national interest in the EU are now becoming apparent.

He shares the yearning for fundamental reform, he says.

To those who are supporting today's motion but who do not want to pull out of
the EU, Cameron says he shares their aims, but not their views about the means
needed to achieve it.

I'll post the full quotes from this statement when I see the text.

3.33pm: David Cameron is making his statement now.

He starts by saying Britain can be proud of the role it played in Libya.

Turning to the EU summit, he says the whole of the EU, including the eurozone,
needs to be made to work better. That involves completing the single market.

He says the European Commission is not committed to this.

Both coalition parties are in favour of this, he says.

Cameron says EU leaders also agreed that there must be safeguards to protect
members of the EU who are not members of the eurozone.

The Tories fought the last election calling for a referendum lock, no more
transfer of powers to Brussels and the repatriation of powers from Brussels.

Cameron says that the first two of these have been achieved and that he remains
committed to the third.

But a referendum now would not be right, he says. He now seems to be repeating
the arguments in his Evening Standard article. (See 1.55pm.)

3.31pm: Mark Menzies, the parliamentary aide to Charles Hendry, the energy
minister, fainted when he and other PPSs met David Cameron, according to Paul
Waugh.

3.29pm: Here are a couple of good blogs about this afternoon's vote.

[#xfffd] Benedict Brogan on his Telegraph blog says today's vote will entrench
divisions between David Cameron and his MPs.

The handling of the vote, the perception that he is contemptuous of the Commons
and the petition system he put in place, and - rewind further - the departure of
Liam Fox and the reshuffle that followed, have all fed a narrative of grievance
among Conservatives. Tonight's result will entrench that divison between leader
and (not) led. When they contemplate the result and what it means for the
party's image, will the two sides back away? Or is this just the beginning of
something far more serious?

[#xfffd] James Forsyth at Coffee House says around a third of backbenchers will
rebel tonight.

One reluctant rebel said to me over the weekend: if you write anything about
this please say that the whips office needs sorting out. He complained that his
whip had only spoken to him once in the last 12 months, had no idea what
interested him and just assumed he would vote for the government regardless of
what his constituents or conscience told him.

3.10pm: Many journalists - myself included (see 8.39am) - have said that today's
debate on the EU referendum is happening because more than 100,000 people signed
an e-petition, using the government's new e-petition mechanism, calling for a
referendum.

But, actually, that's not true (asRogerOThornhill and others in the comments who
have been looking for the e-petition have spotted). There is no such e-petition.
The debate is happening because the backbench business committee, which was set
up after the general election to allocate time for backbench debates, decided to
grant David Nuttall's request for one. Nuttall's case was supported by the fact
that more than 100,000 had signed an old-fashioned paper petition submitted to
Downing Street. But his application had nothing to do with the new e-petition
procedure, which was set up by the government in the summer on the understanding
that any e-petition attracting more than 100,000 names would be considered for
debate. There is an e-petition on an EU referendum, inspired by the Daily
Express, but it has only attracted 36,900 names. According to a Commons
official, only three e-petitions have hit the 100,000 mark. One was about
Hillsborough, which led to a debate in the chamber last week. One was about
taking benefits away from rioters, which led to a debate in Westminster Hall.
And one is about the cost of petrol, and that has not yet been debated.

2.54pm: Here's Sky's Sophie Ridgewith the latest estimates on the size of the
rebellion.

No 10 saying 85 EU rebels... Tory sources tell me 70... A bit of expectation
management going on

2.49pm: There's a five-minute limit on backbench speeches in the debate on the
EU referendum because so many MPs want to speak. Labour's Chris Bryant says that
this has not happened for some time andthat it shows Tory MPs have a "bizarre"
set of priorities.

2.44pm: Here's Paul Waughon Twitter on David Cameron's meeting with the
parliamentary private secretaries.

I'm told PM meeting with PPSs was not easy. Even loyalists told Cam vote was
'lightning conductor'

2.15pm: Here's the full text of the motion on the EU referendum that MPs will
start debating at around 4.30pm.

That this House calls upon the government to introduce a Bill in the next
session of Parliament to provide for the holding of a national referendum on
whether the United Kingdom should (a) remain a member of the European Union on
the current terms; (b) leave the European Union; or (c) re-negotiate the terms
of its membership in order to create a new relationship based on trade and
co-operation.

I've taken the text fromthe Commons order paper, where you can also read the
names of all the MPs who have signed it.

There are three amendments: one tabled by the Tory MP Richard Harrington, urging
the government to negotiate the return of EU powers to Britain; one tabled by
the Tory MP George Eustice, urging the government to publish a white paper on
the repatriation of powers before renegotiating and then holding a referendum;
and one tabled by the Green MP Caroline Lucas calling for "radical reform" of
the EU. But amendments are only put to a vote if they are called by the Speaker,
and John Bercow is not expected to call any of them.

2.08pm: Up to 10 Labour MPs could defy Ed Miliband and vote in favour of the EU
referendum motion, according to Sunny Hundal. He's identified them in a post on
Liberal Conspiracy.

1.55pm: David Cameron has written an article for the Evening Standard explaining
his stance on the EU referendum issue. It's a curious piece, because at one
point he argues that now is the wrong time to raise the issue of Britain's
membership of the EU - "we're in the middle of dealing with a crisis in the euro
zone" - while two paragraphs later he argues that delay is necessary because now
is the right time for a re-evaluation of the Britain/EU relationship.

There's a danger that by raising the prospect of an in/out referendum, we miss
the real opportunity to further our national interest. Many of us have been
waiting for a generation for the chance to get the best deal for Britain in
Europe.

Now that fundamental questions are being asked about the future of the euro
zone, I believe that the opportunity to do that is coming. Put frankly, it would
not be in our national interest to act rashly and prematurely, achieve nothing
and blow this chance to negotiate a better deal for our country. Those are the
reasons why I'm opposed to having a referendum now.

These two points are not quite inconsistent, but you could be forgiven for
thinking that they were.

Cameron's approach could be characterised asthe St Augustine strategy: "Lord,
let's have a referendum, but not yet." Students of Cameron will remember that he
has played this card before. In November 2009, after the Lisbon treaty was
formally ratified in all EU countries, Cameron gave a speech setting out the
Conservative party's new Europe policy.He dropped the party's commitment to a
referendum on Lisbon. But he also promised a renegotiation with Brussels for the
return of powers to Britain and suggested that, if those talks were to fail,
there could be "a referendum on a wider package of guarantees to protect our
democratic decision-making" after 2015.

1.10pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has launched a last-minute bid to limit the extent of
what is likely to be the largest parliamentary rebellion of his premiership. He
is meeting parliamentary private secretaries in the Commons and urging them to
support the government. More than 60 Conservatives have signed David Nuttall's
motion calling for a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU - there's a
list of themhere- and if they all vote against the government, the revolt will
easily break the record (41) for rebellions in this parliament. Downing Street
has confirmed that that there has been no change of heart and that government
MPs will be subject to a three-line whip.

[#xfffd] William Hague, the foreign secretary, has suggested that some Tory
rebels are not taking the Commons seriously. Asked why the government did not
just allow a free vote and ignore the result (as some of Cameron's Tory critics
are arguing), Hague replied: "The whole relationship with the European Union is
a matter that concerns the government as a whole. It is not something for the
House of Commons to put up some graffiti about on a Thursday afternoon, to pass
a motion which they then say doesn't matter." (See 8.56am and 11.43am.)[#xfffd]
The government has downplayed the prospect of using the forthcoming EU treaty
renegotiation as a chance to repatriate powers from Brussels. Downing Street
said the treaty change being proposed by EU leaders at the moment was a
"limited" one, not a wide-ranging "Lisbon-style" renegotiation. Hague said that
although the Conservatives wanted to repatriate powers, the Lib Dems did not
support that. [Wanting to repatriate powers] is my position, that is the prime
minister's position, that is the Conservative party's position," he said. "That
is not the agreed position of the coalition. If we are presented with a treaty
change in the future, which gives us the opportunity to return powers to the
United Kingdom, then of course the coalition government will have to decide how
we are going to proceed."

[#xfffd] Les Hinton, the former News Internatinal boss, has told the Commons
culture committee that evidence given to the committee in 2009 about phone
hacking being the work of a "rogue reporter" was untrue. But, as the Press
Association reports, he challenged MPs' suggestions that this meant executives
had been "untruthful", insisting that events had become clear only over the past
couple of years and the full picture of what happened was still not known.

12.54pm: Will Cameron's confrontation with his own party strengthen his position
as a leader? Or will it leave him looking weaker and more discredited?

In the Independent on Sunday yesterday John Rentoul argued for the first
proposition.

My guess is that the rebellion will be smaller than most of the estimates.

MPs who want to be ministers have got the message of the mini-reshuffle that
followed Liam Fox's departure: be (a) loyal and (b) close to George Osborne.
Many of them are frustrated, and many of them want to be seen as Eurosceptic in
the re-selection battles that will follow the boundary changes. But ambition
comes first, so they will knuckle under.

In any case, it would be disastrous for Cameron to wobble now. He will win the
vote, assert his authority over his party and appear strong on the television
news. Not for the first time, he understands politics better than his opponents
do.

But, on the basis of today's papers, Rentoul's is a minority view. In fact, I
don't think I've seen any commentator praising Cameron's leadership this
morning. Most of Fleet Street seem to think he is handling the affair badly.
Here are three examples.From the Financial Times editorial (subscription)

The prime minister's approach has the merit of consistency. He has long worried
that "banging on about Europe", as he termed it in 2006, leaves the electorate
cold. Mr Cameron is also right not to want a referendum. Nonetheless, this is
poor politics on several levels.

First, as a piece of party management it is self-defeating. Turning the debate
into a trial of strength has already brought about some of the ills Mr Cameron
feared. Backbench tribunes have been stirred up; some minor office-holders are
mulling rebellion. While the government will win the vote, it will do so at the
cost of alienating its supporters. Second, it makes Mr Cameron look like a
humbug. The idea of parliament debating issues proposed by the public was
supposed to reconnect the electorate with Westminster. Using the whip in this
manner has precisely the opposite effect.

From Mary Ann Sieghart in the Independent

If Cameron had allowed a free vote today, he would have given the right of his
party a chance to let off steam harmlessly. He would have strengthened his hand
in EU negotiations while still retaining control of the timing and subject of
any referendum. He would have looked as if he were listening to the people
rather than slapping them down.

Instead he has fuelled hatred and anger in his own ranks, disillusionment among
the voters and a public perception that the Tories are back to their old tricks,
splitting over Europe. What a bizarrely self-inflicted wound!

From Tom Newton Dunn in the Sun

Short of getting caught in bed with Germany's Angela Merkel, a fresh Tory civil
war on Europe is just about the most damaging thing for David Cameron.

It conjures up horrible nightmares of the past for millions of British voters.
And it brands him as a weak incompetent who has failed to change his suicidal
party one iota in 15 years.

The PM needs to take a long hard look in the mirror this morning, because much
of this is his own fault. He let the genie out of the bottle by exploiting
heartfelt euroscepticism among many well-meaning Tories when it suited him.

12.51pm: David Cameron has arrived in the Commons for meetings with
parliamentary private secretaries ahead of this afternoon's debate,ITV's Lucy
Manning reports on Twitter.

12.39pm:Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, has accused David Cameron of putting
"party interest before the national interest".

That may seem an odd argument, given what the Conservative party is saying (see
10.47am), but here's how Miliband explains it.

Even today [Cameron] is giving a nod and a wink to his backbenchers that maybe
he can start a renegotiation of the terms of Britain's membership, get out of
some of the employment and social rights which I think are actually necessary
for Britain, things like four weeks' paid holiday. Actually what he should be
doing is fighting for jobs and growth in Europe to help Britain and he's not
doing it. The Conservative Party looks out of touch, turning inward and
squabbling among themselves. That is not what our country needs.

Miliband also accused Cameron and George Osborne of standing "on the sidelines"
in the big debates on the future of the euro.

Frankly, what they should be doing is fighting for growth and for jobs and for
companies like this one. Instead they are obsessed by the internal disputes of
the Tories, the Conservative party's collective nervous breakdown.

So, Cameron is being accused by Miliband of standing "on the sidelines" and
being accused by Nicolas Sarkozy of "interfering". (See 11.43am.) It's hard to
see how they can both be right.

12.32pm: I'm focusing on the Europe debate today, and I won't be covering Les
Hinton giving evidence to the Commons culture committee about phone hacking.
That's a shame because the former News International chief is likely to face
some fierce questioning. But Josh Halliday and Dan Sabbagh are on the case and
you can follow all the details on their live blog.

12.19pm: Peter Bone says that he does not think William Hague is a Eurosceptic
anymore. (See 9.55am.)Bone will probably have that view reinforced if he reads
Lady Ashton's interview in the Independent today. In the interview Ashton, a
former Labour cabinet minister who is now the EU's foreign affairs chief,
praises Hague for the collaborative approach he has taken in Brussels.

From my perspective as a British commissioner, the government have been clear
about what they want, and not just on foreign policy, and extremely supportive
of me personally. The foreign secretary works extremely well as part of the
foreign affairs council. He's very clear about British interests, but on the big
issues they have been very helpful and very supportive, because they see the
value of being able to speak together, particularly on something as complicated
as the Middle East peace process or as important as getting strong sanctions
against Iran or Syria.

11.43am: The morning lobby briefing was almost entirely taken up with Europe.
Here are the key points.[#xfffd] Number 10 confirmed that government MPs are
still subject to a three-line whip in today's vote. Ministers or parliamentary
private secretaries who vote against the whip and in favour of the referendum
motion will be expected to resign. But the prime minister's official spokesman
would not say what would happen to ministers or PPSs who abstained.

[#xfffd] The prime minister's official spokesman said he was not aware of any
ministers planning to resign over the referendum issue.

[#xfffd] Number 10 played down the significance of planned changes to the EU
treaties. Cameron has told Conservatives that the next major EU treaty
renegotiation will provide Britain with an opportunity to repatriate powers. But
that's a Conservative aspiration, not coalition policy, because the Lib Dems
would not support the repatriation proposals that the Conservatives want and
therefore a full-blown negotiation could split the coalition. But EU leaders
have agreed have said that there will have to be a renegotiation to strengthen
economic governance in the eurozone and at the weekend it emerged that this
could happen sooner than expected. An interim report is due to be published in
December and full proposals, including a roadmap to reform, are meant to be on
the table by the summer of next year. But the prime minister's official
spokesman insisted that this would only represent a "limited" treaty change. "We
are not talking about proposals for a Lisbon-style treaty," he said. That is
significant because a Lisbon-style treaty would give Britain the chance to seize
back powers. The spokesman said that the government agreed with the need to make
the eurozone stronger and that, if the treaties have to be renegotiated,
Britain's priority would be maintaining the integrity of the single market and
protecting Britain's financial services industry.

[#xfffd] Number 10 defended Britain's right to comment on eurozone matters. At
yesterday's summit Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, told Cameron: "You
have lost a good opportunity to shut up. We are sick of you criticising us and
telling us what to do. You say you hate the euro and now you want to interfere
in our meetings." Asked about this, the prime minister's official spokesman
said: "You would expect us to have views on what happens in the eurozone." The
spokesman declined to say whether he would describe the confrontation as a row.
[#xfffd] Cameron will make a statement about the EU summit at 3.30pm, and the
referendum debate will start after that, at around 4.30pm. There were
suggestions on Twitter earlier that there would be a second statement about
Libya, pushing back the start of the debate to 5.30pm. But that's not happening.
Cameron will cover Libya in his EU statement.

11.40am: I'm just back from the Number 10 briefing. They're playing down the
prospect of ministers resigning over the referendum vote. (See 9.16am.) Asked if
any ministers had indicated that they were planning to resign, the prime
minister's official spokesman replied: "Not that I'm aware of."

I'll post a full summary in a moment.

10.47am: According to a poll of Conservative party members for
ConservativeHome,72% of members want their MP to vote for the EU referendum.

More significantly, 64% of them said they doubted David Cameron's commitment to
repatriating powers from the EU.

Tim Montgomerie, the ConservativeHome editor, says this is "very significant and
troubling" for the prime minister.

I'm off to the lobby briefing. I'll post again after 11.30am.

10.25am: Philip Cowley and Mark Stuart, the academics who study parliamentary
revolts, have put a post on their blog outlining the key benchmarks that will be
used to measure the size of today's rebellion. As long as more than 41 MPs
rebel, it will be the largest rebellion of this parliament, and the largest
rebellion by Conservatives over Europe. But to reach a record for the largest
rebellion on any issue, the revolt will have to be much bigger than people like
Tim Montgomerie (see 10.00am) are predicting.

The largest Conservative rebellion of all in the post-war era occurred in 1996,
when 95 government MPs voted against their whip over the post-Dunblane gun
control legislation. So if there are 96 or more Conservative rebels today, this
will be the biggest Conservative revolt of the post-war era.

The largest Labour rebellion in the post-war era occurred in March 2003, over
the Iraq war. Then, 139 government MP voted against their whip. But all the
evidence is that this was not just the largest post-war rebellion, but the
largest of any party, on any issue, since the vote over the Corn Laws in the
1840s.

10.00am: Stephen Pound, a former Labour whip and now a shadow Northern Ireland
minister, told the Today programme that he thinks only 25 Conservative MPs will
rebel. I could not tell whether he really believed that figure, or whether he
was just engaging in a fairly half-hearted exercise in expectation management.

Tim Montgomerie, the editor of ConservativeHome (and probably a more reliable
guide to Conservative thinking), has just posted his prediction on Twitter.

I'm predicting 65 Tory votes against Govt today and 25 abstentions
#RevoltPredictions

9.55am: The Conservative backbencher Peter Bone, who supports the referendum
motion, says that William Hague (see 8.56am) is no longer a Eurosceptic. This is
what Bone told the Press Association.

The trouble with William Hague is that people just don't believe him on the back
benches. We think Hague has gone on a travel. He has gone from being Eurosceptic
to someone who has got into this ministerial, political world of Europe and
loves it. There is a feeling that he is no longer Eurosceptic. He is not
Eurosceptic in my view.

9.49am: The Lib Dems are voting against the referendum proposal tonight - even
though they called for one in their general election manifesto.

Here's how Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, explained that apparent
discrepancy in an interview on Sky News. I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

We as a party for example at the last election said there should be a
referendum, but only when there was a proposal to change the powers from the UK
to the European Union - there's no such proposal on the table. And therefore the
referendum now is neither something I stood on a platform to do, or the
coalition agreement allows for.

Technically, Hughes is right. This is what the Lib Dem manifesto said on the
subject:

But just because Europe is essential, that doesn't mean the European Union is
perfect. We will continue to campaign for improved accountability, Liberal
Democrats therefore remain committed to an in/out referendum the next time a
British government signs up for fundamental change in the relationship between
the UK and the EU.

But in 2008 Nick Clegg was arguing for an in/out referendum regardless of
whether there was a renegotiation. This is what he said at the timein an article
for Comment is free.

The debate about Europe has been a thorn in the side of British politics for
decades. Now the wound has become infected. Europhile and Eurosceptic trading
blows about the Lisbon treaty in grand rhetoric that obscures the facts. If
you're pro-European, as I am, you're accused of being a sellout. If you're
anti-European, like most Conservatives, you're accused of being a headbanger. It
isn't new, but it isn't edifying either.

It's time we pulled out the thorn and healed the wound, time for a debate
politicians have been too cowardly to hold for 30 years - time for a referendum
on the big question. Do we want to be in or out?

The Lib Dem call for an in/out referendum struck many observers at the time as a
ploy designed to give the party an excuse for not supporting a referendum on the
Lisbon treaty. It looked decidedly opportunist and may cause the party some
embarrassment if anyone quotes Clegg's words at him in the chamber today.

9.47am: On Radio 5 Live this morning Stewart Jackson, the parliamentary private
secretary to Owen Paterson, the Northern Ireland secretary, and one of the Tory
MPs planning to vote for the referendum motion (even if that leads to him being
sacked as a PPS) rejected the "the time isn't right" argument used by William
Hague. (See8.56am.)According to PoliticsHome, this is what he said.

When is the time to ask the question about our fundamental relationship with
Europe? We are constantly told, 'this is not the time'. We are currently on the
cusp of the development of a hard, Northern European monetary union which will
be irrevocable. We cannot go back from that. This is surely the time.

Bernard Jenkin, another Conservative backbencher who is planning to vote for the
referendum motion, also tackled the timing argument in an interview on BBC
Breakfast.

When even John Major is saying 'now is the moment' for us to use our leverage to
get powers back top the European Union, it would seem a good time.
Unfortunately, there isn't a treaty coming down the track, or doesn't seem to be
a treaty coming down the track to hang a referendum on, so we haven't got that
leverage. This would be an opening shot consultative referendum, to ask the
British people about what the dilemma facing this country is. Do we stay in and
carry on as now? Do we get out completely, or as the majority of polls show
people want, renegotiate our relationship.

Jenkin set out his stance in full yesterday in an article in the Sunday
Telegraph.

9.16am:Mark Pritchard, the Conservative backbencher and secretary of the 1922
committee, has said that two ministers have told him they are considering
backing the referendum motion.

8.56am:William Hague, the foreign secretary, will be opening the debate this
afternoon.

He's already given an interview to the Today programme this morning. Here are
the key points. I've taken the quotes from the Press Association and
PoliticsHome.

[#xfffd] Hague defended David Cameron's decision to impose a three-line whip on
the debate, ordering Conservative MPs to vote against the referendum motion.
Many commentators - eg, Fraser Nelson in a post for Coffee House last night-
have argued that Cameron made a tactical mistake, and that it would have been
more sensible for him to have allowed his MPs to vote for the referendum motion
but downplayed its importance. It is only a backbench motion, and therefore
technically not binding on the government. But Hague said this would be a
mistake.

The whole relationship with the European Union is a matter that concerns the
government as a whole, it is not something for the House of Commons to put up
some graffiti about on a Thursday afternoon, to pass a motion which they then
say doesn't matter. By the way the people in favour of the motion can't
simultaneously say 'this is a really serious issue and we want to pass this
motion', and at the same time 'you can ignore it'.

[#xfffd] He said that it would be a mistake to hold a referendum on Britain's
membership of the EU now.

I've argued for more referendums than almost anybody else, I've argued against
the euro more comprehensively than almost anybody else. But this proposition is
the wrong question at the wrong time. It wasn't in the manifesto of either of
the governing parties. It cuts right across the rules for holding referendums
that we have just agreed by large majorities. It would create additional
economic uncertainty in this country at a difficult economic time.

Europe is undergoing a process of change and in an in-out referendum people
would want to know where the change was going to finish up before they voted.
Clearly an in/out referendum is not the right idea.

[#xfffd] He said that if Britain were to repatriate powers from the EU, there
would not necessarily have to be a referendum. The government has passed a law
saying there has to be a referendum if Britain wants to transfer powers to the
EU. Cameron has hinted that any renegotiation leading to powers being
repatriated could also be accompanied by a referendum, but Hague said: "I do not
believe that [a referendum] is necessary in every instance of a power being
returned."

[#xfffd] He said powers could be repatriated to Britain either all in one go or
bit by bit.

One of the essential points to remember here is that these things can happen
incrementally, or they could, at some future date, happen in a big bang treaty
change - and that would be the moment in my view to seek quite a wide
repatriation of powers.

8.39am: The last two Conservative prime ministers were brought down at least
partly as a result of divisions over Europe. David Cameron's hold on the
premiership is secure, and nothing that happens tonight is likely to undermine
that fundamentally - but an old feud has re-appeared. Cameron has spent six
years trying to contain Euroscepticism, but now the lid has blown off the kettle
and he is facing not just the largest rebellion since the election, but the
largest rebellion over Europe ever faced by a Conservative prime minister.

This is partly a story about leadership and internal party management. But
today's debate and vote will be a big parliamentary occasion because it will
illuminate at least three important power struggles:

1. Cameron versus his party. Will he emerge from today's events weaker, or
stronger? What, if anything, will he say to his party to appease the
Eurosceptics? And what will we learn about Conservative policy towards Europe?

2.Parliament versus the people. Is parliament in touch? MPs are debating holding
a referendum on Britain's relations with Europe because more than 100,000 people
signed an e-petition calling for one. But all three main parties are telling
their MPs to vote against. The Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, has been using his
Twitter feed to complain furiously about the BBC reporting this solely as a
story about the Conservative party. (UPDATE AT 3.10PM: It wasn't an e-petition.
More here.)

3. Britain versus Europe. Today's vote won't change Britain's relationship with
the EU. But change of some kind is looking increasingly likely at some point in
the next decade, and the debate might provide some clues as to where we're
heading.

In addition, there's also a split between the coalition parties on this issue,
while Ed Miliband is likely to suffer a mini rebellion of his own too. There's
going to be plenty to analyse and explore.

I'll be focusing almost exclusively on the Europe debate today. At some point
before it starts Cameron is due to meet Tory parliamentary private secretaries
in Downing Street to persuade them to vote with the government (at least one,
Stewart Jackson, has said he will rebel even if he has to resign as a PPS). And,
in the afternoon, there will be a statement before the debate starts. Here's the
timetable:

3.30pm: David Cameron makes a statement in the Commons about yesterday's EU
summit.

Around 4.30pm: MPs start debating the motion calling for a referendum on
Britain's relationship with the EU.

10pm: MPs vote on the motion. Around 90 Conservative MPs could rebel against the
party leadership.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking news as well as looking at the
papers and bringing you the best comment from the web. I'll post a lunchtime
summary at around 1pm and I'll be covering the debate right through until the
end.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 25, 2011 Tuesday 3:56 PM GMT

No bad blood over Europe vote, says David Cameron

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1791 words


Prime Minister David Cameron insisted today that there was "no bad blood"   over
last night's bruising rebellion on a referendum on Europe.

Admitting it had "always been a difficult issue" for the Tories, he   insisted
the "important thing is to do the right thing for the country".

Speaking during a visit to Lockheed Martin UK in Bedford, Mr Cameron defended
his decision to impose a three-line whip on his MPs over the vote, saying "in
politics you have to confront the big issues rather than try and sweep them
under the carpet".

"It wouldn't be right for the country now to have a great big vote on an
in/out referendum and the rest of it," he added.

"What I would say from last night is there's no bad blood, there's no   rancour,
no bitterness."

Conservative MPs inflicted the biggest ever Tory rebellion over Europe on the
Prime Minister last night when 79 backbenchers defied orders by voting for a
national poll on British membership of the European Union.

Mr Cameron attempted to play down accusations that the party had been left
deeply divided by the scale of the rebellion - the biggest assault on his
authority since he became Conservative leader six years ago.

He added: "These are valued Conservative colleagues. I understand why   people
feel strongly and we will go forward together and tackle the   difficult
decisions that the country faces.

"But you have to do the right thing and give a lead in politics and that   was
what yesterday was about.

"First of all the country has a guarantee now in law that if ever there   is a
proposal to pass power from Westminster to Brussels we would ask people   in a
referendum first.

"That is written into the law of the land and that's right but the real   focus
for Europe right now has got to be to solve the eurozone crisis that   is having
a chilling effect on our economy."

Mr Cameron insisted the priority for Britain was creating growth, which meant
"making   the market work" and "opening the single market".

"Those are the things Europe needs to focus on, not the interference in
people's everyday lives.

"We have got to make sure the single market is working for Britain, get
regulation off our businesses, keep taxes low, make sure in Europe we are
fighting for open markets and trade, not interfering in the everyday lives   of
people.

"That's what I'll be fighting for and we can now do that united."

Among the rebels were two ministerial aides, Adam Holloway and Stewart
Jackson, who voted for a referendum knowing they would lose their unpaid
Government jobs.

A Downing Street spokeswoman confirmed that both men had been "removed"   but
not "sacked" from their positions.

"They haven't been sacked because they were told in advance that if they   voted
that way they would be removed from Government."

She added: "The difference is they knew that was the consequence of their
actions."

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg condemned the backbench rebellion as a
"smash-and-grab   dawn raid".

During a visit to London's East End, Mr Clegg said Britain should be leading,
not leaving Europe.

Recognising that reforms to the EU were necessary, he said: "You don't   change
Europe by launching some smash-and-grab dawn raid on Brussels.

"You do it by setting out the case for changes and then arguing the case   with
other countries.

"We can't do this on our own - we have to build alliances, we have to   convince
and persuade other countries and that is what we look to do all the   time."

Education Secretary Michael Gove told the BBC he would like to see "a change
in this Parliament" on Britain's relationship with Europe.

He added: "We are already winning powers back - we need to win more and that
process will require careful negotiation but what we are fortunate in having
is a Conservative Party that is united as never before behind that
renegotiation."

Mr Cameron's official spokesman rejected suggestions that the comments by Mr
Gove and Mr Clegg indicated a rift within the Government.

The coalition agreement published last year made clear that the Government
would "examine the balance of the EU's existing competencies" and in
particular seek to limit the application of the working time directive in   the
UK, he pointed out.

"We have a coalition Government and some of the things that Conservative
members of the Government are saying reflect Conservative Party policy and
some things reflect the Government's policy," said the spokesman.

"The Government's policy is very clear, because it is set down in the
coalition agreement."

When Mr Cameron told MPs in the Commons yesterday that he was "firmly
committed... to bringing back more powers from Brussels", he was speaking in
his position as Conservative leader, the spokesman indicated.

The spokesman confirmed that Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg have discussed Europe
several times recently in their regular meetings, but that their focus has
been on the current crisis in the eurozone.

The work of examining the balance of the EU's competencies was ongoing within
Government, with the Foreign Office in the lead, he said.

But he was unable to say when an opportunity may arise to negotiate changes to
Britain's relations with the EU, suggesting that a large-scale amendment to
treaties "may be some years down the line".

It was necessary to draw a distinction between a major treaty change of the
kind seen in Nice in 2001 and Lisbon in 2007 and a minor amendment which
simply changes a few words.

"They are different things and if you are in negotiation you approach those
things differently," said the spokesman.

He added: "There is a series of negotiations that will be coming up at
European level. One of those potentially may involve some limited changes to
treaties. That is what the European Council decided on Sunday.

"As the thinking on that develops, we will be developing our thinking about
how best we can further our interests in those negotiations.

"As the Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister were saying yesterday, the
priorities for us are protecting the integrity of the single market and
protecting financial services."

Mr Clegg ruled out any prospect of eurosceptics pushing Britain "towards the
exit sign" while he is the Deputy Prime Minister.

"This Government, of which I'm the Deputy Prime Minister, is not going to
launch some sort of dawn raid, some smash and grab raid on Brussels," he   told
ITV News.

"It won't work, it will be condemned to failure.

"Eurosceptics need to be quite careful for what they wish for, because if they
succeed - and they won't succeed, as long as I'm in government - to push   this
country towards the exit sign, let's be clear: the people that will be   damaged
is British families, British businesses, British jobs, British   communities,
and I won't let that happen."

Conservative MP Andrea Leadsom, who joined the rebels last night, said her
ideal solution would be for the Government to renegotiate Britain's
relationship with Europe prior to a ratifying referendum on the results of
that negotiation.

The MP for South Northamptonshire is part of a group of backbench Tories
drawing up a draft White Paper for publication next year, which they say   will
set out the position the Government should take up in a renegotiation.

Ms Leadsom said today that Conservative ministers had offered the group
encouragement.

"Certainly, Government ministers have been very warm towards the idea of us
doing that work," she told BBC Radio 4's World At One.

"I genuinely believe that our frontbench on the Conservative side are
Eurosceptic - they would genuinely like to repatriate powers.

"They are in a difficult position with the eurozone in complete crisis. They
have to be very careful that they don't make things worse.

"But at the same time, I genuinely believe that they would welcome us doing
the work to look at what a renegotiation would look like."

Ms Leadsom denied rumours circulating on the internet that she swore at
Chancellor George Osborne when he called last night to try to persuade her   not
to rebel.

"We had a very polite conversation," she said. "We agreed to differ. I
wouldn't speak to any colleague in the way I was reported as speaking to   him."

Tory peer Lord Garel-Jones, who was Europe minister at the time of the
rebellion against the Maastricht Treaty under John Major, suggested that a
handful of MPs who want British withdrawal should quit the Conservatives and
join Ukip.

Lord Garel-Jones said most of those rebelling last night were "Euro-realists"
who wanted simply to defend UK interests within the EU, while the   "nihilists"
who actually want withdrawal could be counted "on the fingers of   one hand".

He told World At One: "Those who are anti-European in the sense that they want
to withdraw should consider their position.

"If you want to withdraw from the EU, there is, I believe, a little party
somewhere that advocates that, but it is not the Conservative Party."

Former Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell said he had "no argument
in principle" against a referendum, but did not believe one was likely to be
held during this Parliament.

Coalition policy was to call a referendum only if there was a treaty proposing
"substantial transfer of powers", he said, adding: "If no such circumstances
arise, then there won't be a referendum."

Shadow foreign secretary Douglas Alexander wrote to Mr Hague warning that
"disunity... between and within the coalition parties is already undermining
Britain's credibility in ongoing European discussions".

He demanded to know whether Mr Cameron was speaking for the Government or the
Conservative Party when he raised the prospect of a renegotiation of the   UK's
EU membership.

Mr Alexander later said: "Last night demonstrated that we have got a
deeply-divided Conservative Party. But the comments that have emerged this
morning from the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg seem to confirm that we   have
a deeply-divided Government.

"Within a couple of hours of Michael Gove taking to the airwaves this morning
promising the repatriation of powers, we have now got the Deputy Prime
Minister, his Cabinet colleague, flatly contradicting him and saying there
will be no repatriation of powers as part of the coalition Government's
programme.

"The public deserves better than a Government turning inwards and fighting
with each other instead of fighting for British jobs, British investment and
British growth.

"This spectacle of an out-of-touch and divided Government is undermining the
influence Britain has at the European negotiating table, which is bad news   for
millions of British people who desperately want to see a proper plan for
growth and jobs."

PA

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 25, 2011 Tuesday 4:23 PM GMT

Europe has broken Conservative leaders before - will Cameron join them?;
The Prime Minister needs to stand up for democracy or risk support of many
Tories, says Norman Tebbit

LENGTH: 1186 words


HALF a century ago - having spent half my life outside Britain, working for a
global business alongside colleagues of many nations - I eagerly accepted the
idea that the best way to solve the problems of the fractious continent of
Europe was via the creation of a supranational state. All my experience since
then has brought me, gradually and reluctantly, to realise that I was wrong.

What tested my belief in Europe to destruction was my time in government. It is
a sensation that should be familiar to David Cameron from his own short time in
office - not to mention the experience of his recent Conservative predecessors.
It was, after all, the European issue that brought down Margaret Thatcher.
Contrary to the myth, she was no extreme "Little Englander", but a balanced and
cautious advocate of the British national interest. Her famous "No, No, No" was
not a petulant reiteration; it was a rejection of each of the three proposals by
Jacques Delors that would convert the European Economic Community into a
sovereign state called the European Union. From that moment, the Europhile lobby
was determined she should go, using Geoffrey Howe and Michael Heseltine as their
political hit men.

Poor John Major was easier meat. My hopes of him were dashed when he told me
that the Maastricht commitment to a single currency would not be a matter of
principle, but just a practical matter of being in or out - a practical matter
that shattered his party and his government, and lost him the votes of 4.5
million of the 14.1 million electors who had endorsed him in 1992.

When David Cameron became leader of the Conservative Party, it was on a
staunchly Eurosceptic platform. In 2007, for example, he offered an
unconditional promise - the "cast-iron guarantee" - that he would give the
British people a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. That unredeemed pledge haunts
his leadership, a ghostly guarantee that would have been difficult enough to
exorcise even without the catastrophic wounds now being inflicted on the
European and world economy by the turmoil within the eurozone.

Yet the truth is that the current crisis should have come as no surprise, either
to Mr Cameron or to the wider public. Indeed, it has been precisely forecast
since before the euro came into being. The would-be masters of Europe knew, just
as we critics did, that the euro would eventually fail unless it was supported
by a single economic policy wielded by a single treasury within a single
government.

The calculation in Brussels was - and is - that the damage threatened by the
currency's collapse would frighten both the leaders and the led into the
ultimate stage of "ever closer union": namely, another burning building without
fire exits or windows, but with even stronger locks on the doors. That union
could not be a democratic one, not only because of the circumstances of its
conception and birth, but also because, as Enoch Powell observed many years ago,
there is no such thing as a European demos.

What no one could have foreseen, of course, was that the fall of the euro would
coincide with a global financial crisis. Yet times of crisis and danger are also
times of opportunity for those with clear minds and stout hearts.

What needs to be done to shore up the collapsing structure of the eurozone
requires the consent, perhaps even the assistance, of the United Kingdom. It is
quite clear that any proposals will require the 17 members of the euro (or
however many remain) to agree policies collectively, but then act with a single
voice in the councils of the European Union. That is what George Osborne accepts
as the "remorseless logic" of fiscal union. Unfortunately, it would also give
these countries a guaranteed majority that the United Kingdom could never
defeat. We would for ever have to accept what the eurozone members decreed.

Mr Cameron and William Hague have indicated that they will not be so unmannerly
as to exact a price - in terms of changes to the constitution created by the
Lisbon Treaty - for their agreement to what needs to be done. This is deeply
disappointing. Yet there is another path ahead of them. I have long been a
critic of the inability or unwillingness of this Coalition to manage its
business effectively: its habit of thinking that announcing a well-meaning
initiative is the same thing as carrying it through to implementation; its use
of expressions such as the "Big Society" as brand names for products that it
cannot define.

But for once, that could work in their favour. They should tell Brussels that
the "Big Society" enables the electors to nominate subjects to be discussed and
voted upon in the House of Commons. The Big Society and the independent
backbenchers have decided that, next week, Parliament will discuss and vote upon
a proposal that would mandate the Government to organise a referendum on the EU.
This would include not just an "In or Out" question, but a third option that
would mandate the Government to renegotiate the conditions of our membership.

"It is tough," Messrs Cameron and Hague should tell our partners, "but there it
is. We can only avoid an 'Out' majority by achieving a substantial repatriation
of powers, and even that might not do it. Sorry about that - but it's called
democracy, and it is well established here."

Of course, it is not only Mr Cameron and his party who are in some disarray
here. Nick Clegg and his Liberal Democrats, and Ed Miliband and Labour are
committed to holding a referendum - but, just like Mr Cameron, the very last
thing they want is actually to have one. Presumably, Mr Clegg will once again
abandon his party's policy and support the Coalition. So Mr Miliband will have
to choose between coming out for what most electors want - a referendum - and
defeating the Government, or instructing his divided party to vote with Mr
Cameron, thereby denying the electors a say.

Let us suppose that, one way or another, the Government wins the day. It would
be at the cost of feeding the corrosive ill-feeling that has been festering ever
since Mr Cameron tried to turn the back-bench 1922 Committee into a subsidiary
of the largely unelected caucus at No 10. A three-line whip may reduce the size
of the revolt, but it will embitter many backbenchers. Almost certainly a PPS or
two will resign or be sacked, and a couple of junior ministers might follow.

All that is bad enough, but one can only guess at the effect on the public if a
mixture of threats, cowardice and clever procedural manoeuvring again denies
them the chance to express their views on our membership of the European Union.
Once again, a policy has been tossed out of an upstairs window at No 10 without
anyone thinking it through. There will be no benefit to the Prime Minister, the
Government, or the Conservative Party from this. On the other hand, Nigel Farage
and Ukip must be laughing their socks off.

There must be many Tories who have stuck to the party through thick and thin -
in my case, for 55 years - who will wonder if it's worthwhile any more. David
Cameron may get his way this week, but the price at next year's European
elections could be bloody.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 25, 2011 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT

David Cameron is trying to face down not only Tory backbenchers but also the
British electorate;
Politicians' empty promises on EU referendums

LENGTH: 1585 words


SIR - David Cameron's determination to face down his backbenchers in the
referendum debate was, in reality, an attempt to face down his electorate.

All three major parties promised us a referendum when not in government, but as
soon as bureaucracy gets its hands on them, we are denied our rights.

Richard W. Turner                      Nazeing, Essex

SIR - Mr Cameron seems to overlook the history of broken pledges on EU matters,
both by himself and his predecessors.

Now that he assures us he will reclaim EU powers, why on earth should we believe
him?

R. H. Seymour                      Stourport-on-Severn, Worcestershire

SIR - With regard to a referendum in Scotland, Mr Cameron said: "The question
needs to be put sooner rather than later." But he denies the democratic rights
of the British people when it comes to Europe. Who will rid us of politicians
promising one thing and doing another?

Michael Leonard                      Northampton

SIR - Yesterday's motion on a referendum on membership of the EU was quite
rightly never going to succeed. There are two particular reasons why it would be
wrong to have such a referendum.

First, it would be a distraction. Europe is in the midst of a dire economic
crisis. The Government should be focusing on supporting the eurozone, by far our
largest export market, instead of being ensnared in a debate on EU membership
that would dominate the political agenda in Britain to the detriment of almost
everything else, including our own economy.

Secondly, Britain is a representative democracy. Opinion polls show that Europe
is nowhere near the top of voters' concerns. In Britain we have a long and proud
tradition of elections fought by political parties campaigning on clear and
comprehensive political platforms. That is where people decide what they believe
is important and make their choice. That is why Ukip won 3.1 per cent of the
vote last year.

Calling for a referendum on EU membership is just a tactic in the long-running
battle of Eurosceptics to get Britain out of Europe. They can't achieve their
aim in general elections, so they demand a referendum.

Numerous minorities in British political life feel strongly about a single
issue. Those calling for a referendum on Europe do not deserve special
treatment.

Roland Rudd                      Chairman, Business for New Europe London EC2

SIR - The Prime Minister may well be hoping to repatriate powers from Brussels,
and to renegotiate treaties, but unless he is prepared to back up his
negotiations with a threat of force - in other words, an in/out referendum, he
will, as usual, be ignored.

There's no point in entering into any negotiation unless you are prepared to
walk away if not satisfied. For too long, prime ministers have been prepared to
accept whatever crumbs are on offer rather than make serious threats. Our
so-called partners know this, and, as a result, any deals on offer rarely
benefit Britain.

Since we pay a disproportionate amount to Brussels to continue to prop up the
edifice of fraud and inefficiency, they are naturally reluctant to let us go.

John Hunt                      Curry Rivel, Somerset

SIR - The 17 members of the euro are a sub-group of the European Union of 27
countries. As such they are accountable to the EU. Hence we British are entitled
to demand that the eurozone nations get their house in order, for our collective
and common good. President Sarkozy should be put in his place.

Graham R Brown                      Ampthill, Bedfordshire

Going like the clappers

SIR - The quickest way for St Paul's cathedral to shift the protesters on its
doorstep (report, October 24) might be to instruct its Guild of Bell Ringers to
perform an extra full peal (lasting about four hours) upon its mighty ring of 12
bells.

These are among the heaviest and loudest in the country. When they finished
ringing for morning service, on the last Sunday the cathedral was open, a great
cheer went up from those camped below.

Robert Lewis Editor, The Ringing World Winchester, Hampshire

SIR - My wife and I spent a June night in a hotel in Zaragoza opposite the
magnificent baroque basilica. The square was filled the tents of indignados. The
basilica continued to welcome the public and, in the morning, an Ascension Day
procession threaded its way easily through the protesters.

Fredric Gale Hadlow, Kent

Developers' cash talks

SIR - The valiant words of Hank Dittmar of the Prince's Foundation (Comment,
October 17), that planning should "reflect local character" are falling on deaf
ears. When developers make huge offerings to cash-strapped councils, as part of
the planning process, their interests will outweigh those of residents.

In our campaign to keep down the tower blocks at Chelsea Barracks that will loom
100 feet over the streets, we saw Westminster council give permission in
contradiction of its own planning brief. The Qatari developers paid it £72
million cash as part of the deal.

We have appealed to the Secretary of State, but with the Qataris investing in
the Olympics and London it seems futile. Taxpayers urgently need an organisation
to control insatiable developers and councils.

Georgine Thorburn Chairman, Chelsea Barracks Action Group London SW1

Spud experience

SIR - In northern England, October half-term used to be called "tatty week", as
older children from rural communities helped in the potato harvest. This
activity could be reintroduced to glean the wasted potatoes to which Alan Burton
draws attention (Letters, October 24). It would be a form of work experience and
directly benefit the poor in the local community.

Ginny Hudson Swanmore, Hampshire

After Gaddafi's death

SIR - Now that Colonel Gaddafi has been shot dead, I find it hard to accept the
holier than thou attitude expressed by the United Nations. It has witnessed the
summary execution of thousands of Africans in Rwanda and the Congo and seems to
have done little to stop it. The UN has in the past shown itself to be
toothless.

Let the Libyans get on with their lives and don't preach at them.

Marcus Morley Totnes, Devon

SIR - The butchering of Gaddafi shows how little restraint the West exerts on
events of this kind in the Middle East. The scenes of jubilation on the streets
of the Libyan capital are reminiscent of the uprising in Iran in 1979, and we
know what happened after that.

Geoffrey Parry Chester

SIR - The RAF carried out about 11 per cent of the airstrikes against Gaddafi's
forces in Libya. Since neither the Americans nor the Germans played an active
part in the operations, it seems that the French had the major role.

No doubt we did what we could in the aftermath of the Strategic Defence Review,
but, if Germany is the economic powerhouse in Europe, France is now the
pre-eminent military power. The Government should accept this new reality with
as good a grace as possible.

Kenneth Wood Exeter

Hidden energy charges

SIR - When increasing energy bills, suppliers routinely increase "standing
charges" by the same percentage (Letters, October 24). These charges may be £100
a year. Ofgem should act on this rip-off.

Raymond Jones Ivybridge, Devon

Downsizing downside

SIR - I have moved from a four-bedroom house to a two-bedroom bungalow, only to
find I have to pay double the council tax.

Ann Fulbrook Caldicot, Monmouthshire

A trifle extravagant

SIR - Yesterday in my supermarket, among "essentials", I noticed trifle.

Patricia Crowley Farnborough, Hampshire

Twin feline beauties, black as nightshade

SIR - A friend became responsible for two cats (Letters, October 22). She named
the black sisters Bella and Donna because while, individually, they were
beautiful, together, they were highly toxic.

John Pankhurst Nottingham

SIR - When I lived in a suburban, semi-detached house as a boy, my father named
our ginger tom Perkins. Asked why, he said: "When we call him from the garden at
night, people will think we have a butler."

Canon Rodney Matthews London E4

SIR - We had a corgi called Monty. He would respond to any day of the week, be
it Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday etc.

Edna Chapman Grantham, Lincolnshire

SIR - Is there something in the psyche of tortoise owners, or is it the
influence these creatures have on their owners, which urges us to give them
heroic names?

As a child, my tortoises were called Tutankhamun and Cassiopeia, although they,
too, never came when I called.

Caroline Horsley  Cogolin, Var, France

SIR - T S Eliot, who owned many cats with eccentric names, wrote that all cats
have three names. The first is the one the family are allowed to use. The second
is his particular name, the one he uses when he wants to seem dignified. The
third is his "deep and inscrutable singular Name", which he never reveals to
anyone.

Val Lewis Shepperton, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 25, 2011 Tuesday 12:17 AM GMT

'They are not rebels; they are patriots'

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 190 words


That, for me, was the killer line of the debate. It came early, and from a
significant source - Mark Pritchard, Secretary of the 1922 Committee.

My parliamentary colleages have come under some pressure, and can I say now,
they are not rebels; they are patriots. There is only one obsession on the
backbench today, and that is to grow the economy, grow jobs and tackle the
deficit left by the party opposite.The domestic politics of UK can no longer be
disaggregated from the economics of the eurozone. We as a Parliament should
listen to the people and be ahead of the curve rather than behind it. What
better fresh start than a fresh vote?

What makes the statement so deadly is that it creates a narrative in which it is
possible to compare "patriotic" backbenchers with Conservative ministers whose
patriotism has been weakened by the weary compromises of coalition politics.
Pritchard would not make such a comparison, perhaps, but the Tory grassroots
certainly will. Cameron, meanwhile, will be making plans in the light of
tonight's vote: plans for the rebels of the sort that Blofeld makes for Mr Bond.

All in all, a very good night for UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dave's faux Euro debate is more of a lark de triomphe

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 536 words


The Euro debate began with a pre-debate in which Dave was giving a lot of praise
to Dave. The Prime Minister was supposed to be making a statement on the EU
Council meeting but instead he told us about Libya (a Dave triumph), before
explaining his past triumphs on Europe, and why it would be silly to vote for a
referendum that would stop Dave triumphing even more.

Yes, I know there's a lot of Dave in that argument. I am just the Dave
messenger. Next to him sat Nick Clegg, looking groggy, possibly drugged.

He only woke up when Dave, now drunk on Dave triumphs, trilled: "I am a liberal
Conservative." Mr Clegg, a total Europhile who speaks five languages and has a
Spanish wife, jerked his head back up, eyes hooded, gaze weary.

Ed Miliband was impressive in an impressively terrible way. He managed, in a
matter of minutes, to turn the backbenchers who were at war with Dave into
backbenchers cheering Dave. Ed, what were you thinking? Not much, it seems. "You
went into a summit lecturing the Germans," Ed told Dave, who was thrilled by the
reference to his Euro-spat, "and came out of it being shouted at by the French!"
Tory backbenchers adored this: "MORE! MORE!" Hint to Ed: that's a clue to shut
up. Mais non! Ed ploughed on, saying how President Sarkozy had had enough of
Dave's hectoring. "Mr President," cried Ed, "let me say that yesterday you spoke
not just for France but Britain as well!" Ridicule. Dave smiled, his triumph now
a triomphe.

Dave and Nick scuttled out the moment that the real debate began.

Remember: Dave had cancelled a trip to Japan and New Zealand to be at the
debate.

Now he was walking out. Why? It made no sense but, then, that's normal in a Euro
debate.

The man who spoke first in the real debate had the surname of Nuttall. Enough
said. It was a well-meaning ramble, more hit than miss.

He warned that those who opposed the motion would win the battle but not the
war. Then he added, his tone ominous: "Remember: he who laughs last laughs
longest." I pondered what he could possibly mean. Who was laughing at all? As
far as I could figure out at this point, only Sarko.

It was hard to know who was hated the most yesterday: Europe, Sarko, the Lib
Dems or the Whips. Andrew Bridgen, a Tory MP, noted how he'd received a huge
number of e-mails in favour of a referendum. "I've had only one phone call
against - from the Whips' Office!" But, occasionally, even in a Euro debate,
there are moments that make you remember that some politicians are brave. Such a
man yesterday was Adam Holloway, the Tory MP for Gravesham who was parliamentary
private secretary to the Europe Minister, David Lidington.

He made it sound simple. He'd told his constituents that he backed a referendum.
"Well, I'm not now prepared to go back on my words to my constituents and I'm
really staggered that loyal people like me have actually been put in this
position."

His constituents will love him; his Government might sack him.

My favourite moment was the "speech" by another Tory MP, Charles Walker, who is
working hard at becoming eccentric.

"If not now," he asked, "when?" And he sat down. I wondered if Dave, wherever he
was, was listening.

Hint to Ed: that's a clue to shut up. Mais non! Ed ploughed on ...

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: United Kingdom Independence Party supporters gathered outside
Parliament before the referendum debate to show they were keeping the Union flag
flying
CARL COURT/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 24, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WHAT EUROPE REALLY THINKS ABOUT THE EU

BYLINE: By James Gillespie

SECTION: FEATURES; 20

LENGTH: 1622  words


As MPs debate whether we should have a referendum on the European Union, we
report on what other member states believe

GERMANY

THE ideological and economic powerhouse of the European dream, Germany has
suddenly found itself beset by doubts - particularly about the euro.

Taxpayers in Europe's top economy are sick of having to pay the biggest share
into the euro bailout packages and a recent poll by the German Marshall Fund
found only 48 per cent now backed the single currency and 50 per cent want the
deutschmark back.

"Germans are fed up with stumping up for what they see as profligate countries
such as Greece that have failed to undertake the hard economic reforms Germany
has, " said Claire Demesmay, from the German Council on Foreign Relations.

"In the Germans' popular imagination until now Europe had a very positive image
but now there is a feeling that the Germans have made painful reforms and the
others have not."

Signs of mounting German anger are growing. Even Germany's EU Commissioner
Guenther Oettinger has suggested the flags of the euro debt crisis countries
should be lowered outside European institutions while economist Joachim
Starbatty has given the eurozone "around two years" to live.

Demonstrators wielding placards proclaiming "Let's Get Out Of The Euro" recently
protested outside the European Central Bank building in Frankfurt - the symbol
of the currency and an event that would have been unthinkable just a couple of
years ago.

According to the 2011 Eurobarometer survey carried out by the European
Commission into public opinion in the EU, only 26 per cent of Germans believe
the EU is currently performing well.

GREECE

As European leaders met at the weekend to discuss once again the economic plight
of Greece it's significant that of all the EU nations that country is the most
disillusioned with the whole EU experiment.

The violent demonstrations that have exploded on the streets of Athens during
the months of financial crisis are as much to do with bitter resentment at what
Greeks feel are instructions from Germany as they are to do with the austerity
measures themselves. The Germans are sick of bailing out the Greeks and the
Greeks are fed up with being told what to do.

Anti-EU and global banking feelings are running high. A total of 75 per cent of
voters believe their national interests are being ignored by the EU and 53 per
cent see no benefit in being a member at all.

"Not a cent of this bailout money actually comes into the Greek economy, "
author and economic analyst Nick Skrekas said. "It all goes out into interest
payments and repayments."

For the Greek people the price of the bailout is simply too much.

"They see their income going down, they see taxes, taxes, taxes and nothing
else, " said journalist Stylianos Chrysostomidis. "The money does not go to the
real economy. This is robbery, this is theft, this is a swindle."

Nigel Farage, MEP and leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "One of the
reasons that everybody is so determined to keep Greece in the euro is so that
the banks do not have to take a serious hit on their faulty lending policies. It
is almost as if there is an unholy alliance of politicians and bankers versus
ordinary people."

FINLAND

The anti-EU True Finns party won 20 per cent of votes in elections in April
after condemning Helsinki's payouts to Greece, Ireland and Portugal.

The True Finns have been compared to the eurosceptic UK Independence Party and
had previously always been classed as a small party with the support of around
four per cent.

Now the country is demanding guarantees from Greece over its bailout.

Finnish European Affairs Minister Alexander Stubb said the demands were to
defend the eurozone principle of financial responsibility but he admitted that
Finnish eurosceptics had played their part in the initiative.

Mr Stubb said: "It isn't a question of the money. It's a question of principle.

It reflects a sentiment we have that you should not be rewarded for lax public
finances. That's the whole point of being in the euro - people have to be
responsible about their public finances."

Only 32 per cent of Finns have confidence in the EU - no surprise then that an
avowedly anti-EU party should do so well in the polls.

PORTUGAL

The first of the so-called PIG (Portugal, Ireland and Greece) economies that
needed multi-billion euro bailouts. Portugal finds itself in a similar dire
financial situation and beholden to the bankers of Germany and Brussels.

Only 29 per cent of the electorate have any confidence left in the EU and the
majority, 54 per cent, simply don't trust it at all.

IRELAND

Still strongly pro-Europe: around 78 per cent of the population is in favour of
the EU. However, that's hardly surprising given that EU money flowed into the
country during its years as a "Celtic tiger" economy and then an EU bailout
(costing every taxpayer in Britain around GBP 300 a head) was pumped into the
country to save it going broke.

However, the days of plenty are over.

The economy has gone into reverse and disillusionment is growing: only 32 per
cent of the Irish believe the European Union is progressing well.

FRANCE

Along with Germany, France has been the ideological driving force behind the EU
since its inception. It benefits hugely from the Common Agricultural Policy
which keeps its notoriously militant farmers happy.

However, with presidential elections looming next year and both Right and
Left-wing parties playing the eurosceptic card, the usually confident President
Nicolas Sarkozy is looking increasingly rattled. The eurozone crisis has hit the
country hard.

"France on its own cannot cope, " he said. "Allowing the destruction of the euro
is to take the risk of the destruction of Europe."

Unfortunately for Mr Sarkozy it's not political scaremongers suggesting the euro
is doomed but his own banks as well. In a message to investors Albert Edwards, a
strategist at Paris-based Societe Generale, said:

"My own view is that there is little 'help' that can be offered by the other
eurozone nations other than temporary, confidence-giving sticking plasters
before the ultimate dénouement: the break-up of the eurozone."

The militant trade union CGT has also warned against any austerity measures
being forced upon its members by bureaucrats in Brussels.

Support for the EU is waning rapidly. Whereas a year ago 52 per cent of the
French electorate were optimistic about the future of the EU that has now
slipped to 48 per cent, according to the EU's own figures.

Only 22 per cent feel the EU is handling matters well.

This reflects a trend that has been developing for decades. In 1983 for example,
only 21 per cent were opposed to the EU. Now that figure is more than 40 per
cent.

The other headache for President Sarkozy is that 27 per cent of the electorate
think that immigration is the biggest challenge to the European Union, handing a
useful block of voters to the staunchly eurosceptic Marine Le Pen's National
Front.

ITALY

The economic crisis has provoked public demonstrations against austerity
measures and some Italians are exchanging their euro notes bearing the letter I
for those bearing the letter D (for Germany).

"That way, " said one, "when the euro collapses you can exchange your euros for
deutschmarks rather than lira."

Italy's anger at the EU is particularly bitter because it was one of the EU's
founding members but now has a debt burden second only to Greece.

The anti-EU feeling is not just based on the economy: 41 per cent of voters
believe that immigration is the biggest issue facing Europe.

As the nation used as a gateway to Europe by illegal immigrants from north
Africa, Italy is infuriated by the EUs reluctance to help stem the tide.

The Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini has said: "We are asking for an
immediate response from the European Union to a situation that Italy cannot deal
with on its own."

And Roberto Calderoli, minister for Legislative Simplification in the Berlusconi
government, also called on the EU to act. "The phenomenon of the new arrivals
could become an epidemic, " he said. "We are a border state but the emergency
affects all of Europe."

Mr Calderoli is a leading member of the Right-wing anti-EU party, the Northern
League, which has gained strongly in recent elections and has managed to extend
its traditional support from the northern regions into central Italy.

A mere 23 per cent of Italian voters now have confidence in the EU - a damning
statistic given that the Treaty of Rome is where it all began.

HUNGARY

Along with the UK, one of the most eurosceptic nations. Just 36 per cent believe
that the EU is heading in the right direction and only 40 per cent think it is
even worth being a member.

POLAND

While staunchly pro-European - 73 per cent of Poles believe that the country has
benefited from being a member of the EU - the country's prime minister Donald
Tusk has warned that euroscepticism is rife among member nations.

Pointing at Germany, France and Italy, he said: "People are saying to one
another: 'You're inadequate.

You should leave the EU. You should leave the euro.' I see such tendencies and I
believe the right path is the opposite one. I am convinced that what the EU
needs is further integration."

However, his own voters may not agree with him: just 42 per cent of Poles now
support euro entry compared to a clear majority before the economic crisis
began. And only a minority, 47 per cent, think that the EU as whole is heading
in the right direction.

One of the main benefits perceived by the Poles is the free movement of labour -
particularly to Britain. While it has given many of them the opportunity to work
and earn abroad the financial crisis and recession have cut job opportunities
and reduced the value to them of EU membership.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNING ISSUE: The eurozone crisis has caused angry protests in many EU
countries as austerity measures bite

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 24, 2011 Monday

10 steps that brought Cameron closer to Europe

BYLINE: Jon Worthguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 775 words

ABSTRACT

Jon Worth: The Tories' three-line whip on the EU referendum vote is the
culmination of five years of increasing pragmatism on Europe

FULL TEXT

Over the last week, many on the left have been crowing at the sight of the
Tories going into self-destruct mode over Europe. Cameron has brought this upon
himself, they say, playing up to the Eurosceptic gallery and surrounding himself
with rightwingers for whom EU membership was the overriding reason for going
into politics in the first place. Yet the Conservative party's three-line whip
for the vote on holding an EU referendum is not as unlikely as many have argued;
it is the culmination of five years during which the party's top politicians
have become more pragmatic about the EU. Here, then, is the secret history of
Cameron's Europragmatism in 10 dates.

12 February 2007: A new special relationship with ... Sweden

Two young leaders of centre-right parties - Cameron and Fredrik Reinfeldt - can
learn from each other, even outside the context of the main EU-wide political
groupings. Gove's free schools draw inspiration from Sweden, while this year's
UK-Nordic Baltic summit further strengthened trust and collaboration.

22 June 2009: Some friends in the parliament in Brussels

Criticised at the time for taking the Tories out of the EU mainstream of the
European People's party, the creation of the ECR group in the European
parliament nevertheless forced the Tories to carry on working with MEPs from
other countries rather than sitting on their own. The group has delivered a
combination of everyday legislative pragmatism with anti-integration rhetoric,
and even managed to attract an MEP from Ukip.

4 November 2009: Throwing in the towel on Lisbon

Once the Czech Republic ratified the treaty of Lisbon, the last country to do
so, Cameron's commitment to hold a public vote looked petty. Despite misgivings
among backbenchers, his decision gained favour in Brussels, and presented him as
a pragmatic leader in the British press less than a year before a general
election.

15 February 2010: Seeking influence in the corridors of power in Brussels

Abolished by Blair and reintroduced in the dying days of the Brown
administration, the European fast stream scheme - essentially a way to get
British-trained civil servants into the EU institutions - has subsequently been
retained and talked up by Europe minister David Lidington. Gain practical
influence in Brussels by getting your people on the inside.

11 May 2010: Coalition brings in integrationists

The culmination of Cameron's domestic pragmatism, the coalition nevertheless
brought two integrationist ex-MEPs (Nick Clegg and Chris Huhne) into government.
Clegg in particular has been strong in his defence of the European Union,
tempering the tendencies of others in the cabinet.

2 November 2010: Collaborating with the cheese-eating surrender monkeys on
defence

What you cannot do multilaterally through the EU, do bilaterally instead. The
UK-France defence treaty is a sensible way for two medium-sized military powers
to collaborate, and doing so outside an EU context neutered critique on the
backbenches.

22 November 2010: Saving the euro, or just the Irish

Realising that a stable economy on the other side of the Irish Sea was in the
UK's economic interest, Osborne held his nose and committed UK loans to an Irish
bailout, despite Ireland being in the eurozone. Hardliners in the Tory party
objected, but Labour welcomed the government's move.

19 March 2011: Europeans can use weapons (from the skies above Libya)

The US was not keen, but France and the UK, with support from other European
countries, showed how multilateral military intervention can work. Not through
the EU, but it was a victory for multilateralism, and a demonstration to Cameron
that those folks across the Channel are not always unreliable pacifists.

20 July 2011: Message to the eurozone: integrate

While the government's line to keep the UK out of the eurozone has remained
resolute, the UK has not been immune to the single currency's woes. Osborne's
response has been to push the eurozone to integrate, as a successful single
currency is in the UK's economic interests. Economic realism has trumped the
inclination to crow about the euro's problems (whatever Sarkozy's feelings on
the matter might be).

24 October 2011: Be pragmatic for the sake of the UK's economy

The three-line whip has drawn howls of protest, but Cameron sees a referendum as
a distraction, and - with the future of the eurozone still in question - does
not see now as the right time to argue with 26 member states about Britain's
role in the EU. With Labour's support, the motion will be rejected.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 24, 2011 Monday 10:48 PM GMT

Rebels lose EU referendum vote in Commons

BYLINE: By Sam Lister, James Tapsfield and Daniel Bentley

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 559 words


David Cameron suffered an assault on his authority tonight as he was hit by a
significant revolt over Europe by furious Tory MPs.

The rebel bid to pressure the Government into a staging an in/out EU
referendum was overwhelmingly rejected thanks opposition from Labour and Lib
Dem MPs.

MPs voted by 483 to 111 against the motion, a majority of 372.

But the defeat will provide minimal comfort for the Prime Minister, who failed
to convince many disgruntled Tories that he backed their aims, but the   timing
was wrong.

During impassioned scenes in the Commons one ministerial aide, Adam Holloway,
quit and another, Stewart Jackson, effectively fell on his sword by   announcing
he would defy the leadership and "take the consequences".

The rebellion is the most serious challenge Mr Cameron has faced since
becoming party leader six years ago.

Speaking in the Commons ahead of the vote he pleaded with Tory MPs to fall
into line warning that a referendum would damage Britain's interests.

He also spent the day meeting potential rebels in an attempt to defuse the
row.

The meetings led to one PPS, thought to be Mark Menzies, being treated by
paramedics and taken to hospital after he fainted.

Mr Cameron told the Commons that launching legislation for a referendum could
be disastrous at the current "moment of economic crisis".

"When your neighbour's house is on fire, your first impulse should be to   help
him put out the flames - not least to stop the flames reaching your own
house," he said.

"This is not the time to argue about walking away. Not just for their   sakes,
but for ours.

"Legislating now for a referendum, including on whether Britain should   leave
the EU, could cause great uncertainty and could actually damage our   prospects
of growth."

He insisted he had "respect" for the rebels' views and claimed they   disagreed
"not about ends, but about means".

If eurosceptics had won the motion would not have been binding, but the Prime
Minister said he decided to impose a three-line Whip rather than allow a   freer
vote because "this issue and Parliament matters".

But Conservative MPs accused the leadership of bullying tactics and bungling
party management by imposing a strictest voting order on the motion.

The row has also seen a backlash against Foreign Secretary William Hague, a
former Tory leader who has previously led ferocious anti-Europe campaigns.

Backbenchers criticised him for "going native" and claimed his   speech was
"written by the Lib Dems".

Labour leader Ed Miliband told MPs Britain "could not afford" to   leave the EU
at the moment and should concentrate on pushing through   reforms.

But he mocked the Tories for having another "nervous breakdown" on   Europe.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "Defeat was inevitable given that MPs knew   full
well how their leaders wanted them to vote.

"However, 111 is a healthy figure that should send a clear message to   David
Cameron and the other party leaders.

"Today was a bad day for Britain as the people of the UK have been denied   the
referendum they so desperately crave.

"Poll after poll shows the people either want out of the EU or to   radically
change the UK's relationship with the EU.

"Tonight the UK's political elite has snatched that opportunity away from   them
and denied people a vote.

"We should not forgive them."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 24, 2011 Monday 12:36 PM GMT

EU referendum is 'wrong idea' says Hague

BYLINE: By Daniel Bentley and Gavin Cordon

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 1255 words


Foreign Secretary William Hague insisted today that a referendum on Britain's
future in the European Union was "the wrong question at the wrong time".

As the Government faced a backbench rebellion of up to 100 Tory MPs demanding
a referendum, Mr Hague warned that such a move would undermine the already
fragile economy.

"I've argued for more referendums than almost anybody else, I've argued
against the euro more comprehensively than almost anybody else," the   strongly
eurosceptic Foreign Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"But this proposition is the wrong question at the wrong time.

"It wasn't in the manifesto of either of the governing parties. It cuts   right
across the rules for holding referendums that we have just agreed by   large
majorities.

"It would create additional economic uncertainty in this country at a
difficult economic time.

"Europe is undergoing a process of change and in an in-out referendum   people
would want to know where the change was going to finish up before   they voted.

"Clearly an in/out referendum is not the right idea."

Prime Minister David Cameron faces the most serious challenge to his authority
since taking office tonight when MPs vote on whether there should be a
referendum on British membership of the EU.

Ministers confirmed over the weekend that the Government would be imposing a
three-line whip requiring Conservative MPs to vote against the motion or   face
the prospect of disciplinary action.

There have been reports of the Conservative whips warning potential rebels
that they will damage their chances of a ministerial job or lose their seats
when parliamentary boundaries are redrawn if they do not fall into line.

But the rebels claim that up to 100 Conservative MPs could defy the party
whips and back a referendum.

So far, 60 Conservative MPs have signed the motion calling for a referendum on
whether the UK should remain in the EU, leave it or renegotiate its
membership, while another 33 have signed compromise amendments which   ministers
say also run counter to Government policy.

Bernard Jenkin, Conservative MP for North Essex, said he would be backing the
motion for a referendum tonight.

Speaking on BBC Breakfast, he said: "This is basically about democracy.   The
British people have long wanted a referendum on the European Union.

"We haven't had one since 1975. We tried to get a referendum on   Maastricht. We
wouldn't be in this mess in Europe now if there had been a   referendum then.

"David Cameron is not just taking on the Conservative Party, he's taking   on
the whole of public opinion. The vast majority think it's time we had a   say on
our membership."

At the EU summit yesterday in Brussels, the Prime Minister attempted to draw
some of the heat from the revolt by suggesting Britain could exploit the
eurozone crisis to start reclaiming powers from the EU.

But he was immediately plunged into a public row with his Liberal Democrat
coalition partners who do not support the repatriation of powers from
Brussels.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg issued a statement through his spokesman
warning it was "far too early to speculate" on what the   Government's position
would be in the event of any moves to change EU   treaties.

Mr Cameron had suggested that if the eurozone countries sought greater
integration in order to resolve the problems of the single currency - which
would require the unanimous support of all 27 member states - the UK would
"exact   a price".

Asked whether he wanted to repatriate powers to the UK, Mr Hague said: "That
is my position, that is the Prime Minister's position, it is the   Conservative
Party's position, that is not the agreed position of the   coalition."

But he added: "If we are presented with a treaty change in the future   which
gives us the opportunity to return powers to the UK then of course the
coalition Government will have to decide how to proceed, but it's certainly   my
view that we want to do that."

Tory backbencher Mark Pritchard said "several more" backbenchers and   two
ministers had told him they were considering backing the motion.

"This will be a defining moment for many MPs who have for years called
themselves Eurosceptic," he said.

Mr Cameron is expected to hold face-to-face meetings with potential rebels
this morning as he seeks to quell the threat to his authority.

Another Tory backbencher, Peter Bone, said there was a feeling among his
colleagues that Mr Hague was "no longer Eurosceptic".

"The trouble with William Hague is that people just don't believe him on   the
back benches," the Wellingborough MP said.

"We think Hague has gone on a travel. He has gone from being Eurosceptic   to
someone who has got into this ministerial, political world of Europe and   loves
it.

"There is a feeling that he is no longer Eurosceptic. He is not   Eurosceptic in
my view."

Mr Bone said he knew two ministers were "very seriously" considering   rebelling
against the leadership.

"I think the back benches feel that time and time again we have said we   are
Eurosceptic and we are going to do something about this," he went   on.

"Now we are in power, we are just as bad as the other lot."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "It is fascinating   watching
the Conservatives tear themselves apart over this.

"Polls over the last few days have clearly shown that the general public
believe MPs should be able to vote how they like regarding an EU referendum.

"I urge all MPs across the parties to vote with their conscience today,   ahead
of their party or career. It is the least the British people deserve."

Labour leader Ed Miliband said he understood people's "frustrations" with
Europe but that pulling out of the EU was not the answer - accusing Mr   Cameron
of putting party "squabbles" ahead of the national interest.

Speaking as he toured a small printing firm in south London, he said: "The
problem with the Prime Minister is that he has actually spent the last six
years putting his party interest before the national interest.

"Even today he is giving a nod and a wink to his backbenchers that maybe he
can start a renegotiation of the terms of Britain's membership, get out of
some of the employment and social rights which I think are actually   necessary
for Britain, things like four weeks' paid holiday.

"Actually what he should be doing is fighting for jobs and growth in Europe to
help Britain and he's not doing it.

"The Conservative Party looks out of touch... turning inward and squabbling
among themselves. That is not what our country needs.

"And frankly, the Prime Minister only has himself to blame because he has
spent the last six years pandering to the eurosceptics in his own party and
now he is getting his comeuppance."

Asked why he opposed a referendum, he said: "I don't think it is right for
Britain to get out of the European Union and at this time of all times for
Britain to start looking inwards and renegotiating whether we are in Europe   or
outside Europe would be the wrong step."

A debate of that kind would create "uncertainty and risks" when the economy
needed stability, he added.

The premier and Chancellor George Osborne had "stood on the sidelines of all
the big debates" over the euro, he said.

"Frankly, what they should be doing is fighting for growth and for jobs and
for companies like this one. Instead they are obsessed by the internal
disputes of the Tories, the Conservative Party's collective nervous
breakdown."

PA

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 24, 2011 Monday 6:04 PM GMT

Spanish minister 'in denial' about expat property problems;
Marta Andreasen MEP has claimed Spain's secretary for housing 'is in denial'
regarding the severity of the problems affecting British expats who have
invested in Spanish property, following a heated exchange at an international
property exhibition in London.

BYLINE: By Sean O'Hare

LENGTH: 486 words


THE argument took place following a speech delivered by the Spanish housing
secretary Beatriz Corredor, who called for Britons to trust in Spain and to take
advantage of its ripe property market.

UKIP's Marta Andreasen MEPsaid: "I was quite upset that she refused to accept or
mention the fact that were serious problems affecting Brits in Spain.

"She referred to new reforms that had supposedly made Spain a safe country in
which to buy, but these reforms neither resolve the past nor the present
problems.

"The British are among the highest proportion of foreign property purchasers,
but the bad reputation Spain has earned itself has seen the level of interest in
Spanish property plummet. This so-called 'property roadshow' was to address that
with the aim of portraying that everything is fixed and the Brits can start
spending their money again. How wrong this is.

"Regional governments pick fights with local governments, mayors and politicans
take bribes, then get prosecuted for corruption - it really is difficult for any
British person to trust anyone throughout the home buying process.

"The minister made out that there were just one or two people with problems and
that these were getting sorted out."

A decree to legalise existing illegal properties combined with a reduction in
new home tax and falling house prices made Spain the ideal place in which to
invest, said the minister during her address to an audience of developers,
investors and protesting British investors who gathered at London's Docklands.

No mention was made of the many thousands of expats who have bought in good
faith only to be told their houses are illegally built and therefore unsellable,
and excluded from local water and electricity supplies.

It was the second time this year that the secretary had addressed a British
audience of potential investors and explained why Spanish property is such a
good investment.

The discussion between the pair was brought to a close by the Spanish
Ambassador, Carles Casajuna,who led the Spanish housing secretary away after
Marta Andreasen refused to shake her hand.

"I spoke in Spanish and in English so that people around would understand," said
Ms Andreasen. "Afterwards I was approached by developers who said they too had
been affected by the Spanish government's refusal to sort out the problem, and
didn't expect to sales to pick up until the current problems had been solved."

The MEP has long campaigned on behalf of Brits caughts up in Spain's planning
and property scandals. She is currently urging the EU to stop funding Spanish
regions until they resolve these problems.

Telegraph Expat's Spanish Planning Scandal campaign is supporting the thousands
of expats who have been affected by the illegal homes crisis in Spain. You can
find all the latest news on the situation at
telegraph.co.uk/spanishplanningscandal

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 23, 2011 Sunday 12:09 AM GMT

Cameron relishes chance to show rebels who's boss;
More than 100 Tory backbenchers are set to defy whip in Commons showdown, but
the PM is keen to shut down the controversy that has dogged his predecessors

BYLINE: By Matt Chorley and Jane Merrick

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1407 words


David Cameron is preparing to face down more than half of his own backbenchers
in a long-anticipated stand-off over Britain's relations with Brussels. As
Eurosceptic backbenchers try to turn the crisis in the eurozone to their
advantage, at least 100 Tory MPs are expected to back a motion demanding a
referendum on membership of the European Union or defy a three-line whip by
abstaining in a tense vote in the Commons tomorrow.

The Prime Minister hopes the vote will finally lance the boil on the
decades-long issue of Europe in the Conservative Party, and is said to be
relishing the showdown in the division lobbies.

Using hardline language, Downing Street made clear yesterday that he would
rather have a battle with Conservative backbenchers now than threaten the
stability of the coalition by offering compromises to his rebellious MPs.

It is expected that Mr Cameron, boosted by the foreign policy success in Libya,
will use the chance to bolster his authority over the right wing of his party.

Against the backdrop of emergency talks in Brussels to rescue the euro, a No 10
source said Mr Cameron was ready to have the "fight" with his own MPs. The
source said: "We have always known that this argument was looming - you may as
well have it properly and win the vote."

In the hours before the Commons confrontation, Mr Cameron will meet with a
string of ministerial aides who have indicated they are ready to resign in order
to vote against the three-line whip. While he will set out reasons for the
Government's position, sources said there would be no concessions merely to save
their jobs.

"If they want to vote against the Government, that is their choice and they will
have to resign," said the source.

There are 68 Tory MPs who say they will back David Nuttall's motion calling for
a referendum on whether the UK should remain in the EU, leave or renegotiate its
membership. One amendment, tabled by Richard Harrington, which demands the
return of powers to the UK and an end to British participation in any euro
bailout, is backed by a dozen Tories. A second amendment, tabled by George
Eustice, a former press secretary to Mr Cameron, says a referendum should be
held only after a review of what powers could be repatriated from Brussels. It
has the backing of at least 22 MPs. Whips do not expect John Bercow, the Commons
Speaker, to call either amendment, and most of the supporting MPs are expected
to weigh in behind the original motion.

The row risks destabilising the coalition. Martin Horwood, a senior Lib Dem MP,
accused the Conservative right and the UK Independence Party of being
"fantastically irresponsible" and "hell-bent on stoking a row that will threaten
our stability". The Lib Dems remain committed to an in/out referendum "the next
time a British government signs up for fundamental change in the relationship
between the UK and the EU".

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said that Monday's vote could prove to be a
"very, very big tipping point for his party". "The three party leaders are doing
their best to make sure the people cannot have their say. For many people, Ukip
is now the only option."

Mr Cameron is the latest in a long line of Tory leaders to face trouble from his
backbenchers over Europe, but he is not prepared to be held hostage by
backbenchers in the way that John Major was over the Maastricht Treaty.

No 10 strategists believe that, with three and a half years to go before the
election, it is better to settle the issue now rather than have it dominate in
the run-up to polling day in 2015.

However, there were signs yesterday that backbench Tory MPs' unhappiness over
Europe was spreading into wider discontent about being cut adrift by No 10 and
the coalition government.

In the reshuffle caused by Liam Fox's departure from the Cabinet, senior
backbench figures were furious that there was no equally arch-Eurosceptic to
replace him. Then, on Thursday, the tearooms were awash with stories that
29-year-old Chloe Smith, an acolyte of the Chancellor, George Osborne, was given
the post of Economic Secretary to the Treasury because Mr Cameron mistakenly
believed she had experience as an accountant.

"The signal it sent out was that if you were elected before Chloe Smith, it's
game over," said one Tory MP. "You'll never get a job."

Experienced Tory MPs who survived the post-1997 wilderness years, are
unimpressed at the handling of the row by what one described as the "spotty
teenage scribblers in Downing Street". One senior Tory MP said: "People are
very, very angry about the way this has all been handled. It has alienated a big
chunk of the party."

A briefing sent to MPs on Thursday was titled "Britain in Europe", which was the
name of the pro-European group launched by Tony Blair, Ken Clarke and Charles
Kennedy in 1999. "It's like they know nothing about the party they have been put
in charge of," says another Tory grandee.

Yet many in Downing Street matured politically in the 1990s when the Major
government was paralysed by splits over Europe. When friends of Mr Fox compared
a weak Mr Cameron with Mr Major at the height of the lobbying scandal, it
spooked some of the PM's closest aides. "We had the economy tanking, sleazy
cabinet ministers and now a row over Europe. We're just waiting for mad cow's
disease and we'll have the full set," joked a No 10 insider.

A meeting of the 1922 backbench committee a fortnight ago is said to have been a
turning point for backbenchers, when William Hague made clear to MPs that there
would be no renegotiation of powers any time soon. A colleague says Mr Hague
remains "very scarred" by the 2001 general election when, as leader, he ran a
hardline Eurosceptic campaign, and has become more "pragmatic" about Europe
since becoming Foreign Secretary.

To add to this storm of discontent, dozens of Tories are looking nervously at
the plan to redraw constituency boundaries and know anyone seeking reselection
for a new seat will be at a distinct advantage with local Tory associations if
they can brandish Eurosceptic credentials.

After the recent petition for a referendum attracted 100,000 signatures, Mr
Cameron is being reminded that, in April 2009, he said: "We are the only major
party to have consistently said that it is up to the British people to decide on
our future in Europe."

Despite the row, No 10 insisted that the PM "is a Eurosceptic" and that as soon
as there was an EU treaty involving greater fiscal union or other major changes,
then renegotiations would take place.

Until now, the biggest rebellion Mr Cameron has faced was when 41 Tory MPs
defied the whip over the Protection of Freedoms Bill earlier this month, a
fraction of the number preparing to defy the Government in the lobbies tomorrow.

What the rebels say: 'EU regulation is one of the causes of our stagnating
economy'

The British people have never been consulted on our membership of the EU. The
petition of Parliament shows that there is an enormous demand for a referendum.
I firmly support the principle of the British people deciding on our
relationship with the EU.

Peter Bone, MP for Wellingborough

I will be voting for David Nuttall's motion in favour of a referendum. My
constituents have had enough of the federalist agenda. Most don't want to leave
altogether but do want a significant rebalancing of power.

Sarah Wollaston, MP for Totnes

My amendment is consistent with the coalition agreement, so we should be allowed
a free vote. Getting growth back in our economy requires us to tackle the big
problems in the EU, because EU regulation is one of the causes of our stagnating
economy.

George Eustice, MP for Camborne and Redruth

I'm voting in favour of this motion. It's high time that the British people had
a say on our relationship with the EU and it's only right and fair that I convey
the strong feeling a vast majority of my constituents have on this issue.

Caroline Dinenage, MP for Gosport

I have repeatedly pledged to vote for a referendum. The motion reflects the
policies of both members of the coalition. The parties should allow Parliament
to express itself in a free vote or the whole process is meaningless.

Zac Goldsmith, MP for Richmond Park & North Kingston

What does "out of the EU" look like? Would it need all member states to agree?
When their house is on fire they are unlikely to start thinking about our
internal problems. I am a strong Eurosceptic and people should have their say.

Andrea Leadsom, MP for South Northamptonshire

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 23, 2011

The Tory Eurosceptics are on a roll. So why are they still so cross?: At a time
when they ought to be united in a feeling of triumphant vindication, they are
falling bitterly apart

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1498 words


Tomorrow's debate in the Commons on Europe promises to be delicious for all of
us who love the politics of paradox. William Hague, the former leader who made
it the Tory mission to "save the £", will have to explain to his colleagues why
their first priority has to be saving the euro. David Cameron is bound to win
the vote and yet he could still emerge from the day looking like a loser. The
motion being pushed by Tory rebels calls for a referendum on possible withdrawal
from the EU, but it wouldn't be binding on the government even were it to be
passed.

Mr Cameron has dismissed it as a "massive distraction" and yet he has heightened
the significance of the occasion by upping the stakes. He has imposed a
three-line whip which means the sack for any member of the government who defies
him and career-sapping consequences for any backbencher who rebels. Strangest of
all, perhaps, is this. At a time when Tory Eurosceptics ought to be united in a
feeling of triumphant vindication, they are falling bitterly apart in a stew of
acrid recrimination.

The rebel motion is doomed to fail because Labour will vote with the government.
This guarantees to Mr Cameron more than enough support to see off the mutineers
on his backbenches. Labour's motives are, naturally, not quite as entirely
high-minded as the party likes to claim. This is an opportunity for the
opposition to embarrass the prime minister by supporting him, a tactic Mr
Cameron used to employ cleverly against Tony Blair. Ed Miliband positions
himself as selflessly and responsibly helping to save the prime minister from
his "barking" backbenchers and at the same time the Labour leader maximises the
possibility that Mr Cameron will be badly wounded. More Tories are likely to
defy their leader when they know that there is no realistic danger of the
government being defeated.

For some of those Tories, demanding a referendum is not only a cause in itself,
but also a vehicle for venting their more general discontent about being forced
to cohabit with the Lib Dems. Some potential rebels are most worried about their
seats. When Mr Cameron came up with his wizard plan to cut the number of MPs by
50, there were consequences which he didn't think through. The boundary
redistribution sets Tory MP against Tory MP in selection contests for the
reduced number of berths in the Commons. The average Tory activist harbours a
burning animus towards Europe. So rebelling over this is more likely to be
regarded as a badge of honour than a mark of shame among the party members who
will decide which Tory MPs get to stay in the Commons and which are subjected to
involuntary redundancy.

The threat to their right flank from Ukip is also on the mind of some
Conservatives. But it is fair to say that for a lot of the mutinous Tories this
really is about Europe, the issue that ignites their most visceral passions. Mr
Cameron once told his party to stop "banging on about Europe" and his reasons
for doing so were sensible. Even when mainstream voters share Tory instincts
about the European Union, the way that Tories express them has often made the
party look disturbingly monomaniac.

The problem for the prime minister is that telling Tories not to bang on about
Europe is like telling an obsessive philatelist to stop "banging on about
stamps". Some of the older cadre of hardline Eurosceptics have spent entire
political careers "banging on" about Europe; some of the new intake who arrived
in the Commons in 2010 were drawn into politics principally by hostility to the
EU.

Whatever their vintage, it seems to me that they now share a common problem. The
Tory Eurosceptics don't know how to cope with success. They have captured the
Conservative party almost in its entirety. As one member of the cabinet puts it:
"There's no doubt at all that the Conservative party's centre of gravity, which
was already distinctly Eurosceptical, is now even more so."

Ken Clarke and Michael Heseltine, the only surviving examples of the
pro-European Tories of earlier generations, are like creatures from a lost age.
In Mr Cameron, the Conservatives have their most Eurosceptic prime minister ever
to occupy Number 10. He is more sceptic than Sir John Major, who once talked of
putting Britain "at the heart of Europe" and signed the Treaty of Maastricht. Mr
Cameron is also more of a sceptic than Margaret Thatcher: the real Thatcher that
is, rather than the handbag-swinging myth. Worshippers at the shrine of the Blue
Lady often forget that she signed the Single European Act, one of the most
integrationist pieces of legislation ever. In William Hague, they have the most
sceptic foreign secretary there has ever been and, in George Osborne the most
sceptic chancellor.

The serial crises in the eurozone have provided a daily vindication of the
sceptics' case that binding divergent economies into a single currency was a
mistake of colossal proportions. They have not, mind, been proved right in every
respect. One of their most repeated tropes - that Europe has swollen into a
swaggering superstate - is not very convincing. Throughout the convulsions in
the eurozone, the EU has looked more impotent than it has omnipotent. Today's
Brussels summit was originally billed to be different from all the earlier
summits that have failed to end the euro crisis: this summit, we were told,
would provide the definitive resolution. But the euro nations still haven't
reached a consensus - in particular, France and Germany still don't agree - on
either the size of the bailout or how it should be implemented.

So there is to be a further summit on Wednesday at which they may - but don't
hold your breath - finally produce a conclusive plan. We have been treated to
the amusing spectacle of David Cameron and George Osborne lecturing the
Europeans to get their acts together and telling the Germans and French, in so
many words, to sacrifice their national sovereignty to the greater European
cause.

Where the sceptics are entitled to crow - even if it would be more dignified if
they didn't - is about the fulfilment of many of their predictions about the
single currency. In today's Observer, Adair Turner, an evangelist for British
membership of the euro when he was director-general of the CBI, concedes that he
was wrong and they were right.

Yet victory has done something odd to the sceptics - it has made them even
unhappier. They were angry people in the years when they seemed to be on the
losing side of history as the European project juggernauted forward. They
currently appear to be on the winning side and yet it has made them crosser
still.

The current polls tell us that Europe is not very popular - nothing, in truth,
is very popular at the moment - but it does not follow that it would be easy to
persuade a majority of Britons to leave. Aware of this, the Tory rebels propose
a multiple choice referendum with three options: in, out or shake it all about -
that is to say "renegotiate the terms of [Britain's] membership in order to
create a new relationship based on trade and co-operation". Many - probably a
majority - of Tory MPs believe they should be aiming to rewrite the terms so
that Britain enjoys the things they favour (free trade and the single market)
and opts out of all the things they loathe (such as EU rules on employment, the
environment and everything else). It does not occur to some of them that our
European neighbours have bigger things to worry about and might not be terribly
eager to privilege Britain with such a one-sided deal. Other hardline sceptics
do anticipate that the rest of the EU would say no - indeed, a negative answer
followed by British withdrawal is precisely what is hoped for by the significant
and growing number of Conservative MPs who want us out.

There may well come a time when membership terms have to be renegotiated,
especially if the 17 countries in the eurozone take George Osborne's advice and
seek to resolve their problems by moving closer towards fiscal union. There may
come a time when it would be sensible to put the results of such a renegotiation
to the British people in a referendum. But Mr Cameron has rationality on his
side when he argues that now is not that time. As one of the most euro-sceptic
Tory members of the cabinet puts it: "This would be a crazy moment to have a
referendum. Imagine David going to a European meeting and telling them that, in
the middle of this bloody great conflagration, he was going to pour petrol on
it."

The government desperately wants a resolution of the euro crisis, not least
because of the awful consequences for Britain's already limping economy if there
is a European financial meltdown. The outists want Nicolas Sarkozy to be proved
right when he says that the euro and maybe the European Union itself face
"destruction". This is the fundamental divide between the prime minister,
chancellor and foreign secretary, sceptics who have had to come to terms with
the real world and those Tories who still live off-planet.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 23, 2011

Europe destroyed two Tory PMs. And now it's Cameron's problem: The government
will win the vote on a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU tomorrow.
But the issue David Cameron hoped was buried is now firmly out in the open, with
rebel MPs accusing him of betrayal. The prime minister will have his victory -
but at what cost?: WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN IF BRITAIN WITHDREW

BYLINE: Toby Helm political editor

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 2591 words


While Tory MP Steve Baker conducted his weekly surgery in High Wycombe on
Friday, the phone rang constantly. "Lots of constituents got in touch, urging me
to vote for a referendum on Europe," he said. "And members of my association did
the same. It is the first time on any issue that I have had that kind of
response."

As it turns out, they need not have bothered. Baker, a young MP who entered
parliament only in 2010, is already a fully developed muscular Eurosceptic. He
had decided days before that he would rebel in tomorrow's Commons vote on
whether the people should be granted a referendum on UK membership of the
European Union. "Personally I think reform of the EU is impractical and that we
should come out," he said. "So I will be backing the motion."

Across the country, Tory MPs - many of whom are worried about retaining their
seats after boundary changes - have been ordered by their constituents to do the
same, or else.

At Westminster, however, the pressure on them has been to do precisely the
opposite. David Cameron and his whips are making clear they expect Conservatives
to vote against tomorrow's motion. Their argument is that the UK must help to
shape a better, more economically successful Europe from within and that now, of
all times, is not the moment for a noisy revival of Brussels-bashing.

Another Tory backbencher from a rural seat said he had been taken aback by the
strength of public feeling. "There is not a single person in the constituency
who I have talked to in the last few days who does not think we should vote on
getting out of the EU. The feeling is very, very strong," he said. But against
that he had to weight the demands of the whips: "It is not easy when you have
these competing pressures."

Under Cameron's leadership it was not supposed to be like this. Before the
general election in May last year, he pleaded with his party to stop "banging
on" about an issue which he had seen destroy the premierships of the two
Conservative prime ministers before him, Margaret Thatcher and John Major.

Cameron was determined that his modernisation of the party would mean it being
less obsessional and more pragmatic about the EU. "In Europe, not run by
Europe," has been his line.

But this weekend European divisions are back and are threatening to destabilise
both the Conservative party and the coalition government it has formed with the
pro-EU Liberal Democrats. Today much of the Tory party is trying to engineer a
way out of the EU at the very moment their party's leadership is working
desperately, along with heads of other member states, to mend it. Today Cameron
- assuming the role of European statesman - will take his place at an EU summit
in Brussels to try to find a way save the euro and bail out the eurozone
economy.

Yesterday chancellor George Osborne was in the EU capital discussing with
finance ministers how to recapitalise Europe's banks in order to prevent
meltdown of the sector if Greece defaults on its debts and other member states
follow suit. Along with foreign secretary William Hague, once a forceful
Eurosceptic but nowadays more the diplomat, they have been drawn in to the euro
crisis and find themselves at the centre of arguments about its future.

The reality of government has taken precedence over Eurosceptic instincts. They
insist that Britain's self-interest depends on a successful eurozone. The
consequences of it imploding would be disastrous for the UK economy. As
economies become ever more interdependent what happens to the eurozone matters
greatly to Britain. So they take their place in the EU councils while sections
of their own party at home seek the exit door and Conservatives tear themselves
apart on an issue that simply never goes away.

Cameron will win by a large margin tomorrow as most Tory MPs toe the line under
pressure. The vast majority of Labour members will also vote against the motion,
as will the Lib Dems.

The vote was triggered by a petition on the Downing Street website, calling for
a referendum, which attracted more than 100,000 signatures. MPs decided that
this merited a Commons vote.

The motion calls on the government to bring forward a referendum in the next
session of parliament for the holding a referendum on whether the UK "(a) should
remain a member of the European Union on the current terms; (b) leave the
European Union; or (c) re-negotiate the terms of its membership in order to
create a new relationship based on trade and co-operation".

But Cameron is being told by his party that victory will come at huge cost. More
than 60 rebel Tory MPs had signed the motion by late on Friday, along with more
than a dozen Labour members. If most of those Tories stand firm Cameron will
suffer the biggest revolt against his leadership so far. Several ministerial
aides could also resign, throwing away their chances of promotion to junior
ministerial rank in the next reshuffle.

For many among the rebels, the turmoil in the eurozone, rather than being a
moment for the UK to engage, offers the reverse - a "now or never" moment to
force a profound renegotiation of the UK's relationship with the EU, or, for
some like Baker, a once in a lifetime chance to exit altogether.

To this group, such issues are more important than loyalty to Cameron, who in
their eyes is fast becoming a traitor to the cause of Euroscepticism. They like
to list his betrayals. Many remember how he promised them a Eurosceptic flavour
to his leadership and say he has failed to deliver. They are still angry that
before the last election he abandoned his "cast iron" guarantee to hold a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty. In 2009, before the European elections, they
recall how he attacked Gordon Brown for refusing to support a plebiscite. "First
he was against the constitution," said Cameron of Brown. "Then he was for it;
one day he promised a referendum, the next he backtracked. While he has chopped
and changed, our position has remained exactly the same. We are the only major
party to have consistently said that it is up to the British people to decide on
our future in Europe."

His opponents say he should give them the chance now, adding that after forming
the coalition with the Lib Dems, he shelved plans to take back powers over
employment and social policy from Brussels in order to appease Nick Clegg's
party. (Much of the current fury is fuelled by a belief that Cameron's European
policy is being framed by the demands of Liberal Democrats.) But the last straw
for many came last week when team Cameron let it be known that the party was
likely to impose a three-line whip on tomorrow's vote, ordering MPs to oppose
the referendum that so many of their constituents want.

Lord Tebbit , the veteran Tory Eurosceptic and former party chairman, tore into
the prime minister, warning that people would leave the party in droves. "One
can only guess at the effect on the public if a mixture of threats, cowardice
and clever procedural manoeuvring again denies them the chance to express their
views on our membership of the European Union," he said.

"There will be no benefit to the prime minister, the government or the
Conservative party from this. On the other hand, Nigel Farage and Ukip must be
laughing their socks off. There must be many Tories who have stuck to the party
through thick and thin - in my case for 55 years - who will be wondering if it
is worthwhile any more. David Cameron may get his way next week, but the price
at next year's European elections could be bloody."

Equally, Tories ask, how does a three- line whip against a referendum fit with
Cameron's advocacy of people power, giving citizens a say over their lives, and
his vision of a big society?

Tomorrow's vote was brought about by a Downing Street petition of the kind
Cameron is keen to encourage. But as soon as the consequences of that exercise
in democracy loomed - and it appeared that many Tory MPs would vote in favour -
the government panicked and the arm twisters were called into action to throttle
the voice of the people.

"It is sheer hypocrisy," said one senior Tory MP. "He will regret this because
he can't ride two horses at once." Rather than killing off the rebellion by
ordering MPs to comply with his will, he has merely stoked it, his critics say,
by denying them the right to speak out and reflect their constituents' concerns.

On this point there is support for the Tory rebels from influential Labour
figures; this is not just an argument inside the Conservative party. At least a
dozen Labour MPs are expected to defy their own party's three-line whip and vote
for a referendum.

"This is about democracy," said Jon Cruddas, Labour MP for Dagenham, who wants a
referendum but would then vote to stay in. "This is not about if you are for or
against Europe. It is about respecting the people. Successive generations have
not had a say on the European debate. All parties have promised a referendum
over the last couple of years. This will fester until a proper open discussion
is allowed by the political class. If we do not, anger and resentment will
grow."

Even some ardent pro-Europeans such as Caroline Lucas, the Green MP, now support
a referendum on Europe, to settle the arguments once and for all. "I support a
referendum because I am pro-democracy, not because I am anti-EU," she said. "A
referendum would be an opportunity to debate the end goal of the EU - to get
away from polarised arguments over 'more Europe' or 'less Europe' and ask the
question 'What purpose, Europe?'"

This weekend there is little sign of Cameron giving ground and allowing his MPs
greater freedom to vote as they wish. It seems he has made up his mind to take
on his party over Europe, citing the national interest and the interests of the
European and global economies. A referendum now would distract from more urgent
economic tasks at hand.

It is a message which he seems to believe plants him firmly on the centre ground
and one that will allow him to continue working with the Lib Dems, who would
reject any move towards the repatriation of powers, let alone leaving the EU.
Hague issued the same message yesterday, insisting that he still wanted to bring
powers back from the EU to the UK. "But a referendum on Britain's membership of
the EU, especially at this time of profound economic uncertainty, is not the
answer," he added.

But if not now, then when, ask the sceptics. They see the history of the past 20
years as one in which the UK has been sucked in ever deeper, despite promises to
the contrary from Tory leaders.

As they look ahead, they see further dangers. The most immediate fear is that,
as the eurozone plots a course towards fiscal union and forms its own inner core
of decision-making to do so, Britain will be locked out of crucial discussions
on the future of the single market which it so strongly supports.

Charles Grant, director of the Centre for European Reform, says they are right
to be worried but that the answer is to insist on being in on talks, not
withdrawing from them. "The countries that most believe in the single market,
such as the UK, Sweden, Denmark and Poland, are outside the euro," he said.
"Technically, single market rules will still be decided by all 27 countries. But
in practice the 17 euro countries - many of which are economically illiberal -
will discuss market rules among themselves and caucus. By the time the UK and
other countries outside the euro get to discuss these rules, many of the
arguments will have been lost and won."

So, according to Grant, Britain should be upping its input rather than
contemplating disengagement. "Britain needs to be in the room when the euro
countries meet," he said, "so that it can influence the argument and ensure that
what the 17 do will not damage the market or British interests. The British
government has said that it does not want to take part in meetings of euro
countries, for fear that it will be asked to contribute to bailouts. That is a
mistake. Britain should argue for the right to speak at such meetings and just
refuse to pay for bailouts."

Cameron is now having to handle a party - just as Major did at the time of
Maastricht in the early 1990s - that is profoundly worried about the direction
in which Europe is going as the EU approaches a fork in the road.

The prime minister insists it is in the UK's interest to shape the future from
within. Much of party has heard that argument too often before. MPs want him to
commit to repatriation of powers at the very least, which he is reluctant to do
until the shape of a new Europe is known.

The pressure is building. As the global, European and UK economies head
downhill, many will see the euro crisis as one of the causes of that downturn.
And as people lay the blame at the euro's door, those calling for a referendum
on our membership of the EU may find even more supporters than the huge numbers
they have accumulated already.

Can Britain withdraw from the

European Union?

Since the establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community in 1951, no
member state has ever left the European Union or its predecessor bodies,
although in 1982, Greenland - an overseas territory of Denmark and not a member
state - left after huge opposition to the common fisheries policy.

The Lisbon Treaty, which came into force on 1 December 2009, does contain a
voluntary withdrawal clause, recognising for the first time that member states
may withdraw if they so wish.

Would it cost us and could we survive?

Advocates for withdrawal argue it would be economically beneficial for the UK,
pointing out that current average GDP per capita of the four European Free Trade
Association members is more than twice as high as the EU average and that those
countries enjoy low inflation, low interest rates and low unemployment.

The UK would no longer need to contribute to the common agricultural policy nor
comply with European regulations. On the other hand, Efta members are small,
rich countries, and there is nothing to suggest that their absence from the EU
is the cause of any success. The example of Iceland also shows that the
political and economic freedom can come at a cost. The economic downturn of 2008
had severe consequences for Iceland, which is now applying to join the EU.
Withdrawal would also mean that the UK would be excluded from all EU
decision-making, while being subject to almost all of the EU's acquis
communitaire in order to fulfil the legal requirements to participate in the
European single market. Most important the UK would also be expected to lose a
great deal of foreign direct investment.

How long would it take?

Parliament would need to vote in favour of a referendum on withdrawal in a
binding vote. This would require the government to find parliamentary time for
the debate and vote and probably require it to put its support behind the motion
for it to receive the required parliamentary majority.

If parliament were to vote in favour, an appropriate date for the referendum
would need to be found and the question on the ballot paper agreed by the
Electoral Commission. A vote in favour of withdrawal would trigger up to two
years of negotiations between the UK and the European council over the future
relationship between the EU and the former member state before the process was
complete.

Captions:

David Cameron's call for a three-line whip blocking a referendum on Europe may
trigger the biggest revolt of his premiership so far. Photograph: Christopher
Furlong/Getty

Lord Tebbit has said Downing Street's stance over Europe will lead to people
'leaving the Tory party in droves'.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 23, 2011

In Focus: Politics: BRITAIN AND EUROPE: 60 YEARS OF LOVE AND HATE

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 734 words


1950

The idea of a European Union takes shape

Leaders of France, Belgium, Holland, Italy, Germany and Luxembourg discuss
proposals for joint production of coal and steel. The architects of the European
Coal and Steel Community hope to banish war from the continent. The Treaty of
Paris is signed in 1951 and by 1967 the union has become the European Economic
Community.

1973-74

Heath takes Britain into the Common Market

By the early 1970s, the question was if and when Britain would join the European
Economic Community. For two decades the UK had hesitated over membership and
pooling sovereignty with its European neighbours. In 1973, amid fierce
opposition, pro-European Conservative prime minister Edward Heath took Britain
in.

1988

Eurosceptics find a heroine as Thatcher goes on the offensive

Margaret Thatcher made no secret of her dislike for European institutions and
the taste in Brussels for pan-European regulation. By 1988, in her third term of
office, she felt confident enough to mount a famous rhetorical offensive in
Belgium. The outspoken attack on supranationalism became known as the "Bruges
speech". Thatcher told her audience: "We have not successfully rolled back the
frontiers of the state in Britain, only to

see them reimposed at a European level, with a European superstate exercising a
new dominance from Brussels." The speech became a template for British
Euroscepticism. The following year, an influential rightwing thinktank, the
Bruges Group, was set up to look at how the UK could start to disengage from the
"federal" European project.

1992

Black Wednesday hardens stance of the Eurosceptic

One of the darkest moments in Britain's turbulent relationship with the European
project. On 16 September 1992 - Black Wednesday - the UK is humiliated as
sterling is forced out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, which it had
joined only two years earlier. The episode, which costs Britain an estimated £
3.4bn, is a disaster for Conservative prime minister John Major, and hardens
Eurosceptic feeling in the party.

1993

The rise of Ukip

Having been founded in 1993, the United Kingdom Independence party later
establishes itself as a rogue presence in the European parliament, where it now
holds 11 seats. In the 2009 European elections, the party's anti-European
message gains more votes than Labour in the polls. As the Conservative party
attempts to shed a rabid Eurosceptic image, Ukip attracts praise from rebels
such as Norman Tebbit.

1997

Tony Blair attempts to launch a new era of co-operation

Soon after Tony Blair wins back power for the Labour party in the 1997 general
election, he attends his first EU summit in Amsterdam in June. Under Blair,
Labour had pledged a new spirit of co-operation between Britain and Brussels. As
a vivid demonstration of the UK's new-found enthusiasm for the EU,Blair easily
wins a pre-summit bike "race" between the leaders. For his European peers, the
victory is evidence that a charismatic new kid has arrived on the block. But it
will not be long before the vexed issue is raised of whether Britain will join
the euro, which is eventually launched in 2002. It never does.

2010

Greece plunges into crisis, due to its need to borrow to make good on its budget
deficit with the European banking system near to collapse. It receives the first
of its lifelines by the eurozone countries, but in return Athens is forced to
make painful cuts in public spending, leading to protests. Britain does not
contribute to the initial bailout, but has come under pressure - so far resisted
- to do more in the future.

2011

Cameron has his Euro crisis as 100,000 seek a referendum

David Cameron is the latest Conservative prime minister to face serious trouble
over Europe. A new mechanism allowing people to petition on subjects parliament
should debate has led to a rift in his party. More than 100,000 people asked for
a Commons debate on whether Britain should hold a referendum on withdrawal from
the EU. But, worried about how it would affect the coalition with the Lib Dems,
Cameron has signalled that he does not want his party to support the motion.
Furious Tory MPs have openly criticised their leader's handling of the affair.
Stewart Jackson, parliamentary private secretary to Northern Ireland secretary
Owen Paterson, says he will vote in favour of a referendum and quit his junior
position in government.

Greek drama as Athens begs

the eurozone for help


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 23, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Depth of dismay invisible to No 10 'bubble';
Analysis

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1252 words


A SPOOF letter is currently circulating among Tory MPs. Purporting to be from
the government chief whip, Patrick McLoughlin, it begins believably enough by
acknowledging how difficult it is for backbenchers to cope with not being
promoted into ministerial roles in a coalition government.

The document, which only exists in "hard copy" form, then goes on to recommend
what steps MPs should take to help their chances of preferment in the future.
Any semblance of credibility dissolves when male MPs are "recommended" to change
sex.

However crude, the fake letter is provoking wry smiles among Tory backbenchers.
It is also evidence of the bitterness and resentment being felt among
Conservative MPs ahead of tomorrow's landmark Commons vote on staging a
referendum on leaving the European Union.

Europe, while seen as crucially important, is not the only issue causing Tories
to turn against David Cameron in what has, virtually from nowhere, developed
into his first leadership crisis since last year's general election.

The Prime Minister's reshuffle, following the resignation of Dr Liam Fox as
Defence Secretary, was greeted with dismay by those on the Right of the party,
who had called for a "like for like" Cabinet replacement for the Thatcherite,
Eurosceptic and Atlanticist.

Instead, while Philip Hammond, a safe pair of hands, went to the Ministry of
Defence, Justine Greening was catapulted into the Cabinet as Transport Secretary
from her previous post as the most junior minister in George Osborne's Treasury
team.

Chloe Smith, 29, took Miss Greening's job, greatly annoying a substantial number
of Right-leaning Tory backbenchers in their thirties and forties who fear their
chances of promotion are slim at best.

"If you're not a bird or a mate of George's forget it," one said this weekend.

One version of Mr Cameron's job offer to Miss Smith had the Prime Minister
saying he chose her for the Treasury because she was an accountant, only for
Miss Smith to have to correct him, pointing out she had in fact been a
management consultant.

Tories who had been hoping that a Right-winger such as Chris Grayling, the
employment minister, would get a Cabinet job, were furious.

A minister normally seen as loyal to Mr Cameron spoke of the Prime Minister in
bitter terms to The Sunday Telegraph, even echoing Labour claims that Mr Cameron
and his inner circle were "out of touch".

He said: "It is hopeless with David at the moment. He is not doing anything for
his own party. Every 'Tory' policy initiative we suggest gets vetoed by the
bloody Lib Dems. David and his advisers are in a bubble: they just can't see how
bad it is in the party as a whole.

"This row over Europe is entirely No 10's fault. They could have played it
differently and there would have been a completely different result."

Last week, knots of Tory MPs could be seen in Portcullis House, the office block
across the road from Parliament which houses many backbenchers, wondering out
loud how the party's high command had got itself into a such a state. The
Commons vote on whether to hold a referendum which would have an option of
leaving the EU - a move which started out as a petition that obtained the
100,000 signatures it needed to be considered for a debate in Parliament - was
originally scheduled for Thursday, in half term week, when both Mr Cameron and
William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, were to be abroad.

For reasons almost nobody can understand, No 10 brought forward the vote to
tomorrow and imposed a three-line whip, meaning any member of the Government,
even the lowestranked parliamentary private secretaries, will have to resign if
they defy party whips and back the motion for a referendum.

Around half a dozen PPSs may well do so, and even some ministers are said to be
"wrestling with their consciences" this weekend. Many expect No10 to climb down
and offer some way out for the rebels, but sources were not indicating any
compromise last night.

"If PPSs want to resign, all well and good," a Downing Street insider said with
more than a hint of menace. "It will make the next reshuffle even easier."

There was a failed attempt to broker a deal on Thursday night by George Eustice,
cofounder of the new 120-strong Eurosceptic group of Tory MPs, who proposed a
fresh amendment calling for a White Paper on renegotiating Britain's membership
of the EU followed by a referendum after the next election. Last night both
sides were as far apart as ever.

Chris Heaton-Harris, a former MEP and another co-founder of the group, was ready
to fly back from Jordan to vote against the Government. Mark Pritchard,
secretary of the party's 1922 Committee of backbench MPs, said his decision was
"about country first, party second and career last". Rebel leaders put the
number of Conservatives who could vote against the Government at as many as 100,
an astonishingly high figure and almost one third of the entire parliamentary
party.

Mr Cameron is certain of "victory" tomorrow night, in simple arithmetical terms
at least, because Labour will back the Government and vote against a referendum.
Ed Miliband has imposed his own three-line whip, to the consternation of some in
his party who want to cause the maximum embarrassment for the Government. "If we
come out in favour of a referendum it must be something we do gradually," a
shadow minister said.

"If we said we were voting with the Tory rebels on Monday then Cameron would
simply spend the next 48 hours accusing us of being opportunist.

He'd be able to avoid the whole issue all weekend and into Monday."

However, Labour's stance does not stop Tories who support Mr Cameron and will
vote against a referendum tomorrow strongly criticising Downing Street's
tactics.

"Even in the worst of the Gordon Brown era, I don't think we saw anything like
this level of political ineptitude," one loyal MP said.

"Why didn't No10 and the whips simply keep the debate on Thursday, make sure
everyone knew it was a non-binding vote, and stick a minister up to take the
heat. Then we could have all moved on and got on with the rest of half-term.
Instead David has landed himself with a full-on crisis."

The toxic political cocktail was being given a further shake this weekend by
Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party. In last year's general
election Ukip deliberately did not field candidates in constituencies occupied
by notably Eurosceptic Tory MPs, a move which helped them. By contrast, Tory
candidates who narrowly failed to beat sitting Labour MPs last year blamed Ukip
candidates standing against them, in some instances, for their defeats.

Would Mr Farage consider doing the same again at the next election and not
fielding candidates against Tories (and Labour MPs) who vote in favour of a
referendum tomorrow?

He was ruling nothing out last night. "I'm not giving any blanket assurances,"
he told The Sunday Telegraph. "But we would certainly look far more favourably
at those who would put their consciences and their constituencies ahead of the
whips." This veiled Ukip threat is likely to increase the panic among Tory MPs
this weekend, many of whom already face redrawn constituency boundaries thanks
to the Coalition's decision to reduce the number of parliamentary seats by 50 at
the next election, expected in 2015.

As we have seen so many times before, there is no more powerful political
instinct than self-preservation.

"David and his advisers just can't see how bad it is in the party as a whole

"Even in the Brown era, we never saw this level of political ineptitude

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An anti-EU campaigner at the People's Pledge congress yesterday, below.
Clockwise from right; nationwide support, a message to the Coalition, the MPs
Zac Goldsmith, Kate Hoey and David Davis at the campaign group's conference

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 23, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

New Euro 'empire' plot by Brussels

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY; BRUNO WATERFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 683 words


EUROPEAN UNION chiefs are drawing up plans for a single "Treasury" to oversee
tax and spending across the 17 eurozone nations, The Sunday Telegraph has
learnt.

The proposal, put forward by Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council president,
would be the clearest sign yet of a new "United States of Europe" - with Britain
left on the sidelines.

The plan comes as European governments desperately trying to save the euro from
collapse last night faced a new bombshell, with sources at the International
Monetary Fund saying it would not pay for a second Greek bail-out.

It was also disclosed last night that British businesses are turning their back
on Brussels regulations to give temporary workers full employment rights, with
supermarket chain Tesco leading the charge.

Meanwhile, David Cameron is attempting to face down a rebellion tomorrow by Tory
MPs in a vote over staging a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

Ministers expect 60 or 70 MPs to defy the party's high command and back the call
for a referendum, while some rebels claim the final toll could be up to 100 -
about a third of the parliamentary party.

Downing Street has upped the stakes dramatically. Last night, No10 sources
insisted they would impose a three-line whip - effectively ordering all Tory MPs
to fall in line.

Mr Cameron, who yesterday took personal charge of the effort to persuade MPs to
back the Government, has come under intense pressure from Cabinet colleagues to
try to defuse the revolt by offering concessions or a way out to rebels. Sources
say a handful of parliamentary private secretaries - the lowest rung on the
government ladder - might resign.

The single Treasury plan emerged in Brussels yesterday as Europe's finance
ministers tried to find a way out of the crisis engulfing the eurozone. A
full-scale rescue plan could cost about £1.75 trillion.

British sources said Mr Van Rompuy, who is regarded as being close to the German
government, suggested plans for a "finance ministry" to be based either in
Frankfurt or Paris. The EU already has its own "foreign ministry", headed by
Baroness Ashton, the former British Labour minister, and based in Brussels.

A senior Coalition source told The Sunday Telegraph: "I am well aware of
arguments in Brussels and elsewhere in favour of a single Treasury. You'd get
any number of different versions of 'Europe' all running at very different
speeds." A series of meetings are due to be held over the next few days on the
eurozone crisis that will involve the leaders of EU member states.

They were overshadowed last night as senior sources at the International
Monetary Fund indicated privately that it is not willing to further bail out
Greece, whose economy has an outstanding debt of about £232 billion.

The IMF, with the EU and the European Central Bank, is assessing Greece's debt
crisis, and a joint report yesterday suggested lenders might have to agree
losses of up to 60 per cent in a Greek default.

Any suggestion that the IMF would not be part of a new bail-out of Greece could
spark panic in the markets and worsen the eurozone crisis.

Eurosceptic Tories, meanwhile, are arguing in favour of "repatriating" powers
from the EU to Britain, including the Agency Workers Directive, imposed last
year at an annual cost of £1.8billion, which is putting at risk 28,000 temporary
job contracts for those aged between 16 and 24. Tesco has asked one of its
suppliers to take advantage of a loophole in the law which allows workers to
"opt out".

As Mr Cameron led the drive this weekend to neuter the Tory rebellion, Nigel
Farage, the leader of Ukip, indicated his party might not field candidates at
the next election against MPs who vote for a referendum.

However, there is no danger of Mr Cameron losing the nonbinding vote. He can
count on the "payroll vote" of more than 100 ministers, most if not all Lib Dems
and nearly the entire bloc of 258 Labour MPs.

Yesterday, Tory rebels were among speakers at a "People's Pledge" pro-referendum
rally in Westminster. They included David Davis, the former shadow home
secretary, who called the EU a "nascent superstate".

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why is BBC funding Somali radio station

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 392  words


THE BBC's impartiality was questioned last night after a Sunday Express
investigation revealed it has been pocketing millions of pounds in EU aid money.

Its little-known international development arm has picked up GBP 15.5million in
EU grants since 2007, cash that boosts BBC's global brand and helps employ
hundreds of staff in London and overseas.

The money has been handed to the BBC World Service Trust, a charity set up to
run the corporation's massive overseas aid operation.

BBC-backed projects funded by the grants include a GBP 2.3million EU handout to
"assist the digital switch-over in Serbia" last year.

One particularly obscure project was unblocking the cocoa value chain in Eastern
Sierra Leone".

The European Commission said:

"Through this programme we plan to reach 14,000 farmers and potential farmers
increasing their knowledge on cocoa farming and the cocoa sector."

The charity is described in job adverts as the corporation's "international
development agency" Although part of the BBC empire, it says it is independent,
even of the World Service, and its remit is to promote journalism, human rights
and education around the world. It plans to change its name by next April but,
using the BBC World Service brand, it has delved into controversial subjects,
such as using environmentalist Jonathon Porritt to promote climate change
theories as unchallenged fact.

Despite cuts elsewhere, the charity has ballooned in size since it was
established in 1999. With an annual budget of GBP 28million it employs 600 staff
and even owns a broadcasting company in Iraq, although few details of what it
does have been disclosed.

The fact that the Trust is helping with EU projects has raised serious questions
over BBC impartiality.

Ukip deputy leader and MEP Paul Nuttall said last night: "By accepting money
from the EU in any way, the BBC compromises its neutrality on the most important
issue facing this country: our membership of that organisation."

A BBC spokesman said: "To conflate the work of the BBC World Service Trust and
the BBC's coverage of the EU in this way is completely absurd ."

What do you think - SHOULD BBC BE HELPING SOMALIAN RADIO?

YES - 0901 030 0990 NO - 0901 030 0991

YES text SXVOTEYES to 80088 NO text SXVOTENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rate.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Adam Helliker

BYLINE: Adam Helliker

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 133  words


The Tory Party has been feeling hurt by the defection of its former treasurer,
Lord Hesketh, to UKIP.

But maybe it's not such a bad loss. Hesketh is half the man he used to be, at
least in terms of his girth.

When Alexander Hesketh used to rattle his tin for the Conservatives he was a
noted bon viveur, a roly-poly chap whose 20-stone figure used to make furniture
groan.

Now, after losing seven-and-a-half stone in nine months, his appearance has
changed radically.

A fellow aristocrat, lamenting the three-bottle lunches he used to enjoy with
the porky peer, says:

"He was warned to lose weight. But he doesn't find eating salads much fun."

So, the chances of discovering the slimming secrets of this former bulky baron
are pretty thin.

When I politely asked what his secret was the response was brusque.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 23, 2011 Sunday 12:09 PM GMT

It's not just Europe that is turning Tories against David Cameron;
A spoof letter is currently circulating among Tory MPs. Purporting to be from
the government chief whip, Patrick McLoughlin, it begins believably enough by
acknowledging how difficult it is for backbenchers to cope with not being
promoted into ministerial roles in a coalition government

BYLINE: By By Patrick Hennessy Political Editor

LENGTH: 1183 words


The document, which only exists in "hard copy" form, then goes on to recommend
what steps MPs should take to help their chances of preferment in the future.
Any semblance of credibility dissolves when male MPs are "recommended" to change
sex.

However crude, the fake letter is provoking wry smiles among Tory backbenchers.
It is also evidence of the bitterness and resentment being felt among
Conservative MPs ahead of tomorrow's landmark Commons vote on staging a
referendum on leaving the European Union.

Europe, while seen as crucially important, is not the only issue causing Tories
to turn against David Cameron in what has, virtually from nowhere, developed
into his first leadership crisis since last year's general election.

The Prime Minister's reshuffle, following the resignation of Dr Liam Fox as
Defence Secretary, was greeted with dismay by those on the Right of the party,
who had called for a "like for like" Cabinet replacement for the Thatcherite,
Eurosceptic and Atlanticist.

Instead, while Philip Hammond, a safe pair of hands, went to the Ministry of
Defence, Justine Greening was catapulted into the Cabinet as Transport Secretary
from her previous post as the most junior minister in George Osborne's Treasury
team.

Chloe Smith, 29, took Miss Greening's job, greatly annoying a substantial number
of Right-leaning Tory backbenchers in their thirties and forties who fear their
chances of promotion are slim at best. "If you're not a bird or a mate of
George's forget it," one said this weekend.

One version of Mr Cameron's job offer to Miss Smith had the Prime Minister
saying he chose her for the Treasury because she was an accountant, only for
Miss Smith to have to correct him, pointing out she had in fact been a
management consultant.

Tories who had been hoping that a Right-winger such as Chris Grayling, the
employment minister, would get a Cabinet job, were furious.

A minister normally seen as loyal to Mr Cameron spoke of the Prime Minister in
bitter terms to The Sunday Telegraph, even echoing Labour claims that Mr Cameron
and his inner circle were "out of touch".

He said: "It is hopeless with David at the moment. He is not doing anything for
his own party. Every 'Tory' policy initiative we suggest gets vetoed by the
bloody Lib Dems. David and his advisers are in a bubble: they just can't see how
bad it is in the party as a whole.

"This row over Europe is entirely No 10's fault. They could have played it
differently and there would have been a completely different result."

Last week, knots of Tory MPs could be seen in Portcullis House, the office block
across the road from Parliament which houses many backbenchers, wondering out
loud how the party's high command had got itself into a such a state. The
Commons vote on whether to hold a referendum which would have an option of
leaving the EU - a move which started out as a petition that obtained the
100,000 signatures it needed to be considered for a debate in Parliament - was
originally scheduled for Thursday, in half term week, when both Mr Cameron and
William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, were to be abroad.

For reasons almost nobody can understand, No 10 brought forward the vote to
tomorrow and imposed a three-line whip, meaning any member of the Government,
even the lowest-ranked parliamentary private secretaries, will have to

resign if they defy party whips and back the motion for a referendum.

Around half a dozen PPSs may well do so, and even some ministers are said to be
"wrestling with their consciences" this weekend. Many expect No 10 to climb down
and offer some way out for the rebels, but sources were not indicating any
compromise last night.

"If PPSs want to resign, all well and good," a Downing Street insider said with
more than a hint of menace. "It will make the next reshuffle even easier."

There was a failed attempt to broker a deal on Thursday night by George Eustice,
co-founder of the new 120-strong Eurosceptic group of Tory MPs, who proposed a
fresh amendment calling for a White Paper on renegotiating Britain's membership
of the EU followed by a referendum after the next election. Last night both
sides were as far apart as ever.

Chris Heaton-Harris, a former MEP and another co-founder of the group, was ready
to fly back from Jordan to vote against the Government. Mark Pritchard,
secretary of the party's 1922 Committee of back-bench MPs, said his decision was
"about country first, party second and career last". Rebel leaders put the
number of Conservatives who could vote against the Government at as many as 100,
an astonishingly high figure and almost one third of the entire parliamentary
party.

Mr Cameron is certain of "victory" on Monday night, in simple arithmetical terms
at least, because Labour will back the Government and vote against a referendum.
Ed Miliband has imposed his own three-line whip, to the consternation of some in
his party who want to cause the maximum embarrassment for the Government.

"If we come out in favour of a referendum it must be something we do gradually,"
a shadow minister said.

"If we said we were voting with the Tory rebels on Monday then Cameron would
simply spend the next 48 hours accusing us of being opportunist. He'd be able to
avoid the whole issue all weekend and into Monday."

However, Labour's stance does not stop Tories who support Mr Cameron and will
vote against a referendum tomorrow strongly criticising Downing Street's
tactics.

"Even in the worst of the Gordon Brown era, I don't think we saw anything like
this level of political ineptitude," one loyal MP said.

"Why didn't No 10 and the whips simply keep the debate on Thursday, make sure
everyone knew it was a non-binding vote, and stick a minister up to take the
heat. Then we could have all moved on and got on with the rest of half-term.
Instead David has landed himself with a full-on crisis."

The toxic political cocktail was being given a further shake this weekend by
Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party. In last year's general
election Ukip deliberately did not field candidates in constituencies occupied
by notably Eurosceptic Tory MPs, a move which helped them. By contrast, Tory
candidates who narrowly failed to beat sitting Labour MPs last year blamed Ukip
candidates standing against them, in some instances, for their defeats.

Would Mr Farage consider doing the same again at the next election and not
fielding candidates against Tories (and Labour MPs) who vote in favour of a
referendum tomorrow?

He was ruling nothing out last night. "I'm not giving any blanket assurances,"
he told The Sunday Telegraph. "But we would certainly look far more favourably
at those who would put their consciences and their constituencies ahead of the
whips." This veiled Ukip threat is likely to increase the panic among Tory MPs
this weekend, many of whom already face redrawn constituency boundaries thanks
to the Coalition's decision to reduce the number of parliamentary seats by 50 at
the next election, expected in 2015.

As we have seen so many times before, there is no more powerful political
instinct than self-preservation.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 23, 2011 Sunday 10:52 AM GMT

New euro 'empire' plot by Brussels;
European Union chiefs are drawing up plans for a single "Treasury" to oversee
tax and spending across the 17 eurozone nations.

BYLINE: By Patrick Hennessy and Bruno Waterfield

LENGTH: 660 words


The proposal, put forward by Herman Van Rompuy, the European Council president,
would be the clearest sign yet of a new "United States of Europe" - with Britain
left on the sidelines.

The plan comes as European governments desperately trying to save the euro from
collapse last night faced a new bombshell, with sources at the International
Monetary Fund saying it would not pay for a second Greek bail-out.

It was also disclosed last night that British businesses are turning their back
on Brussels regulations to give temporary workers full employment rights, with
supermarket chain Tesco leading the charge.

Meanwhile, David Cameron is attempting to face down a rebellion tomorrow by Tory
MPs in a vote over staging a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

Ministers expect 60 or 70 MPs to defy the party's high command and back the call
for a referendum, while some rebels claim the final toll could be up to 100 -
about a third of the parliamentary party.

Downing Street has upped the stakes dramatically. Last night, No 10 sources
insisted they would impose a three-line whip - effectively ordering all Tory MPs
to fall in line.

Mr Cameron, who yesterday took personal charge of the effort to persuade MPs to
back the Government, has come under intense pressure from Cabinet colleagues to
try to defuse the revolt by offering concessions or a way out to rebels. Sources
say a handful of parliamentary private secretaries - the lowest rung on the
government ladder - might resign.

The single Treasury plan emerged in Brussels yesterday as Europe's finance
ministers tried to find a way out of the crisis engulfing the eurozone. A
full-scale rescue plan could cost about £1.75 trillion.

British sources said Mr Van Rompuy, who is regarded as being close to the German
government, suggested plans for a "finance ministry" to be based either in
Frankfurt or Paris. The EU already has its own "foreign ministry", headed by
Baroness Ashton, the former British Labour minister, and based in Brussels.

A senior Coalition source told The Sunday Telegraph: "I am well aware of
arguments in Brussels and elsewhere in favour of a single Treasury. You'd get
any number of different versions of 'Europe' all running at very different
speeds."

A series of meetings are due to be held over the next few days on the eurozone
crisis that will involve the leaders of EU member states.

They were overshadowed last night as senior sources at the International
Monetary Fund indicated privately that it is not willing to further bail out
Greece, whose economy has an outstanding debt of about £232 billion.

The IMF, with the EU and the European Central Bank, is assessing Greece's debt
crisis, and a joint report yesterday suggested lenders might have to agree
losses of up to 60 per cent in a Greek default.

Any suggestion that the IMF would not be part of a new bail-out of Greece could
spark panic in the markets and worsen the eurozone crisis.

Eurosceptic Tories, meanwhile, are arguing in favour of "repatriating" powers
from the EU to Britain, including the Agency Workers Directive, imposed last
year at an annual cost of £1.8 billion, which is putting at risk 28,000
temporary job contracts for those aged between 16 and 24. Tesco has asked one of
its suppliers to take advantage of a loophole in the law which allows workers to
"opt out".

As Mr Cameron led the drive this weekend to neuter the Tory rebellion, Nigel
Farage, the leader of Ukip, indicated his party might not field candidates at
the next election against MPs who vote for a referendum.

However, there is no danger of Mr Cameron losing the non-binding vote. He can
count on the "payroll vote" of more than 100 ministers, most if not all Lib Dams
and nearly the entire bloc of 258 Labour MPs.

On Saturday Tory rebels were among speakers at a "People's Pledge"
pro-referendum rally in Westminster. They included David Davis, the former
shadow home secretary, who called the EU a "nascent superstate".

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nutty school bans fruit for festival as health risk

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 416 words


A SCHOOL ban on pupils bringing fresh fruit and veg to its harvest festival, on
health and safety grounds, was attacked yesterday as totally bananas.

It asked instead for tins of food, instant mash, rice, cordial, sugar, UHT milk,
cereal, pasta, sauces, bottled oil and tea bags.

Parents received a letter that requested: "Due to health and safety regulations
- no fresh produce please."

Head teacher Brian Ball, of the Summerlea Community Primary School in
Rustington, West Sussex, said homeless charity Homelink, which the school has
supported for three years, requested non-perishable goods as they cannot store
fresh food.

Scared He said: "We support a charity that requests no fresh produce on the
basis they can't store it.

"The letter said this was 'due to health and safety restrictions'.

"It is a request from the charity that we are more than happy to comply with.

"We want to support people less fortunate than ourselves and pass that message
on to the children."

But the request was met with anger from some parents. One said: "What is this
teaching our children? To be scared of a few oranges and apples in case one's a
bit bruised? It's total madness.

"Children have always given fruit and veg for the harvest festival. It's what
it's all about.

"We don't harvest tins of tomato soup. I'm sure the recipients would be glad of
some fresh food instead of Second World War rations-type food."

And a Health and Safety Executive spokesman said: "Britain's health and safety
laws exist to protect people from work-related risks to life and limb, not to
check whether a fruit basket is fresh.

"We will be asking the school to clarify its comments."

Ukip leader and local Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Fear of bureaucracy is being
used to rip the heart out of tradition in so many ways - in this case to make
children think that giving is some way conditional.

"I have half a mind to suggest that they should take their 'perishable' products
and present them to the local HSE.

"As for the charity, they should grow a spine."

Juliette Webb, from Homelink, said the charity did sometimes ask for
non-perishable foods as they last longer.

The harvest festival food farce comes just a month after David Cameron used his
keynote speech at the Tory party conference to wage war on the nation's
burgeoning health and safety culture. He said: "This isn't how a great nation
was built. Britannia didn't rule the waves with armbands on."

He said of the fightback: "At long last commonsense is coming back to our
country."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fresh harvest festival fruit and vegetables are unwelcome at Summerlea
school
Picture: CONNORS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tebbit: Tories may desert Cameron

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 219  words


DAVID Cameron's refusal to give Britain a vote on the EU could see Conservative
supporters desert in droves, Tory grandee Lord Tebbit warned yesterday.

The former Conservative Party chairman even hinted that he could be among those
to walk away.

It follows the Prime Minister's strong-arm tactics to prevent a referendum on
Britain's EU membership.

Ahead of Monday's vote in the Commons, Lord Tebbit warned that a Government
victory would "feed the corrosive ill-feeling'' that had been festering in Tory
ranks since Mr Cameron tried to take control of their backbench 1922 committee.

Imposing a three-line whip on MPs might reduce the size of the rebellion but
"embitter'' many. And he warned that it could appear to voters "a mixture of
threats, cowardice and clever procedural manoeuvring".

Lord Tebbit warned:

"There must be many Tories who have stuck to the party through thick and thin -
in my case for 55 years - who will be wondering if it is worthwhile any more.

"David Cameron may get his way next week but the price at next year's European
elections could be bloody.'' He said it was "the European issue that brought
down Margaret Thatcher" and "poor John Major was easier meat" for europhiles.

The staunch eurosceptic peer fell foul of the PM when he encouraged voters to
back the UKIP candidate in a by-election.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning - Lord Tebbit
'Easy meat' - John Major

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Nutty school bans fruit for festival as health risk

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 25

LENGTH: 414  words


A SCHOOL ban on pupils bringing fresh fruit and veg to its harvest festival, on
health and safety grounds, was attacked yesterday as totally bananas.

It asked instead for tins of food, instant mash, rice, cordial, sugar, UHT milk,
cereal, pasta, sauces, bottled oil and tea bags.

Parents received a letter that requested: "Due to health and safety regulations
- no fresh produce please."

Head teacher Brian Ball, of the Summerlea Community Primary School in
Rustington, West Sussex, said homeless charity Homelink, which the school has
supported for three years, requested non-perishable goods as they cannot store
fresh food.

He said: "We support a charity that requests no fresh produce on the basis they
can't store it.

"The letter said this was 'due to health and safety restrictions'.

"It is a request from the charity that we are more than happy to comply with.

"We want to support people less fortunate than ourselves and pass that message
on to the children."

But the request was met with anger from some parents. One said: "What is this
teaching our children? To be scared of a few oranges and apples in case one's a
bit bruised? It's total madness.

"Children have always given fruit and veg for the harvest festival. It's what
it's all about.

"We don't harvest tins of tomato soup. I'm sure the recipients would be glad of
some fresh food instead of Second World War rations-type food."

And a Health and Safety Executive spokesman said:

"Britain's health and safety laws exist to protect people from work-related
risks to life and limb, not to check whether a fruit basket is fresh.

"We will be asking the school to clarify its comments."

Ukip leader and local Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Fear of bureaucracy is being
used to rip the heart out of tradition in so many ways - in this case to make
children think that giving is some way conditional.

"I have half a mind to suggest that they should take their perishable' products
and present them to the local HSE.

"As for the charity, they should grow a spine."

Juliette Webb, from Homelink, said the charity did sometimes ask for
non-perishable foods as they last longer.

The harvest festival food farce comes just a month after David Cameron used his
keynote speech at the Tory party conference to wage war on the nation's
burgeoning health and safety culture.

He said: "This isn't how a great nation was built. Britannia didn't rule the
waves with armbands on."

He said of the fightback: "At long last commonsense is coming back to our
country."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fresh harvest festival fruit and vegetables are unwelcome at Summerlea
school

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday

Leading article: EU referendum: Party poopers

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 442 words


Across the Channel, eurozone ministers sweat over a package to stabilise the
single currency. Here, Tory backbenchers demand a plebiscite on the UK's very
membership of the EU. Improbably, Monday's Commons vote may matter more - at
least in the minds of some Conservatives - than any euro deal finally negotiated
next week.

David Cameron is faced with an epic crisis of party management. In no particular
order: the resignation of Dr Liam Fox means he has lost the Eurosceptic right's
favourite pin-up; the promotion of 29-year-old Chloe Smith to the Treasury team,
as well as Justine Greening to transport, signalled to scores of middle-aged
male backbenchers that their political futures are behind them; and almost all
of his backbenchers will face tough reselection battles as the Commons shrinks
from 650 to 600 MPs. That matters because for most activists (although those who
care most have already fled to the UK Independence party), Europe remains the
kind of issue that shapes their opinion of their MP - regardless of what polls
suggest about its salience to the voters.

Finally, stewing in the background is the sense that true-blue policies are
repeatedly compromised by the need to keep the Lib Dems sweet. As the Guardian
reported yesterday, that is said to be why it was decided not to back the
amendment tabled by George Eustice, the PM's former spokesman, calling for
renegotiation as a third way between staying in and pulling out. It may still be
a way off, but this is beginning to look as if might one day be the shape of
events that trigger the breakdown of the coalition.

So it is understandable that Mr Cameron decided to adopt the high-risk strategy
of moving the debate to Monday and imposing a must-obey three-line whip. He and
his foreign secretary will be able to make their case in the Commons. But the
cost in party terms will be high. It makes what might have been played down as a
"take-note" debate on a free vote in response to an e-petition into a
confrontation that might yet cost him half a dozen parliamentary aides, as well
as a stock of good will among ministers like the Northern Ireland secretary Owen
Paterson.

Worse, the long-held Cameron strategy of keeping the party from its obsessive
chewing on the euro-bone has failed. The Tories are back in the public eye on an
issue they find absorbingly divisive, while most voters worry about the economy
and pensions. He will win the vote, (and credit to Ed Miliband for making it
clear that Labour will vote against such a referendum). But the Tory right is
playing a long game. Its sights are fixed on the next manifesto: a thought
unlikely to have escaped Mr Cameron.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 21, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Europe has broken leaders before - will Cameron share their fate?;
If the PM doesn't stand up for democracy, many Tories will judge that he is not
worth supporting

BYLINE: NORMAN TEBBIT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1195 words


Half a century ago - having spent half my life outside Britain, working for a
global business alongside colleagues of many nations - I eagerly accepted the
idea that the best way to solve the problems of the fractious continent of
Europe was via the creation of a supranational state. All my experience since
then has brought me, gradually and reluctantly, to realise that I was wrong.

What tested my belief in Europe to destruction was my time in government. It is
a sensation that should be familiar to David Cameron from his own short time in
office - not to mention the experience of his recent Conservative predecessors.
It was, after all, the European issue that brought down Margaret Thatcher.
Contrary to the myth, she was no extreme "Little Englander", but a balanced and
cautious advocate of the British national interest. Her famous "No, No, No" was
not a petulant reiteration: it was a rejection of each of the three proposals by
Jacques Delors that would convert the European Economic Community into a
sovereign state called the European Union. From that moment, the Europhile lobby
was determined she should go, using Geoffrey Howe and Michael Heseltine as their
political hitmen.

Poor John Major was easier meat. My hopes of him were dashed when he told me
that the Maastricht commitment to a single currency would not be a matter of
principle, but just a practical matter of being in or out - a practical matter
that shattered his party and government, and lost him the votes of 4.5 million
of the 14.1 million electors who had endorsed him in 1992.

When David Cameron became leader of the Conservative Party, it was on a
staunchly Eurosceptic platform. In 2007, for example, he offered an
unconditional promise - the "cast-iron guarantee" - that he would give the
British people a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. That unredeemed pledge haunts
his leadership, a ghostly guarantee that would have been difficult enough to
exorcise even without the catastrophic wounds now being inflicted on the
European and world economy by the turmoil within the eurozone.

Yet the truth is that the current crisis should have come as no surprise, either
to Mr Cameron or to the wider public.

Indeed, it has been precisely forecast since before the euro came into being.
The would-be masters of Europe knew, just as we critics did, that the euro would
eventually fail unless it was supported by a single economic policy wielded by a
single treasury within a single government.

The calculation in Brussels was - and is   that the damage threatened by the
currency's collapse would frighten both the leaders and the led into the
ultimate stage of "ever closer union": namely, another burning building without
fire exits or windows, but with even stronger locks on the doors. That union
could not be a democratic one, not only because of the circumstances of its
conception and birth, but because, as Enoch Powell observed many years ago,
there is no such thing as a European demos.

What no one could have foreseen, of course, was that the fall of the euro would
coincide with a global financial crisis. Yet times of crisis and danger are also
times of opportunity for those with clear minds and stout hearts.

What needs to be done to shore up the collapsing structure of the eurozone
requires the consent, perhaps even the assistance, of the United Kingdom. It is
quite clear that any proposals will require the 17 members of the euro (or
however many remain) to agree policies collectively, but then act with a single
voice in the councils of the European Union. That is what George Osborne accepts
as the "remorseless logic" of fiscal union. Unfortunately, it would also give
these countries a guaranteed majority that the United Kingdom could never
defeat. We would for ever have to accept what the eurozone members decreed.

Mr Cameron and William Hague have indicated that they will not be so unmannerly
as to exact a price - in terms of changes to the constitution created by the
Lisbon Treaty - for their agreement to what needs to be done. This is deeply
disappointing. Yet there is another path ahead of them. I have long been a
critic of the inability or unwillingness of this Coalition to manage its
business effectively: its habit of thinking that announcing a well-meaning
initiative is the same thing as carrying it through to implementation; its use
of expressions such as the "Big Society" as brand names for products that it
cannot define.

But for once, that could work in their favour. They should tell Brussels that
the "Big Society" enables the electors to nominate subjects to be discussed and
voted upon in the House of Commons. The Big Society and the independent
backbenchers have decided that, next week, Parliament will discuss and vote upon
a proposal that would mandate the Government to organise a referendum on the EU.
This would include not just an "In or Out" question, but a third option that
would mandate the Government to renegotiate the conditions of our membership.

"It is tough," Messrs Cameron and Hague should tell our partners, "but there it
is. We can only avoid an 'Out' majority by achieving a substantial repatriation
of powers, and even that might not do it. Sorry about that - but it's called
democracy, and it is well established here."

Of course, it is not only Mr Cameron and his party who are in some disarray
here. Nick Clegg and his Liberal Democrats and Ed Miliband and Labour are
committed to holding a referendum - but, just like Mr Cameron, the very last
thing they want is actually to have one. Presumably, Mr Clegg will once again
abandon his party's policy and support the Coalition. So Mr Miliband will have
to choose between coming out for what most electors want - a referendum - and
defeating the Government, or instructing his divided party to vote with Mr
Cameron, thereby denying the electors a say.

Let us suppose that, one way or another, the Government wins the day. It would
be at the cost of feeding the corrosive illfeeling that has been festering ever
since Mr Cameron tried to turn the back-bench 1922 Committee into a subsidiary
of the largely unelected caucus at No 10. A threeline whip may reduce the size
of the revolt, but it will embitter many backbenchers. Almost certainly a PPS or
two will resign or be sacked, and a couple of junior ministers might follow.

All that is bad enough, but one can only guess at the effect on the public if a
mixture of threats, cowardice and clever procedural manoeuvring again denies
them the chance to express their views on our membership of the European Union.
Once again, a policy has been tossed out of an upstairs window at No 10 without
anyone thinking it through. There will be no benefit to the Prime Minister, the
Government, or the Conservative Party from this. On the other hand, Nigel Farage
and Ukip must be laughing their socks off. There must be many Tories who have
stuck to the party through thick and thin - in my case for 55 years - who will
be wondering if it is worthwhile any more. David Cameron may get his way next
week, but the price at next year's European elections could be bloody.

Comment on Norman Tebbit's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 21, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron facing Cabinet rebellion over vote on EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 702  words


DAVID Cameron was braced for the biggest rebellion of his premiership after the
Tory civil war over a proposed European Union referendum intensified
dramatically last night.

The Prime Minister was warned that at least 15 ministers and ministerial aides
were ready to quit frontbench posts rather than follow his orders to oppose the
referendum plan in a historic Commons vote next Monday.

By last night, nearly 80 MPs from all parties had backed the motion calling for
a referendum.

At least 57 Tories, more than a third of the party's backbenchers, had defied
party Whips by signing the Commons motion supporting the national poll on the
UK's EU membership.

But attempts were being made to water down the referendum bid by proposing
amendments to the original motion.

One amendment proposed by Tory backbencher George Eustice called for the
Government to renegotiate the terms of Britain's EU membership and then hold a
referendum.

Mr Eustice said: "This would allow voters to judge the Government."

Downing Street sources said the Government would not back the amendment but
welcomed any move that would "muddy the waters".

Tory rebels claimed the amendment was a deliberate attempt by Government Whips
to wreck the referendum bid. Backbencher Peter Bone said:

"This could have been written in the Whips' Office. It is an attempt to sabotage
the referendum motion."

And one senior Cabinet Minister is said to have been "spitting blood" on
learning that Mr Cameron had brought forward the date of the Commons vote in an
attempt to wrong-foot rebels.

Mr Cameron was understood to have ordered junior frontbenchers to attend an
emergency meeting in Downing Street on Monday to be read the riot act ahead of
the vote. But his crackdown appeared to have backfired when one frontbencher
openly declared his readiness to quit and warned that many colleagues were
prepared to follow him.

Stewart Jackson, MP for Peterborough and Parliamentary Private Secretary to
Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson, said: "Some things are more important
than party preferment. The bond of trust with my constituents, the views of
people who have had no say on our European policy in any substantive sense for
more than 30 years. . . I think I owe it to them to give them that say."

Insiders said up to 15 frontbenchers were ready to resign their posts and vote
for the motion proposing the first national poll on Britain's relationship with
Brussels since the 1975 Common Market referendum. Fury over the Prime Minister's
decision to switch the date and impose a three-line whip against the referendum
plan erupted in the Commons yesterday.

Senior backbencher Mark Pritchard, secretary of the influential backbench 1922
Committee of Tory MPs, said: "There is now a three-line whip from the Government
on the Conservative benches, a three-line whip on the Liberal Democrats and a
three-line whip for the Labour benches.

"Is it any surprise that the British public are increasingly frustrated that
this place is more out of touch than ever on the European question?"

Graham Brady, chairman of the 1922 Committee, said: "What matters is that
backbench MPs of all parties should be free to vote in accordance with our
beliefs and in the interests of our constituents." But the Prime Minister's
spokesman said: "Our position is that Government MPs should vote for Government
policy. The Government's position is clearly set out. We don't think there
should be a referendum."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "The party leaders don't trust
their own MPs, so tell me, why should anybody trust them?"

Tory MP David Nuttall, who proposed the motion, voiced anger that the date
switch would inconvenience thousands of supporters of the referendum campaign
group the People's Pledge who had planned to join a mass lobby of Parliament
next Thursday, the original day of the vote.

The People's Pledge yesterday confirmed their lobby would now take place on
Monday from 2.30pm outside the House of Commons.

Q Should MPs have a free vote on qutting the EU?

YES: 0901 030 8346 NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron faces a rebellion from his MPs like Stewart Jackson,
right, and David Nuttall, below right, who want a public vote Daily Express
Crusader delivers readers' coupons to Downing Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

Face down the Eurosceptics in your party, David Cameron

BYLINE: Tim Baleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 782 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Bale: This is the grown-up politics of government, not the rightwing
blogosphere - and the PM must think of the national interest

FULL TEXT

If insanity really is doing the same thing over and over again but expecting
different results, then Tory MPs might want to make Monday a mental health day.
Better, surely, to absent themselves completely than indulge in the kind of
ritual humiliation to which their predecessors regularly subjected John Major in
the mid-1990s, thereby shredding what was left of their party's precious
reputation for realism.

It was often said back then that the main problem Europe posed for the
Conservative party was that it made its members look divided. If the
Eurosceptics could win the day, the argument ran, then the issue would in the
end to play to their advantage. Europe wouldn't on its own win them an election.
But when combined with the two other elements of the so-called "Tebbit trinity"
- tax and immigration - it might help them snatch an away goal or two from a
Labour government which at the time was unbeatable on its home turf of the
economy and public services.

This was always a flawed argument. For one thing, when you actually looked at
the polling, the Conservatives had only a small lead (and sometimes no lead at
all) on Europe, and anyway it wasn't an issue that most people really cared that
much about.

For another, the populist tub-thumping repelled the educated middle-class voters
that - as Cameron and co seem to understand far better than some of their
supporters - will only become more and more crucial to the Tories' chances of
winning general elections. As for those who lapped it up, they either voted
Conservative anyway or didn't see it as a good enough reason to stop voting
Labour, Lib Dem, or even BNP or Ukip - once labelled by the prime minister "a
bunch of ... fruitcakes and loonies and closet racists".

But the argument was flawed in a more fundamental way, too. Becoming a
thoroughly Eurosceptic party was never going to make things better. It was only
ever going to make them much worse - especially once the Conservatives got back
into government. That's because the Tory divisions on Europe that really counted
- and still count - were not between Europhiles and Eurosceptics but between the
"hard" and "soft" varieties of the latter.

Whether or not the labels owe anything to Freud, I have no idea. But they still
serve as a convenient distinction between those who want out or at least a
"fundamental renegotiation" and those who aren't overly enamoured of the whole
"European project" but reckon that, with a bit of tweaking, it can still be made
to work - indeed, has to be made to work because there is no realistic
alternative. This, not whether we do or don't hold a referendum, is the real
divide.

If I were a hard (rather than a soft) sceptic with no government responsibility,
I, too, would be seizing on the heaven-sent opportunity offered by the eurozone
crisis to argue that we should leave the whole sorry mess behind and so fulfil
all those free-trade fantasies with China and India. At the very least, I'd be
insisting that we exploit France and Germany's need for our help in order to
achieve the repatriation of a few key powers.

But if I were a prime minister, I'd have to think about something still fondly
known as the national interest. I'd have to consider the damage that would be
done by (semi-) detachment to our special relationship with the US - which,
since the 1950s, has wanted us "at the heart of Europe" - or the undeniable
extra clout in trade negotiations (and even sometimes foreign policy) that comes
with membership of a big regional bloc.

I'd also be wondering why the number of British businesses which want to bust
things up is vanishingly small. And I'd remember that for good or ill, we're not
actually like Norway or Switzerland, ie small, rich and backed by plentiful oil
and safe-haven banking - and that, even if we were, we'd still have to listen to
"Brussels" despite the fact that we couldn't influence it. Lastly, I'd ask
myself exactly how I was going to be able to persuade all the other members of a
club - one to which I had binding treaty obligations - to allow me to free-ride,
taking all of the benefits and assuming none of the costs of membership.

David Cameron is the prime minister, not just a party leader. This is the
grown-up politics of government - the real world, not the rightwing blogosphere.
As prime minister, Cameron has no choice but to face down the rebels rather than
trying to humour or meet them halfway. This particular obsessive-compulsive
disorder may never respond to treatment, but failing to confront it is no longer
an option.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

Lord Monckton 'mistaken' for Sacha Baron Cohen by Australian satirist

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 496 words

ABSTRACT

Leo Hickman: Ukip's head of research and prominent climate sceptic 'punked' by
leading Australian satirical TV show

FULL TEXT

Lord Monckton is an excellent showman. No one - not even himself - would
begrudge him that. He has that rare ability to captivate a crowd and bedazzle
them with his famous (some would say infamous) slideshows detailing his unique
interpretations of climate science. He activelycourts attention and many people,
particularly in the US and Australia, oblige him with feverish adoration.

Somewhat inevitably, his bombast and grandiosity act as a magnet for satire and
send-up. In 2009, a Melbourne-based English MC called Hugo Farrant brilliantly
lampooned both Monckton and his nemesis Al Gore in a spoof "rap battle", which
is still harvesting hits on YouTube.

But now someone's gone a step further by dragging Monckton himself into the joke
- albeit without Ukip's head of research seemingly realising that he is the
object of mockery. An Australian comedian called Craig Reucassel has produced a
sketch for ABC's The Chaser, a popular team of TV satirists who have a tradition
of "punking" famous faces. It only aired in Australia two days ago as part of a
new series called The Hamster Wheel and - at the time of writing - has already
attracted nearly 300,000 views on YouTube.

The sketch assumes the position that Reucassel believes Monckton to be Sacha
Baron Cohen's latest creation, following on from his other alter egos, Ali G,
Borat and Bruno. The result is both buttock-clenchingly embarrassing and
hilarious in equal measure. One wonders - as is the case when watching Baron
Cohen in action - how Reucassel manages to keep a straight face when putting
questions to his subject, such as, "Will we ever see Ali G or Borat come back?"

Graham Readfern over at DeSmogBlog asked Reucassel how he managed to interview
Monckton in his hotel room during his controversial lecture tour of Australia
earlier this year:

We literally just asked him for an interview. I had realised from watching him
before that he is incredibly keen to talk to people - he'll do the most pissant
interviews with basically anyone. He didn't want to know any background about
us. We just told him that it was for a production company and that it might be
shown on the ABC. We didn't mislead him in any way... The interview was going
for quite a while but when I hinted that he might be a comedian, he ignored it.
As the interview went on I tried to make it more and more about that - but he
just wasn't twigging.

Monckton finally terminates the interview after Reucassel asks: "You didn't come
into the country without it saying Sacha Baron Cohen [on your passport]
anywhere?"

Monckton responds: "I don't know what you're on about, but could you please take
your equipment and get out?"

Reucassel told Readfern that he doesn't know if Monckton has seen the sketch
yet. I approached Monckton for his reaction, but have yet to receive a response.
If I do, I will post it below.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 21, 2011 Friday 6:24 PM GMT

EU crises talks critical, says George Osborne

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 590 words


A round of weekend negotiations in Brussels will be "critical" in selling the
eurozone crisis, Chancellor George Osborne said today.

Before leaving for Brussels for talks tomorrow with fellow EU finance
ministers, he said resolving the crisis would be a boost for growth, not   just
in the eurozone but in the UK and across the world.

Mr Osborne is attending a meeting tomorrow ahead of a Sunday summit of all 27
EU leaders amid growing concern that an answer to the economic crisis in
Europe is slipping from the grasp of the member states.

A crunch summit was planned for last Monday, but German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy announced a postponement until
Sunday after realising they were far from agreement on key issues such as a
massive reinforcement of an existing bailout fund for struggling eurozone
countries, and a major recapitalisation of European banks to help them
withstand economic shocks.

A sense of indecision and confusion worsened last night when Paris and Berlin
announced that another summit would be held in Brussels next Wednesday -
indicating no results were likely from the Sunday meeting.

The announcement only reinforced nervousness in financial markets and
increased frustration in European capitals in the face of an apparent   revival
of the Franco-German axis in Europe.

"At the moment Merkel and Sarkozy are dictating everything we do on this
crisis," said one EU official.

Tonight, eurozone finance ministers were meeting in Brussels. Then all 27 EU
finance ministers, including Mr Osborne, gather for more talks.

On Sunday morning, EU leaders take the stage - and then eurozone countries
meet again to consider the conclusions.

Now, at the instigation of Paris and Berlin, the leaders of the 17 eurozone
countries are due to meet again in Brussels on Wednesday, in a move which
reinforced a sense of indecision clouding firm results about how to   ringfence
the Greek economic crisis and reassure markets that the euro is a   stable
currency and that Europe's banks can withstand future economic   shockwaves.

"Now that Germany and Paris have called another summit next Wednesday,   what is
the point of having a summit this Sunday when it is clear that   nothing will be
agreed?" asked one Commission official. "What   signals are we sending to the
markets, which have been dictating everything   we do for months?"

Meanwhile Mr Osborne said: "The coming days will be critical for   resolving the
crisis in the eurozone.

"I am convinced of everyone's commitment to this. A resolution to the   eurozone
crisis would be the biggest boost to growth in Britain and around   the world."

Prime Minister David Cameron arrives in Brussels early on Sunday for the
half-day summit, although reinforcement of an existing eurozone bailout fund
will only involve the 17 eurozone countries.

Recapitalisation of Europe's banks, on the other hand, will involve all 27
member states.

UK Independence Party leader and MEP Nigel Farage commented: "Even the
Commission realises that charging around like headless chickens isn't the   best
way to calm the markets.

"I know they haven't a clue, they know they haven't a clue, even Fred down the
Dog and Duck knows they haven't a clue. It's a pity that George Osborne   hasn't
spotted it yet."

Mr Farage added: "Meanwhile, millions across Europe and particularly in Greece
lose their jobs.

"They should be honest and help Greece leave the Eurozone straightjacket,
rather than prolong the agony."

rightPA

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 21, 2011 Friday 4:01 PM GMT

EU launches its first satellite navigation system

BYLINE: By Raf Casert

SECTION: SCIENCE

LENGTH: 773 words


A Russian rocket launched the first two satellites of the European Union's
Galileo navigation system after years of waiting for the start of the   program
billed as the main rival to the ubiquitous American GPS network.

The launch of the Soyuz from French Guiana, on the northern coast of South
America, marks the maiden voyage of the Russian rocket outside the former
Soviet Union, with European and Russian authorities cheering at liftoff.

"It is a double-page spread in spatial history, European and Russian," said
Laurent Wauquiez, France's higher education minister and former deputy
minister for European affairs. "It is without doubt one of the most   beautiful
stories of cooperation... This gives us strength and an   extraordinary
competitive advantage in the spatial domain."

Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said it is the first time that
two teams work together on the launch of the Soyuz.

The rocket is expected to place into orbit the Galileo IOV-1 PFM and FM2
satellites during a nearly four-hour mission. The two satellites will be
released in opposite directions.

"The first part of this mission went well," Jean-Yves Le Gall, chairman and
CEO of Arianespace, the commercial arm of the European Space Agency, said in   a
brief statement to officials before returning to the control room.

He said the rocket is expected to travel over Asia, Indonesia and the Indian
Ocean.

Antonio Tajani, the EU's industry and enterprise commissioner, called the
launch "a great result" that sends "a very strong political message."

"Europe shows that she is capable of managing a big project just days from the
European economic summit," he said.

The EU had all the pomp and speeches about the dawning of a new age prepared
for Thursday, but was forced to postpone it for 24 hours because of a leaky
valve that kept a Russian Soyuz rocket grounded at the launch site in French
Guiana.

The Galileo system has become a symbol of EU infighting, inefficiency and
delay, but officials are hoping it will kick off a trans-Atlantic   competition
with the American GPS network.

GPS has become the global consumer standard in satellite navigation over the
past decade, reducing the need for awkward oversized maps and arguments with
back seat drivers about whether to turn left or right.

Now, the EU wants Galileo to dominate the future with a system that is more
precise and more reliable than GPS, while controlled by civil authorities.   It
foresees applications ranging from precision seeding on farmland to   pinpoint
positioning for search-and-rescue missions. On top of that, the EU   hopes it
will reap a financial windfall.

"If Europe wants to be competitive and independent in the future, the EU needs
to have its own satellite navigation system to also create new economic
opportunities", said Herbert Reul, head of the EU parliament's industry,
research and energy committee.

There are still several more years to wait, but the satellite launch is a
major step in getting Galileo on track. It will start operating in 2014 as a
free consumer navigation service, with more specialized services to be   rolled
out until 2020, when it should be fully operational.

After the initial launch, two satellites will go up every quarter as of the
end of 2012 until all 30 satellites are up.

The EU hopes its economic impact will stand at about (EURO)90 billion in
industrial   revenues and public benefits over the next two decades.

The idea for the program first rallied support in the late 1990s, and its
development has been pushed back with delays ever since. When it became   clear
in 2008 that private investors weren't lining up to finance Galileo,   the EU
decided taxpayers would underwrite most of the program.

The European Commission said development and deployment since 2003 is
estimated at well over (EURO)5 billion. Maintaining and completing the   system
is expected to cost (EURO)1 billion a year.

Critics have said the cost overruns were much higher.

"Far from celebrating," officials "who have supported Galileo should be making
a public apology to taxpayers for this shocking waste of time, effort and
resources," EU legislator Marta Andreasen of the anti-Euro UKIP party said.

Officials hope to delay the launch of the Russian Soyuz rocket by only 24
hours, although a new date will be announced once the investigation is
complete, said Jean-Yves Le Gall, chairman and CEO of Arianespace, the
commercial arm of the European Space Agency.

The launch was originally scheduled for last year, but adverse weather kept
delaying construction of the Soyuz facility.

rightAP

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 21, 2011 Friday 12:36 PM GMT

Tories and Labour neck and neck in latest by-elections

BYLINE: By Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 466 words


Tories and Labour are running neck and neck in the latest council by-elections
which saw just one seat change hands.

Independent Jill Hood gained from Conservatives at Walton, Stafford Borough.

There was a near miss for Labour which finished just six votes short of
winning a Tory Cokeham seat and a foothold on Adur District Council, West
Sussex.

The party's candidate this time had finished third behind Liberal Democrats in
last year's polls when he had given no description on the ballot paper.

Lib Dems scored swings against Labour at Bridge, Nottingham and also at Park
Hall in nearby Mansfield District. They also held on at Bookham South, Mole
Valley District, Surrey in a ward where Tories won another seat this year.

There was a shift back to Conservatives at Eccles, Salford compared with this
May's results but it highlights the challenge they face next year when they
will be seeking to defend a seat of their own in that ward.

Analysis of six comparable results this week suggests a projected nationwide
Tory lead over Labour of just 0.1%.

A calculation based on four wards fought both times by all three major parties
gives a line-up of C 38.5%, Lab 36.5%, Lib Dem 15.0%.

RESULTS

Bromley London Borough - Shortlands: C 1480, Lib Dem 490, Lab 256, Ukip 153,
Green 75, BNP 35. (May 2010 - Two seats C 3629, 2986, Green 910, Lab 892,   Lib
Dem 835, 767, Lab 428). C hold. Swing 2.2% C to LD.

Cheshire West and Chester Council - Ellesmere Port Town: Lab 686, C 102,
Socialist Lab 65, Ukip 64, Lib Dem 41. (May 2011 - Two seats Lab 1522, 1212,   C
258, 226, Lib Dem 129). Lab hold. Swing 1.9% Lab to C.

Great Yarmouth Borough - Bradwell South and Hopton: C 557, Lab 407, Ukip 159.
(May 2011 - C 929, Lab 722, Ukip 256, Green 103). C hold. Swing 1.5% Lab to   C.

Mansfield District - Park Hall: Lab 416, Ind 164, Lib Dem 157, Ukip 25, C 20.
(May 2011 - Lab 482, Ind 294, Lib Dem 58). Lab hold. Swing 8.8% Lab to Lib
Dem.

Mole Valley District - Bookham South: Lib Dem 1043, C 940, Ukip 228. (May 2011
- C 1228, Lib Dem 1168, Ukip 222). Lib Dem hold. Swing 3.5% C to Lib Dem.

Nottingham City - Bridge: Lab 1152, Lib Dem 892, C 172, Ukip 50. Bus-Pass
Elvis Party 27. (May 2011 - Two seats Lab 1613, 1470, Lib Dem 1121, 843, C
365, 345). Lab hold. Swing 4.1% Lab to Lib Dem.

Salford City - Eccles: Lab 1227, C 701, BNP 147, Lib Dem 125, Ind 53. (May
2011 - Lab 1877, C 950, Ukip 368, Lib Dem 213). Lab hold. Swing 1.9% Lab to   C.

Stafford Borough - Walton: Ind 569, C 372, Lab 306. (May 2011 - Three seats C
1009, 900, 824, Ind 740, Lab 656, 517, 469, No description 469). Ind gain   from
C. Swing 4.2% C to Lab.

From Tuesday:

Adur District - Cokeham: C 288, Lab 282, Ukip 91, Green 35, Lib Dem 31. (May
2010 - C 923, Lib Dem 594, No description 446, Ukip 226). C hold.

PA

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

PM faces revolt as MPs told to toe coalition line in historic EU debate

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 618  words


RATTLED David Cameron last night dramatically brought forward a crunch House of
Commons vote on a European Union referendum in a desperate attempt to undermine
a threatened mass revolt.

The historic debate on whether to hold the first official poll on the UK's EU
membership will now take place on Monday, instead of Thursday as previously
planned.

But furious MPs claimed the switch was a panic measure designed to stop a Tory
revolt over the issue gathering pace.

Rebels will now have little time to persuade colleagues to defy a Government
three-line whip, and the move will also hamper an attempt to organise a mass
lobby of Parliament.

Tory Euro-sceptics believe the surprise change was a sign ministers are
frightened they could lose the vote. One senior backbencher said: "This smacks
of panic. The Government is really trying to put the pressure on people not to
rebel."

Downing Street officials said the switch was made because Mr Cameron is due to
be out of the country next week at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting
in Australia.

Foreign Secretary William Hague is also due to be away.

A senior aide to the Prime Minister said: "We take this very seriously. It means
that William can be there to make a really strong contribution to the debate.
This change is not panic."

Tory backbenchers were told of the switch by the Chief Whip Patrick McLoughlan
in a meeting yesterday afternoon.

He also confirmed that the Government will impose a three-line whip on Tory MPs
to vote against the proposal.

Officials were understood to be concerned that MPs would be "whipping themselves
into a frenzy" over the issue while the Prime Minister was absent.

Tory MP Peter Bone, a member of the Commons Backbench Business Committee, said:
"This is unprecedented manipulation of backbench business. It is worse than
anything I witnessed under the previous Labour Government.

This Government is clearly running scared of a major revolt."

MPs are convinced the move was designed to undermine a mass lobby organised by
the People's Pledge campaign for an EU referendum. The organisation was hoping
thousands of supporters would be at Westminster next Thursday.

A spokesman for the People's Pledge campaign said: "This decision has been
because of our lobby. This is really dodgy tactics by the Government.

We'll ensure many voters come to Westminster on Monday."

The debate is being held in response to public backing for the Daily Express's
crusade for Britain to quit the EU, demonstrated by a 373,000-signature petition
earlier this year.

Mr Bone added: "This is desperately disappointing for thousands of people who
had made travel plans to come to the lobby. It is also clearly an attempt to
spike the guns of the Daily Express's crusade."

By last night, more than 70 MPs from across the Commons had signed the motion
proposing an EU referendum.

Tory euro-sceptic MP Mark Reckless said the movement was happy for a debate on
Monday. Last night Ukip leader Nigel Farage said the debate move "smacks of
blind panic in Downing Street". Mr Cameron also faced demands from Graham Brady,
chairman of the influential Tory backbench 1922 Committee to allow MPs a free
vote.

Heavyweight MPs who have previously signalled their support for a referendum
include Mr Brady, former leadership contender David Davis, former Cabinet
minister John Redwood and Zac Goldsmith.

In the Commons, Mr Cameron rejected the referendum plan. But he also sparked
confusion by suggesting the Government could eventually arrange a referendum on
regaining powers from Brussels. He said: "In the longer term there may be
further moves towards further treaties, but I do not believe the right answer is
to hold a referendum willy-nilly in this Parliament."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thousands of readers signed the Daily Express petition demanding a
referendum on leaving the EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 20, 2011 Thursday 8:58 PM GMT

Breaking news: Cameron now officially even worse than Ted Heath

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 430 words


It requires real talent and serious effort to become the worst Tory prime
minister in history. To be honest, I never thought Cameron had it in him. I
thought: "Well maybe they're right, all those Tory "insiders" who tap the sides
of their noses knowingly and say: 'Don't you worry. He knows what he's doing.
He's just positioning himself, that's all. Deep down he's a true blue
Eurosceptic small state Tory through and through." And after that, I thought: "I
mean however bad he does get, he's never going to be a match in sheer bloody
awfulness for the chippy, asexual sailor who first set our course for the rocks
clearly marked Euro Hell Oblivion, all the while reassuring his nervous crew,
"No they're not rocks at all. They're actually a really deep, safe channel which
just looks like rocks but is in fact an optical illusion. A special, magic deep
channel which will also end wars and make us all richer and give us more fish
than ever before."

But Dave, I salute you. Today you have managed it with the most pointless,
spiteful, vindictive, bullying absurd directive so far in your already swollen
catalogue of disasters as Prime Minister.

Even as MPs agreed to hold a Commons vote on a referendum, government sources
made clear that the Tories would be whipped to vote against a poll.

Mr Cameron's decision to impose a three-line whip has angered many MPs, since
the vote was called under rules the Coalition promised would give backbenchers
more freedom.

Not only will this decision needlessly alienate some of the most talented
up-and-coming Conservative MPs, from Douglas Carswell and Steve Baker to Priti
Patel, but it will confirm to what little of the traditional Tory constituency
which hasn't already deserted to UKIP that Cameron's new, "detoxed"
principle-free Conservative party is no longer capable of representing their
interests in any way whatsoever.

Also, of course, it will provide the most splendiferous free gift both to Nigel
Farage and to Dave's old school chum Boris who, not unreasonably, is positioning
himself rather more sensibly on the forthcoming Eurogeddon.

Mr Johnson told a Westminster lunch: "I think it would be absolutely crazy to
decide the solution to the eurozone crisis is to intensify fiscal union and try
to create an economic government of Europe. I really can't see for the life of
me how that is going to work."

But don't let's allow Boris to steal Dave's thunder on this, of all days, Dave's
very special day:

The day he finally got the title of the Worst Tory Prime Minister in British
history.

The day Dave stole Ted Heath's laurel crown!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

This crusade can help free Britain from EU tyranny

BYLINE: Lord Willoughby de Broke

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 884 words


WOn Thursday next week the House of Commons will debate and vote on holding a
referendum on our membership of the European Union.

This would not and could not have happened without the sterling work of the
Daily Express, which had the courage to demand that Britain be given the choice
about its future. More importantly it could not have happened without the
hundreds of thousands of Daily Express readers who have signed up to the crusade
to demand that the Government give us that opportunity.

At last we have a chance to explain why it is right and proper that the people
of Britain should decide who it is that governs them. Shall it be our own
politicians, who of course can be sacked in elections, or should it be a shadowy
breed of unelected bureaucrats in Brussels? The people who decide what
lightbulbs we can use, the people who decide what toys we can give our children,
the people who, through their ambition to create a single country of Europe in
their control, lied and cheated their way into creating the financial crisis
that now threatens this country with billions of pounds of bailouts we can ill
afford.

This debate will show us whether the people we elect in Westminster are worthy
of the Mother of Parliaments, worthy to sit on the same benches that once
supported Pitt, Wellington, Disraeli, Gladstone and Churchill.

LET us not mistake what is going on here. We have a political class that has
decided that it knows best, that it has the sole right to decide for the people
of Britain what is and isn't in their interests. It remains aloof from the hopes
and fears of the majority. It wishes to continue with policies that have long
since been rejected in the hearts of our citizens.

There will be those who will speak and vote in favour of a referendum and we
have to applaud them. They will be doing something that they know is right. But
they will be fighting against the wishes of the big three party leaderships, all
of whom are utterly committed to our continued membership of the EU. All have
also made it clear that if MPs make public their fight for our freedoms they
will be marked down in the whips' black book. They will be passed over for
promotion, they will find obstacles put in the way of the work they do for their
constituents. Life will be made harder and preferment under the current system
will be nigh on impossible.

But outside the Westminster bubble there will be a different response. Here they
will be praised by ordinary people, the ones they work for and are paid by. On
websites, on social media, in the pub, in the cities, towns and villages that
make up this great land they will be cheered.

All recent opinion polls make it clear that more than 70 per cent of British
people want a referendum and today more than half would vote to leave the EU.
But their wishes are held in contempt by the Government.

Last week the Foreign Secretary claimed their wishes would be damaging to our
country, that now is not the time to bring back democratic control to this side
of the Channel.

But if this is not the time when is? It is the duty of anybody who sits in
Westminster to represent the people of these islands. It is not their job to
turn their faces against the wishes of the people.

My own family has had the honour of sitting in Parliament on and off since 1290.
In all that time, despite wars, famines and pestilence, this country has never
been led by politicians who felt we would be better governed from abroad.

Our political class forgets that it does not have the right to throw away our
liberties. They are freedoms that the peoples of these islands fought for over
centuries. They are our forefathers' gifts for us to enjoy and build upon so
that we have something to give to our own children and grandchildren.

They are in many ways simple things. The right to vote for and remove your
government. The expectation that you will be protected from arrest and
deportation to foreign lands without evidence. The right to think that your
taxes are spent here in Britain for the benefit of your people, rather than have
them thrown away to prop up the failing euro experiment.

IT IS a shame that in the House of Commons the political leadership is so
divorced from the country. It's appalling neither Cameron, nor Miliband, nor
Clegg feels that his duty lies at home rather than in Brussels. It is sad that
they and their parties represent less than half of the people.

But those MPs who speak and vote for a referendum can be heartened to know that
they will have the support of the Daily Express and its readers. Other
newspapers are looking at the success of this newspaper's crusade and now kick
themselves that they didn't have the courage to come out in favour of a
referendum.

Of course there is a party that speaks out on this and many other issues, that
is my own, UKIP. In recent months we have risen in the polls. We are now
challenging the Lib Dems across Britain. Among some sections of the electorate
we've already overtaken them and we thrashed them at the last European
elections.

People are waking up and when they do their voices combined will be loud and
clear. So loud that even those in Downing Street and Brussels will hear them. We
want to decide our own future. We want a referendum, and we want it now.

'Seventy per cent want a referendum'

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PATRIOTIC: Our special edition. January 8, 2011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

This campaign can help free Britain from EU tyranny;
LEADER

BYLINE: Lord Willoughby de Broke

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 880  words


WE finally have a date.

On Thursday next week the House of Commons will debate and vote on holding a
referendum on our membership of the European Union.

This would not and could not have happened without the sterling work of the
Daily Express, which had the courage to demand that Britain be given the choice
about its future. More importantly, it could not have happened without the
thousands of Daily Express readers who have signed up to the campaign to demand
that the Government give us that opportunity.

At last, we have a chance to explain why it is right and proper that the people
of Britain should decide who it is that governs them. Shall it be our own
politicians, who, of course, can be sacked in elections, or should it be a
shadowy breed of unelected bureaucrats in Brussels? The people who decide what
lightbulbs we can use, the people who decide what toys we can give our children,
the people who, through their ambition to create a single country of Europe in
their control, lied and cheated their way into creating the financial crisis
that now threatens this country with billions of pounds of bailouts we can ill
afford.

This debate will show us whether the people we elect in Westminster are worthy
of the Mother of Parliaments, worthy to sit on the same benches that once
supported Pitt, Wellington, Disraeli, Gladstone and Churchill.

LET us not mistake what is going on here. We have a political class that has
decided that it knows best, that it has the sole right to decide for the people
of Britain what is and is not in their interests. It remains aloof from the
hopes and fears of the majority. It wishes to continue with policies that have
long since been rejected in the hearts of our citizens.

There will be those who will speak and vote in favour of a referendum and we
have to applaud them. They will be doing something that they know is right. But
they will be fighting against the wishes of the big three party leaderships, all
of whom are utterly committed to our continued membership of the EU. All have
also made it clear that if MPs make public their fight for our freedoms they
will be marked down in the whips' black book.

They will be passed over for promotion, they will find obstacles put in the way
of the work they do for their constituents.

Life will be made harder and preferment under the current system will be nigh on
impossible.

But outside the Westminster bubble there will be a different response. Here they
will be praised by ordinary people, the ones they work for and are paid by. On
websites, on social media, in the pub, in the cities, towns and villages that
make up this great land they will be cheered.

All recent opinion polls make it clear that more than 70 per cent of British
people want a referendum and today more than half would vote to leave the EU.
But their wishes are held in contempt by the Government.

Last week, the Foreign Secretary claimed their wishes would be damaging to our
country, that now is not the time to bring back democratic control to this side
of the Channel.

But, if this is not the time, when is? It is the duty of anybody who sits in
Westminster to represent the people of these islands. It is not their job to
turn their faces against the wishes of the people.

My own family has had the honour of sitting in Parliament on and off since 1290.
In all that time, despite wars, famines and pestilence, this country has never
been led by politicians who felt we would be better governed from abroad.

Our political class forgets that it does not have the right to throw away our
liberties.

They are freedoms that the peoples of these islands fought for over centuries.
They are our forefathers' gifts for us to enjoy and build upon so that we have
something to give to our own children and grandchildren.

They are in many ways simple things. The right to vote for and remove your
government.

The expectation that you will be protected from arrest and deportation to
foreign lands without evidence. The right to think that your taxes are spent
here in Britain for the benefit of your people, rather than have them thrown
away to prop up the failing euro experiment.

IT IS a shame that in the House of Commons the political leadership is so
divorced from the country. It is appalling neither Cameron, nor Miliband, nor
Clegg feels that his duty lies at home rather than in Brussels. It is sad that
they and their parties represent less than half of the people.

But those MPs who speak and vote for a referendum can be heartened to know that
they will have the support of the Daily Express and its readers.

Other newspapers are looking at the success of this newspaper's campaign and now
kick themselves that they didn't have the courage to come out in favour of a
referendum.

Of course, there is a party that speaks out on this and many other issues, that
is my own, UKIP. In recent months, we have risen in the polls. We are now
challenging the Lib Dems across Britain. Among some sections of the electorate
we have overtaken them and we thrashed them at the last European elections.

People are waking up and when they do their voices combined will be loud and
clear. So loud that even those in Downing Street and Brussels will hear them. We
want to decide our own future. We want a referendum, and we want it now.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PATRIOTIC: Our special edition. January 8, 2011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    October 19, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Tory rebellion on Europe fuelled by proposed boundary changes;
MPs have agreed to debate holding a referendum on leaving Europe next week

BYLINE: By Andrew Grice, Political Editor

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 476 words


David Cameron is facing his biggest Conservative rebellion since becoming Prime
Minister after MPs called a Commons vote next week on whether Britain should
have a referendum on leaving the European Union.

Senior Tories warned last night that the party's MPs will be under enormous
pressure to defy Mr Cameron on 27 October by voting in favour of a referendum.
They said the crucial factor in many Tory MPs' minds would be the proposed
shake-up of parliamentary boundaries to allow the Government to cut the number
of MPs from 650 to 600. This will provoke a scramble for seats, with many MPs
doing battle with colleagues for the right to be their party's candidate at the
next election.

One senior figure told The Independent: "The mood of Tory grassroots members is
overwhelmingly Eurosceptic. They want a referendum on the EU. A candidate who
opposed that in Parliament would be cutting his or her own throat. The boundary
review will be a big factor in MPs' minds."

Mr Cameron, who urged his party to stop "banging on" about Europe when he became
its leader in 2005, believes a referendum would be a distraction. The Government
has promised one before any further powers are handed from Britain to Brussels
but there is no prospect of that happening.

Feelings are running high among Tory MPs. The crisis in the eurozone, which is
likely to lead to fiscal integration among the 17 countries in the euro, has
fuelled their demands for an "in or out" referendum, the first since 1975.

The Backbench Business Committee, which decides the subject of Commons debates
on 27 days a year, agreed yesterday to hold one on Europe. Although a vote in
favour of a referendum would not technically be binding, it would put huge
pressure on Mr Cameron to promise one at a later date. To head off the
referendum demands, the Prime Minister may offer concessions to the Tory rebels
- such as trying to grab back powers over employment laws from Brussels. But
that would cause huge tensions with his Liberal Democrat Coalition partners.

David Nuttall, the Tory MP who proposed the debate, said it had been more than
36 years since the UK had held a referendum on this matter. His motion calls on
the Government to introduce a bill in the next session of Parliament "to provide
for the holding of a national referendum on whether the UK should remain a
member of the EU, leave the EU, or renegotiate its terms."

Nikki Sinclaire, an independent former Ukip MEP who presented a
100,000-signature petition to Downing Street calling for a referendum, said:
"This is a serious headache for David Cameron. He has got to deal with this
issue."

Mr Cameron said this month that pulling out of the EU was "the wrong answer". He
said: "What most people want in this country is not... to leave the EU, but to
reform [it] and make sure the balance of powers between Britain and Europe is
better."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 18, 2011 Tuesday 4:24 PM GMT

MPs to vote on EU referendum

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 437 words


MPs will vote next week on whether Britain's continued membership of the
European Union should be put to voters in a referendum, it was decided today.

The Commons backbench business committee has ordered a debate on the
highly-charged issue for October 27 after more than 100,000 people signed a
petition demanding a choice.

Although approval of the motion would not be binding, it would place enormous
pressure on David Cameron to respect the will of the Commons and seek the
public's verdict.

The Prime Minister, who has expressed his desire to take back some powers from
Brussels, is publicly opposed to such an in/out referendum.

Pulling out was "the wrong answer for Britain" he told increasingly vocal
eurosceptic Tories at the autumn conference in Manchester this month.

"What most people want in this country is not actually to leave the EU, but to
reform the EU and make sure that the balance of powers between a country   like
Britain and Europe is better," he said - insisting the priority was   dealing
with the eurozone crisis.

But London mayor Boris Johnson told the conference that giving the public a
vote on Britain's relationship with Brussels for the first time since 1975   was
"not a bad idea".

"There hasn't been a vote. It seems to me to be that if a reasonable question
could be framed and put to the people of this country, I think it is not a   bad
idea," he said.

A referendum would also place enormous strain on the ruling coalition as the
Liberal Democrats are predominantly supportive of the EU.

Nikki Sinclaire, the independent MEP who presented the petition to Downing
Street, said: "I'm absolutely delighted. This is an issue which has gone on
for too long. We need a resolution to the issue so we can move on.

"It's all about pressure. We are going to put pressure on the MPs to vote for
a referendum. The MPs that do not vote for a referendum, we will be talking   to
their constituents about it.

"The campaign will now go on from here."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Having this debate in
Westminster is a good start, but with all party leaders demanding that their
MPs reject the motion, I hold out little hope of a 'yes' vote.

"The timescale is deliberately short to make it hard for people to lobby their
MPs, and the space for debate on such a massive issue is limited.

"The real debate is going on out there in the country, in people's homes,
businesses and pubs. We know from many polls that a vast majority of people
want this referendum, we learn next week how many of the MPs have the   courage
to support their constituents."

Source: PA

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 18, 2011 Tuesday 3:49 PM GMT

Would an English Parliament save the Union?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 559 words


More signs that the 300-year Union of England and Scotland will not last, with a
ComRes poll suggesting that more people across the UK favour independence for
Scotland than oppose it. As I pointed out on a previous post, the future of the
Union doesn't look bright when Northern Irish Catholics are more pro-Union than
the English.

As things currently stand, it seems hugely likely that England and Scotland will
drift apart, yet the logical intervention - an English Parliament - has always
remained off the agenda. While the good times were rolling Labour's unbalanced
constitutional (and financial) settlement could be safely ignored by most, but
it's obviously now grating to many people. Poll after poll shows strong support
for an English Parliament, and though I can see the advantage of regional
parliaments, not least because it will re-invigorate cities such as Bristol,
Newcastle and Liverpool (or Manchester) by giving them back their ruling class,
I accept that I'm in a small minority here (historians of Dublin will tell you
that the 1801 Act of Union damaged the city because its Anglo-Irish gentry left
for London, while Edinburgh today looks far more vibrant than northern English
cities of equal size).

Now Ukip, which according to the latest Populus poll is on five per cent and has
the historical advantage of being the one party who were completely,
fundamentally right about the central issue of our day, have become the first
significant group to back the idea.Deputy leader Paul Nuttall has come up with a
proposal that has already been accepted by the party NEC "in principle". Under
it:

England would have a First Minister and executive which will be responsible for
domestic legislation such as education, health, the environment and transport.
This we believe will rebalance the Union and give the English people a
democratic voice.

The current House of Lords would become the Upper Chamber for the whole Union
elected from existing constituencies by AMS. In the chamber would sit Union MPs
led by the UK Prime Minister and a cabinet. The Union Parliament will be
responsible for scrutinising devolved issues and legislation on reserved matters
such as foreign policy, defence and taxation.

MPs from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will form select committees
scrutinising and revising their respective devolved legislation.

Nuttall has the rare distinction of being both a former professional footballer
(with Tranmere Rovers) and a history lecturer (I imagine the intersection on a
Venn diagram must be pretty small for that one); and, having specialised in the
tragic history of England and Ireland, wants to avoid the mistakes that led to
the end of that union.

The only danger is that there has never before been a federal system where one
state had such a large (90 per cent) proportion of the population. There could
be a situation whereby a Labour British Prime Minister is in power only because
of Celtic voters, with an English Tory First Minister effectively acting as a
rival national leader - imagine Boris Johnson but seven times as powerful. But
as things currently stand there won't be a UK for Ukip to campaign for much
longer, andas Nuttall says: "If we do nothing, the most successful Union the
world has ever known will be disappear in twenty years." And barely outliving
the world's least successful union.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Economic fears and scandal give Labour largest poll lead

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 602 words


Ed Miliband's Labour Party has taken its largest lead over the Conservatives in
a poll for The Times since the general election. Worries over the economy and
the fallout from the resignation of Liam Fox as Defence Secretary both appear to
have hit Conservative and Liberal Democrat ratings, according to the Populus
poll.

Labour's share of the vote has risen to 41 per cent, up 3 percentage points
since September. This gives the party an 8 per cent lead over the Conservatives,
the highest figure since May last year, suggesting that an overall majority
would be likely under both old and new boundaries if there were an election
immediately.

The poll puts the Liberal Democrats on 8 per cent, the lowest figure for a
Populus poll since they went into government, having been on 11 per cent for
most of the year and 12 per cent in September, just before the conference season
began. It is the lowest Populus figure for the party since the company started
polling for The Times in 2003.

This reinforces the findings of a Populus focus group for The Times, held
immediately after the party conference season, which underlined the lingering
hostility towards the party because of the belief that it had broken promises.

The Conservatives dropped one point to 33 per cent, the smallest share of the
vote registered in a Times / Populus poll in this Parliament.

Other parties rose again this month, with the UK Independence Party on 5 per
cent, SNP on 4 per cent, Greens on 3 per cent, and the BNP and Plaid Cymru on 1
per cent. This comes amid a narrowing of the coalition's lead on the economy
since June, suggesting that the Tory conference, which took leadership as its
theme, did little to reassure voters.

David Cameron, Nick Clegg and George Osborne maintain their lead as a better
economic team than Ed Miliband and Ed Balls, though this has fallen from 18 per
cent in June to 13 per cent in September. This drop is particularly pronounced
among women, where the lead fell from 20 per cent to 11 per cent over the same
period, and from 28 per cent to 9 per cent among skilled manual workers (C2s).

The number who say that they trust Mr Miliband and Mr Balls to manage the
economy in the best interests of Britain has increased by one point, from 23 per
cent in June to 24 per cent this month. Among women, it rose from 19 per cent to
24 per cent. Nearly two in five voters (39 per cent) now say that they trust
neither economic team or that they don't know who to trust.

Perceptions of the Conservative Party have shifted in the past month, with the
party falling farther behind on "honest and principled" and their lead narrowing
on "strength" issues such as being "competent and capable" and having a "good
team of leaders".

The decline in this month's poll, taken after the resignation of Dr Fox,
suggests that the party has been hurt by criticism leading up to his
resignation. The proportion saying that the Tories are "honest and principled"
has dropped from 36 per cent in September to 30 per cent this month. This
consolidates a lead Labour established around February, with the party now on 36
per cent and the Liberal Democrats on 31 per cent.

There has been a similar drop in the number saying the Tories are "competent and
capable", down from 48 per cent last month to 42 per cent now. Over the same
period Labour rose from 36 per cent to 38 per cent, meaning that while the
Tories remain in the lead, their advantage in this area has narrowed from 12 to
4 points. Populus interviewed a random sample of 1,511 adults aged 18+ by
telephone from October 14-16, 2011. For more details, go to www.populus.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 16, 2011

OFM: The happy eater: Most religions have rules about what you can eat. Lord
knows they don't make much sense to me

BYLINE: Jay Rayner

SECTION: OBSERVER FOOD MONTHLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 539 words


There are lots of good reasons for cutting down on meat; Jesus really isn't one
of them. Not that the Catholic Church would agree. A few weeks ago the UK's
bishops declared that they would be encouraging their congregations to give up
flesh on Fridays as a way to "deepen. . . the spiritual aspects of their lives".
Organised religions have form where this sort of thing is concerned. This summer
also saw the publication of Kosher Modern, a cookbook designed to make the
stringent dietary rules of observant Jews - no pork, no shellfish, no mixing of
milk and meat - an opportunity rather than a constraint. A few years ago, a
Welsh Hindu community went to court (unsuccessfully) to save a bull called
Shambo, marked down for slaughter because he had tested positive for bovine
tuberculosis. Hindus don't eat beef. They worship the animals. The Muslims don't
eat pork. The Buddhists are vegetarians and the Jains are strict vegans who
won't even touch root vegetables because of the damage it does to the plants.

From this I can reach only one conclusion: God is a seriously picky eater. And
yes, I know, the Jains and the Buddhists don't have an overarching deity per se,
but you get the point. The divine is marked by a palate that would shame a
three-year-old brought up on crisps and Sunny Delight.

Now, of course, our parents taught us the importance of respect and tolerance.
On the latter part of this agenda I am completely with the project. My, but the
things I tolerate: members of the UK Independence Party, Alan Sugar, Channel 5.
But, as I get older the first part of that equation, the respect part, is, with
the rest of me, withering. Worship however and whatever you wish, but don't
expect me to respect you for it.

From this you might assume that I am a head-banging atheist. You would be
absolutely right. In this admittedly fundamentalist world view, life is one huge
cosmic joke. That being the case, eating pork belly, sucking lobster from the
shell, and scarfing cheese burgers is simply a way of making sense of it all or
at best passing the time. From this you can also tell I am a Very Bad Jew. And
rightly so, because none of it makes the blindest bit of sense.

Once upon a time eating pork in a hot country might have been a bad idea but not
now. The prohibition of mixing meat and dairy arises because of a passage in
Exodus, in which it is declared an abomination to cook the baby goat in its
mother's milk. Well, I'm with the Bible on that. But that's not a reason for
banning cheeseburgers.

So it's just a thing my Jewish brethren do. Why? Because it defines difference.
It sets them apart. Just as the strict veganism of the Jains sets them apart
from the vegetarianism of the Buddhists.

Each to their own, I suppose. I will tolerate you. But it really does sound like
a miserable notion. Still, if you can't beat them, join them. It happens that I
hate Heinz baked beans. I also think salt-fermented sea cucumber

is disgusting.

I am therefore establishing a new religion with me as its god. Accordingly, if
you wish to worship me you must forgo the baked beans and sea cucumber thing.
This will help define you as very special in the eyes of, well, me. The rest of
you can go to hell.

jay.rayner@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

More solid progress by UKIP

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 75 words


THE defection of Lord Hesketh from the Conservatives made it another good week
for UKIP. There was one poll showing the party only a point behind the Lib Dems
in support among male voters and it came a very strong second to the Tories in a
council by-election in Kent. Given continued public anger about the European
Union it may not be long before a poll puts UKIP on levelpegging with or even
above the Lib Dems. And that will be a big political moment.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 14, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Public vote on EU rescue is ruled out

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 581  words


MINISTERS provoked fury last night by ruling out a referendum on European Union
action to bail out the crisishit eurozone.

A Government statement to MPs yesterday made clear that no national poll will be
held in Britain over plans for a GBP 380billion emergency fund designed to
support Greece and other debt-laden eurozone nations.

Some MPs believe the establishment of the European Financial Stability
Mechanism, which requires changes to the EU constitution, should trigger a vote
in the UK under the Coalition's so-called "referendum lock" law.

But Tory Europe Minister David Lidington said the proposals did not need to be
ratified by a referendum in Britain because only nations in the euro currency
system were affected.

The decision enraged critics, who warned that the treaty changes threatened to
create a powerful bloc of 17 euro nations that will be able to crush any British
opposition to Brussels rule.

Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "When they broke their promise to give
us a referendum, ministers promised us a referendum lock; now that referendum
lock has proved to be as useless as we expected.

"This proves we cannot trust Westminster on Europe - they never keep their
word."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said:

"The Government has set its own referendum rules, so of course ministers have
decided there is no need for a referendum.

"But this treaty change will mean a fundamental change to the EU. It will create
a bloc of 17 countries that can overturn anything Britain wants."

MPs are now pinning their hopes on a crucial Commons vote expected next month on
whether to hold a national in-or-out referendum on Britain's EU membership.

The debate is being lined up by the Commons Backbench Business Committee in
response to a series of petitions on the issue including one backed by 373,000
Daily Express readers as part of this newspaper's crusade for Britain to quit
the EU.

The Government introduced the so-called "referendum-lock" law earlier this year
in a bid to stop the longterm drift of political power to Brussels.

Under the law, any future EU constitutional change is supposed to be put to
voters in a referendum before the Government can ratify it.

However, the treaty changes needed to establish the European Financial Stability
Mechanism will not trigger a referendum because ministers believe the move is
only a matter for the eurozone. Instead, MPs will be given a chance to approve
the changes in a Commons vote.

A senior Whitehall source yesterday insisted the move would benefit Britain and
would hasten the UK's exit from the European Financial Stability Facility, a
separate GBP 50billion fund that, unlike the EFSM, includes British taxpayers'
cash.

Ministers are not expecting the EFSM to be a "panacea" for the eurozone crisis
but hope it will bring stability that will also help the British economy.

Mr Lidington said: "This statement is the first stage in the enhanced public and
Parliamentary scrutiny of EU Treaty changes introduced under the provisions of
the EU Act 2011.

"As this Treaty-change decision relates to a provision that only applies to euro
area member states, it does not fall within section four of the Act and there is
no requirement for a referendum.

"The UK supports the euro area's stated commitment to do what it takes to ensure
the financial stability of the euro area as a whole."

He added that if the changes were ratified by all 27 EU member states the
permanent stability mechanism could be established as planned.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lidington, no ratification need
Farage says 'it's their rules'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Slovakia rejects Euro bailout expansion plan - as it happened

BYLINE: Simon Goodleyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6531 words

ABSTRACT

After Malta's vote in favour of the enhanced European financial stability
facility (EFSF), today our attention switches to Slovakia, the final piece in
the jigsaw

FULL TEXT

12.42am: We're going to end this live blog now, as we seem to have slipped
seamlessly into tomorrow.

Here's a round-up of the main events.

[#xfffd] The Slovakian parliament has rejected the proposed expansion of the
European financial stability fund, throwing the eurozone rescue plan into
confusion[#xfffd] Talks are now underway with opposition MPs, ahead of a second
vote later this week[#xfffd] PM Iveta Radicov[#xfffd]'s future is now uncertain,
having lost a confidence vote[#xfffd] City experts hope the vote will not prompt
a stock market crash[#xfffd] Greece will probably get its (EURO)8bn loan, but
faces even more austerity[#xfffd] Nouriel Roubini says a (EURO)2trn bazooka is
needed[#xfffd] Spain's banks are riskier, warns ratings agency

Thanks for reading, and particularly to those who commented. We'll be back with
a new live blog on Wednesday morning, with full reaction to the Slovakia vote,
the latest developments in the eurozone crisis, and important UK unemployment
data too.

Goodnight!

12.27am: The latest word from Bratislava is that most leading Slovakian
politicians are insisting that the bailout fund will be approved through a
second vote, in the next few days.

Iveta Radicova, now effectively a caretake prime minister, has told reporters
that her party will hold talks with the Smer opposition group "as soon as
possible". With Smer onside, the parliamentary maths suggests that the EFSF
would be approved in a second vote.

11.33pm: The Washington Post says Slovakia is holding the European bailout plan
to "ransom" and defying its "mightier neighbours":

The "no" vote after a marathon session of parliament in the sleepy Slovak
capital of Bratislava threw up yet another stumbling block in Europe's haphazard
crusade to staunch a debt crisis that is threatening the global financial
system. The Slovaks were scrambling late Tuesday to rearrange a new vote after
the government there became the first to fall in Europe over opposition to
bailouts.

But the rejection nevertheless seemed destined to rattle already jittery
investors and further zap the confidence of world leaders in the ability of the
Europeans to solve their own problems. The dizzying power of Slovakia to scupper
a major rescue effort largely drafted by far larger Germany and France was
illustrating the quixotic nature of European governance and the region's bungled
attempts to quell the crisis.

It sounds a little like a 1960's Peter Sellers film - with a small plucky
country standing firm against the rest of the world. Of course, as some of you,
including geronimo, point out in the comments, today's No vote has as much to do
with home-grown issues as Europe.

10.50pm: UKIP leader Nigel Farage has welcomed Slovakia's decision to reject the
EFSF expansion.

He tweeted:

@Nigel_Farage: Congratulations to #Slovakia for saying NO to the euro bail outs.
The Euro will fail.

Tim Montgomery of Conservative Home predicted that Slovakia will simply keep
voting until it gives the right answer:

@TimMontgomerie: MT @Reuters Slovak parliament rejects EFSF plan & Under EU Rule
101 they will now have to vote again and again until they vote correctly

And Alberto Nardelli of Tweetminster was disappointed by the result:

@AlbertoNardelli: This is almost as bad as that time Slovakia knocked Italy out
of the World Cup.

Watching Twitter, a lot of people are hailing 'bold little Slovakia' for
standing up to the rest of Europe. Shows how much public concern there is about
this crisis.

10.42pm: Reuters are reporting that Iveta Radicova's government has been
"toppled" by the defeat in the confidence vote tonight, and the "outgoing prime
minister" has asked her coalition partners to start negotiations with the Smer
opposition party.

As far as I can tell, though, Radicova remains as acting prime minister tonight.

Interestingly, even if someone else was ready to step into the PM's shoes,
there's a problem. The president of the Slovak Republic, Ivan Gasparovic, is
currently visiting Indonesia, and expected in the Philippines on Friday. So he
wouldn't be able to appoint a new prime minister for several days.

10.27pm: Will the stock markets crash on Wednesday? I've been quickly speaking
to some markets experts, and the initial reaction is that they don't expect a
major selloff.

However, this is early days.

Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index, told me that the futures
market indicates that the FTSE 100 will fall by 18 points, to 5377 (it closed at
5395 last night). He cautioned that this may change if Asian markets are spooked
by the Slovakian vote.

Michael Hewson of CMC Markets agreed that the market reaction may be a "bit of a
damp squib really", as traders had largely come to expect a No vote.

10.12pm: Slovakia's Smer opposition party holds the key to the bailout, and has
just responded to the No vote.

Speaking to reporters, Smer leader Robert Fico said "It's the coalition's turn
to come with a proposal."

Fico added that "Slovakia must sign up to the rescue fund because without this
tool, the situation will get worse."

That may seem surprising, given that Smer had abstained on this evenings vote.
However, that decision was driven by domestic political reasons -- the chance to
deliver a bloody nose to Radicova's coalition.

So, another vote in a few days looks likely.

9.57pm: News that Slovakia has rejected the EFSF expansion has hit the euro,
although frankly the single currency is bearing up quite well.

From $1.3676 just before the vote, the euro has fallen to $1.3636, losing just
0.3 of a cent. Could be worse.

Wall Street had closed just before Slovakia voted, so New York traders have not
yet had the opportunity to react. Asian markets haven't opened yet either.
Investors will probably be hoping that the vote can be held again in a few days.
On the other hand, it does not take much to alarm the markets right now.

9.43pm: The details of the vote are in, via Associated Press.

Only 55 lawmakers voted to approve the (EURO)440bn European Financial Stability
Facility, which had been tied to a vote expressing confidence in the government.
Nine MPs voted against.

But crucially, 60 MPs abstained, and another 26 failed to register a vote at
all. This meant Radicova's administration failed to win a majority - having tied
the EFSF decision to a vote of confidence.

The opposition left-of-center Smer-Social Democracy party had said it planned to
abstain, while the SaS party (part of the coalition, although for how much
longer?) had vowed to walk out in protest.

9.35pm: For anyone just tuning in now - the vote was about the plan agreed in
July to expand the European financial stability facility (the current bailout
vehicle) to (EURO)440bn, and give it stronger powers (including the ability to
make precautionary loans to struggling nations, and buy up their debt)

Under EU law, every eurozone nation needs to approve it. 16 countries have
already given their approval, even though there was strong public opposition in
several, including Germany. Slovakia was the last one - and right at the end,
Bratislava has thrown the bailout into fresh, unwelcome confusion.

9.29pm: The immediate word from the outgoing Slovakian government is that a
second vote on the EFSF will be held later this week.

The Smer opposition party, also known as the Direction - Social Democracy party,
now holds the key to the future of this bailout plan. Its leader indicated
earlier today that it might be prepared to stand with the now-shattered
coalition government to get the deal though.

Its leader, Robert Fico, had told parliament that: We say no" to the current
government but "we say yes" to the EFSF

Fico, incidentally, was prime minister until last summer.

9.17pm: Slovakia's No vote isn't a shock. Without the SaS party, it was pretty
clear that the government would fail to win a majority.

But it's a personal disaster for Iveta Radicova, whose governmetn must now
surely fall.

After the vote, MPs swiftly left the chamber - we're watching out for reaction
from all sides. Will the opposition now offer its support and get the EFSF
expansion plan passed?

9.14pm: After a quick vote, the results is in. The Slovakian parliament has
rejected the proposal to expand the European financial stability facility.

Iveta Radicov[#xfffd] has lost the confidence vote.

9.09pm: MPs have returned to the chamber. Before the vote, Iveta Radicov[#xfffd]
addressed the chamber and urged MPs to support the EFSF expansion plan.

9.04pm: Sorry, major technical wipeout there. But we are back! And so, after a
brief recess, are Slovakia's MPs.

A vote is imminent.

8.00pm: Yup, the debate is still continuing.

Helen Pidd has more details of the lengthy session:

In a dig at SaS's* stubbornly liberal economic position, Pavol Hrusovsky, an MP
from the Christian Democratic Movement (KDH) party said: "In real life not
everything is about mathematics, but it's also about relationships, including
international relationships."

Finance minister Ivan Miklos: "I want Slovakia to be known for success and
economic development, not for being an unreliable partner for the EU who is
willing to share Europe's success but not help solve its problems."

* - it appears that the SaS party will go through with its pledge not to vote in
favour of hte EFSF expansion, even if it brings down its own coalition
government

7.25pm: Slovakian MPs are continuing to have their say, and there's no sign that
a vote is imminent. However, it doesn't appear that anyone has officially
suggested that the vote is postponed until Wednesday.

Encouragingly, MPs appear to be drifting back into the chamber, although they're
still outnumbered by empty seats (partly because the SaS party walked out as
planned).

6.49pm: As B[#xfffd]la Bug[#xfffd]r starts to speak, here's a round-up of some
of the best quotes from the ongoing debate (as the Wall Street Journal accuses
Slovakia of "dithering"):

Prime minister Iveta Radicov[#xfffd]: "It is the entire eurozone system which is
under threat at the moment, not just a few small countries anymore...Our euro is
under threat. The changing situation needs a quick and immediate reaction."

Richard Sulik, chairman of the Freedom and Solidarity party: "Slovakia will have
to pay the biggest prize for the [EFSF] fund expansion"

Finance Minister Ivan Miklos: "The situation is really serious...The image of
Slovakia has been damaged and we should do all we can to stop it."

Incidentally, Slovakia are playing Macedonia (away) in a Euro 2012 qualifier
this evening. It's 0-0 so far. Neither team can quality for the finals - a cynic
might question what state the euro itself will be in by the time the tournament
comes round.

6.25pm: Are Slovakia's MPs milking the moment, or running out of steam? There
was a small hiatus then after the roster of speakers appeared to run dry. But Dr
Martin Fronc of the Christian Democratic Movement has now taken the microphone.

City traders have been speculating that the vote might actually be delayed until
later this week. It's definitely running late, but it's not clear that it won't
happen tonight...

6.11pm: Looking away from Slovakia, to Spain. Standard & Poor's has just
downgraded the entire Spanish banking sector.

The rating agency said Spain's banks have become riskier, and moved the sector
from 3 to 4 on a ten-point risk rating (where 1 is ultrasafe, and 10 would be
Barings Bank shortly after Nick Leeson fled the building).

S&P predicted that the eurozone debt crisis meant Spain's banks will face
"funding and profitability challenges" for perhaps the next 18 months. It also
said that Spain's own economic growth prospects are "increasingly limited".

5.52pm: The gossip around the Slovakian parliament is that this debate could
continue for some time. :(

As I type, MPs are continuing to file up to the lectern to have their say. It's
not all work-work-work, though - the Wall Street Journal reports that two MPs
are browsing through car magazines. Hope they're not planning to buy one on
expenses....

We've also seen some MPs shouting at their colleagues to get a move on.

5.44pm:Helen Pidd has just interviewed one of the Freedom and Solidarity rebels
(the junior coalition partner which has refused to support the EFSF vote,
despite it being tagged to a vote of confidence).

Martin Poliacik was unrepentant about the decision to boycott the vote, even
though it appears that defeat could bring down the government.

Here's more from Helen:

Poliacik is a 31-year-old, sharp-suited, intricately bearded member of the
Freedom and Solidarity party (SaS). He explained that SaS is a tiny party - it
only has 300 members nationally, and 22 MPs and didn't get much more than 5% of
the vote in last year's elections. Which makes it all the more remarkable that
it is able to hold Europe to ransom in this way.

He was keen to dispel the notion that SaS's publicity grabbing leader, Richard
Sulik (also the leader of parliament), was a lone suicide bomber sacrificing
himself and his party in order to kill the bill.

"We are united in opposition to the EFSF expansion," said Poliacik, adding that
if SaS succeeded in torpedoing the vote, it would be doing so on behalf of
people all over Europe. "In almost all of the countries that have passed the
EFSF, there was a relevant group of people who said no. But they didn't succeed.
If we succeed, we are notjust doing it for Slovakia."

Poliacik said his party were boycotting the vote "because it's not possible to
vote yes and no with one button". This is a reference to the prime minister's
decision to link the EFSF vote with a vote of no-confidence. SaS want to vote no
to the EFSF and yes to thegovernment. "That's why we are going to walk out," he
said.

He said the SaS opposition to the bill could be summed up very simply: "Debts
should not be solved with new debts". It was unfair, he said, that Greece could
flout the rules when Slovakia had to follow them so slavishly when applying to
join the euro. "In order to get into the eurozone, they [the European Council]
were very very strict, making us fulfil every criteria on a spread sheet in
order to meet the Maastricht treaty requirements. So why should we pay for the
Greeks if they are incapable of making reforms?"

Asked what would happen if, as expected, the vote failed and the government
collapsed, he said he didn't know. "This has never happened before. No one
knows." But, he said, his party would survive. "I'm a chronic optimist," he
said.

5.19pm: I'm indebted to reader thea1mighty who has been glued to the debate in
Slovakia. He reports that:

Just seen the guy in the white shirt pour out some powders and do some elaborate
shaking with a small tube.

I'm guessing it's either headache powder, heroin or a cyanide capsule. His body
language ain't saying happy happy joy joy.

After over 2 hours of Slovak, my inital curiosity is waning... come on, just
vote will you

Seconded! However, the debate is continuing....

5.03pm: Out in Greece, there is deep disappointment and anger that the country
faces even more austerity measures in return for future aid (as the troika
warned at lunchtime - read more here)

Helena Smith, our correspondent in Athens, has been speaking to some of the
people who will be affected. She heard predictions of widespread
riots"aggressive" and "fiery" protests if George Papandreou's government
attempts further cutbacks:

Reaction to the assessment that Greece will likely need more austerity measures
to get it out of its debt hole has been swift and sharp. Adedy, the trade union
representing the country's civil servants - the sector worst hit by the barrage
of pay and pension cuts Athens' socialist government has been forced to take in
exchange for aid - had a stinging rebuke.

"At last pleasant news, because when they hear this people will definitely
revolt," the union's general secretary Ilias Iliopoulos has just told me.
"Everyone is at the end of their tether. They've be stretched to breaking point.
The summer's over and they know they can't take anymore. From now on things are
going to get aggressive."

By frequently missing budget goals the beleaguered Greek government has been
forced to take ever more stringent austerity measures. The prospect of yet more
belt-tightening comes just weeks after it announced a new wave of to public
sector salaries and pensions, lay-offs in the civil service, the loss of further
benefits including collective bargaining agreements and a hugely unpopular tax
on properties. The new measures are expected to be passed by parliament in the
next ten days. But not without a fight.

"You will that the reaction will be biting," said Iliopoulos. "Every ministry
and government will be occupied as of tomorrow. Parliament will see some fiery
protests, too. They [international inspectors] can't really expect us to take
this lying down? Every day more and more Greeks are being pushed into penury.
Our country is being turned into a poverty house. And all for [financial]
targets that are being continuously missed. We're in a vicious cycle. It can't
go on."

4.42pm:Helen Pidd, our Berlin correspondent, is in Bratislava watching the
debate. Highlights so far include:

[#xfffd] Slovakian finance minister Ivan Miklos telling MPs that rejecting EFSF
will not just screw Greece, but also hardworking Slovaks[#xfffd] Parliament also
heard that the new Portuguese PM had told Slovak Prime Minister Iveta
Radicov[#xfffd] that the country's dithering over the EFSF was "giving him a
heart attack"[#xfffd] Robert Fico, leader of Direction - Social Democracy, said
his party was keen to hear what the coalition members would offer, in the event
of the government collapsing over the EFSF

4.28pm: There is a sense of bewilderment in the City that Slovakia, which only
joined the eurozone in 2009, holds its destiny in its hands this afternoon.

As Greg Anderson of Citigroup put it:

...The present moment gives rogue politicians the opportunity to extract
concessions. At the time of this writing, the most likely outcome today is in
fact a defeat of the EFSF vote expected at around noon EDT if that vote is
presented without the concession-a confidence vote on the present coalition
government in the country's legislature.

However, it seems somewhat unfathomable that a country that has not been a
member of EMU for even three years could be the one leading to its unravelling.

The debate is continuing in Bratislava, although many MPs have vacated the
chamber (including PM Iveta Radicova).

On Twitter, Pavol Hardos, a PhD student in Budapest, captures the mood well.

@kolkava :This is like watching a car-crash in slow motion; it's maddeningly
horrifying but you can't keep your eyes away.

4.03pm: Robert Fico, the leader of the opposition Direction - Social Democracy
party, has been addressing parliament. He confirmed that his party will not
support the EFSF expansion in the first vote (coming around 5pm BST), but would
support the plan in a subsequent vote (presumably after Radicov[#xfffd]'s
coalition had fractured).

Fico (who was prime minister from July 2006 to July 2010) told MPs that:

We say no" to the current government but "we say yes" to the EFSF

.

3.42pm: Greek bank shares have tumbled this afternoon, losing an average of 13%
following Jean-Claude Juncker's warning this morning that private creditors
could be hit with a 60% haircut (more of a scalping than a Number 1 trim).

Generally, though, the stock markets are in cheerier mood. FTSE 100 down just 9
points, after losing 50 earlier (small potatoes compared to recent swings - but
perhaps a sign that traders are more confident about the euro crisis).

US Treasury bills have fallen in value this morning - another sign this could be
a 'risk-on' day.

3.32pm: Here's a picture of events at the Slovakian parliament - as we said
earlier, Iveta Radicova does not look happy. Understandable, as her government
could collapse within hours.

The speaker at the front is Pavol Hrusovsk[#xfffd] of the Christian Democratic
Movement

3.08pm: It's possible to watch the Slovakian debate live over the internet, at
this website.

We did have some trouble getting the link to work at first (demand may be higher
than usual). But it's working now - PM Iveta Radicova is sitting, looking
stern-faced as SaS MP Peter Kalist explains his views on the EFSF expansion.

Hat-tip to Anjuli Davies of Reuters Insider for finding that link.

3.01pm: Yet more gloomy news on the UK growth outlook. The NIESR thinktank has
just estimates that GDP rose just 0.5% in the three months to September.

My colleague Katie Allen on the economics desk has the details:

The National Institute of Economic and Social Research says that was a slight
uptick from 0.4% growth in the three months to August but that overall "UK
economic growth over the past year has been anaemic."

"The level of GDP is still 4% below its pre-recession peak, suggesting that this
recovery will be the weakest of any since the end of the First World War."

NIESR predicts that what it calls a "period of depression" will continue for
some time to come. It interprets the term "recession" to mean a period when
output is falling or receding, while "depression" is a period when output is
depressed below its previous peak. "Thus, unless output turns down again, the
recession is over, while the period of depression is likely to continue for some
time," the think tank said.

Growth of 0.5% in the three months to September would be an improvement on the
previous quarter. The Office for National Statistics said last week that the UK
economy grew by just 0.1% between April and June.

2.52pm: Important developments from Greece this afternoon. The troika (the
IMF/EU and ECB) have officially concluded their work assessing the Greek
finances, and they say that the country is likely to get the next tranche of
bailout cash, worth (EURO)8bn, in "early November".

That's later than had been hoped.

The good news for Greece is that the troika concluded that the Athens
government's current austerity measures should be enough to meet the target of
(EURO)14.9bn savings in 2012.

The bad news is that further measures will be needed to keep the programme on
track. Not clear what yet - Greece is behind schedule on its privatisation
programme, and has made "uneven progress" on structural reforms to employment
law, etc.

As the troika put it:

Looking to 2013-14, additional measures are likely to be needed to meet program
targets. Such measures should be adopted in the context of an update of the
Medium-Term Fiscal Strategy by mid-2012. To ensure that the program is
growth-friendly, and in view of the ambitious assumptions regarding improvement
in revenue administration already embedded in the Medium-Term Fiscal Strategy,
it is essential that such measures focus on the expenditure side.

2.37pm: A lacklustre start to trading on Wall Street, as Slovakia casts a shadow
over world stock markets. The Dow Jones is down 46 points at 11385 - traders
expect a nervy session until events have played out in Bratislava.

Richard Grasso, former chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange,
is just telling Bloomberg TV that "this is probably the toughest market since
the late 1960s". That'll help the mood.

2.23pm: EC officials have been playing down the danger of Slovakia chucking a
massive spanner into the euro bailout works. Behind the scenes, though, they are
getting rather nervous, after watching the Slovakian coalition government fail
to reach an agreement.

My colleague David Gow has more:

All eyes are on Bratislava inside the European Commission where, officially, the
word is "we don't meddle in the democratic process of a member state" - and,
unofficially, there's a bit of a panic about what happens next.

The working assumption is that Slovak premier Radikova loses the vote today and
her government falls but another vote is held within a few days, the opposition
vote for it and panic over.

But what happens if the Slovaks - who account for less than 1% of the EFSF and
need EU money - do vote against? One view is that it doesn't matter a row of
beans because unanimity is NOT required - and Germany and the rest can pick up
their minute tab. (That's the "general agreement" version of the July 21 deal.)
Another is that unanimity is indeed required - and the Slovaks will get calls
from Berlin, Paris and elsewhere telling them to get in line or lose out on EU
dosh big time.

Meanwhile, EC president Barroso - in The Hague to see the Dutch premier - is
also trying to sort out a row among his key commissioners over the promised bank
recapitalisation plan. Michel Barnier (internal market and French) is said to be
playing hardball against Olli Rehn (economic/monetary affairs and Finnish) and
Joaquin Almunia (competition and Spanish). The plan could yet emerge tomorrow
when the full 27-strong commission meets as a "college" but don't bet on it; it
could be delayed a week.

As things stand, the Freedom and Solidarity Party (SaS) has said it will not
take part in the EFSF vote, which suggests the government will fail. And perhaps
fall. Except that, as David says, opposition MPs could step in.

2.02pm: This is Graeme Wearden taking over from Simon Goodley, as MPs in
Bratislava prepare to decide the destiny of Europe.

The latest word from Slovakia is that the vote will take place sometime after
5pm BST, shortly after European stock markets close. There could be several
ballots, though, if the government loses the first one.

1.38pm: Slovakia's 15 minutes of fame seems apt, considering that one of the
best known figures of Slovak descent is Andy Warhol, whose parents came from
Mikov[#xfffd] in the north east of the country. There's even a statue of the
artist in Bratislava celebrating the connection.

Still, as the Slovaks stew about the euro, I wonder if the their most famous son
might have even anticipated the chances of Greek bondholders suffering a series
of losses. The pop artist produced a trilogy of films: Haircut No.1, Haircut
No.2 and Haircut No.3.

1.10pm: And what might they make of this in Slovakia?

Here's my colleague in Athens, Helena Smith:

Anti-austerity demonstrators have stepped up protests in Greece where
international monitors are expected to conclude a potentially make-or-break
visit to the debt-stricken country. A range of government buildings have been
besieged by civil servants raging against wage cuts, lay-offs and benefits being
slashed.

Both the interior ministry and general accounting office - where inspectors from
the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, or
"troika," have been combing through archival data - have been blocked by
protesters carrying banners. Everyone, it seems, from municipal garbage
collectors to air traffic controllers, oil company workers and public transport
workers have also gone on strike.

The mood, already tense, has become increasingly explosive as Greeks take in the
magnitude of the sacrifices they are being asked to make after 18 months of
relentless budget cuts.

With Athens missing fiscal targets, auditors have made clear that more
belt-tightening is in store - a grim prospect reinforced by the Greek finance
minister Evangelos Venizelos on a day when it was also announced that inflation
last month jumped 3.1 percent.

12.40pm: Has Slovakia ever been this famous? More from Helen Pidd, who's been
interviewing the locals:

I've just arrived in the modern National Council building up by the castle in
Bratislava - there is not enough room for the hoards of journalists who have
descended on the city from all over the world to witness first hand how the
euro's fate is in the hands of this unassuming former communist country of just
over five million people.

It's an oft repeated fact that the average pension in Slovakia is just 300 euro
per month, compared to 1200 euro in Greece. One 69-year-old pensioner I spoke to
doing her shopping this morning said she struggled to get by on euro 350 and yet
did not resent her Greek counterparts.

She said was "definitely" the right decision for Slovakia to join the euro.
"Compared to communism, this is so much better," she said. "I want my children
and grandchildren to have the freedoms that we didn't have." At the same time,
though, she seemed to look enviously across the border into "Bohemia" - ie the
Czech Republic, which has retained its own currency. "They get paid 80% more
over there," she said. "The Czech prime minister was clever to anticipate the
potential negative consequences of joining the euro."

Mariana Kocisikova, 40, a shop assistant in the Dr Feelgood cosmetic store,
agreed that on balance the euro had been good for Slovakia. She said that she
thought the parliament should vote through the EFSF - "perhaps one day we could
be in the same situation as the Greeks and need help". But, she said, it was
unclear to her what the Greeks had done with the first tranche of money. "I
think the Greeks need to learn to work harder and appreciate that they are going
to have to sacrifice something in return for our help."

12.27pm: Italian Journalist Fabrizio Goria has just tweeted:

@FGoria: Slovak lawmakers adjourn EFSF session until 2pm local time.

12.14pm: This has been sent through from my colleague in Brussels, David Gow:

As if the threat of a Slovak block on the EFSF were not enough to unsettle the
markets, Jean-Claude Juncker, eurogroup chairman and veteran Luxembourg premier,
is talking again of a Greek default - and haircuts for private creditors (banks)
of "more than 60percent" compared with the agreed voluntary cut of 21percent.
Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso, European Commission president, is, meanwhile, taking
George Osborne's professed concern for the future of eurozone at face value by
suggesting the UK ("including those with their own currency") join any further
Greek rescue. Oh, and reports from Athens say the 'troika' of EC,ECB and IMF or
"debt inspectors" are ready to give Greece a yellow card on its budget deficit
by being on course for 9% this year rather than the target 7.5%. And this will
come in their report before the postponed EU summit on 23 October.

All these elements share one thing in common: they emanate from Germany or, at
least in the case of Juncker, German-speaking Austria (he was talking to state
broadcaster ORF). And it's the Germans who call the shots, of course - and have
been talking up the huge haircuts lying in waiting (via Sch[#xfffd]uble's
finance ministry). Could be softening up public opinion before having to
shoulder more of the EFSF burden if Slovakia votes against. Germans love
blueprints: let's hope Berlin genuinely does have a plan it can persuade Sarko
and the rest to endorse.

11.57am: Here's the official World Knowledge Forum reaction to a speech just
given by gloomy economist, Nouriel Roubini, at its Seoul conference.

Speaking at the 2011 World Knowledge Forum, Nouriel Roubini, professor of
economics at New York University's Stern School of Business, outlined several
positive trends in the new global economy. However, his speech turned
characteristically dire as he outlined the far greater risks in the system.

Has the corporate line been lost in translation?

Roubini continues:

My own assessment and analysis is that there is more than a fifty percent
probability that in more advanced economies...there is going to be retraction.
Whether you call it a an economic contraction, a double dip recession, whether
you call it a continuation of the first recession, a second recession, the most
important thing is that there is an economic contraction, whatever name you want
to give to it...One important question is whether it is going to be mild or
severe. The answer to that question depends on what happens in the Euro zone.

You need a big bazooka of at least 2 trillion euros to avoid self fulfilling
runs on illiquid but solvent countries. In Europe everyone is talking...and no
action is taken. And every other hour another minister is saying something
different and sometimes the same minister is saying different things on
different days. There is a whole cacophony of views and confusion.

11.45am: And now for best of the tweets...

Interesting angle from Paul Waugh, editor of PoliticsHome.com.

@paulwaugh: Fact alert. Average pension in Greece: 1200 euros. Av pension in
Slovakia: 300 euros. No wonder they don't wanna bail em out.

And from Business Insider.

@businessinsider: The Slovakian PM Is About To Commit The Ultimate Act Of
Sacrifice In Order To Save The Euro.

11.12am: Oh, and as an aside, this piece on FTSE 100 firms and their tax havens
by my colleague Felicity Lawrence is worth a read.

11.01am: Now she's stopped teasing us that a run for the White House might be on
the cards, Sarah Palin is back doing what she does best: talking.

The former governor of Alaska has been on the podium at the grandly entitled
World Knowledge Forum in Seoul, where she's delivered a speech "about freedom,
technology, and how individuality will solve the world's economic problems".

Well - that's how the organisers pitched it. In fact Palin's been banging on
again about what she likes to call "crony capitalism" - meaning only the elite,
and friends of the elite, can prosper.

"When cronyism thrives, innovation, prosperity, and freedom suffer because small
innovative firms get shoved outside," she said. "Only by empowering the
individual will our economies be rescued."

All of which may be true, but is Palin really the right person to make that
point? Her decision to hire old school friend Franci Havemeister as agriculture
secretary, after the candidate cited her childhood love of cows as a
qualification for running the $2m agency, is a classic of the genre.

10.34am: It's probably time for a quick update on the markets - which have
slipped ahead of the Slovakia vote. The FTSE 100 is down just under 1% at
5351.36 while the Eurofirst 300 is off 0.72% at 956.93. Meanwhile - that old
safe haven of gold has fallen by 1% this morning as the dollar's recovery
against the euro prompts buyers to take some profits.

10.12am: And another bit of data. British house prices rose by 0.6% on a
seasonally adjusted basis in August, the biggest rise since March. The
Department of Communities and Local Government said prices were 1.3% lower than
a year earlier, the smallest annual fall since April, taking the average price
of a home to [#xfffd]208,476.

10.09am: Is MPC member Adam Posen being muzzled? Having previously trumpeted his
speech at the annual global alternative investment management conference in New
York this afternoon, the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street now says that it will
not now be releasing a text. It's like the dog that didn't bark.

9.52am: And here's my colleague Heather Stewart on the ONS data.

So much for the "march of the makers", as George Osborne called it. The headline
rise of 0.2% in industrial production for August looks like good news: but it's
driven by oil and gas output, which is notoriously erratic (and in long-term
decline). Manufacturing production fell by 0.3% on the month, and is now just
1.5% higher than it was a year ago.

9.43am: This just in from my colleague Helen Pidd in Bratislava.

I've just had a chat with Radovan Geist from the Slovakian branch of Euractiv,
the online policy think tank. He told me he thinks the most likely scenario
today is that the Slovakian parliament votes against the EFSF package in the
first instance - "because we know from the coalition talks yesterday that none
of the parties had changed their positions at all."

Now that the key euro summit has been postponed until October 22, Geist believes
the prime minister Iveta Radicova will use the extra time to negotiate a deal
with the opposition party, SMER, run by former PM Robert Fico. In other words,
we may not get a "yes" vote for some days yet. Like most analysts, though, Geist
believes the bill will pass eventually - the question is at what cost.

Fico's current position is that while he ideologically backs the bill, his party
will only vote yes in return for some major concessions - either a cabinet
reshuffle or snap elections. It's unclear whether Radicova will be prepared to
sacrifice herself and the coalition in return for keeping her European partners
happy.

9.30am: The Office for National Statistics speaks. August manufacturing output
is down 0.3% on the month (against a forecasts of -0.2%) but the good news is
that August industrial output is up by 0.2%, against a predicted drop of 0.2%.

9.18am: European central bank president Jean-Claude Trichet is speaking to the
European parliament's economics and monetary affairs committee in his capacity
as head of the ominous-sounding European Systemic Risk Board.

Some sound bites:

[#xfffd] There is a global crisis of sovereign risk[#xfffd] Crisis has reached
systemic dimension[#xfffd] Sees upwardly rising risk of contagion[#xfffd] Call
for capitalising banks more so that they don't shrink their balance sheets which
would then hurt the real economy[#xfffd] Possibility for European financial
stability facility (EFSF) to lend to governments to recapitalise banks could be
of benefit[#xfffd] Does not consider it appropriate for ECB to leverage EFSF -
governments have the means to do that[#xfffd] Needs to be clear decision taken
on recapitalisation of banks[#xfffd] On Dexia he says that that the decisions go
in the right direction and must be implemented immediately.[#xfffd] We are
experiencing, after a period of leveraging, a period of correction[#xfffd]
Foreign currency lending may contribute to excess levels of overall credit
growth

9.01am: The markets have been open for an hour in London. The FTSE is down very
slightly - off about 0.64% at 5363.90.

8.54am: Here's the agenda for today. Apart from all the goings on in Bratislava,
we also have a few bits of economic news and one or two well known voices making
speeches in Seoul.

[#xfffd] UK industrial production - 9.30am[#xfffd][#xfffd]UK manufacturing
production - 9.30am[#xfffd][#xfffd]DCLG house price data -
9.30am[#xfffd][#xfffd]NIESR September GDP estimate - 3pm[#xfffd][#xfffd]World
Knowledge Forum in Seoul - all day[#xfffd][#xfffd]Bratislava vote -
5pm[#xfffd][#xfffd]The Federal Reserve's open market committee minutes -
7pm[#xfffd] MPC member Adam Posen speaking in New York - 4.30pm

7.59am: Well, good morning. Malta approved the enhanced European financial
stability facility (EFSF) yesterday so now - in a switch that is fast resembling
the voting at the Eurovision Song Contest - our attentions avert to Slovakia,
the only country left to approve the changes and which is due to vote today.

Prime minister Iveta Radicova will resume talks with her coalition partners
ahead of today's poll but approval is being held up by one of four member's of
her ruling coalition, the liberal Freedom and Solidarity party, which argues
that the relatively poor Slovakia should not be coughing up to save richer
countries.

As an aside, I'm sure you will all know that Slovakia was represented in this
year's Eurovision by a set of identical twins with a little ditty that just
about sums our precarious situation up. It was called I'm Still Alive.

Also, on the markets, a decent rally in the US last night on the back of
Sunday's promise by Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel and France's president
Nicolas Sarkozy to roll-out a comprehensive new package to ease the eurozone's
debt crisis. Spreadbetting group IG Index is expecting the FTSE to open slightly
down.

Its calls are:

FTSE 5391 -8DAX 5855 +8CAC 3161 flat

DOW 11405 -28NAS 2276 -2S&P 1192 -2

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Slovakia's vote must not block the eurozone rescue plan

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1342 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Neither Slovakia's democratic mandate nor its internal
politicking can be a justification for preventing what must be done

FULL TEXT

Did we miss something? Yesterday, the upmarket airwaves were full of dire
warnings of what might happen to the eurozone's bailout package if the
parliament in tiny Slovakia, with its 0.5% of EU GDP, voted no to the deal. Last
night, it did - but the story has again been elbowed back to the inside pages by
Liam Fox's complicated life.

After the Slovakian prime minister, Iveta Radicova, "red-eyed but defiant"
according to the Guardian's account, had her advice ignored by members of her
coalition (it's that c-word again) in Bratislava, the excited pre-vote
predictions were modified, as they so often are.

The PM's coalition may have fractured, but parliament will vote again later in
the week with the opposition coming on board for a yes vote. All will be well -
if well is the right word.

Given the bullying precedents over the reversal of assorted Irish and Danish
referendums (though not French ones, you may notice), I'm sure that yes is
likely to be the case. So the big issue remains, of whether or not the latest
(EURO)440bn strategy (or is it now to become (EURO)2tn?) for restoring
confidence in the zone's finances will work - or whether, as financier George
Soros and others write to today's FT, it is "too little, too late".

By pleasing coincidence, today's Daily Mail carries an article by Norman Lamont,
the then-Tory chancellor in John Major's government. Soros made a fortune by
betting, ahead of the Black Wednesday crisis of September 1992, that sterling
would have to leave the embryo eurozone and devalue. That's what happened, and
Norman later lost his job.

Lamont says EU leaders, led by Germany's Angela Merkel, are perpetrating a
"constitutional outrage" by trying to circumvent the will of their citizens and
future votes in increasingly truculent parliaments (like Bratislava's), let
alone the German constitutional court in Karlsruhe.

They would create a system whereby the European Central Bank (ECB), not the 17
national governments of the eurozone (including Slovakia), lend up to five times
the current (EURO)440bn available under the recently-agreed European financial
stability facility (EFSF) - (EURO)2tn. Their aim is to persuade the US and
sceptical investors that the zone has the political will, and the cohesion, to
ride out the storm.

Who would they lend it to? Why, to underfunded banks which urgently need
recapitalisation as their debts to southern eurozone countries, most
conspicuously Greece, look dodgier by the day and less likely than ever to be
repaid in full.

There is a circularity to all this - governments with their own huge debt
problems lending more money to the banks whose debt problems triggered the
crisis.

The ECB has been buying more debt to maintain confidence in what we now call the
"PIGS" economies - Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain. Or is that I for Italy
now? It's so hard to keep up, and the Irish are recovering better than feared,
bless 'em.

Far better to let Greece default and its creditors - yes, French and German
banks - take a hit than pour more money into the bottomless pit, says Lamont,
who endorses the description (from an Argentine banker, no less) that the
bailout is a giant Ponzi scheme - the scam that landed Bernie Madoff in a New
York jail.

What Lamont really thinks is what he says in a running out of space final
paragraph - that the euro experiment has failed and should be abandoned. That's
fine, Norman, but it's a lot easier said than done. And Soros, the man who
called Lamont's bluff so handsomely in 1992, draws the opposite conclusion in
the FT.

That conclusion is that the eurozone should establish a common Treasury with the
power to raise funds and discipline overspenders (as France and Germany did to
Ireland, but not each other, in the zone's early days); that it reinforces
common supervision of banks, their regulation and insurance, and that it creates
a common growth plan to promote economic convergence and pay down the debt via
growth, not mere retrenchment.

David Cameron, who was in the background shot the day Lamont quit the European
Monetary System in '92, is calling it "the big bazooka", and he's right.

In other words, fiscal and even wider economic federalism. "The pursuit of
national solutions can only lead to dissolution" of the zone, say the FT
letter-writers. Remember, Soros is a Hungarian, child of the multi-national
500-year Hapsburg empire, whose slow implosion was a major cause of the first
world war and countless deaths in the name of national solutions. In the
Balkans, they are still dying.

It's a tall order and makes me even more grateful than yesterday - and every day
- that Britain stayed out of the eurozone. Lamont, who sneaked away from the
Maastricht Treaty negotiations of December 1991 (he left his deputy, Francis
Maude, to sign for the Treasury), deserves some credit for the UK opt-out. So
does Gordon Brown for sticking to it. We may screw things up, but it is us doing
it.

For the Slovak parliament, it was not so easy. Richard Sulik, who leads the
Freedom and Solidarity party, is an academic, very new to the compromises of
real-life politics, and a passionate free marketeer.

He objected to poor Slovakia having to promise (EURO)7.7bn to underpin the EFSF
- 12% of annual GDP - to bail out those lazy Greeks, who got into the eurozone
on far easier terms than the Slovaks - who were made to sweat hard.

Fair enough, you may say. So do I. It's the Lamont position. But Radicova also
makes a telling point when she warns that, if the PIGS economies go bust, then
Spaniards etc won't be able to buy Skoda cars from Slovakia. "Everything is
connected," she said. Quite so.

That is what points me, scary though it is, to conclude that Soros & Co are
probably right. The logic of the euro is that there must be a choice - collapse
of the euro (which would hurt German exports as well as banks, because a
Germany-only currency would be stronger) or moves towards what will be a
German-dominated fiscal union. Slovakia's democratic mandate or internal
politicking cannot be a legitimate justification for preventing what must be
done.

It is a sobering moment, but there are so many these days that we barely
register them. Back in 1914, when German armies tried to create a eurozone by
military means, it was the deep pockets of the City of London and its worldwide
access to funds that defeated the Kaiser's ambition in the long run, as much as
did Britain's gallant armed forces. It could not happen in the footloose City of
today. At the first whiff of gunfire, the bounders would decamp to Zurich.

The Merkel-Sarkozy (let's not forget him quite yet) plan may yet go pear-shaped,
but it is in all our interests to wish them luck. As Nils Pratley notes on
today's City pages, there is still doubt about the credibility of the EFSF,
whose first bond issue has needed high interest rates to woo buyers.

To cheer ourselves, there is better news from the US, where employment and
business activity is finally looking stronger. Ours looks worse today, but a US
recovery will help.

If anything more were needed to tilt me into the Soros-Merkel corner of the
argument, it is an interview in yesterday's Daily Mail which reveals that Lord
Hesketh, the 60-year-old motor racing driver, racecourse owner, ex-Tory
treasurer and former chief whip (under Major) in the Lord, is defecting to Ukip
because Cameron denied voters a referendum on the Lisbon treaty.

Why care? Well, the Mail has a lot of readers that care. So do the 120 or so
Tory MPs urging Cameron to get tough(er) with Brussels. On the backbenches
(where he may soon be), Fox would be one them. In his Mail interview, Hesketh
sets out the worst case scenario, both politically and economically.

A lovely fellow, Hesketh, always lively company. I well remember the bath full
of pink champagne he used to provide for his annual party at the Tory conference
when it was still held at the seaside. Them were the days!

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TORY JOINS UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 14 words


Former Tory treasurer Lord Hesketh has joined UKIP over David Cameron's stance
on the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

WHY I'VE TURNED MY BACK ON THE TORIES

BYLINE: BY SIMON HEFFER

LENGTH: 1323 words


Alexander Hesketh's life has been synonymous with the Tory Party. He first
canvassed for it at the 1959 election, aged nine. He was a minister in several
departments under Mrs Thatcher, and John Major's chief whip in the House of
Lords for three years. He later became Conservative Treasurer.

So to announce that he is to join UKIP as a high-profile campaigner and
fund-raiser is no ordinary political defection.

'I've left for a number of reasons,' he tells me in his West London home. A key
factor is his strong belief that Europe has betrayed this country's working
people.

'An awful lot who lost their jobs did not see the connection with our membership
of Europe. This applies to many working-class people to whom the Labour Party
said Europe was a good thing. They were fooled , but now recognise that their
quality of life is on a steadily declining track unless our relationship with
Europe gets sorted out.'

His defection was not a hasty decision. 'It's been a very long process. It goes
back to when I was a junior minister under Margaret Thatcher and was sent to my
first meeting in Brussels.'

He met the British ambassador who told him that he must agree to three things
that were quite clearly not government policy but which were 'done deals' having
been stitched up with officials from other countries.

Hesketh says: 'I refused, telling him "It's very, very simple, ambassador , it's
a question of whether I'm more scared of you or of the Prime Minister." So I
voted against the three policies, and it didn't go down well.'

The EU's lavish bureaucracy and corruption also disgust him for being out of
tune with the need for austerity. 'There is a new ruling class in Europe, made
up of officials who in Europe pay low rates of tax and get free private
education for their children, plus allowances.'

The tipping point for Hesketh came two years ago when he was 'appalled' by the
Government reneging on its promise to hold a referendum on the controversial
Lisbon Treaty (which transferred huge powers to Brussels, created the post of EU
president and cancelled more than 50 British vetoes over European policy).

Although it was prime minister Gordon Brown who signed the treaty, despite
Labour having promised a referendum, it was the Tories' behaviour which so upset
Hesketh.

While in Opposition, David Cameron gave an 'ironclad' pledge to hold a
referendum on the treaty if the Tories were elected. But when he got into No 10
he went back on that promise.

It was a moment of disillusion for Hesketh, who believes that Cameron was wrong
to claim that, since other EU countries had already ratified the treaty, there
was no point in the issue being put to a popular vote in Britain.

Hesketh says: 'Cameron could still easily have justified holding a referendum. I
believed until we reneged on the commitment to the referendum that Cameron would
have a good hand to play, and could have told the rest of Europe we had to sit
down and talk about the EU's future.'

F or the 60-year-old peer, this was the breaking point. He decided to turn to
UKIP because it seemed to support so many policies that the Tory Party used to.

'If you look at every poll, the public are right behind most of the things UKIP
believes in,' he says.

Warming to his theme about how the ruling class has lost interest in the views
of voters, he says: 'The one group who were excluded from the post-war consensus
was the people. Voters have desires, many of which were created by Margaret
Thatcher , the opportunity to own your council house, for example.'

He expressly does not blame David Cameron for the way the Tories have got out of
touch in this way. 'I think David Cameron is good, but surrounded by a terrible
team in his private office.'

As for the Cameron government, Hesketh says: 'Some ministers have done
magnificently. Education Secretary Michael Gove has been an absolute star.
They've got some good people, but they have to work in a coalition. Every
department has a Liberal Democrat in it chipping away at what the Tories are
trying to achieve.'

Asked whether he discussed his defection with Cameron, he says modestly: 'I
think he's got plenty of other things on his mind.'

But he adds: 'I've come to the view that the Conservative Party has changed. If
you start to say that the big idea is the Big Society, but that the Big Society
isn't going to have a vote on all the issues that it cares most about, then it's
a wasted exercise.'

UKIP's prize new scalp says he wants to be an active party member rather than
just an ornament.

'I'm certainly not going to join UKIP just to pay my subscription.' He says
he'll be out on the stump, canvassing during elections.

'The Conservative Party, like the other parties, is not very keen on public
meetings. I love a public meeting.' He will also be using his network of
business contacts, so useful to him when Tory treasurer, to raise funds for UKIP
.

It's not just over Europe that he has grown apart from the Tories. There are
differences in many other areas. UKIP's policies on immigration controls, lower
tax and spending and selective schools appeal to him.

His views of some Whitehall departments are withering. Having been director of
aerospace giant BAe for nine years and of the engineering firm Babcock for 14
years, he got an insight into the workings of the Ministry of Defence which he
describes as 'very nearly dysfunctional'.

Another area of concern is the pernicious influence of human rights laws, which
he believes have 'destroyed any pretence that we have an independent judiciary
in this country, which is monstrous'.

As for the current economic crisis, Hesketh says: 'The things that really worry
me are that we're in an economic version of the Munich Crisis. In 1938 the whole
of Europe was trying to stop Germany expanding. What we have now is the European
zone surrounding Germany and pleading with it to take over.'

Hesketh says he knows a lot of German businessmen who voice caution about this.
They know their country won't be able to take fiscal control of the eurozone
unless it introduces some very tough rules which will inevitably create a
backlash against Germany.

Hesketh now fears that if the euro collapses, it will divide into two separate
currencies for the northern and southern Europe. The southern, or
'Mediterranean', one would be weak; the northern one strong. Germany would have
the northern currency and it would appreciate in value dramatically against
other weaker ones, including the dollar.

As an example of the problem, he says: 'A man in Stuttgart making a Porsche
would say "How can I export my cars when the exchange rate makes them cost
foreigners 40 per cent more?" This would be a very big problem for the Germans.'

W hen it comes to the British Government's policy to tackle the huge national
debt and try to stimulate the economy, Hesketh says the Coalition has been too
timid with its public spending cuts.

'I think there's a vast amount of waste. Local authorities are raising huge
amounts of money by charging for everything and still providing a poor service.
You only have to look at what those people who run them are paid , often more
than the Prime Minister. It's outrageous.'

With regard to quantitative easing , pumping new money into the economy , he
thinks this is wrong and is also concerned that banks are overcharging for
individuals and businesses to borrow.

'There used to be a difference of about 2 per cent between what banks charged
and the base interest rate. It's now 6 per cent.

'This means that every small business, medium-sized business, large business,
self-employed person and everyone who pays tax is contributing to the rebuilding
of the banks' balance sheets. They need to free up cash, not to rebuild the
banks' balance sheets but to allow people to rebuild the economy themselves.'

Would he ever go back to the Tories if they changed their policies? His answer
is unequivocal. 'You can't cross the bridge and turn round. I'll never go back.'

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

I'M QUITTING THE TORIES FOR UKIP, SAYS EX-TREASURER

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 565 words


A FORMER Tory treasurer has defected from the Conservatives to the UK
Independence Party over David Cameron's handling of Europe.

Lord Hesketh says he lost faith in the party after the Prime Minister reneged on
his promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

In an interview with the Daily Mail, the former Conservative fundraiser said he
would now devote his efforts to drumming up funds for UKIP.

Before the general election, Mr Cameron gave a 'cast iron' pledge to hold a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

However the treaty was ratified before he came to power and he said there would
be no point having a poll at that point.

But Lord Hesketh, who first canvassed for the party in 1959 and was a minister
under Margaret Thatcher, said last night: 'I was appalled when we reneged on the
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

'It didn't matter that Brown had signed it. Labour had said there would be a
referendum. And Cameron could have said the treaty had not been properly dealt
with, and therefore he would have been justified in holding one.

He added: 'I believed until we went back on the commitment to the referendum
that he would have a good hand to play, and could tell the rest of Europe we had
to sit down and talk about the future.'

Lord Hesketh's intervention is likely to fuel euroscepticism in Tory ranks,
which recently led to the creation of a 120-strong group of MPs to lobby for
Britain to renegotiate its relationship with Brussels.

It comes after London Mayor Boris Johnson said he too thinks Mr Cameron should
have held a referendum on Lisbon and that he would support a referendum on
Britain's membership of the EU.

Lord Hesketh also expressed frustration about the way the Tory party has had its
hands tied by being in coalition with the Liberal Democrats.

'Some ministers have done magnificently. Michael Gove for me has been an
absolute star,' he said.

'They've got some good people, but they're in a coalition. Every department has
a LibDem in it chipping away at what the Tories are trying to achieve.'

The peer said he was attracted to UKIP because it seems to stand for so much
that the Tory party used to.

'I've come to the view that the Conservative Party has changed,' he said.

'If you start to say that the big idea is the Big Society, but that the Big
Society isn't going to have a vote on all the things that it cares most about,
then it's a wasted exercise.

'I think David Cameron is good, but surrounded by a terrible team in his private
office.'

Tory strategists fear a revived UKIP will cost the Conservatives seats at the
next election Z perhaps denying Mr Cameron an overall parliamentary majority
again.

Lord Hesketh said he will be active, declaring: 'I'm certainly not going to join
UKIP just to pay my subscription.'

Lord Hesketh made his name running the Hesketh Racing Formula One team in the
1970s, putting world champion James Hunt on the path to success.

He served for three years as John Major's chief whip in the House of Lords and
was Tory party treasurer between 2003 and 2005 under the leadership of Michael
Howard.

He worked closely with businessman Stuart Wheeler who has also switched to UKIP,
becoming party treasurer.

'The Tory party then expelled him. I suppose now they'll expel me,' Lord Hesketh
said.

Asked if he would ever go back to the Tories, he said: 'You can't cross the
bridge and turn round. I'll never go back.'

t.shipman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 446 words


THREE months before becoming Prime Minister last year,Ê David Cameron said
commercial lobbying was 'the next big scandal waiting to happen'. It
hadÊ'tainted our politics for too long'Êand was 'an issue that exposes the
far-too-cosy relationship between politics, government, business and
money'.ÊInterestingly, Porton Capital, a firm which wanted a defence-related
favour, got in touch with Liam Fox's pal Adam Werritty through a group of
commercial lobbyists called Tetra Strategy. One of Tetra's lobbyists is Julie
Kirkbride, the former Conservative MP who had to stand down over exorbitant
expenses claims made for her and then Tory MP husband Andrew MacKay's housing.

THE venerable croon-er Tony Bennett, 85, says of Lady Gaga (both pictured):Ê'I
think she's going to become as famous as Elvis Presley.' Elvis fans will be
delighted, I'm sure. By the way, Her Ladyship performs on Tony's new album,
Duets II.Ê

ENERGY Secretary Chris Huhne, 57, hardly goes out of his way to appear
cuddlesome, does he? His apology for tweeting a journalist over the allegation
that Home Secretary Theresa May copied a speech made by UKIP's Nigel Farage is
typical.ÊHe claimed (wrongly) that Transport Secretary Philip Hammond had
speeding points,Êand coined his leader's nickname,ÊCalamity Clegg. Who can
forget how he broke the news to his wife of 26 years, Vicky Pryce, that he was
having an affair with his adviser? 'We have thirty minutes to kill the story,'
he told her.ÊAn ocean-going bounder!

BONO of U2 (Paul Hewson), addressing the Global Irish Economic Forum, offered to
help restore bailed-out Ireland's tarnished reputation. How about repatriating
U2's massive sheltered earnings and paying taxes on them in Ireland? Ê

ONCE hailed as 'the British Barack Obama', Labour MP David Lammy, 39ÊÐ a
minister in the Blair and Brown governments Ð has failed to land a role in Ed
Miliband's shadow cabinet,Êwhich is far from being a glittering galre of
political talent. Like Obama's, poor Lammy's stock has fallen.

OTHERWORLDY star Tilda Swinton describes George Clooney, with whom she appeared
in the film Michael Clayton: 'IÊremember reading about some Australian
aboriginal ritual where you stand in the desert covered in honey. and you wait
for these ants to come and swarm over you and go into every single orifice.
YouÊjust have to stand there and let them pass. He'sÊgot the patience to smear
on the honey and let them lick it off.'ÊHard to know if Tilda actually likes
George, isn't it?

LULU, 62, says the lyrics of her 1969 Eurovision Song Contest-winning tune Boom
Bang-A-Bang 'don't resonate with me now'. They didn't resonate with all of us at
the time, either, but bless the wee soul.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

It's time for the 'big bazooka' PM tells EU leaders

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 645 words


EUROZONE states were urged by David Cameron to take a "big bazooka" approach to
the debt crisis yesterday, as it emerged British banks are exposed to the tune
of £120billion.

He was joined by Chancellor George Osborne in issuing a joint declaration to try
to bring an end to economically damaging speculation over Greece, which is
affecting Britain's financial system. The call came as credit ratings agency
Fitch said the eurozone crisis was getting worse and was "lacking leadership".

Earlier in the Commons Mr Osborne also spoke about a "lack of leadership" in the
eurozone. Mr Cameron said the world economy was in a "very precarious" state -
and the eurozone was probably the biggest factor.

He echoed comments by US Treasury Secretary Hank Poulson in the 2008 financial
crisis when he urged EU leaders to take a "big bazooka" approach.

He also called on the IMF to be more active in "holding feet to the fire" to
make leaders act.

Summit Both he and Mr Osborne have spoken to counterparts abroad in recent days.
Mr Cameron spoke at the weekend with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, before calling US President Barack Obama yesterday.
Britain has warned eurozone states that they have until the summit of G20
leaders in Cannes early next month to resolve the situation.

Last night there were signs of progress. Mr Sarkozy told Mr Obama by telephone
that France and Germany had agreed to find a plan to solve the eurozone debt
crisis before the G20 summit.

The announcement yesterday that a summit of EU leaders due next Monday is to be
delayed by nearly a week is also seen as a positive step, providing time for a
detailed package to be finalised.

But Mr Osborne and Mr Cameron made clear their frustration with the failure so
far to draw a line under the crisis.

The Chancellor told MPs in a statement that the eurozone was the "epicentre" of
stock market turbulence. It must increase its ***slip £378billion bailout fund -
which does not involve Britain - and ensure banks are strong enough to withstand
shocks, he said.

And he said the weekly "drama" of talks about how to support Greece must end.

He told the Commons: "The eurozone needs to come to a clear decision now and
stick to it", adding that the Greek crisis was "very debilitating for the
world".

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls quoted Commons Library estimates, saying exposure to
the eurozone among British banks amounted to £120billion in June.

While the banks had relatively little exposure to Greek debt, they hold more
Italian and Spanish debt, which would cause problems if the crisis spread.

MEPs on the European Parliament's budget committee are expected today to endorse
calls for a five per cent, or £5.7billion, rise in the EU's budget next year.

They have rejected the 2.02 per cent sought by member states and Mr Cameron's
call for a real terms freeze in spending.

The Government said it was disappointed by the decision, which would add
£680million to Britain's payments on top of this year's £9billion.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell who backs the Daily Express crusade to leave the EU
said: "This ludicrous demand makes it easier to convince a sceptical public that
we need to cease membership."

Tory MEP Richard Ashworth, who is on the budget committee, also rejected the
hike. He said: "The European Parliament is once again showing itself to be out
of touch with the real world."

Former Tory treasurer Lord Alexander Hesketh says he has lost faith in Mr
Cameron after he ruled out a Lisbon Treaty referendum and is defecting to Ukip.
A minister under Lady Thatcher and John Major, Lord Hesketh, 60, said: "I was
appalled when we reneged on the referendum.

"I believed until we went back on the commitment that [Mr Cameron] would have
had a good hand to play."

The move gives further backing to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out
of the EU.

opinion: page 12 CiTY: page 44

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

It's time for the 'big bazooka' PM tells EU leaders

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 640  words


EUROZONE states were urged by David Cameron to take a "big bazooka" approach to
the debt crisis yesterday, as it emerged British banks are exposed to the tune
of GBP 120billion.

He was joined by Chancellor George Osborne in issuing a joint declaration to try
to bring an end to economically damaging speculation over Greece, which is
affecting Britain's financial system.

The call came as credit ratings agency Fitch said the eurozone crisis was
getting worse and was "lacking leadership".

Earlier in the Commons Mr Osborne also spoke about a "lack of leadership" in the
eurozone.

Mr Cameron said the world economy was in a "very precarious" state - and the
eurozone was probably the biggest factor.

He echoed comments by US Treasury Secretary Hank Poulson in the 2008 financial
crisis when he urged EU leaders to take a "big bazooka" approach.

He also called on the IMF to be more active in "holding feet to the fire" to
make leaders act.

Both he and Mr Osborne have spoken to counterparts abroad in recent days. Mr
Cameron spoke at the weekend with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, before calling US President Barack Obama yesterday.

Britain has warned eurozone states that they have until the summit of G20
leaders in Cannes early next month to resolve the situation.

Last night there were signs of progress. Mr Sarkozy told Mr Obama by telephone
that France and Germany had agreed to find a plan to solve the eurozone debt
crisis before the G20 summit.

The announcement yesterday that a summit of EU leaders due next Monday is to be
delayed by nearly a week is also seen as a positive step, providing time for a
detailed package to be finalised.

But Mr Osborne and Mr Cameron made clear their frustration with the failure so
far to draw a line under the crisis.

The Chancellor told MPs in a statement that the eurozone was the "epicentre" of
stock market turbulence. It must increase its GBP 378billion bailout fund -
which does not involve Britain - and ensure banks are strong enough to withstand
shocks, he said.

And he said the weekly "drama" of talks about how to support Greece must end.

He told the Commons: "The eurozone needs to come to a clear decision now and
stick to it", adding that the Greek crisis was "very debilitating for the
world".

Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls quoted Commons Library estimates, saying exposure to
the eurozone among British banks amounted to GBP 120billion in June.

While the banks had relatively little exposure to Greek debt, they hold more
Italian and Spanish debt, which would cause problems if the crisis spread.

MEPs on the European Parliament's budget committee are expected today to endorse
calls for a five per cent, or GBP 5.7billion, rise in the EU's budget next year.

They have rejected the 2.02 per cent sought by member states and Mr Cameron's
call for a real terms freeze in spending.

The Government said it was disappointed by the decision, which would add GBP
680million to Britain's payments on top of this year's GBP 9billion.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell who backs the Daily Express crusade to leave the EU
said: "This ludicrous demand makes it easier to convince a sceptical public that
we need to cease membership."

Tory MEP Richard Ashworth, who is on the budget committee, also rejected the
hike. He said:

"The European Parliament is once again showing itself to be out of touch with
the real world."

Former Tory treasurer Lord Alexander Hesketh says he has lost faith in Mr
Cameron after he ruled out a Lisbon Treaty referendum and is defecting to Ukip.

A minister under Lady Thatcher and John Major, Lord Hesketh, 60, said: "I was
appalled when we reneged on the referendum.

"I believed until we went back on the commitment that [Mr Cameron] would have
had a good hand to play."

The move gives further backing to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out
of the EU.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

Politics Live blog - Tuesday 11 October

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6424 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage as the Liam Fox row continues and the
new Met police chief, Bernard Hogan-Howe is quizzed by MPs

FULL TEXT

4.03pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] Cabinet Office officials have interviewed Liam Fox's friend Adam
Werritty about his links with the defence secretary. Downing Street has refused
to comment on the meeting. "The cabinet secretary is addressing the remaining
issues [in relation to the Fox affair]," the prime minister's spokesman told
journalists this afternoon. "When he has concluded that process, we will let you
know."

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has signalled that the government will drop plans that would
effectively have made registering to vote voluntary. He told MPs: "I have
sympathy with the concerns expressed by the Electoral Commission and others
about the opt-out proposal and I am minded to change these provisions when we
bring forward the final proposal." As the Press Association reports, the current
household registration system means it is a legal requirement to send back a
form stating who lives at an address, with those eligible to vote all being
added to the register. From 2014, registration will require each individual to
supply their date of birth and national insurance number - but, under the
current plans, there will be no law against refusing to do so, meaning people
could simply opt out. (See2.45pm.)[#xfffd] Clegg has told MPs that he supports
the release of all "unredacted and uncensored government documents" relating to
the Hillsborough football disaster.

[#xfffd] Geraldine Finucane has complained about the government's proposal to
order a QC-led review into the murder of her husband Pat, a Northern Ireland
solicitor, instead of a full judicial inquiry. When she met David Cameron to
discuss this in Downing Street, Cameron told her he accepted that there was
state collusion in the murder and he apologised to her on behalf of the
government. But afterwards she said she was "so angry" that the government was
not going to order a full judicial inquiry that she called a halt to the
meeting. Full details of the review will be announced later this week.

[#xfffd] Chris Huhne, the energy secretary, has told MPs that a review of the
nuclear industry has shown that there is "no reason" to curtail the nuclear
industry in the UK. In response to an urgent question about Mike Weightman's
report into the implications of the Fukushima disaster, Huhne said: "The initial
report made clear that current regulatory framework in the UK is satisfactory,
and sees no reason to curtail the operation of nuclear power plants in the UK."

[#xfffd][#xfffd]Les Hinton, the former News International chief executive, has
agreed to give evidence to the culture committee on phone hacking on Monday 24
October.

[#xfffd] Half of all police forces in England and Wales expect to spend less
time tackling illicit drugs as a direct result of budget cuts, a drugs policy
thinktank has said.

That's it from me. Thanks for the comments.

3.38pm: Here's a short afternoon reading list.

[#xfffd] Dan Hodges at Labour Uncut on Ed Miliband's reshuffle.

John Healey probably has greatest cause for complaint, and despite the
ritualistic statements about family commitments, was angry at being forced to
join the school run before he was pushed. Friends of the former shadow health
minister point with some justification to the change in Labour's poll ratings on
the issue since his appointment, and mutter darkly about what they refer to as
the influence of the "Gobshite Tendency" on Ed Miliband's inner circle; "We were
behind on the NHS last September and then 30 points ahead two weeks ago", said
one Healey ally bitterly.

John Denham had told his leader several weeks ago about his intention to step
down from the front bench, and parliament, although he also experienced growing
disillusion at his inability to break through the ring of steel erected by Ed
Balls around Labour's economic policy. "John was frustrated that none of what
he'd proposed made it into either of the Eds' conference speeches", said a party
source, "He'd spent a lot of time working on the business narrative, and he
could see the dangers. He's just hoping he may have a bit more influence as Ed's
PPS".

[#xfffd] Joe Murphy at the Standard says Adam Werritty's travel arrangments
could have cost [#xfffd]100,000.

[#xfffd] Lord Tebbit on his Telegraph blog says his opposition to Harold
Macmillan encouraged him to enter politics. But Tebbit admires Clement Attlee.

I could not join in the praise given to Harold Macmillan. In the 1930s he
proposed "The Third Way", a huge extension of state power to fix the prices of
all essentials to life, food, electricity, travel and more with only a limited
role for the private sector. In the post war era he surrendered to growing
trades union power, but sought to hold down wages by the importation of cheap
labour from the Caribbean. He was an enthusiast for the botched Suez invasion, a
man dominated by events and unable to dominate events. It was his appalling
record which persuaded me to leave flying for politics to help steer the
Conservative Party back to Conservative values. When I had been appointed a
Minister he could not resist a sneer at what he called my "cockney accent".

He was not my favourite man.

I was sorry that anyone should hide behind the name of Clement Attlee and post
views so far from those of that great man, one of the architects of NATO,
responsible for our nuclear weapons programme, and the rearmament on which his
successors built to win the Cold War and save Europe from Soviet imperialism.

3.33pm: David Cameron has met the widow of Pat Finucane, the Catholic solicitor
murdered in Northern Ireland, in Downing Street this afternoon. She was not
happy about the fact that the government is only proposing a QC-led review of
the circumstances of her husband's death. She wants a full judicial inquiry.
Here's an extract from the Press Association story.

The widow of murdered Northern Ireland solicitor Pat Finucane said today she
felt "angry" and "insulted" after David Cameron told her he was proposing a
QC-led review of her husband's case.After meeting the Prime Minister in Number
10, Geraldine Finucane told reporters the whole family was "very disappointed"
and would not support the initiative.The Finucanes want a full independent
inquiry into the loyalist shooting in 1989. There have been persistent claims of
security force collusion with the killers.Speaking in Downing Street, Mrs
Finucane said: "I am so angry and so insulted by being brought to Downing Street
today to hear what the Prime Minister had on offer."He is offering a review. He
wants a QC to read the papers in my husband's case and that is how he expects to
reach the truth."All of us are very upset and very disappointed."She added that
she was "so angry with the Prime Minister that I actually called a halt to the
meeting".

3.18pm: Harvey Boulter, the businessman who had a meeting with Liam Fox in Dubai
after it was set up by Adam Werritty, is giving an interview to BBC News now.
Werritty said he liked to travel first class, Boulter revealed. At the time
Boulter thought Werritty was working for the Ministry of Defence and he found
this extravagance surprising, Boulter said.

3.10pm: Labour's Ben Bradshaw had a good question for Nick Clegg in the Commons
a moment ago. If Sir Philip Mawer isn't going to investigate Liam Fox (see
2.59pm),what is the independent adviser on ministers' interests actually for?
Clegg just said that Mawer's duties were well known.

2.59pm: Back in the Commons, several Labour MPs, including Harriet Harman, have
challenged Nick Clegg over Liam Fox. Clegg said that Fox explained himself in
the Commons yesterday and that Sir Gus O'Donnell was carrying out an
investigation. But he was unable to explain why the case was not being referred
to the Sir Philip Mawer, the independent adviser on ministers' interests.

2.56pm: Frank Field, the Labour former minister, told the World at One that
Labour should apologise to the public for leaving the nation's finances in
disarray.

Here's the key quote.

I think we have got to become much clearer about our responsibilities in this.
When we have, we will be surprised at how easy it was to give an apology which
is not qualified in any way ... I think the whole of the opposition should
[apologise], and I think we would accompany such an apology by saying that, of
course, at every move of borrowing we were encouraged by the now Conservative
government in trying to match that.

So there's guilt all round on that, but we won't move on until we make that very
clear apology without reservations to the British people.

2.45pm: U-turn alert. Nick Clegg has just told MPs that he is "minded" to
changing the plan to make cooperation with electoral registration officers
voluntary. As Patrick Wintour has reported,there have been claims that up to 10m
voters could fall off the electoral register as a result of these plans.Labour
campaigned fiercely against these plans at their conference, with Harriet Harman
at one point suggesting that the coalition was taking away the right to vote.
Clegg told MPs that the government was doing everything it could to maintain the
completeness of the electoral register. He conceded that the government had
proposed an opt-out. But he said the consultation on these plans had shown that
there was considerable concern about them and he said that, when the
consultation was over, he was "minded to change the final legislation to reflect
those concerns".

2.35pm:Nick Clegg is taking questions in the Commons now. I'll be keeping an eye
on proceedings. These sessions do not always produce stories but, given the deep
affection and respect there is for Clegg on the opposition benches, they always
tend to be lively.

2.10pm: The TUC has issued a statement urging peers to vote for the amendment
that would delay the health bill by sending parts of it to a special select
committee. (Mark D'Arcy has more details about thison his BBC blog.)

Brendan Barber, the TUC general secretary, says people should email peers to
encourage them to vote for the amendment (tabled by Lord Owen and Lord Hennessy)
when the division takes place tomorrow.

There has been no substantial debate about whether the changes made in the
Commons meet the many concerns raised by health experts and unions representing
NHS staff. In fact it could be said that the Bill is now even more bureaucratic
and complicated than when it first started out.A proper in-depth review of this
part of the Bill is absolutely necessary even if it gets in the way of the
government's preferred timetable. We're urging anyone who cares about the NHS
and the quality of care it provides to take a moment out to email a member of
the House of Lords. If enough peers make a stand and vote for the amendment, we
may be able to slow or even stop this controversial bill.

2.05pm: Ed Miliband has isssued a tribute to Sir Gus O'Donnell.

Gus O'Donnell has had a distinguished career serving our country, including at
the Treasury and the Cabinet Office. I had a chance to work with him in both of
those places, and he was an outstanding public servant, unfailingly helpful,
thoughtful and supportive in implementing the agenda of the government. He is
not simply an outstanding public servant but a person of the utmost generosity
and kindness. He will be missed in government and I wish him well in the future.

If Sarah Brown's Downing Street memoirs are anything to go by, Gordon Brown,
Miliband's former boss, won't be issuing such a warm tribute himself.

1.40pm: Adam Werritty, Liam Fox's friends, is speaking to Cabinet Office
officials today about his links with Fox, James Landale is reporting on the BBC.
He says those talks are taking place now.

1.31pm: Les Hinton, the former News International chief executive, will be
grilled by the Commons culture committee a week on Monday (24 October), the
committee has announced. Hinton, who lives in the US, will give evidence by
video link.

On Wednesday next week the committee will take evidence from Mark Lewis, the
solicitor representing many phone hacking victims, and Farrer & Co, the law firm
that advised News International on whether to settle its legal case with Gordon
Taylor.

1.20pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary and Britain's most powerful
civil servant, has announced that he is standing down at the end of this year.
His job is being split. Sir Jeremy Heywood will replace him as cabinet secretary
(and David Cameron's chief policy adviser), but someone else will be appointed
as head of the civil service.

[#xfffd] Sir Alistair Graham, a former chairman of the committee on standards in
public life, has said that Cameron should ask Sir Philip Mawer, the independent
adviser on ministers' interests, to investigate the Liam Fox affair.

[#xfffd] Lord Howe, a health minister, has told peers that Lord Owen's plan to
send the health bill to a special select committee "could well prove fatal" to
the bill. He made the point in a letter sent to peers shortly before the start
of a two-day debate on the bill. Tomorrow peers will vote on the Owen proposal,
which the government is opposing because it thinks it would prevent the bill
getting onto the statute book by the end of this parliamentary session. For more
details, do read our live coverage of the debate in the Lords on the health
bill.

[#xfffd] Bernard Hogan-Howe, the new commissioner of the Metropolitan police,
has told MPs that there are now 30 inquiries underway into phone hacking. (See
12.06pm.)

[#xfffd] David Cameron has said that he wants to stop children "being exposed to
inappropriate advertising and sexual imagery and growing up too early". Downing
Street are holding a summit on this issued today and it has been announced that
internet providers are to change practices to make it easier for parents to
block their children from accessing porn on the web. Cameron said: "I welcome
the progress being made. But we must do more, so today I call on businesses and
industry to go further and in the new year I will again review progress because
I am determined we are really making changes that support parents and protect
our children." On her Reality Check blog, Polly Curtis is looking at whether the
blocking internet porn initiative will make any difference.

[#xfffd] The National Audit Office has refused to approve the House of Commons
accounts because Commons officials refused to provide full details about MPs
whose claims were being investigated by the police. (See 12.40pm.)

[#xfffd] Andrew Lansley, the health secretary, has said that patients in England
will be free to choose who provides their hospital care from April next year.

[#xfffd] Vince Cable, the business secretary, has announced that a new
manufacturing technology and innovation centre will receive over [#xfffd]140m
over the next six years.

[#xfffd] Lord Hesketh, a former Conservative party treasurer, has joined the UK
Independent party. As the Press Association reports, Hesketh, who served as a
minister in the governments of Margaret Thatcher and John Major, is to set up a
fundraising club and act as Ukip's spokesman on defence procurement. Hesketh
said: "I have been a Conservative all my adult life but the recent decision by
the Prime Minister to rule out a referendum on EU membership has angered me
greatly.On this, and many other matters, Ukip's views chime with mine and I am
delighted to join the party which is fast becoming a real force in British
politics."

[#xfffd] The Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority has revealed that MPs
who wrongly claimed taxpayer-funded expenses for websites featuring party
political logos were let off partly because of its lax monitoring. As the Press
Association reports, details of 21 investigations into alleged abuses of
taxpayer-funded expenses have been published by IPSA. All but one of the cases
involved illegitimate claims for public cash for websites. IPSA's compliance
officer ruled that they should be spared paying back the cash because the
breaches were relatively minor and the watchdog was "in part at fault". There
are more details on the IPSA website.

[#xfffd] A review of nuclear safety in the UK has found 38 areas where safety
could be improved.

12.40pm: The National Audit Office has refused to approve the House of Commons
accounts because Commons officials refused to provide full details about MPs
whose claims were being investigated by the police, it emerged today. Here's an
extract from the Press Association story.

The National Audit Office was offered anonymised data concealing the identity of
the MPs involved, but Auditor General Amyas Morse ruled that this was not
sufficient.Mr Morse's assurance that he would treat any information
confidentially was not accepted by Clerk of the Commons Malcolm Jack, who has
since retired.As a consequence, the Auditor General today announced that he had
"qualified his opinion" for the House of Commons Members Accounts for
2010/11.The accounts cover only a few weeks of expenses, as responsibility was
handed over to the new Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority on May 7,
shortly after the start of the financial year.In his report, Mr Morse said he
had requested information on claims made by MPs subject to ongoing investigation
by the police."While some anonymised information was provided, the Clerk felt
unable to provide further details on the grounds that, prior to a final decision
on a referral to the Crown Prosecution Service, this would be inappropriate,"
wrote the Auditor General."This is disappointing as I have processes in place
which ensure that national security-classified and sensitive information is
appropriately handled and remains confidential."As a result of this imposed
limitation on the scope of my work, I have qualified my regularity opinion
because I am unable to conclude on the level of irregular expenditure in these
financial statements."

12.24pm: Back to what's been happening outside the home affairs committee.
Here's the full Guardian story with more about the retirement of Sir Gus
O'Donnell.

12.06pm: Bernard Hogan-Howe has now finished giving evidence to the home affairs
committee. As far as I could tell, he seemed to make a good impression on them.
He answered questions directly, he eschewed management gobbledygook and he
sounded assertive without being pompous. Here are the main points.

[#xfffd] Hogan-Howe said that he was "open-minded" about the Metropolitan police
commissioner losing responsibility for counter-terrorism. The government will
review this after the Olympics.

[#xfffd] He said he did not support a "zero tolerance" approach to crime.
Although he said that he agreed with the need to challenge anti-social
behaviour, he said that he did not identify with the term "zero tolerance"
because it implied a "dictatorial" approach.

[#xfffd] He said the Met should have been ready to be "much more flexible" when
the London riots broke out.

[#xfffd] He said there were now 30 inquiries underway into phone hacking.

[#xfffd] He said the police were holding a summit on gang violence with London
councils and the Home Office at the end of this month.

[#xfffd] He said the police would launch a "very thorough investigation" into
how the Met lost the appointments diary for Lord Stevens, one of his
predecessors.[#xfffd] He said that it was a mistake for the Met to invoke the
Official Secrets Act when trying to get the Guardian to hand information about a
confidential source. But the officers involved were trying to do the right
thing, he said.

12.00pm: Keith Vaz asks about phone hacking. He asks about the various
inquiries. Are there enough?

Hogan-Howe says he thinks there are now 30 inquiries going on.

Q: When will you get through this?

Hogan-Howe says he was in the Met between 2001 and 2004. "There will be things
to resolve," he says. "But we will work our way through them."

Q: How would you like to be judged in 12 months' time?

Hogan-Howe mentions three things: restoring public trust, cutting crime and
spending money wisely.

11.57am: James Clappison turns to gang crimes.

Q: What have you learnt from your experience in Liverpool?

Hogan-Howe says the gangs are different.

But his experience on Merseyside showed that it was important to identify gang
members and "enforce the law around them". It was also important to show gang
members that there were alternatives to being in a gang.

He says he has a meeting coming up with London local authorities to discuss
this.

11.51am: Labour's Steve McCabe asks about the impact of the budget cuts on the
Met.

Hogan-Howe says that if the 15% budget cut does not get replaced, he would
expect to lose staff.

Q: How many?

Hogan-Howe says he cannot give an exact number.Q: The Met business plan suggests
the number of civilian staff will be increased. Why?

Hogan-Howe says he does not have the numbers in front of him.

Q: How will you increase the number of special constables? And what will you say
to people who claim full-time officers are being replaced with part-timers?

Hogan-Howe says he thinks the Met will meet its target to increase the number of
special constables.

He does not think that the argument that they are replacing proper officers is
fair. Special constables are a benefit to the force, he says.

Q: Is the business plan credible?

Hogan-Howe says that his experience of a large organisation suggests that
budgets are always being revisited.

11.49am: Keith Vaz asks about the riots in Liverpool.

Hogan-Howe says that the work that was done to reduce gang behaviour in
Liverpool while he was chief constable may have contributed to the fact that
riots did not take place there.

Q: In Liverpool they put police on the streets to make sure riots did not
happen. Should they have done that in London?

Hogan-Howe says in Liverpool they had 24 hours' notice.

11.46am: I've had a computer crash problem, but it now seems to be fixed.

Back to the committee, Lorraine Fullbrook asks Hogan-Howe if he is a "zero
tolerance" police officer.

Not really, says Hogan-Howe.Q: Why not?

Hogan-Howe says that he agrees that anti-social behaviour should be challenged.
But if zero tolerance means all offenders being locked up, he would not support
that.

Sometimes the term zero tolerance is associated with being "dictatorial". He is
not like that, he says.

11.25am: They are now talking about counter-terrorism.

Q: Would it be sensible to separate the job of heading the Met from the job of
being in charge of counter-terrorism? At the moment the commissioner does both
roles.

Hogan-Howe says that the government has decided to review this after the
Olympics. That's sensible, he thinks.

Even if the head of the Met were to lose responsibility for counter-terrorism,
the government would still have a keen interest in the Met.Q: Who is your boss?
The home secretary or the London mayor?

Hogan-Howe says that, in operational issues, he is his own boss.

On other matters, it depends what the issue is, he says.

11.23am: Keith Vaz asks if the Met should have consulted the Crown Prosecution
Service before it sought the order against the Guardian.

Hogan-Howe says that might have led to a different result.

11.21am: Back to the home affairs committee.

Hogan-Howe is still talking about the Guardian and the OSA. The police were only
proposing to apply to the courts for an order forcing the Guardian to reveal
information, he says.

11.19am: Turning away from the committee for a moment, news has just broken that
Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, has told officials in Downing Street
that he will stand down at the end of the year.

11.17am: Labour's David Winnick is asking more questions about the OSA and the
Guardian.

Hogan-Howe says the police did not make an application ordering the Guardian to
reveal information under the OSA.

11.15am: Keith Vaz turns to the Official Secrets Act and the Guardian.

Q: What was your personal involvement?

Hogan-Howe says he was aware that a production order was being considered. But
he had no direct involvement.

He says he is not going to abandon the officers who took the decision to invoke
the OSA to try to get the Guardian to hand over information. They were trying to
do the right thing.

Q: But it was a mistake?

I think it was, Hogan-Howe says. The Met changed its mind. But it was rewarded
with headlines talking about a "screeching U-turn".

11.12am: Labour's Steve McCabe asks about Dick Fedorcio, the Met's public
affairs director. Is he at work?

Hogan-Howe says Fedorcio is being investigated over allegations of misconduct.
He is not coming into the office while that inquiry is underway. But Hogan-Howe
expects that inquiry to be over soon.

11.09am:Bernard Hogan-Howe is at the committee now. He says he was delighted to
get the job.

Keith Vaz, the committee chairman, asks about the morale at Scotland Yard.

Hogan-Howe says it is quite a challenge.

When I talk to people, they have been concerned about leadeship issues.

He says he believes that if you provide a positive lead, you can bring people
with you.

Q: When are you going to reshape your team?

Hogan-Howe says he has to choose two assistant commissioners. He expects to have
selected people by Christmas.

Q: John Yates is leaving on 7 November. We thought he had resigned. Why is he
still in post?

Hogan-Howe says the committee should take that up with the police authority.

Q: Is he at work, or is he on gardening leave?

Hogan-Howe says he is not coming into the office at the moment.

10.54am: Bernard Hogan-Howe, the new commissioner of the Metropolitan police,
will be giving evidence to the Commons home affairs committee at 11am. It's a
relatively short session - it should last just 45 minutes - and it won't focus
on any issue in particular, but it's the first time Hogan-Howe has appeared
before the committee since he became Britain's most powerful police officer and
whatever he says should be newsworthy. I'll be covering the hearing in full.

In the meantime, here's a profile of him that Sandra Laville wrote for the
Guardian last month.

10.26am: George Osborne keeps telling us that, if he were to relax his deficit
reduction programme, the credit rating agencies would downgrade the UK, the
markets would take fright, interest rates would go up and mortgages would become
much more expensive.

But Fitch, one of the three main ratings agencies, has told Sky News that that
is not necessarily true. This morning Sky have been playing a clip from an
interview with David Riley, head of global sovereign ratings at Fitch, who said
that it would be "sensible" to apply some "leeway" to the pace of deficit
reduction. Riley said that as long as the deficit-reduction programme remained
"broadly on track", Britain would not lose its AAA credit rating.

If you get some slippage [in the deficit-reduction programme] because of what's
happening to the economy, I think it's sensible, and I think the market would
view it as sensible, to allow some leeway in that. But the end destination has
to still be to bring the deficit under control and stabilise UK debt.

10.05am: Earlier I said that today's papers won't make for happy reading at the
MoD. Here's why. Two papers are saying in their editorials that Liam Fox should
go. And two more are saying that he is fatally damaged.

[#xfffd] The Independent says in its editorial that Fox should be sacked.

As the saga descends ever further into the minutiae of when, where and how
meetings were arranged or minuted, the central, still unanswered question, is
why Mr Fox failed to recognise that he needed to keep his professional distance
from a friend with links to the defence industry once he became the Secretary of
State. Such a judgement does not need a ministerial code of conduct, it is plain
common sense.

Equally, that Mr Fox attended meetings scheduled by a personal friend and
unattended by departmental staff indicates a cavalier and unprofessional
attitude that can only be a matter of concern. Mr Fox has admitted that he
should not have met a commercial supplier without an official present. But his
acknowledgement is too little, too late ...

Belated apologies are not enough. Neither are Mr Fox's assurances that Mr
Werritty will make no further visits to the department, and will neither go to
international conferences attended by Mr Fox nor meet him on overseas trips. If
the Defence Secretary does not resign, the Prime Minister should sack him.

[#xfffd] And the Financial Times also says in its editorial (subscription) that
Fox should go.

By any standards, Mr Fox has behaved recklessly, disregarding long-standing
rules requiring all meetings and communications involving ministers of the crown
to be vetted by civil servants. He has, by his own admission, also failed to
uphold the ministerial code. This document, adopted by the incoming coalition
government only last year, makes it explicit that ministers should avoid not
only the substance but also the appearance of conflicts between their public and
private interests.

All this would be bad enough in the minister for paperclips. It is conduct
beyond belief by a secretary of state running a department that manages a huge
budget and is also responsible for the defence of the realm ...

True, no hard evidence has come to light suggesting that Mr Fox's actions
procured any direct commercial advantage for Mr Werritty or influenced
government policy. But Mr Fox's position has been undermined by his less than
candid response to the affair. He has approved official MoD statements on his
behalf that have subsequently proven to be false.

It is only fair that the full facts should emerge to establish the extent of Mr
Fox's lapse. Political expediency may encourage David Cameron to retain a
prominent right-winger in his cabinet. But it is doubtful whether a full inquiry
can exonerate Mr Fox from what is now known. His lack of judgment renders his
position untenable.

[#xfffd] The Daily Mail says in its editorial that Fox's reputation will "never
fully recover" from this affair.

Whether Dr Liam Fox stays or goes, this much is clear: the revelations about his
association with his best man raise questions over his judgment from which his
reputation will never fully recover.

For whatever the Whitehall inquiry may find, the Defence Secretary has confessed
he did wrong in allowing the distinctions between his professional
responsibilities and personal loyalties to be blurred.

[#xfffd] And the Sun says in its editorial that Fox is "holed beneath the
waterline".

Why was Werritty handing out cards saying he was Dr Fox's adviser?

If Dr Fox couldn't see how inappropriate all this was, what does that say about
his judgment?

It seems David Cameron has decided - for now - not to wield the axe.

Dr Fox has done well running defence. He would be a loss.

But like a limping battleship he is holed beneath the waterline.

The Times and the Daily Telegraph are not running editorials about the affair.
But their news coverage is fairy damning.

[#xfffd] The Times (paywall) says Adam Werritty, Liam Fox's friend and
self-styled "adviser", has no visible means of financial support.

The friend and self-styled adviser to Liam Fox who has left the Defence
Secretary fighting claims of impropriety appears to have no visible means of
financial support, according to analysis by The Times of his active companies.

As it emerged that Adam Werritty shadowed the Defence Secretary around the world
on 18 privately funded trips, accounts of his three consultancies show that he
has earned little more than [#xfffd]20,000 from them in the past four years.

[#xfffd] The Daily Telegraph says MoD officials do not know how Adam Werritty
makes a living.

The regular contacts between Mr Werritty and Dr Fox have led to speculation that
Mr Werritty, a self-styled "business consultant" has gained financially from
their close relationship.

Despite Dr Fox's assurances that Mr Werritty does not profit from their
friendship, his friend's financial affairs remain largely unknown, even to the
minister's colleagues and civil servants. It emerged last night that Whitehall
officials do not know which companies feature on Mr Werritty's list of "private
clients".

The Daily Mirror and the Guardian have both got editorials about the Fox affair
too but they are not as harsh as the Indie and the FT. The Mirror says Fox's
fate "hangs in the balance", while the Guardian says that the case should be
investigated by Sir Philip Mawer, the independent adviser on minsters'
interests.

9.55am: More than 70% of doctors think that the health bill should be withdrawn,
a survey carried out by the Royal College of General Practitioners suggests. You
can read the RCGP news release here and the full survey results here (pdf).

Andy Burnham, the new shadow health secretary, claims the results are
"devastating" for the government.

He's put out this statement.

Doctors have today delivered a devastating verdict on Mr Lansley and his
dangerous Bill. Almost three quarters of GPs support Labour's call for the
Tory-led government to drop this Bill.

This Royal College of GP's survey provides conclusive proof that the 'pause'
ordered by Mr Cameron was little more than a PR exercise. Doctors know that the
NHS will never be the same again if this Bill goes through.

It is plain for all to see that the out of touch government has failed to build
a professional consensus for their plans, whatever the PM tries to claim.

Peers will start debating the health bill later this morning. Here's the list of
the 100 peers who want to speak.

9.31am: The warning from the Institute for Fiscal Studies about a further
400,000 children falling into relative poverty by 2015 was leading the BBC news
this morning. You can read Randeep Ramesh's Guardian story about the report
here, anIFS summary hereand a full IFS news release here (pdf).

There's quite a lot of reaction to the report around this morning. Here's a
selection. I've taken some of the quotes fromPoliticsHome.

From Liam Byrne, the shadow work and pensions secretary, in a press release.

David Cameron promised us he would not increase child poverty. Now we have the
truth. The Tory-led government's decision to cut too far and too fast this year
will condemn hundreds of thousands more children to grow up poor.

All the progress our country has made in a decade fighting the scar of child
poverty has been wiped out by the decisions of just one year. A generation of
children will not thank Cameron.

From Vince Cable, the business secretary, on Sky.

The figures you cite are predictions; they're not descriptions of what's
happening. But we clearly do take enormously seriously - it's legally binding -
the commitment to get rid of child poverty. 2020 is the backstop date and we're
committed to doing that.

From Lord Glasman, Ed Miliband's "Blue Labour" adviser, on the Today programme.

One of the basic rules of economics is also that deregulation has led to
centralisation and a lack of competition, so when the utilities companies which
they [IFS] mention, which is not so much about the cost of living, but actually
the cost of being alive - gas, electricity - you have got a cartel that is
racking up profits and there really isn't an effective regulatory regime.

From David Willetts, the universities minister, on the Today programme.

We have tried to hold down fuel duty, we are freezing council tax, we have
increased the income tax allowance, we have tried to do the things that help,
but you can't ignore the basic rules of economics, that when you inherit a
situation where an economy has shrunk by 7% there isn't the money there.

9.19am: Adam Werritty, Liam Fox's close friend and self-styled "adviser", is
going to be asked by the Whitehall inquiry into the Fox affair to set out his
sources of income and a full list of his clients, my colleagues Patrick Wintour
and Rupert Neate report. They have just filed a new story. It'shere, on our
website.

9.10am:Sir Alistair Graham, the former chairman of the committee on standards in
public life, was on the Today programme earlier. I'm surprised it's taken him so
long to comment on the Liam Fox affair (he's not shy about accepting invitations
from broadcasters) but now he's spoken out. According to PoliticsHome, he said
that he was "really puzzled and surprised" that David Cameron had not asked the
independent adviser on ministers' interests to conduct an inquiry.

I think the prime minister is in danger of falling into the same trap that Tony
Blair did where he tended to deal with these allegations of breach of the
ministerial code on the hoof, involving civil servants like the permanent
secretary to the Ministry of Defence.

8.50am: Liam Fox is still in trouble. Today's newspapers won't make for happy
reading in the Ministry of Defence - I'll post a full summary shortly - and, if
you want to get a sense of what they feel about him in Downing Street, compare
the warm words that David Cameron was using about him at lunchtime yesterday
with the much more guarded statement that Number 10 put out in the early
evening, after information was released showing that Fox's MoD contacts with his
shadowy "adviser" Adam Werritty were far more extensive than anyone imagined.
This issue is almost certainly not going to be resolved today, but I'll be
keeping an eye on all the latest developments.

There's also an important select committee hearing. Bernard Hogan-Howe has just
been appointed as commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Britain's top police
officer. We don't know a huge amount about him. But we'll know more by 11.45am,
when he finishes giving evidence to the Commons home affairs committee. I'll be
covering the hearing in detail.

Otherwise, it's reasonably busy. Here's the diary for the day.

9am: The cabinet meets.

11am: Bernard Hogan-Howe, the new commissioner of the Metropolitan polices,
gives evidence to the Commons home affairs committee. At 11.45am Bill Bratton,
the former US police chief, gives evidence.

11am: Peers start a two-day debate on the health bill.

1pm: Vince Cable, the business secretary, speaks at the Innovate 11 conference.

1.30pm: Relatives of Pat Finucane, the Catholic solicitor murdered in Northern
Ireland, meet David Cameron in Downing Street.

1.45pm: Jack Straw, the former justice secretary, gives evidence to the Commons
transport committee about motor insurance. He is a witness because he exposed
the way insurance companies were selling details of drivers who had accidents to
personal injury lawyers or claims management companies so that they could
encourage the drivers to sue for damages.

2.30pm: Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, takes questions in the Commons.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm, and another in the afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 5:22 PM GMT

Greece will get more bailout funds

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 411 words


Greece is set to get more bailout cash from Europe, despite failing to achieve
cutback targets conditional for more aid.

A joint statement from the European Central Bank, International Monetary Fund
and the European Commission acknowledged that the Greek government's   promised
austerity plan revival was out of reach - partly because of   "slippages in the
implementation of some of the agreed measures".

But, after concluding the fifth review mission to look at the Athens
government accounts, the statement from the "Troika" of experts said an 8
billion euro (£7 billion) payment to Greece should go ahead in early   November.

Of the total, £5 billion comes from the 17 eurozone countries and the rest
from the International Monetary Fund.

"Once the Eurogroup (17 eurozone countries) and the IMF's executive board have
approved the conclusions of the fifth review, the next tranche (of bailout
money) will become available, most likely, in early November," said the
statement.

Greece had pledged to implement tough enough austerity measures - public
sector jobs and salary cuts and tax rises - to reach agreed economic deficit
and growth improvements in return for the money.

The Troika statement said Greece may not have achieved all its goals so far
but was on the right path.

"In the fiscal area, the (Greek) government has achieved a major reduction in
the deficit since the start of the programme, despite a deep recession.

"However, the achievement of the fiscal target for 2011 is no longer within
reach, partly because of a further drop in GDP, but also because of   slippages
in the implementation of some of the agreed measures."

This afternoon UK Independence Party leader and MEP Nigel Farage expressed
surprise at the Troika decision.

"How can anybody ever trust them again?" he said.

"The purpose of the bailouts is to give confidence to the markets and stop the
economic crisis by providing stability. To do that, their word must be their
bond. Over Greece they prove that the markets are right to show caution."

He went on: "Only a few weeks ago the Troika told the world that if the Greeks
failed to hit the targets set for them on deficit, growth and austerity,   then
the money would not be forthcoming.

"Today's communique makes it absolutely clear that Greece has failed to
achieve any of these targets. But still they propose that she gets the   money.
What sort of message does that give out to the markets?"

Source: PA

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 11, 2011 Tuesday 11:54 AM GMT

Tory Lord Alexander Hesketh joins Ukip over Europe row

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 85 words


A former Tory treasurer defected to the UK Independence Party last night in
protest over David Cameron's stance on the European Union.

Lord Alexander Hesketh held a number of ministerial posts under Baroness
Thatcher and John Major. He will act as a fund-raiser and campaigner for UKIP.

"I have been a Tory all my adult life but the recent decision by the Prime
Minister to rule out a referendum on EU membership has angered me," he said.

The peer, 60, made his name running the Hesketh Formula One team in the 1970s.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 1:29 AM GMT

Tory joins Ukip over Europe row

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 85 words


A former Tory treasurer defected to the UK Independence Party last night in
protest over David Cameron's stance on the European Union.

Lord Alexander Hesketh held a number of ministerial posts under Baroness
Thatcher and John Major. He will act as a fund-raiser and campaigner for UKIP.

"I have been a Tory all my adult life but the recent decision by the Prime
Minister to rule out a referendum on EU membership has angered me," he said.

The peer, 60, made his name running the Hesketh Formula One team in the 1970s.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Tory joins Ukip over Europe row;
POLITICS

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 85 words


A former Tory treasurer defected to the UK Independence Party last night in
protest over David Cameron's stance on the European Union.

Lord Alexander Hesketh held a number of ministerial posts under Baroness
Thatcher and John Major. He will act as a fund-raiser and campaigner for UKIP.

"I have been a Tory all my adult life but the recent decision by the Prime
Minister to rule out a referendum on EU membership has angered me," he said.

The peer, 60, made his name running the Hesketh Formula One team in the 1970s.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

Equality is what makes us strong

BYLINE: Hugh Lanning

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 856 words


We know things are serious when Theresa May mimics Ukip in a speech to
Conservative Party Conference. The controversy about the cat was diverting, but
served only to fuel myths and misconceptions around immigration and the Human
Rights Act. Most worrying is how mainstream it has become to challenge
multiculturalism. Everyone does it - from Ed Miliband rightwards.

The Celebrate Diversity, Defence Multiculturalism conference this weekend comes
at a good time to develop tactics and a strategy in advance of next year's
London and local elections. In the current economic crisis, instead of fuelling
myths around immigration, the aim should be to identify solutions. It is not
immigration, welfare claimants or Dale Farm travellers that have caused this
crisis. Occupying Wall Street has focused attention on the real culprits. While
they evade taxes and contribute so little, the enormous contribution made by
minority ethnic communities which makes the Britain of today, despite facing
racism and social exclusion, goes unrewarded and unobserved. One of Britain's
core strengths is its diversity. In recent years, different expressions of
culture have, far from being respected, been used to identify and rebrand people
as the undesirable "other." The growth of Islamophobia is but the most recent
example of a dirty and nasty tradition. What needs to be guarded against is talk
of culture being a code for nationalism and underlying racism that leads to
immigration and asylum policies being developed to exclude people and groups
unless they fit the so-called cultural norms. The trade union movement has a
history of fighting for equality along with anti-racist and anti-fascist
organisations, most recently to defend against the current attacks on our
communities by the likes of the BNP and EDL. Even though significant gains have
been made - like not one single BNP member winning a seat in Barking & Dagenham
- we cannot afford to be complacent, and must be strategic in the fight against
racism, fascism, homophobia and Islamophobia. The language of exclusion is now
the prevalent norm in the media and political mainstream. It is not now - if it
has ever been - the property of the extremists. The Public and Commercial
Services Union, in this context, sees its role to defend that anti-fascist
tradition by teaming up with others in the trade union movement to voice the
alternatives to the rise of the extreme right. Working in the community, with
all anti-racist groups, unity should not just be a desirable objective but a
cornerstone of how we work. It is our strength - we only need to look at our
opponents to see where sectarianism leads. Building alliances and coalitions is
boring work, but someone has to do it. The forthcoming strike on November 30
shows what can be done with a bit of coercion. The second building block is the
workplace. It is our home territory and not immune to racism. The offices our
members work in reflect the communities they work for. Therefore, as part of our
strategy, we are producing basic guidance on combating racism and fascism in the
workplace for our members to use in instances where racist behaviour and actions
are occurring. Part of this is our continuing campaign to have fascists banned
from the Civil Service. It is our view that membership of a fascist or racist
organisation is incompatible with delivering a public service which is meant to
be based on the law and principles of equality. If the workplace is not immune,
neither is the union itself. Judging by my inbox, when we are supporting the
"other," be it Palestinians or travellers, we have members who agree with the
views that are promoted in the media - blaming everyone but the guilty. So, in
addition, we are also implementing an action plan to take forward and implement
priorities identified by black members at the union's first Race Equality
Strategy Forum, which included looking at improving the way we develop and
implement policies to improve race equality outcomes. Judging the union by what
it does, rather than just by its noble words. If we are to be successful,
equality must be at the heart of everything we do. In the way the union
organises and campaigns, always striving to ensure we are representing all of
our members. Fighting racism and fascism cannot be a passing fad that looks good
on the union's curriculum vitae. Nor can we just parachute into communities, set
up camp for the immediate fight and then expect their eternal gratitude after we
have gone. Our aim should be to get our representatives and members to promote
equality and tackle discrimination in the workplace and, also, in the
communities in which they live and work. We are people from all cultures,
origins, faiths, and countries. We should celebrate our differences because they
are part of who we are as a diverse community. This is what makes us strong.
Hugh Lanning is PCS deputy general secretary. The one-day conference Celebrate
Diversity, Defence Multiculturalism, organised by UAF and One Society Many
Cultures, is on October 15 at TUC Conference Centre, London. For more
information visit www.uaf.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 2:02 PM GMT

How we can avoid being trapped in the wreckage of the European Union

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1349 words


Well, that is it then. We are all Eurosceptics now, even Sir John Major. I
remember how angry he was with me at the Conservative Party Conference in 1992
when I denounced the Maastricht Treaty and was given a standing ovation for
doing so.

Now it seems he wants to use the crisis in the eurozone - which many of us, but
not Sir John, had seen coming even before its bungled birth - to regain some of
the powers he gave away to Brussels in that Treaty.

Nor is it just Sir John. All sorts of Europhiles are now talking about
negotiating to recover lost powers. While I am glad that they have begun the
long journey towards an understanding that Our Masters in Brussels now wield
more power than is compatible with an independent sovereign democracy, I really
doubt that the EU will return any areas of competence to us. It would be fine to
seek support from other member states to squeeze EU spending, or to do something
about the corruption which is endemic in the Commission, as part of the
negotiations on the Greek bail-out and its consequences for the French and
Spanish banks. However, would we really want to bring about a disorderly
collapse in the eurozone if our demands for what must amount to a substantial
change in the Treaty were not met?

At the more extreme end of the sceptical spectrum there are those who would have
no truck with any negotiations at all. Their policy is simply to abrogate the
Treaty of Accession and then from outside, with a clean sheet of paper, to
negotiate some sort of EFTA arrangement to ensure open access for goods and
services both ways between the EU and the UK.

It is impossible not to have some sympathy with their loss of patience with the
EU, but especially during the present state of both our economy and that of the
wider world, it does seem to have some risks and to be rather hard to sell to
the average voter.

There is perhaps a better way forward which I have proposed before. That is that
we should begin to draft the outline of a new European Treaty which would create
a wider EFTA like structure with better provisions for trans-border controls
over matters such as pollution, and would allow those states wishing to achieve
total integration within a single state to do so. There might be such a state
centred on Germany, and perhaps one on the north coast of the Mediterranean, and
they could inherit the Commission without charge. Thus the integrationists could
have their way to ever closer union between nations who may want it, and the
rest of us could simply be individual nation states, all as members of the
super-EFTA.

It would be an attractive formula for many in the Baltics, the central European
states such as Poland and the Czech and Slovak Republics, not to mention
Ireland. Here we could have a referendum to give the Government a strong
negotiating mandate, and if Brussels was obstructive, to call a European
Conference (a new 21st century Concert of Europe) to convert the draft into a
new Treaty which would annul the Treaty of Rome.

It would be a long and hard road, but in my view more likely to yield a sensible
outcome. The alternatives are to walk out now since we would in the long term be
Better Off Out, or to remain trapped in the wreckage of the European Union.

...

First of all I should confirm what most readers had assumed, that is that there
was indeed a "not" omitted from my sentence on the capacity of UKIP to lead a
campaign against the big moneymen of the Commission. I had hoped to find it was
an error within the Telegraph, but I have to confess it was mine.

I really rather enjoyed a number of the debates which my blog post last week
seemed to spark off. There some good exchanges on the subject of our overseas
aid programme in which I was grateful for the support of wilf, rastusctastey,
mpjones, ladymoneypenny, crownarmourer, tonga girl, hdgdggd, johnmcevoy,
Suboptimal Planet, and others. I do accept that not all aid is misdirected, nor
wasted, but like several of you, including crown armourer, I object to giving
aid to states rich enough to have space and nuclear weapons programmes. I am
sorry that I cannot agree with darkseid who says that our aid to Pakistan does
not support its nuclear weapons programme. I think it must do indirectly, and I
found viking's post on misspent aid very persuasive. Johnnyduke raised the
matter of the explosion in numbers of people on our planet. We clearly will be
unable to give them all a decent standard of living. Of course we can all get a
warm feeling from saving the lives of poor kids in Africa. Whether we are
actually lessening the number who will die in future years is less certain.

There will always be a case for carefully targeted aid in our national interest
as tomjenkins and, I think, Laveen Ladharam argued. Also, I have long believed
that we should have compulsory national service under military discipline but
not with military training. The National Servicemen and women should be trained
in all aspects of disaster relief from nursing to road making. They could be
offered to any country facing a national disaster and might win us more friends
than we gain by bombing people.

I could not join in the praise given to Harold Macmillan. In the 1930s he
proposed "The Third Way", a huge extension of state power to fix the prices of
all essentials to life, food, electricity, travel and more with only a limited
role for the private sector. In the post war era he surrendered to growing
trades union power, but sought to hold down wages by the importation of cheap
labour from the Caribbean. He was an enthusiast for the botched Suez invasion, a
man dominated by events and unable to dominate events. It was his appalling
record which persuaded me to leave flying for politics to help steer the
Conservative Party back to Conservative values. When I had been appointed a
Minister he could not resist a sneer at what he called my "cockney accent".

He was not my favourite man.

I was sorry that anyone should hide behind the name of Clement Attlee and post
views so far from those of that great man, one of the architects of NATO,
responsible for our nuclear weapons programme, and the rearmament on which his
successors built to win the Cold War and save Europe from Soviet imperialism. I
found david sparks a little inconsistent in his happiness to fund Pakistan's
nuclear weapons but reluctance to fund ours, which avoided a war in Europe and
precipitated the collapse of the Soviet Union.

There was a good debate about British manufacturing industry, but no one pointed
out that it is now impossible to be competitive in manufacturing in UK if the
labour content of the product is more than 15% to 20 per cent.

KlingonOffTheStarboardbow questioned whether history is a good discipline fro
political leaders. I think it is. If Blair had read the history of the Middle
East he might not have bungled our intervention in Iraq and would certainly not
have blundered into Afghanistan. He also questioned whether the CCB has the
right to buy junk debt and whether to Bank of England is neglecting its duty to
control inflation. Well, the ECB doesn't bother about the law any more than any
other European institution. Our Bank's primary duty is to control inflation but
it has to do so taking other matters into consideration. On inflation I agreed
with UK_Debt_Slave that inflation is theft and at present it looks like by
design. There was a well-argued post by james 01 suggesting that QE will not
work. I just hope he is wrong.

The way in which the media and lobbyists have taken over the Conservative Party
Conference was raised by open_palm. I am afraid that is precisely what the Party
leadership has brought about by its unrelenting efforts to subjugate what were
once independent Conservative Association affiliated to The National Union of
Conservative Associations making them mere branches of Central office. That is
also largely responsible for the withering of the grass roots of the Party and
the fall in its membership.

Within the Conservative Party the Big Society has become the Big Brother
Society, or perhaps the Why Bother Society.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 1:27 PM GMT

Betraying savers and law-abiding citizens is neither modern nor compassionate

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1103 words


Someone will doubtless correct me, but I think it was Mark Twain who said that
he wanted to die in Manchester, as the transition from life to death in that
city would be scarcely perceptible. But the Tory Conference was not all that
dull. Perhaps it gets more and more like the Edinburgh Festival - the best place
to be is at the fringe.

At any rate, the crowds, even if the Conservative Party members were vastly
outnumbered by the media folk, lobbyists and PR people, heard some polished
performances from the big names.

There was some innocent enjoyment to be had from the spectacle of Boris Johnson
being not only amusing, but desperately loyal. Then Michael Gove and IDS were
effective and gave the Tories some cheer. Sadly for Theresa May a speech full of
good things for the Tory faithful had the edge taken off it by some poor staff
work and drafting over that wretched cat. She was of course substantially right,
but her words allowed enough wriggle room for the Justice Secretary Ken Clarke
to delight the BBC with a weasel-worded attempt to rubbish the point she was
rightly making about the impact of the Human Rights Act on the rights of
law-abiding citizens to be protected from foreign criminals.

I must assume that the Deputy Prime Minister must have been rather more pleased
about that the Prime Minister himself, although of course there are cynics who
say he might have been pleased to see the lady - who's tipped as ready to step
forward, should he fall under the proverbial Whitehall bus - slapped down by the
europhilic Mr Clarke.

Sadly William Hague, who had once seemed such a substantial politician, faded
further into a shadow of his former self.

On the other hand, Chancellor Osborne made, and made rather well, the speech of
a Chancellor determined to stick to plan A, or is it now A*, but definitely not
Plan B. One has to suspect that he had a pretty good idea that the Bank of
England would come to his rescue today with another massive tranche of money
printing, sorry, Quantitative Easing, well before the details of his credit
easing plan are made clear.

There is not much doubt that QE will help the economy to grow, but it will be at
the expense of a further rise in inflation. That will cut the value of wages,
but also reduce the value of savings and the burden of debts. Borrowers will be
winners, and savers will be the mugs again. I am not sure that is either
compassionate, or very modern. It is a cruel deception that has been played at
the expense of the vulnerable too often in the past.

The speech of the Prime Minister was exceptionally well-crafted. Who could be so
hard-hearted and cruel as not to feel a glow of warmth at what overseas aid is
doing for poor people in Africa. My only reservation is whether it should be at
the cost of poor people who pay their taxes to employ him as their champion, or
at the cost of the fine men of our fighting services he so rightly praised, as
they come home to receive their P45s in the United Kingdom.

I am all in favour of a overseas aid fund not at the taxpayer's expense, but
funded from voluntary contributions by rich people like the Camerons, Cleggs,
Kinnocks, Blairs, Huhnes, and Osbornes who think it the prime duty of rich
nations to help poor ones.

No doubt all our hearts warmed at his call for a great effort by all of us to
fight off the gloom of the gathering clouds of another economic storm. Nor do I
doubt that the general thrust of the economic policy is right and I admire the
Prime Minister's determination to see it through.

What unnerves me is to hear that his political hero is Harold Macmillan. What a
great PR man. What a dreadful Prime Minister.

...

Perhaps it is just the third week of the party conference season, but I found
far too many of the earlier comments on my Tuesday blog post had a sourness and
arrogant abusive bitchiness which was deeply unpleasant. Phantom rightly
criticised PatriotRG, but there was also Kilho's anti-English tirade, alfredo's
conspiracy theories, david-sparks's bloated self-esteem and sneers and the
insufferable superiority complex of Pitcher which made reading those early posts
so disagreeable.

More amusing, indeed laughable, was Joseph Three who declared that we had no
Masters In Brussels. Then darkseid hit the target very well in pointing out that
the EEC was about creating a single market, but the EU is about creating a
single superstate. I could not have put it better myself.

There were plenty of calls for an in or out referendum on the EU, but I doubt if
the arguments would remain as simple as the UKIPers would like. At a time of
huge economic uncertainty there would be a lot of big money fear mongering to
frighten voters into holding onto nurse for fear of finding something worse and
I do not have confidence in the ability of UKIP to combat that.

Those who believe, as I do, that without massive and at present unattainable
changes in the structure of the European community of nations, we would be
better off out of the slow motion collapse of the EU, still have a lot of
arguments to win against a machine with a lot more money than scruples.

I would not altogether disagree with Hedmarkviking who could see advantages in
membership of the EU, but also that we need a new European structure. Unhappily
that will be opposed root and branch by the self-interest of the massive power
of the Commission. It would require the end of The Treaty of Rome, as amended by
all the others, and something completely different. To that end I agree with
Hellzapoppin in his praise of Daniel Hannan for his work. As logical unionist
put it, we need government by Parliament, not Brussels, or david albion's cry
that he just wants his country back.

Then opened-palm asked my view of credit easing. Well it remains as I wrote, and
drjohnwilson quoted, that I wish I could be sure that someone in the Treasury
had thought out how it would work.

I should thank newsjunkie for his good advice and I accept with good grace his
criticism that I may be too polite and tennesseant's comment that I make more
sense than most politicians in UK or USA, even if that might be faint praise
these days.

In that mood I feel I should break with my normal habit and praise an article in
the Guardian of Wednesday 5th October by Michael White. His account of the visit
of Pauline Pearce (the heroine of the Hackney riots) to the Tory Conference is a
fair-minded and perceptive "must read". It also is a perfect illustration of my
theory of the common ground of politics.

What is more his final paragraph reference to "the complexity and decency of
most political anoraks" is well worth bearing in mind.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT

Lord Hesketh: former Tory party treasurer defects to UKIP 'over Europe';
A former Tory Treasurer has defected to the UK Independence Party over the Prime
Minister's handling of Europe, it has emerged.

BYLINE: By Andrew Hough

LENGTH: 593 words


Lord Hesketh said he had quit the Conservative Party because he had been left
"angered" by David Cameron's decision to rule out a referendum on the Lisbon
Treaty.

The former Conservative party fundraiser said he had lost faith in his party
that he has been a member of "all my adult life" over the failure to hold a
referendum on whether Britain should stay in the European Union.

Lord Hesketh, who first canvassed for the party in 1959 and was a minister under
Baroness Thatcher, will be focus his efforts to raising money for the UKIP while
simultaneously becoming spokesman on defence procurement issues.

UKIP officials have been left delighted by the defection, saying the 60 year-old
was the "most senior Conservative Party politician" to date to join the party.

"I have been a Conservative all my adult life but the recent decision by the
Prime Minister to rule out a referendum on EU membership has angered me
greatly," Lord Hesketh said in a statement issued by UKIP.

"On this, and many other matters, UKIP's views chime with mine and I am
delighted to join the party which is fast becoming a real force in British
politics."

Lord Hesketh, who was also chief whip to Sir John Major and Conservative Party
treasurer, also expressed frustration at the Coalition.

Earlier this month a leading back-bench Tory warned the Prime Minister that he
must call a referendum on Europe or face a rebellion from his own party and a
backlash from voters.

Mark Pritchard, the secretary of the 1922 committee of Conservative MPs, is the
most senior Tory yet to demand a vote on Britain's membership of the European
Union following the eurozone crisis .

Mr Cameron and George Osborne, the Chancellor, know that the unfolding crisis in
the eurozone will give the Conservative party's Eurosceptic MPs a chance to
argue more powerfully for a realignment of Britain's position in the EU.

The 2010 intake of new Tory MPs is regarded as the most Eurosceptic in a
generation and large numbers of government ministers remain privately anti-
Brussels.

Some hope that Mr Osborne, the Conservative election strategist, will advance a
series of policies that can address the concerns of his party before the next
election and in the process tap into the worries of voters.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP Leader, welcomed the announcement. "Lord Hesketh brings a
wealth of political experience to UKIP and he is warmly welcomed to the party,"
he said.

"Over the last few months a number of former Conservatives have joined UKIP as
they have become disillusioned with the Conservative Party. Lord Hesketh felt
let down by David Cameron when he recently ruled out a referendum and he is not
alone.

"The Prime Minister is not only letting down his party, but millions of people
across the UK who just want to have their say on future EU membership."

He added: "On matters of defence, Lord Hesketh's expertise and knowledge is
second to none and he will be a valuable addition to our policy team."

Last year Lord Hesketh resigned from his position as deputy chairman of Babcock
International, an engineering firm, after expressing concern over the Royal
Navy's aircraft carrier programme was "about to turn into a classic British
disaster".

Lord Hesketh, a father-of-three, is the owner and executive chairman of
Towcester racecourse and is also a director of Air Astana, the national carrier
of Kazakhstan.

He made his name operating the Hesketh Racing Formula One team in the 1970s,
which started world champion James Hunt's path to success. A Conservative Party
spokesman declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT

Lord Hesketh: former Tory party treasurer defects to Ukip 'over Europe';
A former Tory Treasurer has defected to the UK Independence Party over the Prime
Minister's handling of Europe, it has emerged.

BYLINE: By Andrew Hough

LENGTH: 594 words


Lord Hesketh said he had quit the Conservative Party because he had been left
"angered" by David Cameron's decision to rule out a referendum on the Lisbon
Treaty.

The former Conservative party fund-raiser said he had lost faith in his party
that he has been a member of "all my adult life" over the failure to hold a
referendum on whether Britain should stay in the European Union.

Lord Hesketh, who first canvassed for the party in 1959 and was a minister under
Baroness Thatcher, will be focus his efforts to raising money for the Ukip while
simultaneously becoming spokesman on defence procurement issues.

Ukip officials have been left delighted by the defection, saying the 60 year-old
was the "most senior Conservative Party politician" to date to join the party.

"I have been a Conservative all my adult life but the recent decision by the
Prime Minister to rule out a referendum on EU membership has angered me
greatly," Lord Hesketh said in a statement issued by Ukip

"On this, and many other matters, UKIP's views chime with mine and I am
delighted to join the party which is fast becoming a real force in British
politics."

Lord Hesketh, who was also chief whip to Sir John Major and Conservative Party
treasurer, also expressed frustration at the Coalition.

Earlier this month a leading back-bench Tory warned the Prime Minister that he
must call a referendum on Europe  or face a rebellion from his own party and a
backlash from voters.

Mark Pritchard, the secretary of the 1922 committee of Conservative MPs, is the
most senior Tory yet to demand a vote on Britain's membership of the European
Union following the eurozone crisis .

Mr Cameron and George Osborne, the Chancellor, know that the unfolding crisis in
the eurozone will give the Conservative party's Eurosceptic MPs a chance to
argue more powerfully for a realignment of Britain's position in the EU.

The 2010 intake of new Tory MPs is regarded as the most Eurosceptic in a
generation and large numbers of government ministers remain privately anti -
Brussels.

Some hope that Mr Osborne, the Conservative election strategist, will advance a
series of policies that can address the concerns of his party before the next
election and in the process tap into the worries of voters.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip Leader, welcomed the announcement. "Lord Hesketh brings a
wealth of political experience to Ukip and he is warmly welcomed to the party,"
he said.

"Over the last few months a number of former Conservatives have joined Ukip as
they have become disillusioned with the Conservative Party. Lord Hesketh felt
let down by David Cameron when he recently ruled out a referendum and he is not
alone.

"The Prime Minister is not only letting down his party, but millions of people
across the UK who just want to have their say on future EU membership."

He added: "On matters of defence, Lord Hesketh's expertise and knowledge is
second to none and he will be a valuable addition to our policy team."

Last year Lord Hesketh resigned from his position as deputy chairman of Babcock
International, an engineering firm, after expressing concern over the Royal
Navy's aircraft carrier programme was "about to turn into a classic British
disaster".

Lord Hesketh, a father-of-three, is the owner and executive chairman of
Towcester racecourse and is also a director of Air Astana, the national carrier
of Kazakhstan.

He made his name operating the Hesketh Racing Formula One team in the 1970s,
which started world champion James Hunt's path to success. A Conservative Party
spokesman declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

BLUNDERING HUHNE CAUGHT BADMOUTHING THERESA MAY

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 420 words


CHRIS HUHNE was forced to admit secretly trying to undermine Home Secretary
Theresa May yesterday after a hugely embarrassing Twitter gaffe.

The Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary accidentally published what was meant to
be a private message using the micro-blogging website.

It said that he wanted to keep his 'fingerprints' off a story which must appear
as if it had come from 'someone else'.

Mr Huhne deleted the message minutes later, but not before it had puzzled some
of his thousands of Twitter followers.

And yesterday, the minister was forced to concede he had been briefing against
Mrs May over her attack on the Human Rights Act at the Tory party conference
last week.

Her call for the Act to be scrapped and use of a case of an illegal immigrant
who she said had avoided deportation because he had a pet cat triggered a bitter
Cabinet row.

Mr Huhne admitted yesterday that he had been sending a message to a reporter on
the Guardian newspaper claiming that Mrs May had borrowed the example from UKIP
leader Nigel Farage.

The message he accidentally made public was a request to keep his name out of
the coverage, saying: 'From someone else fine but I do not want my fingerprints
on the story.'

Mr Huhne said he had noticed his local newspaper website was running a recording
of Mrs May's speech alongside a recording of a similar address by Mr Farage.

'Both politicians use the phrase "I am not making this up" while telling the
story. I frankly thought it was so funny that when a journalist friend rang me
and I told them about it, they said they would write the story,' the Energy
Secretary told the BBC yesterday.

'They wanted to know if I wanted to comment on it and I said no, I didn't. I
completely confess, and I own up and I have apologised to Theresa May, that I
did draw attention to this public matter to the Guardian journalist when he rang
me up,' he said.

Mr Huhne is widely suspected in Westminster of belittling colleagues by
privately briefing journalists.

Yesterday he took a swipe at the Transport Secretary, Philip Hammond, saying he
was recently punished with penalty points for speeding. They rowed over Mr
Hammond's plans to raise the speed limit from 70mph to 80mph. A source close to
Mr Hammond said his points had expired and 'to suggest he has been caught
speeding is incorrect'.

The Crown Prosecution Service is currently considering a police file which could
see Mr Huhne charged with perverting the course of justice, after allegations
from his ex-wife that he made her take his speeding points.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Europe's safety police ban children from blowing up balloons

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 525 words


CHILDREN are to be prevented from taking part in traditional Christmas games,
blowing up balloons and using toy whistles, under European Union safety rules.

The EU toy safety directive, which has been agreed by the Government and just
come into force, states that balloons must not be blown up by unsupervised
children under the age of eight in case they accidentally swallow them and
choke.

Apparently harmless toys that children have enjoyed for decades are now regarded
by EU regulators as posing an unacceptable safety risk. Party games, such as
magnetic fish, that have small parts or those that use chemicals are deemed to
carry too high a risk.

Whistles which blow out a long paper tongue - a favourite at family Christmas
meals - are now classed as unsafe for all children under the age of 14 in case
it causes choking.

The EU directive will require manufacturers and retailers to attach safety
warnings to toys hitherto regarded as harmless. Official guidance states: "For
latex balloons there must be a warning that children under eight years must be
supervised and broken balloons should be discarded."

Frank Furedi, a professor of sociology at the University of Kent, said that toy
safety bans were part of a trend to "micromanage" children's lives at the
expense of allowing them to explore, learn and have fun.

"Toys and activities, such as blowing up balloons, are part and parcel of the
type of children's play that helps them become independent and self-reliant," he
said.

"These bans diminish the experience, both of having fun and learning, by turning
play into a danger zone with rules that stifle life and adventure for children."

Under the EU legislation, Britain will have to ensure that toys are not sold in
shops unless they fully comply with the safety requirements.

All teddy bears aimed at children under the age of three will have to be fully
washable because EU regulators are concerned that dirty soft toys could spread
disease and infection.

The legislation will also impose restrictions on how noisy are toys, including
rattles or musical instruments, are allowed to be. Paul Nuttall, a member of the
European Parliament's consumer safety committee, said the "killjoy" world of EU
officialdom was ill-equipped to understand the concept of children having fun.

"I would say that this is 'crackers' but I'm sure children are banned from using
them too," said Mr Nuttall, a UK Independence Party MEP. "EU party poopers
should not be telling families how to blow up balloons."

British toy manufacturers are concerned that the rules could drive up the price
of Christmas presents because of the cost of safety tests.

The European Commission has insisted that the new safety legislation was needed
to prevent "horror stories".

"These safety standards have been agreed by the UK together with the other EU
member states in order to prevent every parent's worst nightmare," said a
spokesman.

Another EU official admitted the regulations could be difficult to understand
but insisted that safety experts knew best. "You might say that small children
have been blowing up balloons for generations, but not any more and they will be
safer for it."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Embarrassed Huhne caught trying to smear Tory ministers;
Huhne caught briefing against two ministers in two days

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 970 words


CHRIS HUHNE, the Energy Secretary, has been caught attempting to smear two Tory
Cabinet colleagues in a single weekend.

The Lib Dem minister admitted yesterday briefing against Theresa May by tipping
off a national newspaper that a section of her controversial party conference
speech on human rights appeared to have been plagiarised.

And Mr Huhne was embarrassed again after claiming in a television interview that
Philip Hammond, the Transport Secretary, had recently received points on his
licence for speeding.

A source close to Mr Hammond, who last month announced plans to increase the
motorway speed limit from 70mph to 80mph, vigorously denied the claims and
suggested that the Lib Dem minister should "check his facts".

In the same BBC interview Mr Huhne apologised to Mrs May, the Home Secretary,
for telling a journalist from The Guardian that part of her speech appeared to
have been copied from a previous speech made by Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader.

The section referred to an illegal immigrant who could not be deported partly
because he had a pet cat, and led to a row with Ken Clarke, the Justice
Secretary.

Mr Huhne's actions came to light after he accidentally posted a private message
to the journalist as a public update on Twitter, the microblogging service, on
Friday evening. Yesterday the minister claimed that he had spotted a story
noting the similarities between the two speeches on the website of a local
newspaper, the Eastleigh News, in his Hampshire constituency.

"I frankly thought it was so funny that when a journalist friend rang me and I
told them about it they said they would write the story," he said.

"They wanted to know if I wanted to comment on it and I said no, I didn't want
to comment on it."

The message, which appeared on Friday, read: "from someone else fine but I do
not want my fingerprints on the story. C".

It was quickly deleted but screengrabs swiftly circulated on the social
messaging site. Mr Huhne denied that he was behind an anonymous comment in the
story that appeared on The Guardian's website but was removed from the story in
the print version.

It accused Mrs May of being caught out making up stories about the Human Rights
Act for "cheap laughs" as well as plagiarising her "clap lines" from Mr Farage's
speeches.

"I completely confess, and I own up and I have apologised to Theresa May, that I
did draw attention to this public matter on a local website to the Guardian
journalist when he rang me up.

"The rest of it, I'm afraid that's between the Guardian journalist and whoever
he has spoken to."

But Mr Huhne admitted that the Home Secretary had not returned his call. "I have
left a message for her but I haven't managed to speak to her. I left a message
on her voicemail," he said. "This is a pretty small story. We have one little
story in The Guardian on Saturday and that's it."

"It was a frankly quite amusing little aside on what was otherwise this sort of
rather silly story about cats."

In a conference speech criticising the Human Rights Act, Ms May had referred to
the case of Renzo Soria, a Bolivian student who had been arrested for
shoplifting and had argued that deportation would breach his right to family
life because he was in an established relationship - reinforced by the fact that
he and his partner had a pet cat.

Mr Huhne's mea culpa over his attempt to smear Ms May contradicts his initial
explanation for the rogue tweet. After the controversy broke on Friday, he
claimed it was "supposed to be a private message to a member of staff about a
local story".

This weekend, the Energy Secretary also took the opportunity to claim that Mr
Hammond had recently committed a potentially embarrassing driving misdemeanour.

Sources close to the Tory minister said Mr Huhne should "check his facts" as the
points were a long time in the past and had expired. Mr Huhne is still waiting
to hear whether he will be prosecuted following allegations that he claimed his
estranged wife, Vicky Pryce, was behind the wheel after he was caught speeding.

Appearing on the BBC's Politics Show, Mr Huhne was asked whether Mr Hammond was
referring to him when he talked about "decent people" being caught out by the
current limit.

Mr Huhne replied: "Actually, apparently Philip has recently broken the speed
limit and got some points so I mean I put my hands up, I lost my licence from
speeding so I was in a very good position to say that I should assure that
obviously we shouldn't do that and we need to maintain the law."

The interview completed a bad week for Mr Huhne after he was accused in the High
Court of being a hypocrite who concealed his affair with a former lesbian in
order to portray himself as a family man in the run-up to a general election.
The allegations were made as the Energy Secretary's new girlfriend, Carina
Trimingham, began legal proceedings against the Daily Mail over a series of
articles published when their relationship became public knowledge.

His ex-wife also spoke for the first time about the affair, telling a newspaper
she still finds it a struggle to get through each day, more than a year after
she found out about it. Ms Pryce said she had always considered herself and the
Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary as "a unit" and that she had given up a
well-paid job for the sake of his political career and their family.

Yesterday, Renzo Soria disclosed in his first interview that the item he had
been arrested for shoplifting - sparking the deportation proceedings - was a
ceramic cat. Mr Soria, who lives with his partner, Frank Trew, said: "Since the
conference I have had so many calls from friends saying this has got too big and
gone on for too long. It's crazy.

"I regret the shoplifting. Sometimes in life you make stupid mistakes. I like
cat ornaments. I have dozens of them. Stupidly I took this one and the police
came."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Huhne suggested Theresa May plagiarised part of her speech on
human rights
Theresa May's speech referred to Bolivian student Renzo Soria and his cat Maya,
pictured at home with his partner, Frank Trew
THE PEOPLE/ANDREW YATES/AFP//RII SCHROER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain must break free from Brussels' crazy rules;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 147 words


I HAD only to read the first few pages of your excellent paper to start chewing
glass and spitting blood. First, Brussels bureaucrats have awarded themselves a
4.9 per cent rise in the EU's annual budget ("£7bn rise for greedy Eurocrats",
October 6).

It will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels and
Strasbourg.

Second, Foreign Secretary William Hague thinks we should seize powers back from
the EU 'at the right moment' ("Hague pledges action to cut back EU power 'when
time is right' ", October 6). Which is, of course, a cop-out.

If the fact that we are hamstrung by Brussels' many ridiculous directives and
so-called laws is not reason enough, one wonders what more has to be done to
spark some action? His comment that the Government had brought the EU budget
'under control' was rightly rubbished by Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen.

Patrick Ellis, Chulmleigh, Devon

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now Euro killjoys ban children's party toys

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 371  words


MEDDLING EU bureaucrats sparked outrage yesterday for imposing a farcical new
diktat which bans children from using toys.

The Brussels directive will limit the noise in babies' rattles - and stop
under-eights from blowing up balloons.

Traditional toys, including party squeakers, magnetic fishing games and toy
lipsticks, will be banned because they do not conform to safety regulations.

Critics say enforcement is the latest onslaught of EU meddling to hit the UK.

And it will add weight to the Daily Express crusade calling for a referendum on
EU membership.

Measures in the directive, which have just come into force, mean toys children
have enjoyed for generations pose a safety risk.

Party blowers, which unravel when blown and a favourite in party bags, are
categorised as unsafe for under-14s under new rules governing toys that children
put in their mouths.

Bits of the blower could come off and cause choking, say EU officials, who will
not allow them on sale unless they pass stringent safety tests. Some children's
musical instruments, like toy whistles and recorders, will also be banned
because they may come apart and could be swallowed. Rules on magnets in toys
will mean some traditional toys, such as fishing games, and wooden cranes with
magnets, may no longer be deemed safe.

The move follows cases of children swallowing small magnets.

There are also limits on how noisy toys should be, including babies rattles.

From now on teddies and soft toys for children under three have to be washable.

Although Britain broadly supported the directive, government sources said they
resisted provisions which will drive up prices.

Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall, said: "These idiots in Brussels seem to have a death
wish. The euro is falling apart, but what do they concentrate on? Throwing our
toys out of their pram."

The latest madness is likely to anger the 373,000 Daily Express readers who have
backed our crusade for Britain to quit the EU. Add your name by going to
www.express.co.uk/referendum.

Q Should the EU stop meddling in our lives?

NO: 0901 030 8339 No text DXMONNO to 80088

YES: 0901 030 8338 Yes text DXMONYES to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No blowers for under-14s

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain must break free from Brussels' crazy rules;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 147  words


I HAD only to read the first few pages of your excellent paper to start chewing
glass and spitting blood. First, Brussels bureaucrats have awarded themselves a
4.9 per cent rise in the EU's annual budget ("GBP 7bn rise for greedy
Eurocrats", October 6).

It will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels and
Strasbourg.

Second, Foreign Secretary William Hague thinks we should seize powers back from
the EU 'at the right moment' ("Hague pledges action to cut back EU power 'when
time is right' ", October 6). Which is, of course, a cop-out.

If the fact that we are hamstrung by Brussels' many ridiculous directives and
so-called laws is not reason enough, one wonders what more has to be done to
spark some action? His comment that the Government had brought the EU budget
'under control' was rightly rubbished by Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen.

Patrick Ellis, Chulmleigh, Devon

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Media: A matter of opinion: Interview Simon Heffer: The creator of the Daily
Mail's rightwing opinion website RightMinds on why he doesn't vote Conservative,
what he thinks about bloggers' writing style - and why his sights are set on
America

BYLINE: Roy Greenslade

SECTION: GUARDIAN MEDIA PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1327 words


Our job as journalists is to put bricks through windows, says the right mind
behind RightMinds, the Daily Mail's new online section dedicated to opinion.
Simon Heffer is speaking metaphorically, of course, and also paraphrasing one of
his high-profile contributors, Richard Littlejohn, who remarked some 20 years
ago that he was the guy who sat at the back of the class and threw bottles.

Having visited RightMinds almost every day since it was launched on 13
September, I can confirm that there are plenty of bottles and bricks being
hurled around the site.

Beware Guardian reader. Should you call in on the digital home of Littlejohn,
Peter Hitchens, Melanie Phillips, Stephen Glover, Amanda Platell, Quentin Letts,
Andrew Alexander and Heffer himself you should wear a helmet. There are missiles
aplenty to make your head hurt before you reach the thunderbolts of "the great
Kelvin MacKenzie", as Heffer describes him.

RightMinds is a reactionary repository of commentators who rage against modern
Britain and those who have conspired to construct it. It bristles with contempt
for a political class it feels has let the country down.

It is the Daily Mail's answer to the Guardian's Comment is Free, as Heffer is
candidly admits. "It's a particularly good site with a good title," he says,
"and clever old Guardian for using it. I think there's a great admiration on the
Guardian for the Mail, not that they'd admit it, and I think there's a great
admiration at the Mail for the Guardian. I read it every day and think it's a
very great newspaper."

Heffer is a model of candour, except in one respect. He is contractually obliged
to keep mum about the reasons for his departure from the Daily Telegraph. Aside
from that, he says exactly what he thinks. A 51-year-old erudite, polite
Englishman, he employs the most mannered and moderate of tones to express the
kind of rightwing views that make David Cameron's Conservative party sound like
a communist cabal.

It's no secret that Heffer has no time for Cameron. He voted Ukip in the last
general election. "I'm not remotely ashamed of the fact," he says. "It put up a
manifesto that included things like proper immigration controls, leaving the
European Union after a referendum if necessary, and bringing back grammar
schools, and a number of other things that used to be in Conservative manifestos
when I used to vote Conservative."

So it's no surprise to find that many of Heffer's recruits to RightMinds espouse
similarly anti-establishment views. There is Julia Manning from 2020Health
extolling the virtues of private medicine, Simon Richards from the Freedom
Association giving Cameron advice, Mark Littlewood from the Institute of
Economic Affairs raging against red tape and Matthew Elliott of the Taxpayers'
Alliance, unsurprisingly, warning us about new tax wheezes.

Heffer says: "These are people who've got agendas, who've got strong views that
are in keeping with the right of centre tenor of the Daily Mail, and who wanted
a bigger platform. I'm delighted to give it to them."

The quartet are among about 30 bloggers writing for RightMinds, and they are
doing it for free. The Mail might be a hugely profitable enterprise but Heffer
has no budget to pay bloggers.

So how did he come up with the idea of launching the site? Did he bring it fully
formed from the Telegraph?

"No," he replies, explaining that he initially talked to the Mail's editor, Paul
Dacre, principally about writing for the paper, which he is doing every
Saturday.

"We had a long and very enjoyable conversation. It had occurred to me that the
Daily Mail had enormous amounts of terrific content that wasn't necessarily
being capitalised upon in the way it should have been online.

"I said to Paul that we could create a political community, using the Mail's
heft, which is considerable, not just here, but in America."

I registered some surprise at Heffer's online enthusiasm, telling him I thought
he was anything but a digital revolutionary. He suggests that it's a
misunderstanding because he didn't blog while at the Telegraph. "That was for a
very simple reason for that," he says. "I was writing three columns a week.

"In fact, I've been very keen on the whole digital thing ever since it started.
I'm a great consumer of the internet. I do all my shopping online. I read a lot
of stuff on the web. It is the future."

Heffer clearly has a high-minded view of journalism and I wondered whether he
was embarrassed by RightMinds being yoked to a site that purveys, in the main,
entertainment trivia. Is there not a disconnect between his commentariat and the
celebrity pap?

"Not remotely," he says. "Why should I be embarrassed by a site with such a big
audience? I'm only too delighted to be working as part of an online enterprise
that's so successful. It's not for me to patronise or insult users.

"The celebrity stuff drives the site, which also has a hell of a lot of news and
financial material. That traffic is helpful to bringing people to us, to read
our copy."

He is quite taken with the immediacy of blogging. "Blogs are less considered,
more raw, but I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Indeed, blogs are
among some of the best writing one sees today."

But does it meet the exacting requirements of the man whose last book a year
ago, Strictly English, criticised those who, among other things, fail to obey
grammatical rules and use "vulgarities"?

Heffer smiles: "It's clearly a less formal sort of writing. And I think it would
be very counter-productive to change a blogger's voice. So we don't. We all have
our own styles of writing. I write a certain way and I don't expect my bloggers
to emulate me."

After what he admits was a slowish start, the audience for RightMinds has been
growing during the past four weeks at something like 7% a day, a fact confirmed
by the site's deputy publisher Pete Picton. "We're certainly going in the right
direction," he said. The pun was clearly unintentional.

Heffer, conscious that much of the material is repurposed from the paper, says:
"The message we need to get across to Mail readers is that you'll find a lot of
stuff you haven't read in the paper as well. We're putting up about 10 new
pieces every day." There is, however, a feeling of a one-note samba about the
site, implying that RightMinds think alike. It is like a collective howl against
the development of British society and its political leadership that, I suggest
to Heffer, smacks of crying in the wilderness.

"Not at all," he says. "Just the opposite. It is clear from the feedback from
readers that we are articulating widespread concerns. Richard (Littlejohn) and
Peter (Hitchens) would say the same to you. I get an enormous number of
supportive emails and letters, along with the comments left on my articles."

And the next stop for RightMinds? "As I said to Paul, there's about to be a
great political story in America, a presidential campaign that's going to be the
most intensely fought of the last 30 years.

"We already have a huge readership in America, so I've got a couple of American
bloggers so far and I'm in touch with others."

Heffer was in the US this week, "seeing a few people in the Heritage Foundation
and various other think tanks who have a conservative agenda and who have been
consistent in their criticism of Obama since he was elected. I hope to persuade
them to get their message across on our platform."

For free, of course, because - in that regard at least - the Heffington Post is
just like the Huffington Post.

Curriculum Vitae:

Age 51

Education King Edward VI school, Chelmsford; Corpus Christi college, Cambridge

Career

1983 medical journalist 1986 leader writer and sketch writer, Daily Telegraph
1991 deputy editor and political correspondent, Spectator 1994 deputy editor,
Daily Telegraph 1995 columnist, Daily Mail 2005 associate editor and columnist,
Daily Telegraph 2011 editor, RightMinds, Daily Mail

Captions:

Writing for the right . . . Simon Heffer Photograph: Teri Pengilley

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Politics: Huhne says sorry to May for cat speech tip-off

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 96 words


Chris Huhne, the energy secretary, has apologised to the home secretary, Theresa
May, after revealing he was the source of a Guardian story pointing out
similarities between her speech and one by the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage. The
story pointed out that Farage had claimed that a court, citing the Human Rights
Act, had allowed an immigrant to stay in the country due to his pet cat. May, a
few weeks later, used almost exactly the same language in her speech to the Tory
party conference. Huhne told the BBC's Politics Show he had left a message on
May's voicemail to apologise.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Chris Huhne: no change in direction on carbon budgets

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 730 words

ABSTRACT

BusinessGreen: Energy and climate change secretary insists no shift in UK carbon
strategy, despite chancellor's pledge to match EU emissions cuts

FULL TEXT

Energy and Climate Change Secretary Chris Huhne has downplayed reports of a
split at the heart of government over the UK's low carbon strategy, insisting he
is "completely on board" with Chancellor George Osborne's suggestion the UK
should not adopt green policies that risk damaging the competitiveness of
carbon-intensive industries.

Addressing the Conservative Party conference, Osborne said the UK only counted
for two per cent of global carbon emissions and warned that green policies
should not be allowed to put "our country out of business".

Significantly, he pledged that "we're going to cut our carbon emissions no
slower, but also no faster, than our fellow countries in Europe".

The move prompted accusations from green businesses and NGOs that the Chancellor
was seeking to water down the UK's legally binding carbon budgets, which require
the country to cut emissions by 50 per cent against 1990 levels by 2025, well in
excess of the EU's current targets.

However, speaking on the BBC's Politics Show yesterday Huhne rejected
suggestions that there was a Cabinet split over the future of the carbon
budgets, insisting that the government had legislated to impose the new targets
and that it had always been agreed that measures would be taken to help protect
carbon-intensive industries.

He explained that the UK's energy-intensive sectors would "automatically" match
the EU's pace of emissions reductions as they are part of the EU emissions
trading scheme.

"That has always been understood and it was understood when we adopted the
fourth carbon budget," he said. "We have always known that you have to be very
careful about those parts of the economy that are competing with the rest of the
world. I am completely on board for that."

However, green groups remain furious over the Chancellor's comments, accusing
Osborne of undermining low carbon investor confidence by raising the prospect of
a review of the country's binding emissions targets and surrendering the UK's
ambition to become a global leader in the development of clean technologies.

Huhne also struck a conciliatory tone when asked about the environmental impact
of Transport Secretary Philip Hammond's plans to raise the speed limit to 80mph,
noting that there are several countries in Europe with a green reputation that
have a higher speed limit than the UK.

In a surprising move, he suggested that in an effort to limit the environmental
impact of any change the new 80mph limit could be variable and only applied to
electric vehicles.

A spokesman for the Department of Energy and Climate Change refused to be drawn
on whether ministers would push for the new higher speed limit to only apply to
green cars. But he insisted the department would now work closely with the
Department for Transport to ensure that during the consultation "the environment
and carbon impact of any change in the speed limit is fully understood".

Elsewhere in the interview, Huhne downplayed reports that talks between the
government and Scottish and Southern Energy over its planned carbon capture and
storage (CCS) plant at Longannet in Scotland were on the brink of collapse.

He insisted the negotiations were on-going and reiterated government plans to
fund four CCS demonstration plants over the course of the parliament.

"We are determined we should use clean coal and clean gas as part of our energy
mix, along with renewables and nuclear," he said.

He also again stressed that the UK should orchestrate a green economic recovery,
noting that when the world emerged from the Great Depression of the 1920s it did
so with different industries and technologies than it had when it went into the
downturn.

He argued that the UK would invest £200bn in predominantly low carbon energy
over the next decade at a rate of twice the normal investment cycle. "When
people ask where is the demand coming from, the answer is energy," he stated.

Huhne also said that he had contacted Home Secretary Theresa May to apologise
after he accidently revealed on Twitter that he was behind a story that emerged
over the weekend highlighting the similarities between May's speech to the
Conservative Party conference and a speech on the Human Rights Act given by UKIP
leader Nigel Farage.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                October 10, 2011
                                 First Edition

Huhne sorry for tweet on May's speech;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Richard Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 147 words


It took fewer than 140 characters to cause an embarrassing spat between cabinet
colleagues and lay bare some of the the dark arts of politics.

Now Chris Huhne has apologised after he admitted to tipping off a journalist in
a public tweet that was intended to be private about a story involving Home
Secretary Theresa May.

The Energy Secretary admitted yesterday to telling a journalist about a story
which suggested that a section of Mrs May's speech at the Conservative party
conference had been lifted from a speech made by the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage.

Huhne became embroiled in another dispute yesterday when he said in a BBC
interview that Transport Secretary Phillip Hammond had been recently punished
with penalty points for speeding.

Sources close to Mr Hammond said: "Chris Huhne should check his facts. Philip
has always been open that he had points but they have now expired."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 10, 2011 Monday 2:33 PM GMT

Chris Huhne admits Twitter gaffe was linked to 'catflap' affair

BYLINE: By Richard Hall

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 376 words


It took fewer than 140 characters to cause an embarrassing spat between  cabinet
colleagues and lay bare some of the the dark arts of politics.

Now Chris Huhne has apologised after he admitted to tipping off a journalist in
a public tweet that was intended to be private about an embarrassing story
involving the Home Secretary Theresa May.

On Friday, Chris Huhne, the Energy Secretary, tweeted: "from someone else fine
but I do not want my fingerprints on the story. C".

The message triggered fevered speculation inside Westminster and beyond about
the identity of the recipient, and the nature of the story Mr Huhne had
evidently leaked.

The Minister admitted yesterday to telling a journalist about a story which
suggested that a section of Mrs May's speech at the Conservative party
conference had been lifted from a speech made by the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage.

Mrs May's speech had already caused a public spat between her and her colleague
Ken Clarke after he questioned her claims that an illegal immigrant dodged
deportation because he had a pet cat.

Mr Huhne explained on the BBC's The Politics Show yesterday: "I arrived in my
constituency on Friday morning and... [heard] a recording of Theresa May and a
recording from a few months previously of the leader of the UK Independence
Party Nigel Farage and it was exactly the same. And I frankly thought it was so
funny that when a journalist friend rang me and I told them about it they said
they would write the story.

"They wanted to know if I wanted to comment on it and I said no, I didn't want
to." The story appeared in Saturday's edition of The Guardian under the
headline: "May accused of lifting cat tale from Ukip chief."

Mr Huhne, who said he had left a message on Mrs May's voicemail apologising for
the incident, had previously claimed the tweet was intended for a member of
staff, calling it a "fairly marginal" mistake.

The Minister became embroiled in another dispute with a colleague in the same
interview yesterday when he said the transport secretary Phillip Hammond was
recently punished with penalty points for speeding.

But sources close to Mr Hammond said: "Chris Huhne should check his facts.
Philip has always been open that he has had points in the past but they have now
expired."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Sneaky' Huhne's apology over May

BYLINE: KEVIN SCHOFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words


ENERGY Secretary Chris Huhne has apologised to Home Secretary Theresa May for
sneakily trying to embarrass her over her Tory conference speech.

Mr Huhne told a journalist she had stolen from UKIP leader Nigel Farage the
section about an illegal immigrant who dodged deportation because he had a pet
cat.

He was caught out when he accidentally posted online a message he sent to the
journalist.

It said: "From someone else fine. But I do not want my fingerprints on the
story. C." He quickly deleted the message from Twitter, but not before it had
been re-tweeted dozens of times.

Mr Huhne said yesterday: "I completely confess - and I have apologised to
Theresa May that I did draw attention to this matter."

Mr Huhne was also in hot water yesterday over his claims that Transport
Secretary Philip Hammond recently got penalty points for speeding. Sources close
to Mr Hammond said he was "incorrect". Mr Hammond had received points in the
past but these had expired. Mr Huhne is waiting to hear if he will be prosecuted
for allegedly asking his wife to take speeding points for him.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sorry ... Huhne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Huhne's apology over May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 143 words


ENERGY Secretary Chris Huhne has apologised to Home Secretary Theresa May for
trying to embarrass her over her Tory conference speech.

Mr Huhne told a journalist she had stolen from Ukip leader Nigel Farage the
section about an illegal immigrant who dodged deportation because he had a pet
cat.

He was caught out when he accidentally posted online a message he sent to the
journalist.

Mr Huhne said yesterday: "I completely confess - and I have apologised to
Theresa May that I did draw attention to this matter."

Mr Huhne was also in hot water yesterday over his claims that Transport
Secretary Philip Hammond recently got penalty points for speeding. Sources close
to Mr Hammond said Mr Hammond had received points in the past but these had
expired.

Mr Huhne is waiting to hear if he will be prosecuted for allegedly asking his
wife to take speeding points for him.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Huhne apologises to May after tweet tip on conference speech

BYLINE: Sadie Gray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 276 words


Chris Huhne apologised to the Home Secretary yesterday after posting a message
on Twitter revealing that he had tipped off a newspaper with allegations that
she had copied parts of her conference speech.

Mr Huhne admitted telling a reporter from The Guardian that sections of Theresa
May's address appeared to have been lifted from a speech made by Nigel Farage,
the UKIP leader.

A short while later he claimed that Philip Hammond, the Transport Secretary, had
recently been given points for speeding - an allegation that sources close to Mr
Hammond have denied.

Mr Huhne's first intervention came during Mrs May's row with Kenneth Clarke, her
Cabinet colleague, over her claim that the deportation of an illegal immigrant
had been blocked under the Human Rights Act because he had a pet cat. On Friday,
the Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary tweeted: "From someone else fine but I do
not want my fingerprints on the story. C." The message was swiftly deleted, but
screengrabs were already circulating and were later linked to the Guardian
story.

He said: "I completely confess, and I own up and I have apologised to Theresa
May, that I did draw attention to this public matter on a local website to the
Guardian journalist when he rang me up."

The subject of speeding arose when Jon Sopel, from the Politics Show on BBC One,
asked Mr Huhne whether Mr Hammond had been referring to him when he spoke of
"decent people" being caught out by the 70mph limit on motorways. He replied:
"Actually, apparently Philip has recently broken the speed limit and got some
points."

A source close to Mr Hammond later said: "To say he has been caught speeding
recently is incorrect."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Huhne said sorry to the Home Secretary after posting a message

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday

Huhne says sorry to May for revealing conference cat claim was Ukip copy

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 668 words

ABSTRACT

Energy secretary admits he tipped off Guardian reporter about similarity of
speech to comments from Ukip leader Nigel Farage

FULL TEXT

Chris Huhne, the energy secretary, has apologised to the home secretary, Theresa
May, after revealing he was the source of a story in Saturday's Guardian
pointing out the similarities between her speech to the Conservative party
conference and that of a speech by the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage.

Huhne brought attention on himself by inadvertently tweeting: "From someone else
fine but I do not want my fingerprints on the story. C."

The Guardian story, drawing on information on the Eastleigh News website,
pointed out that Farage had claimed that a court, citing the Human Rights Act,
had allowed an immigrant to stay in the country due to his pet cat.

May, a few weeks later, used almost exactly the same language in her speech to
party conference, angering Ken Clarke, the justice secretary, and Liberal
Democrats. Government policy is not to abolish the Human Rights Act, but instead
to look at how a British bill of rights, incorporating the European Convention
on Human Rights, might work.

Huhne told the BBC's Politics Show: "I have apologised to the home secretary
because what happened was I arrived in my constituency on Friday morning and we
have an Eastleigh News website, and I usually check what is going on, and on the
Eastleigh News website is a recording of Theresa May, a recording from a few
months previously of the leader of the UK Independence Party Nigel Farage and it
was exactly the same.

"And I frankly thought it was so funny that when a journalist friend rang me ...
I told them about it. They said they would write the story. They wanted to know
if I wanted to comment on it and I said no, I didn't want to comment on it. It
was a public matter."

Huhne said he was not the source of an off-the-record quote that appeared on the
Guardian website, stating: "Not only has Ms May been caught making up stories
about the human rights act, she has been plagiarising her clap lines from the
UKIP."

He said he left a message on May's voicemail to apologise, adding that cabinet
members had different views on the Human Rights Act. He said: "There is nothing
in the coalition agreement saying we are going to abolish the Human Rights Act,
and both parties are going to go on arguing for the positions they passionately
hold. People are going to have to get used to the fact that when the home
secretary says she is going to abolish the Human Rights Act, she is not speaking
for me."

Elsewhere in the interview Huhne said transport secretary Phillip Hammond's
plans for an 80mph speed limit might only apply to electric vehicles. He also
said he was not at odds with the chancellor, George Osborne, over the direction
of the coalition's green policies. At the Tory party conference, Osborne said he
would not sacrifice the need for growth by forging ahead of the rest of the EU
on green policies.

Huhne said part of the acceptance of the government's fourth carbon budget was
that carbon cuts in the tradeable sector would automatically go in line with the
rest of the European Union. "That has always been understood and it was
understood when we adopted the fourth carbon budget," he said. "We have always
known that you have to be very careful about those parts of the economy that are
competing with the rest of the world. I am completely on board for that".

He said Britain wanted the EU to go further and faster by adopting a 30% carbon
reduction target by 2020 from 1990 levels.

He denied UK plans for a carbon capture clean plant were collapsing, saying he
was still holding talks with Scottish Power about the use of Longannet. He said:
"We are determined we should use clean goal and clean gas as part of our energy
mix, along with renewables and nuclear."

He argued that off- and on-shore wind turbines and other green investments could
be the engine to secure growth.

"When people ask where is the demand coming from, the answer is energy," he
declared.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                October 9, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WITH delegates grumbling about [...];
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: TED JEORY; KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 51 words


WITH delegates grumbling about the cost of attending the Conservative conference
these days, UKIP were out in force touting for business. Handing out flyers,
they promised to repeal the Human Rights Act, hold an EU referendum, double
defence spending and regain control of our borders... all for a bargain £30.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                October 9, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Be fair to foreigners;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 155 words


I WOULD like to respond to your story and, in particular, UKIP leader Nigel
Farage asking why British taxpayers should pay for people to have a higher
standard of living elsewhere than people in this country.

Polish workers in this country are also British taxpayers, so why should they
not be allowed to claim child benefit regardless of whether the child is in
Poland or in the UK (the latter is increasingly the case)? Hard-working Poles
pay income tax, national insurance and council tax in this country and
contribute more than £3billion annually to the British economy. They make a
vital contribution to the NHS, social care, the food industry and the hotel and
restaurant trade in this country.

Any unilateral measures against Polish citizens' right to work in this country
would also be matched by EU restrictions on British citizens working and living
throughout Europe. Look at the bigger picture.

Wiktor Moszczynski, By email

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: TED JEORY and KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 39

LENGTH: 52  words


WITH delegates grumbling about the cost of attending the Conservative conference
these days, UKIP were out in force touting for business. Handing out flyers,
they promised to repeal the Human Rights Act, hold an EU referendum, double
defence spending and regain control of our borders. . . all for a bargain GBP
30.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Be fair to foreigners;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 86

LENGTH: 155  words


I WOULD like to respond to your story and, in particular, UKIP leader Nigel
Farage asking why British taxpayers should pay for people to have a higher
standard of living elsewhere than people in this country.

Polish workers in this country are also British taxpayers, so why should they
not be allowed to claim child benefit regardless of whether the child is in
Poland or in the UK (the latter is increasingly the case)?

Hard-working Poles pay income tax, national insurance and council tax in this
country and contribute more than GBP 3billion annually to the British economy.
They make a vital contribution to the NHS, social care, the food industry and
the hotel and restaurant trade in this country.

Any unilateral measures against Polish citizens' right to work in this country
would also be matched by EU restrictions on British citizens working and living
throughout Europe. Look at the bigger picture.

Wiktor Moszczynski, By email

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 9, 2011 Sunday 11:49 PM GMT

Children to be banned from blowing up balloons, under EU safety rules;
Children are to be banned from taking part in traditional Christmas games, from
blowing up balloons to blowing on party whistles, because of new EU safety rules
that have just entered into force.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

LENGTH: 562 words


The EU toy safety directive, agreed and implemented by Government, states that
balloons must not be blown up by unsupervised children under the age of eight,
in case they accidentally swallow them and choke.

Despite having been popular favourites for generations of children, party games
including whistles and magnetic fishing games are to be banned because their
small parts or chemicals used in making them are decreed to be too risky.

Apparently harmless toys that children have enjoyed for decades are now regarded
by EU regulators as posing an unacceptable safety risk.

Whistle blowers, that scroll out into a a long coloured paper tongue when
sounded - a party favourite at family Christmas meals - are now classed as
unsafe for all children under 14.

The new rules are designed to protect children from the chance that a piece of
the whistle could be swallowed and cause choking.

The EU directive will also force manufacturers and retailers to attach safety
warnings to toys hitherto regarded as harmless.

Official guidance notes: "For latex balloons there must be a warning that
children under eight years must be supervised and broken balloons should be
discarded." Frank Furedi, professor of sociology at the University of Kent,
warned that toy safety bans were part of a trend to micro-manage children's
lives at the expense of allowing them to explore, learn and have fun through
play.

"Toys and activities, such as blowing up balloons, are part and parcel of the
type of children's play that helps them become independent and self-reliant," he
said.

"These bans diminish the experience, both of having fun and learning, by turning
play into a danger zone with rules that stifle life and adventure for children."
Under the EU legislation, Britain will have to ensure that toys are not sold in
shops unless they fully comply with the new safety requirements.

As well as new rules for balloons and party whistles, the EU legislation will
impose restrictions on how noisy toys, including rattles or musical instruments,
are allowed to be.

All teddie bears meant for children under the age of three will now have to be
fully washable because EU regulators are concerned that dirty cuddly toys could
spread disease and infection.

Paul Nuttall, a member of the European Parliament's consumer safety committee,
said the "kill joy" world of EU officialdom was being ill-equipped to understand
the concept of children having fun.

"I would say that this is crackers but I sure children are banned from using
them too. EU party poopers should not be telling families how to blow up
balloons," said the Ukip MEP.

British toy manufacturers are concerned that the new rules, which include
defining colouring books and anything played with by under-14s, could drive up
the price of Christmas presents because of the cost of safety tests.

But the European Commission has insisted that the new safety legislation was
needed to prevent "horror stories".

"These safety standards have been agreed by the UK together with the other EU
member states in order to prevent every parent's worst nightmare," said a
spokesman.

Another EU official admitted that the new regulations could be difficult to
understand but insisted that safety experts knew best.

"You might say that small children have been blowing up balloons for
generations, but not anymore and they will be safer for it," said an official.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 9, 2011 Sunday 10:47 PM GMT

Chris Huhne caught trying to smear Tory ministers;
Chris Huhne, the Energy Secretary, has been caught attempting to smear two Tory
Cabinet colleagues in a single weekend.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

LENGTH: 950 words


The Lib Dem minister admitted briefing against Theresa May by tipping off a
national newspaper that a section of her controversial party conference speech
on human rights appeared to have been plagiarised.

And Mr Huhne was embarrassed again after claiming in a television interview that
Philip Hammond, the Transport Secretary, had recently received points on his
licence for speeding.

A source close to Mr Hammond, who last month announced plans to increase the
motorway speed limit from 70mph to 80mph, vigorously denied the claims and
suggested that the Lib Dem minister should "check his facts".

In the same BBC interview Mr Huhne apologised to Mrs May, the Home Secretary,
for telling a journalist from The Guardian that part of her speech appeared to
have been copied from a previous speech made by Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader.

The section referred to an illegal immigrant who could not be deported partly
because he had a pet cat, and led to a row with Ken Clarke, the Justice
Secretary.

Mr Huhne's actions came to light after he accidentally posted a private message
to the journalist as a public update on Twitter, the microblogging service, on
Friday evening. Yesterday the minister claimed that he had spotted a story
noting the similarities between the two speeches on the website of a local
­newspaper, the Eastleigh News, in his Hampshire constituency.

"I frankly thought it was so funny that when a journalist friend rang me and I
told them about it they said they would write the story," he said.

"They wanted to know if I wanted to comment on it and I said no, I didn't want
to comment on it."

The message, which appeared on Friday, read: "from someone else fine but I do
not want my fingerprints on the story. C".

It was quickly deleted but screengrabs swiftly circulated on the social
messaging site.

Mr Huhne denied that he was behind an anonymous comment in the story that
appeared on The Guardian's website but was removed from the story in the print
version. It accused Mrs May of being caught out making up stories about the
Human Rights Act for "cheap laughs" as well as plagiarising her "clap lines"
from Mr Farage's speeches.

"I completely confess, and I own up and I have apologised to Theresa May, that I
did draw attention to this public matter on a local website to the Guardian
journalist when he rang me up.

"The rest of it, I'm afraid that's between the Guardian journalist and whoever
he has spoken to."

But Mr Huhne admitted that the Home Secretary had not returned his call. "I have
left a message for her but I haven't managed to speak to her. I left a message
on her voicemail," he said. "This is a pretty small story. We have one little
story in The Guardian on Saturday and that's it."

"It was a frankly quite amusing little aside on what was otherwise this sort of
rather silly story about cats."

In a conference speech criticising the Human Rights Act, Ms May had referred to
the case of Renzo Soria, a Bolivian student who had been arrested for
shoplifting and had argued that deportation would breach his right to family
life because he was in an established relationship - reinforced by the fact that
he and his partner had a pet cat.

Mr Huhne's mea culpa over his attempt to smear Ms May contradicts his initial
explanation for the rogue tweet. After the controversy broke on Friday, he
claimed it was "supposed to be a private message to a member of staff about a
local story".

This weekend, the Energy Secretary also took the opportunity to claim that Mr
Hammond had recently committed a potentially embarrassing driving misdemeanour.

Sources close to the Tory minister said Mr Huhne should "check his facts" as the
points were a long time in the past and had expired. Mr Huhne is still waiting
to hear whether he will be prosecuted following allegations that he claimed his
estranged wife, Vicky Pryce, was behind the wheel after he was caught speeding.

Appearing on the BBC's Politics Show, Mr Huhne was asked whether Mr Hammond was
referring to him when he talked about "decent people" being caught out by the
current limit.

Mr Huhne replied: "Actually, apparently Philip has recently broken the speed
limit and got some points so I mean I put my hands up, I lost my licence from
speeding so I was in a very good position to say that I should assure that
obviously we shouldn't do that and we need to maintain the law."

The interview completed a bad week for Mr Huhne after he was accused in the High
Court of being a hypocrite who concealed his affair with a former lesbian in
order to portray himself as a family man in the run-up to a general election.
The allegations were made as the Energy Secretary's new girlfriend, Carina
Trimingham, began legal proceedings against the Daily Mail over a series of
articles published when their relationship became public knowledge.

His ex-wife also spoke for the first time about the affair, telling a newspaper
she still finds it a struggle to get through each day, more than a year after
she found out about it. Ms Pryce said she had always considered herself and the
Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary as "a unit" and that she had given up a
well-paid job for the sake of his political career and their family.

Yesterday, Renzo Soria disclosed in his first interview that the item he had
been arrested for shoplifting - sparking the deportation proceedings - was a
ceramic cat. Mr Soria, who lives with his partner, Frank Trew, said: "Since the
conference I have had so many calls from friends saying this has got too big and
gone on for too long. It's crazy.

"I regret the shoplifting. Sometimes in life you make stupid mistakes. I like
cat ornaments. I have dozens of them. Stupidly I took this one and the police
came."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 8, 2011 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 1086 words


IS THERE A PATTEN TO THIS NEWSNIGHT SURRENDER?

LORD Patten's past as a European Commissioner is causing ructions at the BBC,
where he is now chairman.

Was Patten's Europhilia behind the decision of two BBC managers to apologise to
an EC spokesman who was monstered on Newsnight?

Staff on the programme feel got-at. There is talk of 'pressure' being brought to
bear after the Commission's Amadeu Altafaj-Tardio stomped off the show last
week. Two Newsnight journalists privately say they feel that pressure came from
Patten.

Altafaj-Tardio, interviewed live from Brussels, had been given the Paxman
treatment. He was also called an 'idiot' (pretty mild) by Eurosceptic
commentator Peter Oborne.

The discussion was about the euro: can it ever work? Oborne thought not. He
tilted against Altafaj-Tardio and co. for endangering Europe's prosperity for
the sake of a federalist dream.

These Eurocrats don't like it up 'em. Altafaj-Tardio's eyes bulged like a man
given a horse suppository. The Spaniard was so cross that he ripped off his
earpiece and left the studio mid-interview. The whole thing was vintage telly,
Jeremy Paxman at his best, worth the licence fee on its own etc.

But BBC suits were aghast. Altafaj-Tardio was telephoned first by a producer
saying sorry. This was followed the next day by a grovel from Newsnight's
editor. Unusual. If every one of Paxo's victims was thus cosseted, Newsnight
would need to hire a pool of penitents. Oborne says: 'There is in Britain a
tradition of free speech which allows for an element of discourtesy in public
debate. We might not expect the EC to know that, but it is alarming the BBC does
not get the point.'

The BBC insists Patten kept out of the row. UKIP's Lord Pearson is not convinced
and mischievously refers to a rule that past Euro Commissioners like Patten can
lose pension money if they dishonour Brussels. Perhaps with tongue in cheek,
Pearson says: 'It seems he can't afford to lose his massive EU pension.'

* RE: job cuts at BAE Systems. New bosses at Finmeccanica, BAE's Italian
collaborator on the Eurofighter, recently closed a glossy magazine it had
funded. The magazine, Turkey In Europe, put the case for Turkey to join the EU.
Turkey's president and prime minister loved it. Since the magazine's closure,
Turkey has indicated it will now buy U.S. warplanes.

If only the bungling Italians had done more to charm the Turks, an order for
Eurofighters (and those jobs) might have been secured.

-

THE PM WHO WOULD BE FUNNY

DAVID Cameron surprised some by teasing George Osborne this week, saying the
Chancellor's favourite book was The Man Who Would Be King, the Kipling story
which was made into a film with Michael Caine and Sean Connery (pictured). Was
this an attack on Osborne's No 10 ambitions? I suspect not. It is more likely
the 'King' bit referred to Sir Mervyn King, Governor of the Bank of England,
with whom Mr Osborne, like predecessors, has struggled to establish a rapport.

* BLACKPOOL, dropped as a venue for party conferences, may just be too windy.
The last time the Tories went there, frontbench MP David Willetts was strolling
down the sea front before his big speech. Whoosh, along came a gust. It lifted
Willetts' spectacles off his face and blew them , noooo! , into the sea.

Minutes later, Willetts, myopic as a mole, was at the counter of a nearby
optician. 'We need glasses,' said his female aide. 'Like now!'

--

JAY FLIES LOW...

PETER Jay, former ambassador to Washington and chief of staff to Robert 'Cap'*
Bob' Maxwell, has been outed as a flasher (of sorts).

Rachel Johnson, sister of Boris, has written about an Eighties holiday off
Turkey she took with the Jays and others.

Clothes were optional. One elderly couple spent much of the voyage in their
birthday suits.

Miss Johnson, writing in a charity book called My Passion For Water, relates
that Jay, then in his 50s, took the yacht's helm in a peaked cap bearing the
words 'Cap'* Jay' and in a pair of 'blue, cotton pyjamas which flapped open in
the breeze around the fly area'. Miss Johnson received a proper eyeful.

Pass the Kwells, Sinbad.

--

FREE AND FABULOUS

LABOUR keeps attacking Michael Gove's free schools. Is this wise? Writer Toby
Young, who has overcome vicious attacks from the Left to start a free school in
London, just held an open day at the school. How many turned up? Fifty? Five
hundred? Nope. Five thousand. This policy could become as big a vote winner as
Mrs T's right-to-buy.

* MEANWHILE, the AQA exams board, which suggested judging private school pupils
more harshly, has yet to get back to me to say how many of its top personnel
themselves went to independent schools. It has now been eight days since I
asked. My telephone is growing cobwebs.

-- THE new Speaker of the Lords, Lady D'Souza, is stuffing her pockets. A month
into the job, she has so far ignored a plea from the Leader of the Lords that
she accept a 50 per cent pay cut.

She is said to have been driven into terrible bates by Lord Strathclyde's
observation that the Lord Speaker's salary of more than 6100,000 (plus big
perks) is over-generous for a largely ceremonial job. Lady D'Souza's loot works
out at about 61,000 per sitting day.

Lady Hispano D'Suiza is clinging to her full ration of readies. What else did we
expect? Although officially non-partisan, she used to lecture on 'race and
culture' at the LSE and is a self-appointed expert on 'hate speech'.

--

HOW BETSY DRESSED TO THRILL

BETSY Duncan Smith, wife of Pensions Secretary Iain, was looking dead trendy in
Manchester this week.

There was, however, a certain amount of behind-the-scenes tension before she
arrived at the Tory conference.

Her black dress with leather sleeves was designed by her daughter Alicia. It was
still being stitched in the car on the way to conference, frantic fingers sewing
while the motorway miles zoomed by.

Fashionista Alicia, 22, is an intern at Paul Costelloe. She has 'firm opinions
about Dad's dress sense'. That sounds ominous.

* DAVID Cameron recently gave IDS a lift in his official Jaguar. At journey's
end a flunkey opened Cameron's door, but IDS was left to his own devices.

Unfamiliar with bomb-proof limos, he presumed the armour-plated door would stay
open of its own accord. Mistake. The door crunched down, hard, on his shin. From
IDS there came the sort of scream emitted by shot Japanese soldiers in War
Picture Library comics. Aieeeee!

'Sorry about that, Iain,' laughed Cameron. 'I should have warned you.' I
understand that as IDS hobbled after the PM, the words 'you b*****d!' may have
been heard.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 8, 2011 Saturday

May accused of lifting cat tale from Ukip chief

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 304 words


Theresa May's claim that a Bolivian student was saved from deportation by the
existence of a pet cat appears to have been lifted almost word for word from a
speech by the leader of the UK Independence party.

In her speech to the Tory conference the home secretary said the courts, citing
the Human Rights Act, had declared the man should not be deported because he
would be separated from his cat.

Her remarks led to a spat with the justice secretary, Kenneth Clarke, who
accused her of giving a "laughable, childlike" example to criticise the act.

In July, Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, told a 200-strong audience at the
Eastleigh Railway Institute in Hampshire how a court had decided that the man
"should not be deported because - and I really am not making this up - he had a
pet cat". A tape recording of his remarks is on the website of the Eastleigh
News.

In Manchester this week May matched Farage not just in her phrasing but in her
timing when talking about the same immigrant, who she said "cannot be deported
because - and I am not making this up - he had a pet cat".

Farage told the Guardian: "I have become increasingly used to the Tory party
mimicking our policies and phrases in a desperate effort to pretend to their
members that they are still Eurosceptic. They don't mean it. We are one of those
parties that still believe in holding public meetings, and asking questions from
the public. The SWP (Socialist Workers party) turn up, so obviously do Theresa
May's speechwriters."

The immigrant had avoided deportation after it was ruled that it would breach
his right to a family life. Both politicians inaccurately claimed the man had
been granted leave to stay under the Human Rights Act when it was because the
tribunal had previously failed to treat his partner as a spouse, which would
accord a right of residence.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       October 7, 2011 Friday 9:48 AM GMT

Kensington by-election swings to Labour

BYLINE: By Chris Mead

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 174 words


Labour edged up in the latest council by-elections during Tories' conference
week.

The party's vote share rose in two of the three contests.

In its best result, at Norland in London's Kensington and Chelsea Borough,
Labour slashed Conservatives' majority from more than 1,000 in last year's
polls - on the same day as the general election - to 237.

Against the trend there was a small net shift since May to Tories at Lower
Stoke, Coventry City.

RESULTS

Coventry City - Lower Stoke: Lab 1366, C 563, Socialist 254, BNP 149, Green
114, Lib Dem 79. (May 2011 - Lab 2608, C 1018, Green 353, Socialist 291, BNP
261). Lab hold. Swing 1.6% Lab to C.

Kensington and Chelsea London Borough - Norland: C 675, Lab 438, Lib Dem 358,
Ukip 69. (May 2010 - Three seats C 1864, 1804, 1654, Lab 787, 722, Lib Dem
714, 693, Lab 681, Lib Dem 534). C hold. Swing 8.8% C to Lab.

Watford Borough - Vicarage: Lab 917, Lib Dem 403, Ind 190, Ind 129, C 95. (May
2011 - Lab 1259, Lib Dem 691, C 231, Ind 204, Green 127). Lab hold. Swing   3.7%
Lib Dem to Lab.

PA

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

£7bn rise for greedy Eurocrats

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words


MONEY-grabbing Brussels bureaucrats brought fresh insult to hard-pressed British
taxpayers yesterday by awarding themselves an inflation-busting 4.9 per cent
rise in the EU's annual budget. Lowest 5-year fix 3.29% Chelsea Building Society
Despite austerity cuts across Europe, and the Eurozone crisis, the European
Parliament's budget commission voted for an extra £7billion to take its total
budget for 2012 to £114billion.

EU foreign affairs supremo Baroness Ashton will reap a large increase for her
departwith ment if the draft budget is rubber-stamped this month. It will mean
bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels and Strasbourg.

The move triggered fresh anger at the Brussels gravy train and renewed calls for
the UK to quit the EU.

The rise would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly £10billion a
year, equivalent to more than £400 for every household in the country. It heaps
further preswas 06n02deals sure on PM David Cameron to stand up to Brussels.
William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, yesterday claimed that the Government had
brought the EU budget "under control".

But Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen, who voted against any rise, said: "Mr Hague's
comments are patently untrue.

"Far from being under control, MEPs voted for a rise equating to some
£300million that will come from UK taxpayers' already-hit pockets."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton to benefit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My plants a fire hazard? That's potty

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 193 words


AN elderly widow has been ordered to remove flower pots from outside her window
after a council ruled they were a health and safety risk.

Theresa Cumberlidge, 80, has kept geraniums and other plants on her second-floor
balcony, which she says nobody else uses, for the past 30 years.

But officials who swooped without warning on flats in Sydenham, south London,
said the pots might block a fire evacuation.

Mrs Cumberlidge said: "I am so upset. How can my few geraniums be a fire risk?
Three big men and a woman just turned up and told me they were going to take
them away.

Ashamed "One man was about to pick them up and throw them away. I managed to
plead with him to leave them so I could do it.

"I was shaking. I felt intimidated and so angry. They have been there for 30
years. I can't think of any harm they are doing."

Lawrence Webb, Ukip's London Mayoral candidate, said: "The council should be
ashamed.

"It seems staff have nothing better to do than play the health and safety card
over a few flowers."

A Lewisham Council spokesman said: "In the event of a fire, it is essential that
communal escape routes are free from items that could pose a potential hazard."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flower lover Theresa Cumberlidge, 80, on her balcony yesterday
Picture: STEVE BELL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

My plants a fire hazard? That's potty

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 192  words


AN elderly widow has been ordered to remove flower pots from outside her window
after a council ruled they were a health and safety risk.

Theresa Cumberlidge, 80, has kept geraniums and other plants on her second-floor
balcony, which she says nobody else uses, for the past 30 years.

But officials who swooped without warning on flats in Sydenham, south London,
said the pots might block a fire evacuation.

Mrs Cumberlidge said: "I am so upset. How can my few geraniums be a fire risk?
Three big men and a woman just turned up and told me they were going to take
them away.

"One man was about to pick them up and throw them away. I managed to plead with
him to leave them so I could do it.

"I was shaking. I felt intimidated and so angry. They have been there for 30
years. I can't think of any harm they are doing."

Lawrence Webb, Ukip's London Mayoral candidate, said: "The council should be
ashamed.

"It seems staff have nothing better to do than play the health and safety card
over a few flowers."

A Lewisham Council spokesman said: "In the event of a fire, it is essential that
communal escape routes are free from items that could pose a potential hazard."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flower lover Theresa Cumberlidge, 80, on her balcony yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 7bn rise for greedy Eurocrats

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 215  words


MONEY-grabbing Brussels bureaucrats brought fresh insult to hard-pressed British
taxpayers yesterday by awarding themselves an inflation-busting 4.9 per cent
rise in the EU's annual budget.

Despite austerity cuts across Europe, and the Eurozone crisis, the European
Parliament's budget commission voted for an extra GBP 7billion to take its total
budget for 2012 to GBP 114billion.

EU foreign affairs supremo Baroness Ashton will reap a large increase for her
department if the draft budget is rubber-stamped this month.

It will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels and
Strasbourg.

The move triggered fresh anger at the Brussels gravy train and renewed calls for
the UK to quit the EU.

The rise would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly GBP 10billion a
year, equivalent to more than GBP 400 for every household in the country. It
heaps further pressure on PM David Cameron to stand up to Brussels.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, yesterday claimed that the Government had
brought the EU budget "under control".

But Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen, who voted against any rise, said: "Mr Hague's
comments are patently untrue.

"Far from being under control, MEPs voted for a rise equating to some GBP
300million that will come from UK taxpayers' already-hit pockets."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton to benefit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Conservative conference 2011: Conference diary

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 438 words


* David Cameron's big speech ended up not instructing Brits to "pay off your
credit card for sake of the economy" as some papers predicted. Even No 10 knows
the economy would tank still further if we all did that. But Cameron aides were
not the only Tory faction scampering around Manchester to correct false
impressions given in their own briefings. After behaving himself all week (by
his standards), Boris Johnson gave an interview to LBC radio and website Total
Politics in which he was badgered into supporting an early EU referendum, which
is not official policy. As his rumoured stab-in-the back circulated in hotel
bars, Mayor Boris rang favoured hacks to say it didn't mean anything. As if they
thought it did.

* William Hague did his devious best to hose down Eurosceptic hopes of an early
referendum on Britain's EU membership. But the sceps think they are winning and
MEP David Campbell Bannerman, back in the Tory fold after a spell as Ukip
chairman, has issued a strategy pamphlet called The Ultimate Plan B. No hurry,
he says. A promise to hold one would be best timed just before the 2015
election. Perhaps they could hold a joint referendum with Alex Salmond. He wants
independence, too.

* Big-brained David Willetts (denied a cabinet post to make room for Lib Dems)
boasted this week that the coalition had been in office for 500 days with only a
single forced (David Laws) reshuffle. By contrast with Labour cabinet ministers,
who averaged one year, 10 months in any one job between 1997-2010, Tories have
had an average four years, seven months in post if their shadow cabinet time is
included. Expect that to change next spring, although coalitions are harder to
reshuffle than single-party regimes. There is also the points problem over Chris
Huhne's driving licence. If charged, he would have to leave cabinet; if
convicted, who knows? A byelection in marginal Eastleigh would strain coalition
loyalties.

* Tory MPs Matthew Hancock and Nadhim Zahawi have just published Masters of
Nothing (Biteback £12.99), another book about the financial crash, concentrating
on how humans behave. The evidence suggests banks would be better off with more
women on testosterone-heavy boards because they're more sensible. Quotas,
anyone? Yep, reply the duo. Margaret Thatcher would be horrified.

* Quote of the conference? Not too much to choose from; it's been a bit flat.
But the Diary palm goes to Hugh Grant for self-deprecating wit. He told the
Guardian's Patrick Wintour that he thought Rupert Murdoch was faking his apology
over phone hacking. "Speaking as a bad actor, it was easy to spot a bad
performance," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

G2: That hollow feeling: Some say the Tory swagger is back, but Stephen Moss
failed to find it among all the set-piece speeches, anodyne Q&A sessions and
slick videos at this year's neutered Tory party conference

BYLINE: Stephen Moss

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2204 words


I have worn a tie for the Tories, and my best shoes. The shoes are a

disaster. After two days I can barely walk. The tie is a huge

success. "Good to see you're wearing a nice tie like me," one lobbyist tells me.
I feel I belong. Demonstrators carrying placards saying "Eric Pickles ate my
community centre" shout "Tory scum!" at me as I pass.

The atmosphere is very different from Labour in laid-back Liverpool last week.
There the security guards were bare-headed. Here they have been

instructed to wear peaked caps.

Manchester city centre has been sealed off, the police are carrying machine guns
and a helicopter is hovering overhead when I arrive.

There are a number of different Tory types in Manchester. All the middle-aged
men have Heseltine-like swept-back hair and wear pinstripes. The Tory women are
glossy, beautifully turned out and tough as teak. "I'm looking forward to
hearing Theresa May speak," one says to me as we wait for David Cameron to sweep
past on his short daily walk from the Midland hotel to the conference centre.
"I'm not a fan of human rights." But the most numerous group comprises young men
with floppy hair and iPhones. Many are running thinktanks. At times it is less
like a conference than a creche. "I believe in individual freedom," one winsome
25-year-old tells me. "I don't want the state to do everything for me." Freedom
is the word I hear everywhere - the Tories should really be called the Freedom
party. Very few are interested in conserving anything.

I soon fall among libertarians.

"The general public is to be feared and loathed, not pandered to," says
Spectator blogger Alex Massie at an Adam Smith Institute event entitled "The

individual v the state: the battle for lifestyle freedom." The panel is obsessed
by the smoking ban. I go to the bar with them afterwards to discuss the issue
further, but having a conversation with libertarians is difficult because they
leave the room for a fag break every five minutes. Their economic policy seems
to be creative destruction. Let the banks fail. What will be will be.

In the interests of research I have dinner at the Radisson Edwardian hotel,
which is next to the conference centre. There is much braying from the assembled
Tories - the men have a very distinctive, long-drawn-out laugh. There are lots
of happy, confident, somewhat drunken groups, including one that makes the news
by doing a runner. One veteran conference-goer reckons the Tory swagger is back
this year, and the attendees are certainly well scrubbed and extremely loud. But
I don't completely buy this thesis. The corporate party drinking late into the
night at the very grand Midland hotel, fenced off in the secure zone, and

at the Radisson next door may be

swaggering, but the grassroots trudging back to more modest accommodation on the
outskirts of Manchester are less happy.

My first inkling of the discontent comes when I meet John Strafford, former
chairman of Beaconsfield

Conservatives and chairman of the Campaign for Conservative Democracy, the small
group of Tories who backed AV in the referendum. Strafford has been to every
Conservative conference since 1964, and is here with his wife Caroline - they
met at a Young Conservatives dance 50 years ago. He becomes my talisman.

"David Cameron doesn't have any ideology, and that's where Conservative party
people feel uncomfortable," he tells me as he puffs on a small cigar over
coffee. "Where our politics has gone wrong is that the only people who matter to
political parties are the 10% of floating voters in marginal seats. The parties
employ focus groups who look at that tiny group, and the end result is that on
these huge issues - bringing troops home from Afghanistan, a

referendum on Europe - they are out of touch with the British people. Our two
biggest parties, Labour and Conservative, are both fundamentally undemocratic
organisations. The unions control Labour; big business controls the Tories."

Tina Mountain, chairman of Epsom and Ewell Conservatives, is equally

dismissive. She opposed the

coalition and would have preferred a

minority Conservative administration and a quick second election, which she
believes would have produced a Tory majority. "This isn't a Conservative
government," she says. "It's a coalition. It's very much watered down. I find
this out on the streets: people say: 'Why haven't they done this, why haven't
they done that?' I say: 'Because you didn't elect a Conservative government.'"
Mountain wants people on the dole to be forced to do three days'

volunteering a week - "I don't want anybody to go hungry, but I don't see why
people should sit on their backsides while my taxes are paying them to do
nothing" - and an in/out referendum on Europe.

Do not infer from this that she is heartless: she is delightful, warm-hearted
and says that "deep down, we are all socialists". She is a special-needs teacher
with a view of what constitutes the good society and how to get there. John
Stuart Mill was wrong when he called the Tories "the stupid party"; they have to
be taken on philosophically, not just dismissed, which is where Labour is
currently failing. "This is called A POLICY," says the redoubtable Ken Clarke
mockingly as he exposes the vacuum that passes for Labour thinking on crime in
his well-judged speech.

I ask Strafford whether the party can ever come to love Cameron. "He is a
pragmatic politician if you look on

him favourably, or a man without

philosophy or principle if you look on him in an unfavourable fashion.

Cameron is a Blair, and he accepts that - the heir to Blair." Mountain takes the
dimmer view. She considers Cameron "too gentle" and prefers the "forthright"
William Hague, feted everywhere for standing up for the pound in the party's
darkest days.

Strafford also attacks the neutering of the conference, where the 4,000
constituency representatives are now outnumbered by close on 8,000

lobbyists, exhibitors and journalists, and all semblance of debate has been
expunged. Former Welsh secretary John Redwood makes a similar point to me.
"Modern conferences are too stage-managed. The public understand that there's a
range of opinions within the major parties, and they would quite like to see
some of those opinions being expressed and debated." Set-piece speeches, anodyne
Q&A sessions and slick videos interspersed by music that one observer describes
as "indie landfill" do not make for a compelling spectacle. It would be cheaper
to do it as a podcast rather than trouble the police by bringing this vast
gathering to town.

Strafford takes me to the launch of The Future of Conservatism, a new book
edited by David Davis, which sets out a vision for Conservatism. It proves to be
far and away the biggest-selling book of the week, so the man on the Blackwells
stand tells me. The launch takes place in a Quaker meeting house, a welcome
antidote to the sterility of the conference hall. The atmosphere is charged, the
speeches theatrical, the enthusiasm genuine. In his speech, Davis sets out to
define Conservatism: a set of ideals rather than an ideology, stability,
security, variety rather than uniformity, liberty before equality, the
protection of ancient liberties instead of the creation of new rights, a minimal
state, no limits on how high a person might rise or how low they might fall (a
tenet I find shocking), a philosophy based on values rather than opinion polls
or focus groups. He argues for a new policy on immigration and integration,
calls the state a "machine for impoverishment", is critical of foreign
intervention, and calls for a renegotiation of the UK's relationship with
Europe.

This is the authentic voice of Conservatism heard everywhere on the fringe.
Europe is the hottest issue of all, more incendiary even than smoking. I go to a
Bruges Group meeting in the Comedy Store by the canal, well away from the main
conference, where historian David Starkey calls for the end of the union, and
separation from Europe so that a proud, cohesive English nation can emerge from
the wreckage of multiculturalism. He is speaking alongside the leader of the
True Finns party, and both are warmly received in an atmosphere one of my
colleagues likens to a Munich bierkeller circa 1923. Ukip has a van touring the
roads just outside the conference area asking "Where have the Conservatives
gone?" Many on the party's right, not least the organisations that are holding a
separate event in the "freedom zone" at the nearby Bridgewater Hall, are asking
the same question. It does not take a profound leap of the imagination to see
the makings of a home-grown Tea Party here.

Most of my thrills come on the fringe - libertarians are lively and disputatious
speakers, seldom likely to agree. A chairman of one meeting

likens it to "herding armed cats". The hall is less exciting, though Hague,
Clarke and Baroness Warsi give combative speeches; Boris Johnson is typically
freewheeling and funny, especially at a hysterical evening rally where he calls
Ken Livingstone "the old iguana" and rounds on the vehicle company sponsoring
the event for not producing electric taxis; Osborne is incisive but lacking in
charm or charisma; Cameron is less suave than usual, perhaps rattled by the
"pay-off-your-credit-card" rewrite. Underpowered, he is received respectfully
but without any of the love that used to be showered on Mrs Thatcher. On the
Conservative party merchandise stall in the "marketplace" area next to the hall,
they are selling separate postcards of Cameron and Lady T. I ask who's winning?
Cameron was ahead on the first day, but the old leader has reasserted herself
since. The Iron Lady will always beat the Teflon Gent.

The marketplace is a good deal livelier than the hall. Tesco is serving free
cheese; Asda has chilli-flavoured pork crunch; Cloud 9 is offering massages for
£10; you can get a tweed jacket for £169.95 (reduced from £249.95); a pack of
gilt-edged playing cards will set you back £25; and Pet365 has a startling range
of pet accessories, including games designed to boost your pets'

intelligence. Dogs remain in the ascendant, but the man on the stall tells me
cats are becoming increasingly popular as the party modernises itself. Except,
of course, with home secretary, Theresa May.

Like Europe and smoking, pets seem to be everywhere at conference. One fringe
meeting poses the question "Can we afford to be a nation of dog lovers in the
age of austerity?" Pets help to reduce stress, but they are expensive. The truly
radical solution might be to eat them. It is just as barking beyond the
conference area. Young people are handing out flyers, including one for The
Larry Diaries, a book on the Downing Street cat; a man is holding up a placard
saying "Nukiller power: A crime against God" and shouting very loudly; and there
are half a dozen Christians telling passers-by the Tories are abandoning their
moral values by endorsing same-sex marriage. The same point is forcibly made to
me in the exhibition area inside the conference centre by two men from the
Church Society ("We are typical Guardian readers", says one waggishly) who argue
that the big society needs "biblical glue". Perhaps, after all, a British Tea
Party will never emerge: the libertarian and authoritarian groups on the Tory
right inhabit different worlds.

Leaving the Christians to sermonise, I walk the short distance to the small
"peace camp" opposite the town hall in Albert Square. There about 20 or so
people camping out for the duration of the conference, but the police want to
move them on and a stand-off develops. An idea strikes me as I hang about
watching the labyrinthine negotiations between council, police and protesters
unfold - getting 20 anarchists to agree really is like herding cats - and I ask
them to give me a memento from the camp. They eventually hand me their "safe
space rules" - "No racism, sexism, classism, ageism. No prejudice of any kind.
No abuse. A complete disregard for norms and stereotypes" - scrawled on a large
piece of cardboard. Their sentiments are admirable even if their spelling is
execrable.

As I write this I have one task left: to lay this 21st-century artefact of
protest beneath the plaque that - irony of ironies - has been attached to the
glitzy Radisson Edwardian hotel to mark the site of the Peterloo massacre in
1819. From the start of the conference, it has bothered me that this corporatist
jamboree is taking place on precisely the spot where a peaceful protest in
support of political reform was ruthlessly suppressed, especially as that bloody
event led to the foundation of the Guardian. The big TUC march on the first day
of the conference had wanted to lay a wreath beneath the plaque but been
thwarted by the police; this will be a sort of reparation. Now, how can I prop
this piece of cardboard up against the wall of the Radisson without being
arrested?

Captions:

Hugh Grant poses with a fan after a fringe meeting; a chicken stall; delegates
shelter from the rain

A delegate tackles a crosswod puzzle between speeches; (below) the Camerons

8 Veronica Lekavicius

Nuclear Industry Association

"We're interested in people's views and generally have had

a lot of positive feedback about nuclear power so far. I'm looking forward to
interacting with

the members.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 5, 2011 Wednesday 12:59 PM GMT

The question David Cameron must answer this week: what would he do with a Tory
majority in 2015?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1147 words


The Conservative Party will assemble for its conference still a bit surprised
that Labour are not well ahead in the polls, and thoroughly grateful for
Labour's failure to gain much support following their conference last week.

It has been a difficult year and a half for the Government. The strains of the
coalition are becoming all too apparent at times, and the steadily worsening
economic problems in America and the eurozone are threatening our own prospects
of achieving the growth rate needed to close the deficit. Paying down the
Blair/Brown debt burden remains a distant dream.

The Prime Minister will not only have to make a speech to rally and cheer his
supporters in the hall. It will have to inspire some confidence among business
leaders, who are far from optimistic at present, and to persuade the general
public that he does have a plan to get us through to better times.

On almost every front the pain looks like going on for rather longer than people
had been led to believe, before the gains are realised, and there have been too
many ill thought through initiatives and embarrassing U-turns. Ministers,
particularly the Prime Minister, should have learned from the fiasco over the
proposed sale of Forestry Commission land, but instead have landed themselves in
another needless row with their own supporters by bungling the presentation of
their proposals for a much needed shake up of the planning system.

It may be not just the near total lack of experience of many Ministers of
responsibility outside the Westminster village which is to blame, but I suspect
that so much time is devoted to clearing policies with Mr Clegg and his party
that too little attention is paid to the essential business of making sure that
the policy is properly thought through before it is then publicly launched.

That suggests to me that there would be much to be gained if the Prime Minister
began to remind both his party and the country at large of the impact of
coalition on effective government. The coalitionist Lib Dems had to be given
substantial concessions to persuade their supporters to allow them to take
office in the coalition.

However, the Lib Dems in the House of Commons now have no option but to soldier
on in the hope that something will turn up to save them from obliteration in
2015 and there is little need to be too considerate of their feelings. Very few
indeed of them would survive if they were to pull out and bring down the
Government now. Indeed the Lib Dem ministers must all be hoping for some sort of
electoral deal to save their skins.

Mr Cameron should tell the Conference what he has had to do to please his junior
partners, and what he has been stopped from doing by them. Mr Clegg was not shy
about giving his version of what he has done to stop the Government from
implementing Conservative policies, so he could hardly object to Mr Cameron
following suit.

But the Prime Minister needs to go further than that. He needs to set out what
he would do if he had a majority and to pledge himself to do that after 2015 if
he is given a majority. There is plenty to talk about: immigration control, the
gross interference in our internal affairs by the ECHR, including the votes for
prisoners, a restructuring of universities to demote the fake universities and
turn them back into colleges of further education, cuts in foreign aid to both
rich and corrupt countries to provide money for the armed forces for a start.
Then he could set out his vision of a new European structure, for surely even in
Brussels there must be the glimmering of understanding that the European Union
is heading for a terminal crisis.

The art of leadership is the art of turning difficulties into opportunities. By
the end of the week we will have a better idea of how good at that our Prime
Minister might be.

...

I thought that Jangly Guitar Parts was really quite churlish to suggest that I
rushed out a second blog post on the goings on at the Labour and Lib Dem
Conferences because of hostile reception of the first ones. I have to tell him
that I was responding to my blogmasters who wanted full coverage of those events
and that I am under no obligation to comment at all on what people say about
what I write.

There was a great deal of overlap in your comments on those blogs, which I
suppose is in part at least because the speeches of Balls and Ed Miliband
overlapped a good deal too. Certainly that was true of the matter of immigration
where they both pedalled the claim that their voters are only concerned about
the Poles. It was opened palm who claimed that the talk in the pubs is only
about polish builders, but pjon, an immigration enforcement officer, saw things
rather differently and 40andgrumpy thought that Ed Miliband picked on them
because they are white, Christian, and prepared to work. I was glad that Jabba
the Cat spoke for the descendents of the Poles who came her to fight against
Hitlers National Socialists. As she said, they will remember the insult.

John Pitcher asked what problems are caused by third world immigration and what
I meant by that expression. If he would Google "third world" it will take him to
Wikipedia and there he will find a map which may help him. After that I suggest
he goes to areas of substantial third world immigration and asks the remaining
British people there if they have any problems.

On the whole both Balls and Miliband had more critics, General Patton,
boudicca,Bill Etheridge, bersher,radical-j, what-happens ow, brian-kill,
flyinthesky, born lucky, Aasvogel, tilveran, wharalife1, phil-meg, jedibeeftrix,
Mietek and steve of london among them, than friends. Of course Fabian Solutions
backed her men, as did clydesider, olcrom, opened-palm and a few others.

There was a rather good debate between pragmatist, jono, chaswarmer, and others
in the comments on my blog on Balls, and as ever some thoughtful comments from
Laveen Ladharam and bersher.

Another strongly supported theme was that awful as Ed Miliband and Balls are,
the Conservatives have not got much to boast about. Some of that came from the
usual UKIP supporters, but there were a lot of you simply saying a plague on all
your houses.

I rather like Dobbs Steven's remark that "we must all look backwards in order to
be confident in a socialist future", and I am grateful to bersher for explaining
to the poor chap what fascism and social Darwinism are. I also enjoyed the way
in which david-sparks's claim that Thatcher was the big spender was so neatly
shot down by pedestrian blogger, lardster and phantom.

I had a good laugh at biatech's account of how Miliband's attack on the Poles
was planned. The trouble is, I fear, that it sounded a bit like a policy
discussion at No.10. Finally, I think I should say to darkseid that I think we
were both a bit tetchy the other week, but then I think we have both got a few
things in our lives to be tetchy about.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TXT US ON 07900 946 486

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 207 words


Don't forget to include your name. Standard text rates from your provider apply

IF there was a soap award for shouting, EastEnders would be in with a shout.

COLIN

LISTENING to Cameron on Andrew Marr was like an old film, same old talk.

ANON

IMRAN KHAN is wrong to say the £200million given to Pakistan last year has not
helped people but is propping up corrupt regimes. It has helped David Cameron
and the idiot Nick Clegg to go to bed at night and think what nice guys they
are.

GEOFF, Whittlesey, Cambs

WAYNE ROONEY wants to be England captain. Let's hope he learns the national
anthem first.

MARION, Newbury, Wilts

ONLY one politician is willing to stand up to the EU - UKIP leader Nigel Farage.
David Cameron, Nick Clegg, Ed Miliband - you haven't the guts to stand up to
these EU dictators.

ANON

SO NSPCC are opening a "paedophone". I'll stop my donations now.

CHRIS, Nottingham WILL the last Englishman to leave the island please leave the
lights on for Labour's immigrant army.

ANON

email, fax, write or online

We pay £50 for our Star Letter of the day: Email letters@the-sun.co.uk Fax us on
020 7782 4170 or write to Dear Sun, The Sun, 3 Thomas More Square, London, E98
1SL. Include your full name and address. You can share your views at mysun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 4, 2011 Tuesday 9:50 AM GMT

The Top 100 most influential people on the Right 2011, 50-26;
The Daily Telegraph's list of the Top 100 most influential people on the Right
in 2011 has been compiled by Iain Dale and Brian Brivati.

BYLINE: By Iain Dale and Brian Brivati

LENGTH: 1804 words


26. (+68) GRANT SHAPPS

Housing Minister

Grant Shapps is one of the most prolific media performers the party has. On the
verge of full cabinet membership, he is heavily tipped by some to be the next
chairman of the Conservative Party. Fizzing with ideas, he can come across as
slightly too full of himself, but his enthusiasm is infectious.

27. (+4) MATTHEW ELLIOTT

Former Head of the 'No to AV' Campaign

A calm and powerful advocate of low taxes, light regulation and the small state,
he made his name as the founder of the Taxpayer's Alliance. But his influence as
a campaigner has grown following his successful leadership of the No to AV
campaign. Tipped as the Conservative Party's next director of campaigning.

28. (+1) TIM MONTGOMERIE

Editor, ConservativeHome.com

Tim Montgomerie can pick up the phone to anyone in the party and they will take
the call. His website, a must-read for politicians and activists alike, has
managed the transition well from opposition to government. His weekly Sunday
Telegraph column has added to his influence.

29. (+5) GREG CLARK

Minister of State for Localism

A former director of the Conservative Research Department, Greg Clark was always
destined for great things. He joined the shadow cabinet in January 2009 and did
a good job squaring up to Ed Miliband on the climate change brief. He was
another casualty of the need to include LibDems in the coalition cabinet but his
brief on localism gives him a great platform from which to progress in the
future. Very calm under fire.

30. (+6) DAMIAN GREEN

Minister of State, Home Office

Green is seen as being on the left of the party but remains a popular figure
across the party. A leading backer of David Davis (right to the bitter end) in
the 2005 leadership contest, he is one of the most talented ministers outside
the cabinet. His thoughtful and non aggressive approach to the immigration brief
has won him plaudits and earned him a good media profile. Cameron is said to
rate him very highly.

31. (+7) LORD STRATHCLYDE

Leader of the House of Lords

A popular figures in all parts of the party Tom Strathclyde is part of the
fixtures and fittings in the Lords. He is also very influential. He has made
himself almost irreplaceable and Cameron relies on him to keep their Lordships
in order.

32. (-7) MARGARET THATCHER

Former Prime Minister

It took the election of a new Conservative Prime Minister to finally nail the
fallacy that the Conservative Party is still trying to come to terms with
Margaret Thatcher's demise twenty years ago. Her shadow no longer casts itself
over the entire party, but she is rightly still treated with huge respect and
affection.

33. (-6) STEPHEN GILBERT

Political Secretary, Number Ten Downing Street

A former Chief Executive of the Party, Gilbert became Michael Ashcroft's right
hand man in planning and delivering the Tories' campaign in the marginal seats.
His new role combines the job of Political Secretary in Number Ten with a
campaigning role at CCHQ. He is widely respected throughout the professional
party and among former candidates.

34. (+35) CHRIS GRAYLING

Minister of State, Department of Work & Pensions

Grayling's career took a hit last year following his remarks about B&B owners
and gay couples. As a consequence he didn't make the Cabinet. But his calm
performance explaining the unemployment figures has led him back to favour. A
comeback to the top table can only be a matter of time.

35. (+58) GABRIELLE BERTIN

Personal Press Secretary to the Prime Minister

Gaby Bertin took over from George Eustice as David Cameron's press secretary and
is well regarded by the political media. Fiercely protective of him, she is
often seen at his side at events protecting him for intrusive interviewers. With
the departure of Andy Coulson, Bertin has become much more influential.

36. (+25) SIR JOHN MAJOR

Prime Minister 1990-97

Sir John has avoided the mistakes of his predecessors and only comments on
current affairs when he has an important point to make. This means that he is
listened to very closely. Behind the scenes he is an important source of
confidential advice for David Cameron. He was closely consulted by Cameron
during the coalition talks.

37. (New) PAUL KIRBY

Director, Number 10 Policy Unit

Following the Number 10 rejig after Andy Coulson's departure, Kirby a former
KPMG partner, was brought in as the new Head of Policy Development, leading a
team of 8 formulating government policy. Kirby is the man behind the massive
shake of the public sector, proposing radical new policies to end the "state
monopoly" over public sector services.

38. (-5) DANIEL HANNAN

Conservative MEP, Columnist & Blogger

Fiercely Eurosceptic, Hannan has established a powerful brand for himself. But
may believe he would be of far more influence if he ran for a Westminster seat.
However, he has again had a quiet year and must therefore drop down this year's
list.

39. (+2) MICHAEL HINTZE

Party Donor

Australian born Michael Hintze is a highly successful hedge fund manager and
philanthropist. His influence relates to the causes which he funds. He was the
first to out himself as someone who had loaned the Conservative Party. One of
the few donors who everybody in the party both likes and respects.

40. (+11) ANDREW MITCHELL

Secretary of State for International Development

Andrew Mitchell has made International Development his own subject, and
developed a good reputation among the NGOs. He has also developed a more human
touch after suffering from a reputation as a whip's bully. Seen by some as one
of the stars of the coalition so far, he is tipped for promotion in a reshuffle.
The question is, would be take it?

41. (-11) CATHERINE FALL

Deputy Chief of Staff, Number Ten Downing Street

Catherine Fall is one of the few members of David Cameron's backroom staff who
have managed to keep out of the limelight. But she is the glue which holds his
office together. Fiercely efficient, and very protective, she is one of the few
people implicitly trusted by the Prime Minister.

42. (+30) KIT MALTHOUSE

Deputy Mayor of London

Kit Malthouse is an investment banker. He is Deputy Mayor with responsibility
for the Metropolitan Police and could well make a run for mayor himself when
Boris has had enough. He was calm under fire in the riots and is an eloquent
performer on the London media.

43. (+4) ANDREW TYRIE

Chairman of the Treasury Select Committee

A former full-time adviser to successive Chancellors, Nigel Lawson and John
Major, Tyrie is a gifted economist with an impressive academic background. He
set up and chairs the all-party committee on extraordinary rendition and is a
strong advocate of constitutional and parliamentary reform. He has proved to be
a highly effective chairman of the Treasury Select Committee.

44. (New) PATRICK ROCK

Special Advisor, Number Ten Policy Unit

Rock was brought back this year to join the No10 Policy Unit as a Special
Advisor. He was the one time legendary SpAd to Michael Howard when he was Home
Secretary, the other SpAd being a young, bright man by the name of David
Cameron. Credited with coming up with the phrase "cows moo, dogs bark, Labour
puts up taxes" in the 70s, he is a smooth operator and a welcome addition to the
No10 machine.

45. (New) LORD HILL

Minister at the Department of Education

Former Political Secretary to John Major, Lord Hill was made a peer following
the 2010 General Election. He now serves as the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of
State for Schools in the Department for Education. He has been a big champion of
free schools and a key player in Michael Gove's swelling army. He made the
headlines last year when he was mugged in Westminster but brushed it off saying
he could "cope with being duffed up".

46. (New) AMIT GILL

Prime Minister's Speechwriter

Gill is the rather elusive chief speechwriter to the Prime Minister; tale has it
that he was put forward for the job by the author and historian Niall Ferguson
whom he worked for as a researcher. Gill has been working with David Cameron now
for five years and was allegedly responsible for Cameron's speech at last year's
Spectator Parliamentarian Awards containing a controversial four-letter word.
Little else is known about this speechwriter who, like all good backroom boys,
does his best to stay out of the limelight.

47. (-6) JESSE NORMAN

Conservative MP for Hereford

Jesse Norman is one of the leading new group of thinkers in the Conservative
Party and his writings give some philosophical ballast to David Cameron's policy
agenda. A leading light in Policy Exchange, he did well to wrest the seat of
Hereford back from the Liberal Democrats. Almost a dead cert for promotion in a
reshuffle.

48. (+10) NIGEL FARAGE MEP

Leader, United Kingdom Independence Party

Farage moves up this list at least in part due to him becoming leader of UKIP
once again. He's given the party a higher media profile as he looks towards the
2014 European Elections, which he expects UKIP to win. That may be a task too
much, but after coming second last time who is to gainsay him?

49. (+46) SHERIDAN WESTLAKE

Special Advisor to Eric Pickles

Westlake is one of the most important special advisers in the entire government.
It is he who pulls many of the levers at the Department of Communities and Local
Government. Working hand in glove with Eric Pickles and Grant Shapps, he is part
of a team leading one of the most reforming departments across the whole
government.

50. (-11) NICHOLAS BOLES

Conservative MP for Grantham

Named last year by Total Politics magazine as the most impressive member of the
new intake of MPs, Boles has quite a reputation to live up to. Politically he
made his name at Policy Exchange. His new book, WHICH WAY IS UP? Successfully
distanced him somewhat from being regarded as a 100% Cameron acolyte, but he's
had a quieter year this year. Perhaps intentionally.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 4, 2011 Tuesday 9:35 AM GMT

Iain Duncan Smith said 'No, No, No' to the EU. Will David Cameron follow his
lead?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1160 words


Curiously I have seen almost no reports of the speech which Baroness Warsi, the
Chairman of the Conservative Party, made to the Tory Conference. Perhaps most
journalists missed it, as indeed I did. However, it deserves to be said that one
very sage and experienced judge of these matters, who did watch it, tells me
that although her reception as she arrived on the stage was no more than polite,
she was give a warm ovation at the end of it. That was quite an achievement.

On Monday, Iain Duncan Smith continued his remarkable recovery from the
humiliation of his lost leadership to be one of the major and most respected
figures in the Government. Duncan Smith and oratory have never been close
acquaintances and his delivery does not encourage an audience into riots of
applause. Nonetheless, as he set out the philosophy of his welfare reforms, that
are designed not just to hold back the remorseless rise in welfare spending, but
to rescue men and women from the bleak and unhappy indignity of dependency, the
Tories responded again and again in sober recognition of the magnitude of his
task and his quiet determination to achieve it. The Conference welcomed his
clear determination that the first beneficiaries of tax reductions should be the
low-paid, his outspoken support for the institution of marriage and most of all
to his emphatic echo of Thatcher's , "No, No, No" in rejection of EU
instructions from Brussels to facilitate benefit tourism from the continent. I
trust that had been cleared with Mr Clegg. Any surrender now would be an
appalling humiliation.

The Chancellor's speech was made against a background of yet another deepening
of the tragedy of Greece. It was no moment to raise unrealistic expectations.
Nor did he. Instead he made a thorough defence of his deficit reduction
programme.

With his Autumn Statement only weeks away Osborne has to be forgiven for
producing only a couple of rather small rabbits out of his hat. Better that than
talking through it the manner of Mr Balls last week, but I wish I could be more
sure that someone in the Treasury has a firm grasp of how his credit easing
scheme will work.

There is a long haul head for Mr Osborne. The progressive collapse of the great
master plan for the Euro Single Government built upon the Single Euro Currency,
will make it no easier for him or us over the next few years.

Now it is up to the Prime Minister to describe a European policy that is neither
abject surrender nor ineffectual pleading for the return of our right to govern
ourselves.

...

I am afraid that I have found it impossible to work out how Disqus arranges,
then rearranges, then seems to throw your comments up in the air and list them
in random order. It is enough of a task to read 800 comments, but when some are
duplicated and others seem to disappear, it is just about impossible to follow
and respond to many of the points you have raised.

At any rate, one thing was quite clear. David Cameron did not have too many
admirers. There was peterbus who spoke out for him, but from a rather middle
ground persective, and andyed who rightly said the Coalition is better than the
Brown government. On the other hand coltek, stopcpdotcom, french liz, davdos,
lordlucan, peteh, British Spunk, surreyman, itzman, SimpleSimon, understanding
reality, oldmaid, and thelonghaul were more than critical. Indeed as phantom
pointed out some were not just critical, but wildly over the top in their abuse.

Let me be clear. I differ from the Prime Minister on many things. I think
"modern compassionate conservatism" is fluffy media speak for an unwillingness
to face and take hard decisions in the national interest. However, I do not
regard David Cameron as a corrupt, venal, self-seeker. I do not believe he
embraced the Green agenda in order that his family should profit out of wind
farms. I believe that he embraced the Global Warming religion because it is
"modern and compassionate" and that his family then took rational commercial
decisions to run their business as anyone might.

Amidst all the sound and fury sodit and phantom exchanged some interesting ideas
on tax, whilst observatory of farce, vaselino and Nikki Collins shrewdly
questioned whether Cameron might not be quite happy to use Clegg as cover. Again
there were a lot of you, notably Intrepid 001, lordlondon and others who doubted
that Mr Cameron will win in 2015. It was robertsonjames who held that voting
UKIP would be bound to put a Lib-Lab coalition into office, but a lot of UKIP
supporter were prepared to say "so what", and Thrasus felt that Gordon Brown
would have done nothing differently to the Coalition.

I thought it rather cruel of boudica to flag up that Cameron speech on Lisbon
and the Eu from 2009. I hope he remembers it.

I am afraid that there was a good deal of troll feeding and some sterile
personal abuse usually involving fabian solutions and olcrom. The latter, poor
soul, is so sorry for himself that every now and again, but not for long, I feel
sorry for him too.

I also regretted the bigoted abuse of Christians and Christianity and will leave
that there.

Duckham, or Pitcher as I gather he has now become, left me puzzled. He asked me
the meaning of the expression "third world" which I had used. I referred him to
Wikipedia rather than setting it out here. Why that should offend him so it is
difficult to see. Perhaps it would be better to ignore him for he is a rather
uncivil fellow and I thought it generous of Beyond Cynicism and derek-farmer to
try to help him.

On the subject of the EU david-sparks played his trump card observing that the
CBI, trades unions, BCC and NFU (and he might have added the BBC) are all in
favour of remaining in the EU. Well, yes, and they were all in favour of
entering that burning building with no fire exits, the eurzone. They are also
all producer interests, unconcerned with either democracy or our rights to self
government. He also purported to speak for Nissan. Perhaps as the Minister who
sealed the deal which brought Nissan here I might know a little about that too.
Like other exporters they would like their costs to be in a competitively valued
currency and not to face a tariff wall. EFTA and Sterling seem just about right
for that.

I am glad that Observatory of Farce picked up my references to "the common
ground". I think that danielken was square on it with his call for us to be
ruled by our Parliamentary democracy, in accord with the common law rather than
by foreign eurocrats. We know that Cameron believes it is our interest to stay
in the EU, but he says that he wants to regain some of our lost rights. Like
many of you, I wait to see how he proposes to do that. As english pensioners
wrote, the repeal of the Human Rights Act will be an early test, so too will be
those now benefit rules being imposed on us without our consent. Duncan Smith
has said "No, No, No".

But what will the Prime Minister say? And what will our masters in Brussels say.
I wait to see.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             October 3, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

VICTORY IN BID TO QUIT EU;
MPs agree historic referendum vote as poll reveals most Britons want out

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 901 words


THE Daily Express crusade for Britain to quit the European Union scored a huge
victory yesterday when MPs agreed to hold an historic debate on the issue.

It means Parliament will vote on whether there should be a referendum on
Britain's continued membership of the EU.

And pressure intensified on David Cameron over Europe last night when an opinion
poll showed that a massive 62 per cent of voters believe the time is right for
an EU referendum.

The survey, by pollsters YouGov for the Vote UK Out Of EU Campaign, also found
that a majority of voters (51 per cent) would vote Yes to Britain cutting ties
with Brussels for good.

MPs last night praised the Daily Express crusade for ensuring public fury over
the spiralling cost and meddling of the EU could no longer be ignored by
Westminster.

Tory backbencher Peter Bone said: "The key reason we are going to have this
debate is because of the hundreds of thousands of people who have supported the
Daily Express's petition. Well done to the Daily Express for campaigning so hard
on this issue." And fellow Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "It is thanks
to the Daily Express highlighting this issue and spearheading the campaign that
this debate is being held.

"The European Union is a mess. We have got to let the people decide whether we
stay in or leave."

The Parliamentary debate, which will be held before Christmas, is being
organised by the Commons Backbench Business Committee in response to a series of
petitions on the issue, particularly the Daily Express's 373,000-name petition
calling for Britain to quit the EU.

And more than 33,000 people have backed a petition, organised by the Daily
Express, on the offi-cial Government website calling for a national referendum
on the issue. It could give the country its first chance to have a say on UK
links with Brussels since the 1975 referendum confirming Britain's membership of
the Common Market.

Mr Bone, who is a member of the Backbench Business Committee, said: "MPs must be
given a free vote and there should be no whipping by the Prime Minister or other
the party leaders. This is a huge international issue and MPs must be able to
speak out freely."

Ministerial sources yesterday claimed that the vote would not be binding on the
Government.

But a committee source said: "That is nonsense. This vote would be Parliament
speaking and Parliament is sovereign. This vote cannot be ignored."

And the YouGov poll yesterday made clear the strength of public feeling over
Britain's EU membership.

The poll found that 68 per cent of those who voted Tory at the last election
want Britain to leave the EU.

And 74 per cent of Tory voters want a referendum on Britain's membership of
Europe. It found that 50 per cent believe EU membership has been "totally
negative" for Britain and 65 per cent are "totally opposed" to Britain's
involvement in any further eurozone bailouts.

The groundswell of Tories behind the referendum campaign yesterday sent a stark
message to David Cameron on the first day of the Conservative Conference in
Manchester.

And more Tories are due to speak out on the issue today at a conference fringe
meeting organised by the Daily Express and the TaxPayers' Alliance.

Senior Tory MPs and anti-EU campaigners will feature at the public meeting on
"We Need To Talk About Europe" at the city's Bridgewater Hall. But Mr Cameron
attempted to brush aside the issue yesterday by insisting most people in Britain
wanted the country to stay in the EU.

He said on BBC1's Andrew Marr Show: "It's not our view that there should be an
in/out referendum.

I don't want Britain to leave the EU. I think it's the wrong answer for Britain.
What most people want in this country is not actually to leave the EU, but to
reform the EU and make sure that the balance of powers between a country like
Britain and Europe is better."

Mr Cameron said that he wanted to use future treaties to negotiate the return of
powers from Brussels to Westminster.

But he said that this was an ambition "for the longer term" and there was no
immediate prospect of treaty changes to make it possible. It did not form part
of the current renegotiation of treaties which will keep Britain out of the
eurozone bail-out mechanism, he said.

Backbench committee chairman Natascha Engel, a Labour MP, said: "Given the
crisis in the eurozone, this issue has become more relevant than ever. There is
a clear majority of backbench MPs who want to debate this and we have to respond
to that.

"The EU today is completely different from the one the British people voted to
join in 1975. It is time to examine the position again."

Wrong

Mr Cameron enraged Eurosceptics by claiming that "most people" in Britain did
not want the country to quit the EU.

In his interview on the Andrew Marr Show, the Prime Minister claimed that an EU
referendum was the "wrong answer for people want in this country, I believe, is
not actually to leave the European Union, but to reform the European Union and
make sure the balance of powers between a country like Britain and Europe is
better."

But UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said of Mr Cameron: "He says he
believes most people do not want to leave the EU but to reform it.

"How can he possibly know that without asking the great British public?" He went
on: "On the issue of the EU it is clear that the Prime Minister is no more than
a confi-dence trickster."

OPINION: PAGE 12

CRUSADE

GET US OUT OF THE EU

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brussels to fight back, March 21
Express food warning on April 14
Tax attack on pensions, October 1
The campaign under way, March 15

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             October 3, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

VICTORY IN BID TO QUIT EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 910  words


MPs agree historic referendum vote as poll reveals most Britons want out

THE Daily Express crusade for Britain to quit the European Union scored a huge v
ictory yesterday when MPs agreed to hold an historic debate on the issue.

It means Parliament will vote on whether there should be a referendum on
Britain's continued membership of the EU.

And pressure intensified on David Cameron over Europe last ni g ht when an o p
inion p oll showed that a massive 62 per cent of voters believe the time is
right for an EU referendum.

The survey, by pollsters YouGov for the Vote UK Out Of EU Campaign, also found
that a majority of voters (51 per cent) would vote Yes to Britain cutting ties
with Brussels for good.

MPs last night praised the Daily Express crusade for ensuring public fury over
the spiralling cost and meddling of the EU could no longer be ignored by
Westminster.

Tory backbencher Peter Bone said: "The key reason we are going to have this
debate is because of the hundreds of thousands of people who have supported the
Daily Express's petition. Well done to the Daily Express for campaigning so hard
on this issue." And fellow Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "It is thanks
to the Daily Express highlighting this issue and spearheading the campaign that
this debate is being held.

"The European Union is a mess.

We have got to let the people decide whether we stay in or leave."

The Parliamentary debate, which will be held before Christmas, is being
organised by the Commons Backbench Business Committee in response to a series of
petitions on the issue, particularly the Daily Express's 373,000name petition
calling for Britain to quit the EU.

And more than 33,000 people have backed a petition, organised by the Daily
Express, on the official Government website calling for a national referendum on
the issue. It could give the country its first chance to have a say on UK links
with Brussels since the 1975 referendum confirming Britain's membership of the
Common Market.

Mr Bone, who is a member of the Backbench Business Committee, said: "MPs must be
given a free vote and there should be no whipping by the Prime Minister or other
the party leaders. This is a huge international issue and MPs must be able to
speak out freely."

Ministerial sources yesterday claimed that the vote would not be binding on the
Government.

But a committee source said:

"That is nonsense. This vote would be Parliament speaking and Parliament is
sovereign. This vote cannot be ignored."

And the YouGov poll yesterday made clear the strength of public feeling over
Britain's EU membership. The poll found that 68 per cent of those who voted Tory
at the last election want Britain to leave the EU.

And 74 per cent of Tory voters want a referendum on Britain's membership of
Europe. It found that 50 per cent believe EU membership has been "totally
negative" for Britain and 65 per cent are "totally opposed" to Britain's
involvement in any further eurozone bailouts.

The groundswell of Tories behind the referendum campaign yesterday sent a stark
message to David Cameron on the first day of the Conservative Conference in
Manchester.

And more Tories are due to speak out on the issue today at a conference fringe
meeting organised by the Daily Express and the TaxPayers' Alliance.

Senior Tory MPs and anti-EU campaigners will feature at the public meeting on
"We Need To Talk About Europe" at the city's Bridgewater Hall. But Mr Cameron
attempted to brush aside the issue yesterday by insisting most people in Britain
wanted the country to stay in the EU.

He said on BBC1's Andrew Marr Show: "It's not our view that there should be an
in/out referendum. I don't want Britain to leave the EU. I think it's the wrong
answer for Britain. What most people want in this country is not actually to
leave the EU, but to reform the EU and make sure that the balance of powers
between a country like Britain and Europe is better."

Mr Cameron said that he wanted to use future treaties to negotiate the return of
powers from Brussels to Westminster.

But he said that this was an ambition "for the longer term" and there was no
immediate prospect of treaty changes to make it possible. It did not form part
of the current renegotiation of treaties which will keep Britain out of the
eurozone bail-out mechanism, he said.

Backbench committee chairman Natascha Engel, a Labour MP, said: "Given the
crisis in the eurozone, this issue has become more relevant than ever. There is
a clear majority of backbench MPs who want to debate this and we have to respond
to that.

"The EU today is completely different from the one the British people voted to
join in 1975. It is time to examine the position again."

Mr Cameron enraged Eurosceptics by claiming that "most people" in Britain did
not want the country to quit the EU.

In his interview on the Andrew Marr Show, the Prime Minister claimed that an EU
referendum was the "wrong answer for Britain, " adding: "What most people want
in this country, I believe, is not actually to leave the European Union, but to
reform the European Union and make sure the balance of powers between a country
like Britain and Europe is better."

But UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said of Mr Cameron: "He says he
believes most people do not want to leave the EU but to reform it.

"How can he possibly know that without asking the great British public?"

He went on: "On the issue of the EU it is clear that the Prime Minister is no
more than a confidence trickster."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Express food warning on April 14
The campaign under way, March 15
Brussels to fight back, March 21
Tax attack on pensions, October 1
David Cameron with wife Samantha arriving at his Manchester hotel yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                October 2, 2011
                                 First Edition

Cameron must escape never-never land;
We should assume the PM is not a Lib Dem at heart, but we need to know what sort
of Conservative he really wants to be

BYLINE: Norman Tebbit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 989 words


No Prime Minister can start from scratch with a clean sheet of paper and it is
David Cameron's misfortune to be, as he described himself, "the heir to Blair".
As if that were not bad enough, his Chancellor is the heir to Brown, with a
toxic inheritance of debt.

On top of that, Mr Cameron has an inheritance of uncontrolled, unlimited,
uncounted immigration, inflated central and local government pay rolls, failed
banking regulation, and a limp surrender to Brussels on everything except,
thanks to Mr Brown, entry to the eurozone.

Unfortunately he is also heir to his own misconceived election strategy which
last year left him without a majority. That led to his decision to enter a
coalition with the Liberal Democrats rather than form a minority Conservative
administration and defy the Lib/Lab opposition to bring him down and precipitate
another election.

That may well be all water under the bridge, but it circumscribes Mr Cameron's
present options. Everything has to be negotiated with a party whose roots are in
the Europhile wing of the Labour Party rather than Jo Grimond's Liberals.
Happily for Mr Cameron, every day that Nick Clegg and the coalitionist Lib Dems
remain in the coalition, the more dangerous it becomes for them to walk out and
force an election. Whatever the outcome of such an election for the two main
parties, it would be disastrous for Mr Clegg and his party unless they had done
a deal with Labour, which seems unlikely. Indeed, Mr Clegg may need a deal of
some sort with either Mr Cameron or Ed Miliband to be re-elected himself in
2015.

So far, Mr Clegg has skilfully pulled the coalition leftwards into the
never-never land of Europhile, green, politically correct, business- bashing,
nice windmills and no wicked plastic bags that is inhabited by his activists.
With his ally Ken Clarke in the Ministry of Justice, he has had no need to
struggle for his agenda there, and his cynical double-cross of Secretary of
State for Health Andrew Lansley, first supporting then opposing NHS reform, has
won him some dividends too.

In return, he has accepted the Chancellor's deficit (not debt) reduction
strategy, the Duncan Smith plan to heal the open wounds inflicted by welfarism
on society, and Michael Gove's efforts to reintroduce education and learning
into state schools.

The trouble for the coalition is that there will be a lot of pain before the
gains of those policies become apparent. Nor is it likely that doctors, nurses
and patients, let alone NHS bureaucrats, will be in the streets singing the
praises of the Lansley reforms before polling day 2015. None the less, Mr
Cameron has some good cards in his hand. As the window for the Lib Dems to
escape safely from the coalition closes, he will become more free to govern as a
Conservative and to seek a majority in 2015, while blaming his partners for his
failure to do so before now. That is, of course, if he wants to.

It seems only fair to give the Prime Minister the benefit of the doubt and to
assume that he is a Conservative rather than a Lib Dem at heart. Unhappily,
however, it seems that he, and most of the bright young things who advise him,
have fallen for that old canard that elections are won on the middle ground.
That was not where Margaret Thatcher won, least of all where she won her third
successive election in 1987, on a record and policies that the modernisers
regard as toxic.

They fail to understand that any move to the centre moves the centre itself away
from one's own ground and towards one's opponent. The art of political
positioning is to seek out and possess the common ground on which your own and
your opponent's supporters stand. As Ed Miliband in his speech conceded, Mrs
Thatcher's council house sales, tax cuts and union reforms were right - that is,
they appealed to many Labour voters, but not Labour activists. They were on the
centre ground. Indeed, Ed Miliband tiptoed on to the home ground of "right-wing
extremists" with his words about immigration and welfare scroungers because that
is where his lost voters are encamped.

The strategy for Mr Cameron should then be clear. He should be open with both
his party and the country, making plain what he would have liked to have done
had his loveless partnership with the Lib Dems allowed him to do so. He should
say that left to himself he would not have let a penny of British taxpayers
money go to delaying and worsening the inevitable disaster in the eurozone, nor
would he have agreed to further EU intrusion into our employment laws. He should
add that he would have repealed the Human Rights Act long ago and if the
European Court of Human Rights persists in interfering with our right to decide
who may enter and stay in our country, or whether British criminals in British
prisons should have the right to vote, he would press his coalition partners to
agree to leave the Convention on Human Rights too. All that, the Prime Minister
should explain, is part of the cost of coalition and remind the conference (and
of course Lib Dem activists) that Mr Clegg and the Lib Dem coalitionists have
also had to concede much that was dear to them, not least, on university fees.

All conference speeches and all appeals to the country need to be
forward-looking, but have their feet on the ground. It was the 1986 party
conference theme The Next Steps Forward that propelled the party into a lead in
the polls which was held until polling day 1987. The Prime Minister's speech
this week should set out the programme for a majority Conservative government.
We, Tory activists and the electorate alike, want to know what sort of
Conservative Mr Cameron really wants to be.

He has Ukip to the right and Lib-Lab on his left. He needs to set his feet on
that common ground which appeals all the way from Ukip to Labour voters and
build on it a conservative agenda, or he may never secure a majority at all.

Lord Tebbit is a former chairman of the Conservative Party

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday

PATRICK COLLINS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1251 words


WE CAN'T JUST BLAME TEVEZ WHEN FOOTBALL GAVE UP ON ETHICS LONG AGO

TEN years from today, as social historians seek the moment when English football
finally abandoned its senses, they may point to an autumn evening in Munich. A
team is in crisis, two goals down with half an hour left. A manager is in
turmoil, arms waving, bawling a stream of frantic instructions. And a player is
sitting on a bench, stubbornly refusing to rise to his feet.

It would have been bad enough if the player were no more than a scuffler from
the public park. But the fact that his name is Carlos Tevez and that he is paid
the thick end of a quarter a million pounds every week made his insubordination
quite unacceptable.

He now claims that his antics were misunderstood, and his defence will be
tested. He has been suspended by his club for two weeks and, given the apparent
gravity of his offence, most neutrals would consider it shockingly distasteful
if he were ever to wear the light blue of Manchester City again.

Having made his own views clear the other evening , 'He can never play for me
again. For me, he's finished' , City's Roberto Mancini has been effectively
gagged by his club's lawyers. But others are less inhibited. Harry Redknapp, of
Tottenham, more sorrowful than angry, muttered: 'It can't happen, shouldn't
happen.'

Alan Pardew, of Newcastle, first announced: 'He is absolutely a footballer I
would be happy to manage.' Then, perhaps realising that he sounded more
conceited than usual, remarked: 'I think he has let himself down.'

From the thin air of the moral high ground, Robbie Savage pronounced Tevez: 'An
absolute disgrace.'

Most outspoken of all was Neil Warnock, the manager of QPR. 'The sooner he
[Tevez] leaves the country, the better,' he barked. Nothing too bad for Johnny
Foreigner, you see. And he added: 'Two weeks' ban is a disgrace. In a few
months, he'll be kissing another badge.' Warnock is currently managing his 12th
club, so he has known a good number of kissable badges.

Of course, logic is not his strongest suit but consider this: Tevez misses half
an hour's football and is urged to leave the country. Barton missed 77 days'
football, having been jailed for a vicious assault, and Warnock appoints him his
club captain. You may sense an anomaly here.

These points are worth making partly because the safest place in almost any
argument is on the opposite side to the likes of Savage and Warnock. But also
because the matter is rather more complex than initial reactions might suggest.
Sources insist that Tevez is not the sharpest gaucho on the pampas. He moans, he
complains, he curses his lot. He is here solely for the mountains of money
available in the Premier League at large and at Eastlands in particular.

He loathes most things about Manchester and, if he could, he would return to
Argentina tomorrow. But unfortunately his patron, the deeply unappealing Kia
Joorabchian, is at loggerheads with the club. Once, Joorabchian was the bosom
chum of the chief executive, Garry Cook. But the two fell out, the way great men
do. Cook has now departed to spend more time with his computer but, alas, our
Kia is still no better loved at City.

As the representative of the former manager, Mark Hughes, he is held responsible
for much of the bad publicity the club attracted when they jettisoned his
client. By a remarkable coincidence, Hughes was virtually the only person
prepared to stand up publicly for Tevez the other evening.

There is a feeling, right or wrong, that City have wanted Tevez out for more
than 18 months, and certainly Mancini wanted rid of him in the last transfer
window.

Joorabchian, however, is said to have been reluctant to allow Tevez to leave on
reduced wages, and the combination of transfer fee and salary deterred even the
richest of clubs. So resentment reigns, illicit briefings flourish on both sides
and an impossibly wealthy yet strangely insecure football club continue to tear
themselves apart.

The fortnight's ban is no more than a temporary truce but it will allow
Manchester City time to consider. They can swallow hard, release the player and
see him instantly employed by another club with high ambition and malleable
principles. Or they can dig in their heels, take the hit and pay him 6250,000 a
week to spend the rest of his contract training with the youth team.

It is an intricate dilemma with no satisfactory solution but I find myself
hoping that they opt for the second course. Because what occurred the other
evening was wrong and cheap and miserably demeaning. It could only have happened
in a sport which has increasingly abandoned not only its ethics but also its
dignity.

Carlos Tevez behaved despicably but he was simply conforming to the prevailing
standards of the game which gives him his lucrative living.

Those social historians may decide that football surrendered its sanity and
self-respect the other evening in Munich but they would be wrong. Because, in
truth, there was nothing left to surrender.

DON'T CALL ENGLAND, THEY'LL CALL YOU, SAM

An old friend of this column broke cover this week with a familiar demand. Sam
Allardyce wants to be the next England manager. And not just 'wants' but
positively yearns to take charge of the national team.

He used to covet minor projects like Real Madrid or Inter Milan but now his
sights are raised. He would, he says, 'walk over burning coals' to lead the
nation.

His credentials are underwhelming.

His club, West Ham, have enjoyed a passably encouraging start to the
Championship season. And Allardyce is undeniably English. And, er, that's about
it.

Now some might say that this doesn't amount to a serious application, that it
carries a scent of hubris, a stench of self-delusion. Rather like that chap from
UKIP who says he intends to form the next government.

In any case, and having considered the candidates, I seriously doubt that the
next manager will be English.

I suspect that the FA will obey their civilised instincts and make their choice
on grounds of ability rather than geography.

But I may be mistaken. It may be that they really are seeking a man who walks
over burning coals to deliver long-ball simplicities, muscular set-pieces and
blistered feet.

If I am wrong, then I shall be truly sorry. Almost as sorry as English football.

A FAIR CRACK OF THE WHIP, MR SCUDAMORE?

I haven't a clue about the rights and wrongs of the great horse-whipping debate.
In my equine ignorance, I leave that sort of thing to those clever fellows with
binoculars and brown trilbies. But Peter Scudamore ought to know, since he is a
genuine authority who was National Hunt champion jockey on eight occasions. And
this was how he defended the contentious practice of giving the horse the odd
chastising cuff.

'In my opinion, it's not a welfare issue,' said Scudamore. 'If these weren't
racehorses, we'd be eating them. Go to Belgium, go to a restaurant. Cheval's a
speciality.'

A nice man, Scudamore, and I'm sure his words were intended to reassure
ignoramuses like me. Instead, I was left more confused than ever. And a little
more alarmed.

PS

Think of it in football terms. Imagine the 1966 World Cup finals without Bobby
Charlton. Or 1970 without Pele. Or 1986 without Diego Maradona. Without such
players, the occasion would have been cheapened and the sport diminished. Which
is why, regardless of national allegiance, we should wish New Zealand's
out-half, Dan Carter, a speedy recovery from his worrying injury. Rugby's
greatest stage demands and deserves the presence of its ultimate performer.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday

FOUR DECADES OF DODGING THE BIG QUESTION

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 513 words


IT HAS been nearly four decades since the voice of the British people was last
heard on Europe, when the pro-Common Market lobby won a 67 per cent majority in
the 1975 referendum, two years after Edward Heath had taken us into Europe.

But as the binds with Brussels have grown tighter, through a series of treaties
voted through the Commons, anti-integration campaigners have kept up relentless
pressure for a fresh vote.

When Margaret Thatcher came to power in 1979, she famously demanded a rebate on
the UK's contributions to the EU budget, which she secured five years later. But
it was Labour that called for our withdrawal from the EEC in its doomed 1983
Election manifesto.

In 1987, despite her instinctive Euroscepticism, Thatcher signed the Single
European Act: its creation of an internal market and deepening of integration
was the biggest loss of British sovereignty since Heath signed the Treaty of
Rome. In 1992, John Major triggered turmoil in the Tory Party by signing the
Maastricht Treaty, which created the European Union and laid the ground for a
single currency. Major secured a British opt-out from the euro, and promised we
would not join the currency without a direct mandate from voters.

A hard core of 22 rebels refused to support Major in a series of Commons votes
at a time when his majority was just 18. The knife-edge votes came close to
bringing down the Major administration, but at no stage was a referendum voted
on in the Commons.

The Tory turmoil over the issue contributed to a landslide for the pro-single
currency Tony Blair.

Many Conservative voters defected to UKIP, which wants the country to withdraw
from the EU, and the late James Goldsmith's now-defunct Referendum Party, which
called for a popular vote on the UK's links with Europe.

The euro was introduced on January 1, 2002: Blair privately mooted holding a
referendum on the issue on May 1, 2003, but he was blocked by Chancellor Gordon
Brown who insisted that five key economic tests had to be passed before the
option was put to the people. He declared that they had not been met.

The Lisbon Treaty, signed in 2007, advanced the federalist agenda even further,
giving Brussels more power over the 27 member states. Brown, now Prime Minister,
refused to call a referendum on the treaty despite Blair's earlier promise to do
so.

In September 2007, Opposition leader David Cameron promised: 'Today, I will give
this cast-iron guarantee: If I become PM, a Conservative government will hold a
referendum' on Lisbon.

Two years later, to the fury of his party's Right-wingers, he dropped the
pledge. The economic problems engulfing the eurozone have revitalised the
anti-Brussels agenda.

As Germany and France struggle to raise the funds to prevent weaker members of
the EU from going bust, more then 120 Tory MPs have formed a group pushing
Cameron to set out a 'clear plan' for pulling back from the EU. They are
expected to be joined in the forthcoming Commons debate by at least 50 Labour
MPs opposed to integration, and even a handful of Lib Dems, traditionally the
most Euro-friendly party.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                October 2, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£42M CHILD BENEFIT SENT ABROAD;
As middle class Britons lose child benefits, £42m is sent to families abroad
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: James Murray ;Matthew Davis

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 736 words


CHILD benefit worth £42million is being sent abroad each year - while British
families are being squeezed by the cash crisis, we can reveal today.

; Most of the cash goes to eastern Europe, with Poland top of the list. Every
month more than £2million is sent to Polish children, who already enjoy a higher
quality of life than those living here. Of the £42million sent abroad,
£30million goes to youngsters in eastern Europe. Payments are usually far more
generous than any government benefits in those countries.

; British benefits for Polish children are 515 per cent higher than local
workers could claim on their own welfare system - which could explain the huge
surge in claims here in recent years.

; While the Warsaw government pays £3.30 per week per child, Polish claimants
here get £20.30 for one child, a difference of £17 per week.

; The British are paid benefit for every other child is £14.75 per week, so a
Polish family with three children can claim more than £200 per month.

; The Government is now being urged to reduce the payments dramatically as the
squeezed middle classes here prepare for having their child benefit removed.
Hundreds of thousands of British families will lose all their child benefits
from April 2013 when the Government will stop all payments if any householder
earns enough to be taxed at 40 per cent. Some hard-pressed families face losing
£200 a month.

However, this ruling is unlikely to affect most of the Europeans and foreigners
working in Britain and claiming child benefit for loved ones in their native
countries because their earnings generally fall below the 40 per cent tax
threshold.

; As more eastern Europeans settle in Britain, the cost of paying child benefit
to their families back home is expected to rise to a total of £45million per
year by 2015.

; Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "Why should British taxpayers pay for people to
have a higher standard of living in other countries than people in this country?
The system is simply unfair and needs to be changed.

; "When the Prime Minister says we are all in this together I don't think he
meant people from Walsall to Warsaw.

; "People are getting fed up with all these millions pouring abroad, especially
when so many more British people are being squeezed."

; The Sunday Express investigation into the escalating costs of child benefit
for foreign workers' families has galvanised Tory MPs who see it as a key issue
for the party conference in Manchester this week.

; As David Cameron arrived yesterday, senior Government figures were planning a
revolt against plans by the European Commission to make benefit tourism even
easier.

; strengthens That could see Britain hit with an extra £2.5billion in welfare
payments, a move which threatens to derail our economic recovery. Employment
Minister Chris Grayling and the equally Euro sceptic Work and Pensions Secretary
Iain Duncan Smith are preparing for a major battle in Brussels to stop the
European bureaucrats from grabbing yet more power from the British Parliament.

Last night Robert Halfon, Conservative MP for Harlow, said: "This seems to be
yet another case of benefit tourism with thousands of people getting generous
benefits which they wouldn't get in their own countries.

; "It seems incredible that our country is once again financing this situation,"
he added.

; Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, added: "There will be widespread
outrage and incredulity that so much money is being gifted to EU migrants in
child benefit when their children aren't even living in the UK.

"It just goes to show the absurdity of EU rules that can waste British
taxpayers' money in this way and will strengthen the case for the UK leaving the
EU altogether."

A spokesman for HM Revenue & Customs said: "Child benefit payments are in line
with EU rules which have been in force for more than 30 years.

"We do not pay child benefit for children living in another EU member state
until we are sure the claim is legitimate."

The spokesman added that most of the payments are made directly into bank
accounts in foreign countries.

'It strengthens the case forleaving the EU'

Poland 27,018 £488,592 Slovakia 1,870 £33,559 Lithuania 1,342 £25,244 Latvia 732
£13,771 Czech Republic 277 £5,018 Romania 264 £4,770 Bulgaria 186 £3,531 Hungary
157 £2,887 Estonia 39 £ Slovenia 10 £ TOTAL 31,895 £578,282 Country No. of
children claiming who live abroad Weekly cost FOREIGN CHILD BENEFIT

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory Eurosceptics grow bolder as Brussels-bashing tops conference fringe agenda;

The euro crisis and threat of taxes and red tape are spurring some MPs to
challenge our ties to the EU, writes Tim Rayment

BYLINE: Tim Rayment

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 1441 words


For years it was the subject that dared not speak its name. Not any more. Europe
is the contentious backdrop to the Conservative party conference that opens
today in Manchester, and the party's eurosceptics sense that their time has
come.

You will not find Britain's relationship with Europe on the official agenda and
the leadership would prefer not to talk about it at all. Instead, the conference
theme is "modern compassionate Conservatism", or tough love for short.

But with the eurozone in crisis and new diktats from Brussels threatening
British jobs, restless backbench Tory MPs say the party has lost its fear of
confronting the EU.

"The Conservative party has been so scared of talking about Europe for such a
long time that something needed to be done," says Chris Heaton-Harris, MP for
Daventry and a member of a new parliamentary group that wants David Cameron to
take power back from Brussels.

"If we're afraid to talk about Europe, we're ignoring the background to just
about every policy decision we take."

The EU is threatening financial regulations that could hit the City; new rules
coming into effect this weekend impose fresh burdens on businesses that use
temporary workers; and Brussels insists that EU migrants must be able to claim
benefits in the UK. These are just some of the measures prompting eurosceptics
to call for reform of Britain's relationship with Europe.

In their election manifesto the Conservatives promised to "bring back key
powers" over legal rights, criminal justice and social and employment law to the
UK. "We will never allow Britain to slide into a federal Europe," the party
declared, adding that "we will fight our corner to promote our national
interests".

However, in coalition, the "fight" has been muted; the Liberal Democrats have
long seen Britain "at the heart of Europe".

A spokesman for Open Europe, a think tank calling for reform, said: "This is
disappointing, as EU policy is very costly to British businesses."

Just how costly was shown yesterday, when new EU regulations came into force
giving agency workers the same rights as permanent staff after 12 weeks. The
extra cost of taking on temps is expected to hit the young, for whom agency work
is a way into the labour market.

Analysis by Open Europe suggests that 28,000 temporary contracts for people aged
16 to 24 are threatened at a time of high youth unemployment. This would push
the number of young people not in education, employment or training, now at
979,000, over 1m.

This week, too, the chancellor, George Osborne, is facing defeat in Brussels
over regulations that govern derivatives trading, even though more than
three-quarters of the trades take place in London. He also faces a fight over a
proposed tax on financial transactions to raise (EURO)55billion a year. Half
would be given to EU member states and half to the European commission - but
most of the money would come from London, about 80% by some estimates.

The tax was proposed last week and within hours, it also emerged that the
commission was insisting that jobless EU citizens should have the right to come
to Britain and have access to a range of benefits. Iain Duncan Smith, the work
and pensions secretary, says this could cost taxpayers £2 billion a year to
support people "who have never paid a penny in [UK] tax".

The burden of such regulations, and the crisis in the eurozone, guarantee heated
debate on the conference fringe. "Whether the government wants it or not, it
looks very likely that Europe overshadows the Conservative conference," said
John Redwood, the veteran eurosceptic MP.

This is the most eurosceptic intake of Tory MPs in history. Research by
Conservative-Home into candidates in 144 safe and target seats for the 2010
election found that 47% wanted to repatriate powers from Europe and 38% went
even further, believing that the government should seek "a fundamental
renegotiation" of Britain's EU membership.

Many of those candidates got into parliament and now sympathise with Mark
Pritchard, secretary of the backbench 1922 Committee, who believes the EU has
become "a kind of occupying force", that Brussels is "a burdensome yoke" and
that the British have endured "nearly four decades of subjugation".

Two new groups of backbenchers have been formed to press for action. One, led by
George Eustice - a former Ukip Euro candidate and later Cameron's press
spokesman - wants the repatriation of powers. Another group, to be launched this
week, is focused on the economy, but says that Europe lies behind many of the
obstacles to competitiveness and growth.

"People are concerned about the bureaucracy that's just stopping them getting on
with their lives," says Elizabeth Truss MP, a leading figure in the new Free
Enterprise Group. "And quite often it's the multiple layering of it.

"You've got the European commission, government departments, quangos, several
layers of local government. And by the time it gets to the individual, it's very
onerous." This goes wider than Europe, says Truss, who is regarded as a moderate
Tory; it is about competitiveness of the West as a whole. But she, too, would
like the repatriation of powers from the EU over social and employment law.

Both groups are interested in a "modest proposal" from Redwood, under which
Britain would give up its veto over what other EU nations do to complete their
union, in return for opting out of any part of the EU that it chooses.

"We may well think their legislation is wise, in which case we will willingly
impose it on ourselves. But we should make that decision," Redwood said this
weekend. "We could also say, on this occasion we are not doing it. Or, by the
way, we are repealing a previous one."

Now is the time to act, Redwood argues. "The government is trying to avoid
engaging in this, and saying, this is not the time for a renegotiation. The rest
of us are saying, this is exactly the time for a renegotiation. Because this is
the time when our Euroland partners desperately need to make changes."

Will it happen? The Liberal Democrats have a longstanding belief in Europe and
personal commitments, too. Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, has a Dutch
mother and a Spanish wife, and has worked in the European commission and as an
MEP. Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, is a former head of
communications for Britain in Europe.

Conservative eurosceptics are unable to name any Lib Dem MPs who support them,
which makes it unlikely much will change under the coalition.

However, this week there are dozens of speakers on Europe in the freedom zone,
the fringe of the Conservative fringe. The eurosceptics say the subject is too
important to ignore.

"We've got to have a proper grown-up discussion about Europe," says
Heaton-Harris. "And not fall out about it. Because if we don't, we're kind of
removing ourselves from the field of play. I think the party has come round to
the fact that it can actually debate these things without getting personal,
bitter and splitting."

Yesterday, a senior Tory MP said: "The thing about this conference is that it
may not be about events in the hall, it may be about what happens outside in the
eurozone."

Additional reporting: Marie Woolf What could go wrong? ? Ed Miliband loses the
Labour leadership. Political commentators feel Cameron has been boosted by
Labour's lurch to the left, allowing the Tories to dominate the middle ground.
Mori, the pollsters, say Labour is picking up disaffected Liberal Democrat
supporters but failing to attract people who voted Tory at the election.

A more Blairite leader who moved Labour nearer the centre could pose problems
for Cameron.

? The economy fails to improve. With growth weak and unemployment rising, the
prime minister is under pressure from his own party to do more to boost demand.
If Britain slides back into recession, calls for the government to change tack
and adopt a plan B will intensify.

? Public sector trade unions get serious. Civil servants, council staff and
other public workers have held and are threatening industrial action.

However, so far these have consisted of nothing more damaging than a few one-day
strikes.

A more sustained, co-ordinated campaign could damage the country. The government
of the time tends to get the blame.

? Boris Johnson loses the May 2012 London mayoral election. If he returned to
Westminster, Boris could threaten to force a leadership contest if he were not
given a cabinet job of his choosing.

? The love affair dies. If the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition collapses, the
Tories risk policy deadlock at Westminster and, before long, another election.
They could be pushed out of office by a Labour-Lib Dem pact.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Heaton-Harris, left, Elizabeth Truss and George Eustice, far
right, believe that with Europe in turmoil, the time is right for action
YIORGOS KARAHALIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 42M CHILD BENEFIT SENT ABROAD

BYLINE: By James Murray and Matthew Davis

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 677  words


CHILD benefit worth GBP 42million is being sent abroad each year - while British
families are being squeezed by the cash crisis, we can reveal today.

Most of the cash goes to eastern Europe, with Poland top of the list. Every
month more than GBP 2million is sent to Polish children, who already enjoy a
higher quality of life than those living here. Of the GBP 42million sent abroad,
GBP 30million goes to youngsters in eastern Europe. Payments are usually far
more generous than any government benefits in those countries.

British benefits for Polish children are 515 per cent higher than local workers
could claim on their own welfare system - which could explain the huge surge in
claims here in recent years.

While the Warsaw government pays GBP 3.30 per week per child, Polish claimants
here get GBP 20.30 for one child, a difference of GBP 17 per week.

The British are paid benefit for every ther child is GBP 14.75 per week, so a
Polish family with three children can claim more than GBP 200 per month.

The Government is now being urged to reduce the payments dramatically as the
squeezed middle classes here prepare for having their child benefit removed.
Hundreds of housands of British families will lose all their child benefits from
April 2013 when the Government will stop all payments if any householder earns
enough to be taxed at 40 per cent. Some hard-pressed families face losing GBP
200 a month.

However, this ruling is unlikely to affect most of the Europeans and reigners
working in Britain and claiming child benefit for loved ones in their native
countries because their earnings generally fall below the 40 per cent tax
threshold.

As more eastern Europeans settle in Britain, the cost of paying child benefit to
their families back home is expected to rise to a total of GBP 45million per
year by 2015.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "Why should British taxpayers pay for people to
have a higher standard of living in other countries than people in this country?
The system is simpl y unfair and needs to be changed.

"When the Prime Minister says we are all in this together I don't think he meant
people from Walsall to Warsaw.

"People are getting fed up with all these millions pouring abroad, especiall y
when so many more British people are being squeezed."

The Sunday Express investigation into the escalating costs of child benefit for
foreign workers' families has galvanised Tory MPs who see it as a ke y issue for
the party conference in Manchester this week.

As David Cameron arrived yesterday, senior Government figures were planning a
revolt against plans by the European Commission to make benefit tourism even
easier.

That could see Britain hit with an extra GBP 2.5billion in welfare payments, a
move which threatens to derail ou r economic recovery. Employment Minister Chris
Grayling and the equally Euro eptic Work and Pensions Secretar y Iain Duncan
Smith are preparing for a major battle in Brussels to stop the European
bureaucrats from grabbing yet more power from the British Parliament.

Last night Robert Halfon, Conservative MP for Harlow, said: "This seems to be
yet another case of benefit tourism with thousands of people getting generous
benefits which they wouldn't get in their own countries.

"It seems incredible that our countr y is once again financing this situation, "
he added.

Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, added: "There will be widespread
outrage and incredulity that so much money is being gifted to EU migrants in
child benefit when their children aren't even living in the UK.

"It just goes to show the absurdity of EU rules that can waste British
taxpayers' money in this wa y

and will strengthen the case for the UK leaving the EU altogether."

A spokesman for HM Revenue & Customs said:

"Child benefit payments are in line with EU rules which have been in force for
more than 30 years.

"We do not pay child benefit for children living in another EU membe r state
until we are sure the claim is legitimate."

The spokesman added that most of the yments are made directly into ban k
accounts in reign countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

GBP 42M CHILD BENEFIT SENT ABROAD

BYLINE: By James Murray and Matthew Davis

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 623  words


Migrant workers collect payments denied to British families

WHILE British families are being squeezed by the cuts child benefits worth GBP
42million are being sent abroad abroad each year, we can reveal today.

Most of the cash goes to Eastern Europe with Poland top of the tree. Every month
more than GBP 2million is sent to Polish children, who already enjoy a higher
quality of life than those living here. Of the GBP 42million sent abroad, GBP
30million goes to youngsters in eastern Europe. Payments are usually far more
generous than any government benefits in those countries.

British benefits for Polish children are 515 per cent higher than local workers
could claim on their own welfare system - which could explain the huge surge in
claims here in recent years.

While Warsaw pays GBP 3.30 per week per child, Polish claimants here for get GBP
20.30, a difference of GBP 17 per week.

The British paid benefit for every other child is GBP 14.75 per week, so a
Polish family with three children can claim more than GBP 200 per month The
Government is being urged to reduce the payments as the squeezed middle classes
here prepare to see their child benefit removed from April 2013. Some
hard-pressed families will lose GBP 200 a month.

However, this is unlikely to affect most of the Europeans and oreigners working
in Britain and aiming child benefit for loved ones in their native countries
because their earnings generally fall below the 40 per cent tax threshold.

As more eastern Europeans settle in Britain, the cost of paying child benefit to
their families back home is expected to rise to a total of GBP 45million per
year by 2015.

Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, said: "Why should taxpayers pay for people to have
a higher standard of living in other countries than in this country?

The system is imply unfair and needs to be changed.

"People are fed up with all these millions pouring abroad, especially when so
many more Britons are being squeezed."

The Sunday Express probe into the escalating costs of child benefit for foreign
workers' families has galvanised Tory MPs who see it as a key issue for the
party conference in Manchester this week. As David Cameron arrived yesterday,
senior Government figures were planning a revolt against plans by the European
Commission to make benefit tourism even easier.

That could see Britain hit with an extra GBP 2.5billion in welfare payments, a
move which threatens to derail our economic recovery.

Employment Minister Chris Grayling and the equally Euro ceptic Work and ensions
Secretary Iain Duncan Smith are preparing for a major battle with russels to
stop the European bureaucrats from grabbing yet more power from the British
Parliament.

Last night, Robert Halfon, Conservative MP for Harlow, said: "This seems to be
yet another case of benefit tourism with thousands of people receiving generous
benefits which they wouldn't get in their own countries.

"It seems incredible that our country is once again financing this situation, "
he added.

Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, added: "There will be widespread
outrage and incredulity that so much money is being gifted to EU migrants in
child benefit when their children aren't even living in the UK.

"It just goes to show the absurdity of EU rules that can waste British tax
payers' money in this way and will strengthen the case for the UK leaving the EU
altogether."

A spokesman for HM Revenue & Customs said:

"Child benefit payments are in line with EU rules which have been in force for
more than 30 years.

"We do not pay child benefit for children living in another EU member state
until we are sure the claim is legitimate."

The spokesman added that most of the payments are made directly into bank
accounts in foreign countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CASE: Ukip's Nigel Farage is leading calls for a policy review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 137 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 2, 2011 Sunday 8:00 AM GMT

The Top 100 most influential people on the Right 2011, 100-76;
The Daily Telegraph's list of the Top 100 most influential people on the Right
in 2011 has been compiled by Iain Dale and Brian Brivati.

BYLINE: By Iain Dale and Brian Brivati

LENGTH: 2187 words


76. (+4) NEIL O'BRIEN

Director, Policy Exchange

O'Brien has moved Policy Exchange on to a more aggressive, free-market agenda.
Some believe that with the Conservatives now in government its influence will
wane a little. So far there is little evidence of that happening.

77. (+14) JUSTINE GREENING

Economic Secretary to the Treasury

Justine Greening is popular with her colleagues and among the political media.
She is seen as a dead cert for promotion to the Cabinet, although probably in
the reshuffle after next.

78. (New) LYNTON CROSBY

Boris Johnson's Campaign Manager

The "Wizard of Oz" successfully worked his strategic and tactical magic four
times in his native Australia for Prime Minister John Howard. In six months he
was unable to do the same for Michel Howard and the Tories at the 2005 general
election, but he oversaw Boris Johnson's famous victory at the 2008 London
mayoral election and is now seeking to repeat that feat in 2012.

79. (New) GREG HANDS

PPS to George Osborne

The need to accommodate Lib Dems may have prevented Hands' shadow treasury
spokesmanship being converted into a government job last year, but he has
remained part of Team Osborne as the Chancellor's loyal, well-regarded and
capable Parliamentary Private Secretary. A devotee of both Thatcher and Reagan
(he was born in the US and campaigned for Rudy Giuliani when he lived in New
York), a ministerial red box ought to be his before too long.

80. (-10) JOHN RANDALL

Deputy Chief Whip

John Randall is not the kind of whip to use aggression to keep his charges in
line. He's more likely to use the arm around the shoulder approach. He was first
appointed to the whips' office in 1999 but resigned from the front bench over
the Iraq war in 2003. He rejoined the office in 2005 and has rejoiced in the
role ever since and remains one of the most popular figures in Conservative
parliamentary politics.

81. (+4) LORD TEBBIT

Former Conservative Cabinet Minister

Norman Tebbit                      still has the knack of getting to the nub of
an issue with a soundbite designed to cause maximum effect. As a consequence,
whenever the Tories run into trouble, Tebbit is on hand to add a piquant quote
or two. His Telegraph blog has given him a new lease of life and it has quickly
become required reading in the Westminster Village and beyond.

82. (New) LORD LAWSON

Former Chancellor of the Exchequer

Nigel Lawson has been ubiquitous in the media, commenting on the unfolding
Eurozone crisis and climate change. One of the most prominent climate change
skeptics he is experiencing an Indian summer as a politician of influence. His
recently republished memoirs illustrate what a towering intellect he has.

83. (New) Paul Goodman

Co-editor, ConservativeHome.com

Genial and pensive, Goodman quit Parliament at the last election even though he
would have been a dead cert Minister of State in a Cameron government.
Disillusioned by the state of party politics he has made a real impact in his
new guise as an internet commentator. He is a hot tip for a peerage in the next
12 months.

84. (-13) STEPHEN GREENHALGH

Leader, London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham

Greenhalgh led Hammersmith & Fulham to a storming victory in 2007 on a manifesto
of cuts in council tax, waste and some services. Since then many other councils
have taken careful note of how they did it.

85. (New) SIR EDWARD LISTER

Deputy Mayor of London

Following the tragic death of Sir Simon Milton, Sir Edward Lister was appointed
as his replacement as Deputy Mayor for Planning and Chief of Staff to the London
Mayor. Previously Sir Edward had served as Leader of Wandsworth Council from
1992-2011, making him the longest serving council leader in the country. Boris
is hoping that Sir Edward's success in Wandsworth can be mimicked in next year's
Mayoral election.

86. (New) GEORGE EUSTICE

MP for Falmouth & Camborne

While some may define this Cornish ex-strawberry farmer as a "Cameroon" owing to
his stint as David Cameron's press secretary in opposition, it should not be
forgotten that he was a UKIP candidate for the European Parliament in 1999. Now
as a Tory MP he is seeking to push the party in a more eurosceptic direction as
a leading light in the new group of backbenchers seeking to redefine Britain's
relationship with the EU. He also used his experience with the anti-euro No
campaign to advise those who successfully defeated AV at this year's referendum.

87. (-3) STUART POLAK

Director, Conservative Friends of Israel

CFI has established itself as a highly effective lobby group. Polak regularly
takes leading Conservatives on trips to Israel to educate them. The sceptics
invariably return, if not indoctrinated, fully onside. A familiar face around
the corridors of the Houses of Parliament, he has done more than most to promote
Israel's case to the right of British politics.

88. (-59) ANDREW LANSLEY

Secretary of State for Health

Lansley is one of the Cabinet's genuinely nice people. But he falls rather
dramatically this year due to his failure to get the Health & Social Care Bill
through the Commons intact. In opposition, Lansley successfully neutralized
health as an issue for the Tories. In government it is returning to bite them.

89. (New) PRITI PATEL

Conservative MP for Witham

One of the feistiest of the 2010 intake, Patel wowed Essex man with her
Thatcherite rhetoric to win a seat where she doesn't fit the typical
demographic. The embodiment of upwards social mobility as envisaged by the Iron
Lady, she is the daughter of Ugandan refugees and worked for Sir James Goldsmith
and the Referendum Party in 1997 before being recruited to Tory HQ by William
Hague when he was leader. Now has a potential selection battle on her hands as
Witham is set for abolition in the boundary carve-up.

90. (-2) RORY STEWART

Conservative MP for Penrith & the Border

Stewart has made a big impact on Parliament in his first 16 months. A regular on
radio and TV on foreign policy issues, he is one of the party's great thinkers.
Can he now make the transformation from pundit to minister. Tipped for early
promotion, expect it not to be to the Foreign Office team.

91. (New) NADHIM ZAHAWI

Conservative MP for Stratford Upon Avon

A Kurdish ex-Wandsworth councillor who fled Iraq with his family in the late
1970s, Zahawi made a mint before entering Parliament as co-founder of opinion
polling firm YouGov. A one-time aide to Jeffrey Archer, he is ambitious and
currently beavering away on the Business, Innovation and Skills select committee
and co-authored the bestselling Masters of Nothing with Matthew Hancock.

92. (New) KATHARINE BIRBALSINGH

Teacher and Writer

Birbalsingh, an inner-city schoolteacher, gained prominence after her rabble
rousing speech at last year's Conservative Party conference on declining
standards in comprehensive schools. This led to her being suspended, and,
although a campaign was formed to reinstate her, she was later forced to resign.
She is now trying to set up a free school in Lambeth, and writes a regular blog
for the Telegraph website . Along with Toby Young she is one of the main
advocates of free schools.

93. (New) SIR ANDREW GREEN

Chairman, MigrationWatch

Sir Andrew, former ambassador to Saudi Arabia, is the Chairman of MigrationWatch
UK, an independent think tank that looks at the effects of high levels of
immigration to the UK. His long term campaigning seems to be paying off with the
introduction of a cap on non-EU migrants to clamp down on immigration. David
Cameron also spoke in Munich back in February about the failing of
multiculturalism, which Sir Andrew said was "music in my ears".

94. (New) PETER CRUDDAS

Conservative Party Co-Treasurer

Son of a Smtihfield market porter, Cruddas has worked his way up to become one
of the richest men in the country thanks to his company CMC Markets. He played a
vital role in the "No to AV" as one of their big backers. After that he was
appointed co-treasurer of the Conservative Party alongside Lord Stanley Fink
back in June. Despite his new role Cruddas is still involved with a number of
charities including the Prince's Trust and his own Peter Cruddas Foundation
which helps disadvantaged young people in society.

95. (New) ANDREW ADONIS

Former Labour Cabinet Minister

To those Cameron supporters who remain entranced by Tony Blair, Andrew Adonis
remains a bit of a hero. His education reforms are still the guiding light for
Michael Gove and his disciples.

96. (New) DOMINIC CUMMINGS

Special Advisor to Michael Gove

Cummings, a former strategy director for the Conservative Party, was blocked by
Andy Coulson from becoming Special Advisor to Michael Gove following the General
Election. Following Coulson's resignation in January, Cummings made a swift
return as Gove's right hand man. He has been a key Tory moderniser over recent
years and proved vital in strengthening support for education reforms. Recently
he faced criticism over allegations he was using his private email address to
avoid FoI requests.

97. (New) MURDO FRASER

Member of the Scottish Parliament

Fraser has been a Member of the Scottish Parliament representing Mid-Scotland
and Fife since 2001. Following the resignation of Annabel Goldie as Leader of
the Scottish Conservatives, Fraser announced he would seek the leadership and
has consistently polled as the frontrunner. His plans include further devolution
for Scotland and to abolish the Scottish Conservatives and create a new centre
right party. Regardless of whether Fraser wins the leadership, he has
undoubtedly shaped the debate over the future of the right in Scotland.

98. (New) ALAN DUNCAN

Minister of State for International Development

The former shadow cabinet member made a name for himself as the first Tory MP
publicly to discuss his homosexuality and subsequently enter a civil
partnership. But he came a cropper during the expenses scandal when caught
claiming MPs were "living on rations", was demoted and is now a middle-ranking
minister at DfID (albeit with a Privy Counsellorship as consolation). However,
the former oil trader's stock appears to have risen again recently after
reportedly being behind the recent Government plan to block fuel supplies to
Gaddafi's forces in Libya.

99. (New) ANDEW R T DAVIS

Leader of the Welsh Conservatives

The Welsh Conservatives suffered a shock defeat after the Assembly elections in
May when their leader Nick Bourne lost his regional seat. In the resulting
leadership election Andrew RT Davies won with 53.1% of the vote. Although he is
a well known figure on the right of the party, he disappointed some by urging
his Westminster colleagues to overturn the fox hunting ban.

100. (New) NADINE DORRIES

Conservative MP for Mid Bedfordshire

This outspoken one-time nurse is a real Marmite politician. She has made enemies
in the Sisterhood and elsewhere for trying to restrict abortion whilst
colleagues are nervous of confiding in her lest their indiscretions end up on
her blog. Destined to remain a backbencher, the Boundary Commission proposal to
abolish her constituency could, in theory, bring her career to a premature end
at the next election.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday

THE SIMON HEFFER COLUMN

LENGTH: 1455 words


FORGET THE CONFERENCE SMILES. THE TORIES ARE DEEPLY SPLIT

The Conservatives profess to be in good spirits for their conference next week.
It is hard to know what cheers them more: that Labour was judged to have had an
unimpressive week at Liverpool, or that the popularity of their coalition
partners, the Liberal Democrats, continues to sink.

'Our people are happy,' a minister told me, 'because we are in power.'

However, many backbench Tories take a different view. As one remarked: 'My local
party members are exasperated because they feel the Government should be doing
more Conservative things.'

These two very different attitudes , between those who think it won the election
in May last year, and those who know it did not , expose a serious split in the
Tory Party.

Among grassroots Tories there is a widespread feeling that with David Cameron as
Prime Minister (and most of the Cabinet being Tories) the Government should
pursue core Conservative policies such as cutting tax and spending,
strengthening law and order, restricting immigration, reducing red tape and,
above all, distancing Britain from Europe.

Yet MPs and peers have a different perception, knowing they are unable to enjoy
real power because they are in a Coalition Government. The truth is that the Lib
Dem tail is wagging the Tory dog.

The tension that simmers below the surface is in part due to working out how
this unsatisfactory arrangement can be changed.

An example of Tory frustration concerns tax policy. One MP told me of deep
unhappiness that key Conservative principles have been sacrificed , and at a
cost to the economic health of the country.

He said most Tories dislike the 50p top rate of tax because it drives wealth
creators away from Britain, acts as a brake on recovery and in any case doesn't
actually raise any extra income.

But he warned that because of Coalition horse-trading, the Lib Dems will demand
the introduction of their beloved 'mansion tax' (on homes worth more than
61million) as the price for the abolition of the 50p rate. 'We've had to swallow
entirely the Lib Dems' egalitarian agenda,' the Tory MP complained.

There are many Tories who believe Mr Cameron would be happy with such a deal
because he is not a conviction Conservative and would secretly be pleased if he
didn't have to deliver a purely Tory agenda.

'I think he's very glad to have his hands tied by the Lib Dems,' one minister
told me.

Meanwhile, a group of Tory MPs is trying to force Mr Cameron to move away from
the centre-Left. They are publishing next week a 26-chapter alternative
manifesto entitled The Future Of Conservatism which will set out an alternative,
Right-leaning programme for the party.

This document is partly a response to grassroots critics who are worried that
party membership figures are falling and that in some parts of urban England
outside London, the organisation of constituency work is now very poor.

No one expects any overt acts of rebellion from MPs at the party's conference in
Manchester. All Tories, wherever they stand in the party, love power. Nobody
wants to rock the boat and risk precipitating an election just yet.

In any case, boundary changes that will make it easier for the Tories to win
seats, and harder for Labour and the Lib Dems, may not be in place until 2014.
Although most Tories would like to wait until then, it is far from certain that
they will have that luxury.

For there is a growing belief that the Right of the Conservative Party , which
feels it has been sidelined as a result of the marriage to the Lib Dems , will
begin to assert itself over a number of issues. These go beyond how to deal with
the economic crisis and whether or not the Chancellor should have a 'Plan B'.

The biggest of these issues is Europe. Matthew Elliott, who leads the Taxpayers'
Alliance, will hold a meeting at the conference to demand a referendum: not to
ask voters whether Britain should be 'in or out' of the EU but to let them
approve or reject any new treaty signed by heads of government in the wake of
the euro crisis which will change the structure of the European Union.

The idea of such a referendum appals Mr Cameron. What's more, the anti-EU
rebellion could break the Coalition because the pro-Europe Lib Dems would not
agree to it.

Then there is Scotland. Tories believe that Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond
is running rings round the Government in Westminster and is paving the way back
home for a referendum on independence that may well succeed.

But Mr Cameron's most urgent problem is the Tories' relationship with the Lib
Dems. Indeed, he may be pressed by his party to review the whole nature of the
Coalition. One MP told me: 'Events have overtaken the Coalition agreement. It is
now inadequate to deal with the current political situation.'

An opportunity comes when the Prime Minister is expected to have a Cabinet
reshuffle next May. Some Tory MPs , including those who had frontbench posts in
opposition but who saw those government portfolios handed to Lib Dems , argue
that the number of Lib Dems in the Cabinet should be reduced.

'After all, the Lib Dems have about half the standing in the opinion polls now
that they had in May 2010

,' a minister said to me. 'The country has rejected them. They don't deserve
such preferential treatment now.'

It is hard to find any Tory who believes that their party will fight the next
election, whenever it may come, as part of a coalition. 'When it ends,' an MP
told me, 'it will end very grubbily.'

Meanwhile, the abiding problem for Tories is how to extend their appeal.
Although support has generally held up where they won seats last year, it has
not progressed much further. As things stand, the party will win some seats
currently held by Lib Dems: but Labour is expected to win more.

'Maybe if we started offering some proper Conservative policies we might begin
to have an effect in urban areas of England where we appear to be unelectable,'
said an MP.

A worrying fact is that many activists have defected to UKIP, attracted by its
unequivocal support for withdrawal from the EU, immigration controls, tax cuts
and the restoration of grammar schools.

S ome Conservative MPs believe that a return to such traditional Tory values
would shore up their vote during what one minister told me will be a time of
'cataclysmic austerity' over the next year or so.

The truth is that Mr Cameron should treat all these issues as a great
opportunity.

For example, if he could bring himself to let the Scots become independent, this
could put the Tories in a more or less permanent majority in a Westminster
parliament without any Scottish members (including the present 41 Labour MPs).

And Europe offers the greatest opportunity of all. The Prime Minister should
embrace, rather than fear, the proposed referendum for the electorate to have a
say on any future treaty that changes the nature of the EU. Indeed, his
reputation could only be enhanced by doing so because it would mean he was
standing up for the democratic wishes of the British people against the
dictatorship of Brussels.

More pertinently, he could repatriate the Common Agricultural Policy, the Common
Fisheries Policy, powers over employment and social legislation, our ability to
decide our own environmental policies as well as control of health and safety
regulations.

Mr Cameron undoubtedly realises that next week's party conference may be the
last ray of sunshine for a while. The economic situation alone will make the
months ahead very hard for the Coalition. An ever greater European crisis as
well would make them harder still.

But if Mr Cameron has the courage to follow the instincts of his own party
instead of those of the Lib Dems, there is no reason why such trials should
weaken him, or the Conservatives' prospects.

ALL HAIL THE SOVIET EU

When JosŽ Manuel Barroso, the EU godfather, addressed the European Parliament
about the impending calamity for the euro, all the old men in grey suits sitting
behind him clapped obediently. This reminded me of Moscow in the days of
Brezhnev. The only difference between the old Soviet Union and the EuroSoviet in
Brussels, though, is that British taxpayers didn't have to pay through the nose
for it.

Few ministers irritate more than David Willetts, the rampantly ambitious higher
education minister.

He was at it again on Thursday, talking about the need to improve the Office for
Fair Access, which seeks to ensure that universities discriminate against middle
class, clever, committed young people who work exceptionally hard. Willetts may
feel that championing this particular Lib Dem policy is his route to the
Cabinet.

Telling the truth , that the best thing to do with this admissions watchdog is
close it down , wouldn't serve him half so well.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
