
                               1 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1000 words


On Saturday

WHAT A PANTOMIME - THE DAME'S IN HIGH DUDGEON

NAVIGATOR taps my shoulder and says, 'bandits off the port wing, skipper'. I rub
the oil from my goggles and peer left. Under attack, indeed! Dame Liz Forgan is
closing in fast, cannons spitting fire. Dakka dakka dakka.

Arts Council chairman Dame Liz has taken a mood on. In a recent Daily Mail
article, I took a pop at her politically correct Council. She has now had one of
her state-funded lawyers place the offending item under a microscope.

Fault has been found. I am to be dragged before the beak, or the Press
Complaints Commission as that estimable body is more properly known.

Dame Liz, steaming like an overheated Morris Minor, claims my article was
'grossly offensive'. I should hope so, too. Wouldn't like to think I was losing
my touch.

Particular exception was taken to my suggesting that posh Dame Liz (now that the
sainted Liz Taylor has gone to a better place, Mother Forgan has the title to
herself at last) has a 'multi-cultural nomenklatura' at the Council.

Her legal wallah is outraged. I am, it would seem, a fiend, cur, general
schweinhund. For as the letter notes, we scribes are not permitted, under the
Geneva Convention or something like that, to allude to 'an individual's race,
colour, religion, gender' etc.

I did not refer to any individual as multicultural, but no matter. The principle
here is sound, is it not? Racial prejudice is bad. If there is one thing on
which the great Dame and Muggins can concur, it is that we, the British people,
must be blind to skin tone. No one should be barred, particularly from public
money, as a result of colour.

But what is this? I am alerted to something called the Inspire Fellowship
Programme. This 'positive action traineeship aims to address the historical
under-representation of Black and minority ethnic curators in the country's
museums'. In other words, it dispenses money very much on a basis of colour.

The state-funded body responsible for this fellowship? You will be shocked (or
maybe not so shocked) to learn that it is the Arts Council. I hope Culture
Secretary Jeremy Hunt, who has the power to sack Dame Liz, does not take a dim
view of this blatant racial discrimination.

BRIGHTON'S festival fringe also pockets Arts Council cash. One of its
forthcoming attractions is 'The Great Wall of Vagina'.

This 'graphic' work will feature 400 plaster casts of women's private parts,
some from septuagenarians. It hopes to 'provoke debate and break taboos'.

The festival gushes that 'The Great Wall of Vagina' was recently mentioned on
Channel 4, another recipient of our tax money.

Now, there's a surprise.

HARRIET HARMAN (pictured) demands an end to social privilege with internships.
An anonymous post on the website Popbitch comments: 'It's terrible how coveted
positions go to those whose parents have influence, isn't it? About four years
ago I was working for an ad agency that did a lot of government work.

'A young man was foisted on us for a couple of weeks. Had he succeeded in open
competition and fair assessment? Who knows. But his mum was Harriet Harman.'

STRAW DOGGED

COMMONS Speaker John Bercow is belatedly sucking up to Tories at the moment. But
is it too late to save his Speakership from a challenge? Lib Dem Sir Alan Beith
is said to have 'ripening ambitions' for the Chair. More interesting: a rumour
Jack Straw could be asked to do the job. Jack is a good parliamentarian. He is
liked on all sides. He is serious. Still has energy. And his wife is dignified.

ANNE the elephant has found a happy home at Longleat thanks in part to generous
Mail readers. But there was nearly a hitch. There are few lorries in this
country big enough to transport an elephant. One was found, but at the 11th hour
the owners learned they were short of driver time. Tacho disc crisis!

Enter Transport Minister Mike Penning. With all the dispatch you would expect
from a former Guardsman, he used his executive powers to grant the lorry driver
special permission.

'Pack that trunk!' went the cry. And Anne was on her way to her lovely new digs.

A CHEAP SHOT, LORD KINNOCK

MORE on Lord Pearson, the UKIP peer who is a lonely voice against the pro-Euro
bullies in the House of Lords. This week he was again standing up to the
Establishment friends of Brussels, asserting his determination to 'stick to his
guns'.

Lord Kinnock, whose family has done very well indeed out of the European Union,
snapped: 'When Lord Pearson says he wants to stick to his guns, I am inclined to
hope that he goes very near to the muzzle of those guns , indeed, just in front
, because that would be a suitable location.' Too charming.

HERE in the Marches, fans of Hereford United FC are aghast. The League Two club,
close to relegation, have been docked three precious points for a tiny
bureaucratic error. Another team guilty of the same crime on the same day were
docked just one point. Why the disparity?

Hereford MP Jesse Norman, a key Cameroon, issues an unusually angry statement.
He sees a 'dodgy decision' by the League and wants the Commons Culture committee
to investigate. It is already inspecting football after Sports Minister Hugh
Robertson called it the worst-run sport in Britain. Soccer really can pong.

The team benefiting most from Hereford's points loss are Barnet. The panel which
punished Hereford was chaired by a Nigerian barrister, Ike Ehiribe. Meanwhile, I
see that the League's main board includes Anthony Kleanthous. He is owner of
Barnet FC.

Nothing unklean here, I'm sure.

BY GEORGE, IT'S THE WRONG BALLY BOX!

LORD HOWELL, Foreign Office minister, is father-in-law of Chancellor George
Osborne.

They both take their ministerial red boxes away at weekends to crack on with the
paperwork. Recently Lord Howell spent a night in the same house as his daughter
and her husband, George. In a scene worthy of PG Wodehouse, the red boxes became
mixed up. Lord Howell was halfway home before he realised.

Happily, no state secrets were breached. Mr Osborne had locked his box with a
special key.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How Britain's EU bill has rocketed to £77bn

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 433 words


BRITAIN'S bill for EU membership has soared to £77billion a year - a cost of
£1,246 to every man, woman and child in the country, new figures reveal.

It means that combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate, are
running at a staggering £147,000 per minute.

The figures, released today, also show Britain is now paying almost twice as
much to Brussels than previously demanded. This is because in the EU budget for
2000-2006, our net contribution was £21.3billion - while the current budget,
which ends in 2013, is likely to cost UK taxpayers £42billion.

Ukip politician Gerard Batten carried out a forensic analysis of the EU's books
in a bid to unveil the true cost of the European Union to Britain.

Madness He laid the blame for the 97 per cent rise in our net contributions at
the feet of Tony Blair for surrendering part of the EU rebate that Mrs Thatcher
fought so hard to retain.

And, in addition, on David Cameron for agreeing to increase the UK's payments
last year, and the extra cost of allowing poorer Eastern European countries to
join the Brussels-Strasbourg club.

Mr Batten said: "In this time of economic crisis, Government cutbacks in public
spending, financial austerity, fear of job losses and financial hardship for
many, it is absolute madness to be wasting billions of pounds every year on the
ideological project of creating a United States of Europe that no one wants
except an out of touch political elite. In my view, membership is an economic
and democratic disaster and the only solution for Britain is unconditional
withdrawal."

His findings show that in the budget to 2006, we handed over nearly £80billion
and received just under £59billion in rebate.

The UK was the second largest net contributor after Germany.

Spain was the biggest winner with a net gain of almost £40billion. To put the
figures into perspective, £1billion would pay for 833,000 hip replacements, or
the annual wages of 48,285 nurses.

Emma Boon, of the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "The size of our daily contribution
to the EU is outrageous.

Wasted "Much of this money is wasted with little accountability and little say
for taxpayers." A European Commission spokeswoman said: "The UK contributes to
the EU budget, like any other member state. But it equally enjoys the bene-fits
of EU membership, most of which are difficult to quantify in cash.

"These are things like living in peace, security and democracy, in the largest
single market of the world, with many cross-border benefits when travelling,
studying, using mobile phones, etc." The Treasury last night refused to comment
on the figures.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher's hard-fought rebate for the UK has been surrendered to
eurocrats at Strasbourg, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MPs gagged over Brussels power grab

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 229 words


ANGER erupted at Westminster last night after sweeping powers for Eurocrats to
meddle in Britain's economy were nodded through Parliament without a vote.

Tory MPs were furious that plans for the EU annual "growth survey" were approved
in the absence of a Commons debate.

Proposed by unelected EU President Herman van Rompuy in a bid to halt another
European economic crisis, the measure obliges the Treasury to give statistics to
Brussels - including details of the Budget - while sticking to a rigorous
economic "calendar." Critics say the move paves the way for Eurocrats to impose
crippling taxes on UK taxpayers.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "This is a significant step that has serious
implications for the expenditure of millions of pounds of taxpayers' money that
has been taken without any debate.

"The coalition is fast becoming the most European integrationist government this
country has had since Ted Heath." Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence
Party said: "It is time that David Cameron stopped governing by deceit.

"This shows us that he is secretly giving away more and more of our ability to
govern ourselves."

Ministers insist the move will have little effect on the UK as most of its
recommendations are already carried out by the Government. They insist the
measures are aimed more at debt-laden countries such as Greece and Portugal.
OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

How Britain's EU bill has rocketed to £77bn

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 454 words


BRITAIN'S bill for EU membership has soared to £77billion a year - a cost of
£1,246 to every man, woman and child in the country, a report has revealed.

It means that combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate, are
running at a staggering £147,000 per minute.

The figures, released today, also show Britain is now paying almost twice as
much to Brussels than previously demanded.

This is because in the EU budget for 2000-2006, our net contribution was
£21.3billion - while the current budget, which ends in 2013, is likely to cost
UK taxpayers £42billion.

The total bill paid by Britain is even higher once indirect costs are taken into
account.

Madness

Ukip politician Gerard Batten carried out a forensic analysis of the EU's books
in a bid to unveil the true cost of the European Union to Britain.

He put much of the blame for the 97 per cent rise in our net contributions on
Tony Blair for surrendering part of the EU rebate that Mrs Thatcher fought so
hard to retain.

Mr Batten, who backs the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of Europe,
said: "It's absolute madness to be wasting billions of pounds every year on the
ideological project of creating a United States of Europe no one wants except an
out of touch political elite.

"Membership is an economic and democratic disaster and the only solution for
Britain is unconditional withdrawal."

His findings show that in the budget to 2006, we handed over nearly £80billion
and received under £59billion in rebate. The UK was the second largest net
contributor after Germany. Spain was the biggest winner, gaining almost
£40billion.

GET OF Britain also pays huge indirect costs for EU membership, according to the
report.

The Common Agricultural Policy costs the country £16.7billion in the form of
higher taxes and food bills, while the Common Fisheries Policy costs £4.7billion
a year in lost jobs and reduced catches. Finally, the price for complying with
the vast number of laws and regulations issued by the EU costs the Government
and businesses about £48.7billion a year, nearly all of which is passed on to
the consumer.

A European Commission spokeswoman said: "The UK contributes to the EU budget but
it equally enjoys the bene-fits of EU membership, most of which are difficult to
quantify in cash. These are things like living in peace, security and democracy,
in the largest single market of the world, with many cross-border benefits when
travelling, studying, using mobile phones, etc."

Last night a Treasury spokesman said: "Total UK contributions to the EU budget
for 2007 to 2013 were agreed in 2005. Within this total the UK managed to halve
the proposed 2011 increase of six per cent, saving the UK taxpayer £350million."

CRUSADE

GET US OUT OF THE EU

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher's hard-fought rebate for the UK has been surrendered to
eurocrats at Strasbourg, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

COMMENTARY

BYLINE: GERARD BATTEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 357 words


SINCE I became an MEP in 2004, one of the mysteries I have tried to unravel is
how much does the European Union actually cost Britain, and what the benefits
are, if any.

When Britain joined the European Economic Community in 1973 we were told it was
all about access to a "Common Market" and generating more trade, jobs and
prosperity. The warnings of those who said it was about the creation of a
political state were brushed aside. So where are we 38 years later? We pay
billions of pounds every year for the privilege of belonging to the EU. The cost
of membership is ever rising, with an astronomical 97 per cent rise in the net
contributions over the last budget period. The direct contributions are bad
enough but the indirect costs on the economy are worse.

The Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy cost the British
public billions per annum in additional and unnecessary food prices.

Over-regulation of business destroys enterprise and jobs. Last year the EU
passed legislation giving it control of the finance sector, which only UKIP MEPs
voted against. If City firms find the EU regulatory burden too much, they will
move somewhere else, taking their profits, tax revenues and jobs with them.

But surely membership of the EU provides trade and jobs that offset the costs?
The facts and figures show a different story. Since 1973, Britain has
accumulated a massive £438billion trade deficit with EU countries; on the other
hand, our profitable trade is with the US and the English-speaking world. EU
countries sell us far more than we sell them. If we left the EU tomorrow, they
would still continue to trade with us.

I calculate that the combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate,
are at least £77billion per annum. That equates to £1,246 for every man, woman
and child in Britain.

If the coalition really believes that EU membership is beneficial, let them
prove it by commissioning an independent cost-benefit analysis. I have no doubt
that it would prove that EU membership is a disaster and that we do not need it.

Copies of the full report can be obtained from the website
www.gerardbattenmep.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Britain's bill for EU has soared to GBP 77bn

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 353  words


BRITAIN'S bill for EU membership has soared to GBP 77billion a year - a cost of
GBP 1,246 to every man, woman and child in the country.

It means that combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate, are
running at a staggering GBP 147,000 per minute.

New figures released today also show Britain is paying almost twice as much to
Brussels than previously demanded. In the EU budget for 2000-2006, our net
contribution was GBP 21.3billion - while the current budget, which ends in 2013,
is likely to cost UK taxpayers GBP 42billion.

After carrying out a forensic analysis of the EU's books, Ukip politician Gerard
Batten laid the blame for the 97 per cent rise in our net contributions at the
feet of Tony Blair for surrendering part of the EU rebate Margaret Thatcher
fought so hard to retain.

Mr Batten also blamed David Cameron for agreeing to up the UK's payments last
year, and the extra cost of allowing poorer Eastern European countries to join.

Mr Batten said: "In this time of economic crisis, fear of job losses and
financial hardship for many, it is absolute madness to be wasting billions of
pounds every year on the ideological project of creating a United States of
Europe that no one wants except an out-of-touch political elite.

"In my view, membership is an economic and democratic disaster and that the only
solution for Britain is unconditional withdrawal."

His findings show that in the budget to 2006, we handed over nearly GBP
80billion and received just under GBP 59billion in rebate.

The UK was the second largest net contributor after Germany during that period.

Spain was the biggest winner with a net gain of almost GBP 40billion.

A European Commission spokeswoman said: "The UK contributes to the EU budget,
like any other member state.

But it equally enjoys the benefits of EU membership, most of which are difficult
to quantify in cash.

"These are things like living in peace, security and democracy, in the largest
single market of the world, with many cross-border benefits when travelling,
studying, using mobile phones, etc."

The Treasury last night refused to comment on Mr Batten's figures.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Much of the rebate secured by Mrs Thatcher, left, has been surrendered
to bosses at the EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

COMMENTARY

BYLINE: GERARD BATTEN

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 358  words


SINCE I became an MEP in 2004, one of the mysteries I have tried to unravel is
how much does the European Union actually cost Britain, and what the benefits
are, if any.

When Britain joined the European Economic Community in 1973 we were told it was
all about access to a "Common Market" and generating more trade, jobs and
prosperity. The warnings of those who said it was about the creation of a
political state were brushed aside. So where are we 38 years later?

We pay billions of pounds every year for the privilege of belonging to the EU.

The cost of membership is ever rising, with an astronomical 97 per cent rise in
the net contributions over the last budget period. The direct contributions are
bad enough but the indirect costs on the economy are worse.

The Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Fisheries Policy cost the British
public billions per annum in additional and unnecessary food prices.

Over-regulation of business destroys enterprise and jobs. Last year the EU
passed legislation giving it control of the finance sector, which only UKIP MEPs
voted against. If City firms find the EU regulatory burden too much, they will
move somewhere else, taking their profits, tax revenues and jobs with them.

But surely membership of the EU provides trade and jobs that offset the costs?
The facts and figures show a different story. Since 1973, Britain has
accumulated a massive GBP 438billion trade deficit with EU countries; on the
other hand, our profitable trade is with the US and the English-speaking world.
EU countries sell us far more than we sell them. If we left the EU tomorrow,
they would still continue to trade with us.

I calculate that the combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate,
are at least GBP 77billion per annum. That equates to GBP 1,246 for every man,
woman and child in Britain.

If the coalition really believes that EU membership is beneficial, let them
prove it by commissioning an independent cost-benefit analysis. I have no doubt
that it would prove that EU membership is a disaster and that we do not need it.

Copies of the full article can be obtained from the website
www.gerardbattenmep.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How Britain's EU bill has rocketed to GBP 77bn

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 434  words


BRITAIN'S bill for EU membership has soared to GBP 77billion a year - a cost of
GBP 1,246 to every man, woman and child in the country, new figures reveal.

It means that combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate, are
running at a staggering GBP 147,000 per minute.

The figures, released today, also show Britain is now paying almost twice as
much to Brussels than previously demanded.

This is because in the EU budget for 2000-2006, our net contribution was GBP
21.3billion - while the current budget, which ends in 2013, is likely to cost UK
taxpayers GBP 42billion.

Ukip politician Gerard Batten carried out a forensic analysis of the EU's books
in a bid to unveil the true cost of the European Union to Britain.

He laid the blame for the 97 per cent rise in our net contributions at the feet
of Tony Blair for surrendering part of the EU rebate that Mrs Thatcher fought so
hard to retain.

And, in addition, on David Cameron for agreeing to increase the UK's payments
last year, and the extra cost of allowing poorer Eastern European countries to
join the Brussels-Strasbourg club.

Mr Batten said: "In this time of economic crisis, Government cutbacks in public
spending, financial austerity, fear of job losses and financial hardship for
many, it is absolute madness to be wasting billions of pounds every year on the
ideological project of creating a United States of Europe that no one wants
except an out of touch political elite. In my view, membership is an economic
and democratic disaster and the only solution for Britain is unconditional
withdrawal."

His findings show that in the budget to 2006, we handed over nearly GBP
80billion and received just under GBP 59billion in rebate.

The UK was the second largest net contributor after Germany. Spain was the
biggest winner with a net gain of almost GBP 40billion. To put the figures into
perspective, GBP 1billion would pay for 833,000 hip replacements, or the annual
wages of 48,285 nurses.

Emma Boon, of the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "The size of our daily contribution
to the EU is outrageous.

"Much of this money is wasted with little accountability and little say for
taxpayers."

A European Commission spokeswoman said: "The UK contributes to the EU budget,
like any other member state.

But it equally enjoys the benefits of EU membership, most of which are difficult
to quantify in cash.

"These are things like living in peace, security and democracy, in the largest
single market of the world, with many cross-border benefits when travelling,
studying, using mobile phones, etc." The Treasury last night efused to comment
on the figures.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher's hard-fought rebate for the UK has been surrendered to
eurocrats at Strasbourg, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

How Britain's EU bill has rocketed to GBP 77bn

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 453  words


BRITAIN'S bill for EU membership has soared to GBP 77billion a year - a cost of
GBP 1,246 to every man, woman and child in the country, a report has revealed.

It means that combined direct and indirect costs, minus the UK rebate, are
running at a staggering GBP 147,000 per minute.

The figures, released today, also show Britain is now paying almost twice as
much to Brussels than previously demanded.

This is because in the EU budget for 2000-2006, our net contribution was GBP
21.3billion - while the current budget, which ends in 2013, is likely to cost UK
taxpayers GBP 42billion.

The total bill paid by Britain is even higher once indirect costs are taken into
account.

Ukip politician Gerard Batten carried out a forensic analysis of the EU's books
in a bid to unveil the true cost of the European Union to Britain.

He put much of the blame for the 97 per cent rise in our net contributions on
Tony Blair for surrendering part of the EU rebate that Mrs Thatcher fought so
hard to retain.

Mr Batten, who backs the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of Europe,
said: "It's absolute madness to be wasting billions of pounds every y ear on the
ideological project of creating a United States of Europe no one wants except an
out of touch political elite.

"Membership is an economic and democratic disaster and the only solution for
Britain is unconditional withdrawal."

His findings show that in the budget to 2006, we handed over nearly GBP
80billion and received under GBP 59billion in rebate. The UK was the second
largest net contributor after Germany.

Spain was the biggest winner, gaining almost GBP 40billion.

Britain also pays huge indirect costs for EU membership, according to the
report.

The Common Agricultural Policy costs the country GBP 16.7billion in the form of
higher taxes and food bills, while the Common Fisheries Policy costs GBP
4.7billion a year in lost jobs and reduced catches. Finally, the price for
complying with the vast number of laws and regulations issued by the EU costs
the Government and businesses about GBP 48.7billion a year, nearly all of which
is passed on to the consumer.

A European Commission spokeswoman said: "The UK contributes to the EU budget but
it equally enjoys the benefits of EU membership, most of which are difficult to
quantify in cash. These are things like living in peace, security and democracy,
in the largest single market of the world, with many cross-border benefits when
travelling, studying, using mobile phones, etc."

Last night a Treasury spokesman said: "Total UK contributions to the EU budget
for 2007 to 2013 were agreed in 2005. Within this total the UK managed to halve
the proposed 2011 increase of six per cent, saving the UK taxpayer GBP
350million."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Thatcher's hard-fought rebate for the UK has been surrendered to
eurocrats at Strasbourg, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

G2: TV and radio: Radio review

BYLINE: Elisabeth Mahoney

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 216 words


How do you make the AV referendum engaging? Radio will be trying all sorts in
the coming weeks (this weekend's Archive on 4 offers a history of referendum
campaigns and votes) but Victoria Derbyshire (5 Live, pictured) yesterday tried
a simple format: a mock election to show how AV works alongside a
first-past-the-post vote.

The result was a lively programme that changed my mind on the issue three times
in two hours, explained some tenets of AV clearly, and rendered the mechanics of
AV voting over five rounds about as gripping as they're going to get for now.

In a "mass live radio experiment" with an audience in Brentford and Isleworth,
the existing voting system gave the following percentages: Labour (39); Lib Dems
(15.6); UKIP (3.2); Greens (16.9); Conservatives (22.7); BNP (2.6). Five rounds
of AV later, Labour had 49% and the Greens 41.7, and Labour was duly
mock-elected.

While experts and campaigners spoke about the bigger principles involved, some
members of the audience reeled from the way the result went with AV. "I probably
ended up voting for the Green party," said one bewildered young man, who wanted
the Conservative candidate to win and had only focused on putting Labour last.
As another mock voter put it, AV at least "shows that voting means something".

Elisabeth Mahoney

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

POLL REFORM 'WILL GIVE BNP VOTERS MORE SAY AT BALLOT BOX'

BYLINE: By James Chapman Political Editor

LENGTH: 646 words


ELECTION candidates will have to pander to the views of supporters of the
far-Right BNP and other minority parties if Britain agrees to scrap the
traditional first-past-the-post electoral system, campaigners warned last night.

Research suggests that a shift to the continental-style alternative vote would
mean an end to the principle of 'one person, one vote'.

Those voting for the BNP and other small parties will see their votes counted
over and over again, with their second, third and subsequent preferences
influencing the result.

Under AV, which will be backed today by Labour leader Ed Miliband, voters have
to rank candidates at Westminster elections in order of preference rather than
simply voting for the one candidate they want to win.

Any candidate who secures 50 per cent of the first-choice votes is elected
immediately.

But if they fall short of a majority, the candidate with the fewest first-choice
votes is eliminated, and those who voted for him then have their second choice
votes counted instead. The process continues round by round until one candidate
gets 50 per cent of the vote.

The system means that the second and subsequent preferences of voters who back
minority parties knocked out in the early stages are far more likely to be
counted than those who back one of the three major parties.

The Prime Minister agreed to a referendum on AV as part of Nick Clegg's price
for entering coalition, and a poll is due to take place on May 5. Now research
by the NO to AV campaign reveals that if the 2010 general election had been run
under AV, in seven out of ten seats not a single Labour, Conservative or Lib Dem
voter would have been likely to get a second vote.

More than 90 per cent of Labour and Conservative voters would have been unlikely
to get a second vote.

By contrast, in some constituencies, supporters of the BNP would have had their
preferences counted six times before a winner was declared. In all, BNP voters
would have had two or more votes counted in 193 constituencies.

Matthew Elliott, campaign director for the NO to AV campaign, said: 'A Yes vote
to the unfair and expensive alternative vote on May 5 is a Yes to unequal votes
and a Yes to giving BNP supporters more power at the ballot box. Candidates
would have to worry about the unpleasant views of people voting BNP in order to
try to pick up their second preferences.

'One person, one vote isn't just the bedrock of the British voting system, it is
a principle which has become a beacon to the rest of the world. The alternative
vote threatens that principle.'

Yes campaigners dismiss the concerns as unfounded, pointing out that the BNP is
opposing reform. They say the far-Right party would be even less likely to gain
Commons seats under AV than it is today, since winning candidates would have to
command broad support.

But No campaigners say candidates from major parties would have to pander to the
views of BNP and UKIP voters, since their second preference votes would become
all-important. Foreign Secretary William Hague and three of his predecessors
today insist the principle of one person one vote is ingrained in British
democracy.

Mr Hague's fellow signatories of a letter to the Times warning against AV
include Labour's Margaret Beckett, and Tories Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Lord Hurd.

Growing tension over the referendum is threatening the harmony of the Coalition,
with one Lib Dem Cabinet minister accusing a Conservative colleague of backing
the 'politics of the gutter'.

Energy and Climate Change Sectretary Chris Huhne has written to Tory Party
chairman Baroness Warsi asking her to disown the 'scaremongering and misleading'
publicity of the NO to AV campaign.

The campaign, of which she is a patron, claims the referendum and a shift to AV
would cost 6250million, a figure denied by Yes campaigners.

BNP leader Nick Griffin: His supporters would gain from AV, say critics

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Read Telegraph blogs at telegraph.co.uk/blogs

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 65 words


Norman Tebbit

Nick Clegg's political crossdressing will benefit Labour and Ukip.

Katharine Birbalsingh

Our broken state system has eroded the rights of parents.

Andrew Lowry

Forrest Gump the 'Best Film Character Ever?' Let's lose this absurd need to
rank.

Toby Harnden

What Libya tells us about Barack Obama and war.

Follow

@TelegraphBlogs on Twitter Join us on Facebook at facebook.com/telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Round the bend, now the EU wants to ban cars from every city

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 522  words


PETROL and diesel cars could be banned from European cities under radical plans
unveiled yesterday.

EU chiefs also want to shift half of all long-distance car ourneys from road to
rail.

And they are paving the way for more motoring taxes by calling for
"restructured" transport charges to make the polluter and user pay.

The European Commission also favours making it easier for countries to bring in
road-user charging and "access restriction" schemes in cities - despite 1.5
million signing a petition in Britain against the tolls.

The strategy, unveiled in Brussels by Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas,
envisages cars powered by fossil fuels being replaced completely by electric,
hydrogen-powered or hybrid cars by 2050.

But the White Paper, Transport 2050, wants half of all cars in towns to run on
greener power within just 20 years.

Last night UK Transport Minister Norman Baker said:

"We will not be banning cars from city centres any more than we will be having
rectangular bananas.

"It is right the EU sets high level targets for carbon reduction but it is not
right for them to get involved in how this is delivered in individual cities."

Critics branded the EU scheme a "fantasy". They said it was based on untried
technology and warned Britain's rail network was already seriously
overstretched.

AA president Edmund King said: "Drivers don't know if they are coming or going
with environmental measures.

"The reality is, by 2050, fossil fuel will be so expensive that a new approach
to personal mobility will be inevitable.

"Pollution scare tactics are simply a cover for more local taxation." His
colleague Luke Bosdet said: "If motorists find themselves crammed like sardines
into expensive trains, either they will try to find a way to keep cars or we
will see the collapse of mobility in 21st century UK."

Professor Stephen Glaister, director of the RAC Foundation, said: "Goals have to
be achievable. Cars are already getting greener. There is little sense in
demonising one type of vehicle. What you need is for all cars to meet stringent
environmental targets no matter what fuel they use.

"Promoting the use of battery-powered vehicles is no panacea if the electricity
they consume has been produced by burning fossil fuels."

UKIP transport spokesman Lord Monckton said: "The proposals suggested take us
into the realms of fantasy."

The EU strategy states: "By 2050, key goals will include: No more conventionally
fuelled cars in cities." The aim is to achieve "essentially CO2-free movement of
goods in major urban centres by 2030". It also calls for a move towards "close
to zero fatalities in road transport".

Mr Kallas said: "We can break transport's dependence on oil without sacrificing
its efficiency and compromising mobility. It can be win-win."

The Commission denied it wanted to ban cars from city centres but said "phasing
out conventional combustion engines is a realistic objective".

Q Should the EU ban cars from cities?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU chiefs want to replace all petrol and diesel cars in cities with
electric and hydrogen ones by 2030

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

BUSINESS DIARY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 362 words


Lloyds group bags former UKIP man

Lloyds Action Now, the pressure group that wants compensation for shareholders
who have lost out due to the bank's takeover of HBOS, got a few headlines
yesterday with its announcement of test cases against the Bank of England and
the Treasury. But the Diary thought Adrian Lithgow, the group's spokesman,
looked familiar. We were right: he is the same Adrian Lithgow who was forced to
resign as head of communications for the UK Independence Party four years ago
after pleading guilty to racially aggravated harassment and threatening
behaviour. Lithgow got into a row with railway staff at Victoria Station in
London, with a Yugoslavian member of staff suffering some particularly
unpleasant abuse.

A tale of two Hathaways

As if Warren Buffett wasn't doing well enough without help from outsiders, it
turns out the investment performance of his Berkshire Hathaway group is getting
an artificial boost from an unlikely source. American blogger Dan Mirvish has
done a bit of research which reveals Buffett's company's share price rises every
time the actress Anne Hathaway hits the headlines. It turns out computerised
trading programmes are struggling to tell the difference between the two
Hathaways - on the Friday before the Oscars, for instance, Berkshire stock was
up 2 per cent.

A limited offer from Travelodge

Another marketing wheeze from the folk at Travelodge: free weekend breaks to
celebrate the royal wedding. There are just a few eligibility criteria: the deal
is only for married couples named William and Kate and they have to take the
break on the royal wedding weekend at the end of next month. The Diary promises
to ask the hotel group how many couples actually benefit from the deal.

Ping-pong back on for JPM Tokyo

Some good news from Tokyo at last, where JP Morgan boss Jamie Dimon has been
spending a few days rallying the troops' morale in the investment bank's office.
The bank's briefing on the trip says life is starting to return to something
like normal for staff in Tokyo: above all, you will be relieved to hear, that
"the table tennis club has resumed its regular practice schedule".

businessdiary@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

CITIES CARS 'BAN'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 139 words


ALL petrol and diesel vehicles could be BANNED from cities by 2050 under EU
plans.

Brussels Eurocrats want more journeys made by rail, helping lower dependence on
oil and tackle climate change. They also want to cut road deaths in Europe to
"close to zero".

Transport commissioner Siim Kallas said: "We can break the system's dependence
on oil without sacrificing its efficiency and compromising mobility."

But UKIP's Christopher Monckton said: "They want to force everybody on to rail
and canals - but at what cost to freedom?"

Richard Dyer, of Friends of the Earth, said: "Weaning our transport system off
its oil addiction is essential to protect people from soaring fuel prices and
the planet from climate change."

INDIAN car giant Tata is creating an extra 100 engineering and research jobs in
Warwick.

Europe cuts fuel costs - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EU BID TO BAN CARS IN CITIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 81 words


ALL petrol and diesel vehicles could be BANNED from cities by 2050 under EU
plans.

Transport commissioner Siim Kallas said: "We can break the system's dependence
on oil without sacrificing its efficiency and compromising mobility."

But UKIP spokesman Christopher Monckton said: "They want to force everybody on
to rail and canals - but at what cost to liberty and freedom?"

INDIAN car giant Tata is creating an extra 100 engineering and research jobs in
Warwick.

Europe cuts fuel costs - Page 24

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 28, 2011 Monday 10:35 AM GMT

Nick Clegg's political cross-dressing will benefit Labour and UKIP

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1220 words


Curiously, what I regard as the political statement which so comprehensivelysums
up the politics of the Coalition did not get the coverage it deserved last week.
Very often it is not the long-rehearsed speech which lets us look into a
politician's mind, but the honest trifle of a throwaway remark made to a close
confidant, not intended to be heard by the public.

Just such a remark was that made by Clegg to Cameron as they walked away from
sharing the platform at a publicmeeting in Nottingham to promote the
Government's new enterprise zones. The Prime Ministerhad told the meeting that
although he intended that there would be television debates ahead of the next
election, that between the two of them would be "better natured" than at the
last election. Forgetting that his radio microphone was still live,
Cleggobserved to the Prime Minister:"If we keep doing this, we won't find
anything to bloody disagree on in the bloody TV debates."

So who has convinced who on each of the major policy issues which divided the
two men at the last election,not to mention their views of the character and
competence of each other?Perhaps even more important, if the divide between the
two party leaders no longer exists, why are they not in the same party?

At the election the two men made much of their equally contemptuous assessments
of each other and the opposing politics in which they believed.Now it seems that
both those who believed they were supporting the leader of the Lib Dem Party and
its policies or that of the Conservative Party were deluded.There is nothing, if
we are to believe Nick Clegg, between them.

If that is so, and we have only Nick Clegg's word for that (but it sounds as
though he at least believes it) what is the purpose of his proposed relaunch of
the Lib Dem Party?Or, come to that, for how long will be there a need for two
party structures, two party conferences etc?Should we not all get together in a
great big tie-less, shoe-less, modern, compassionate hug in?Just think of all
the money and effortit would save.

Stealing the other party's clothes is nothing new. It can make sense to conclude
that your party has got it wrong and change policy, but political cross-dressing
on the scale that Nick Clegg clearly believes to be going on is a little
different.It would leave both Lib Dem and Conservative activists and voters
wondering if theNew Social Democratic Conservative Party represented their
views.

The major beneficiaries of that would be UKIP and the Labour Party.At the last
election the Conservatives polledthree million fewer votes than it did inthe
days before it was detoxified by the anti-Thatcher faction.Would it get any of
those back if it announced that it had effectively moved even closer to the Lib
Dems?More likely even more would stay at home or drift away to UKIP.

It is important for Conservatives to remember from where the Lib Dem Party
came.It sprang from an alliance between the rump of the former Liberal Party and
EurophileLabour politicans driven out of their party by its policy of leaving
the European Community.At heart they were and theyremain, socialists.Would they
and their followers find their natural home alongside committedConservatives and
particulary Eurosceptical Conservatives?

If there were was "nothing to disagree about" between the leaders of the
Conservative and Lib Dem parties, where would the6.8 millionLib Dem votes go?If
even half of them wentback home to Labour, it would probably put Milliband into
Downing Street, with the New Social Democratic Conservative Party back in
opposition.

As readers of these blogs will know, I have believed from the inception of the
Coalition that it would last until the run-up to the election and that the
coalitionist Lib Dems would be offered some sort of election deal by David
Cameron, leaving the anti-coalitionists to seek a similar arrangement with
Labour or be thrown to the wolves.Nick Clegg's revealing indiscretion confirms
that assessment.All that remains is to see just how far the dog will allow
itself to be wagged by its tail.

The intervention in Libya, and I use a very neutral word to describe what is
happening there, is still of great concern to readers of these blogs.It is not
so much an absolute opposition to any action, but more of a world-weary
disbelief that all the bombs and missiles will lead to a happier, more
prosperous, let alone more free country. It was ursamajor 67who foresaw a
stalemate, hospitalier who noted that such interventions have usually failed,
bwims who foresaw Libya being drawn into a caliphate whilst pixie jade was
simply worried about the whole business.

Later on there were some exchanges between bersher,darkseid, cr and others in
which I thought that bersher was right to say we need to make ourselves less
dependent on oil from the Middle East. I agree with david in rome anddarkseid
who were right to say our intervention was legal, but I thought that the last
word should go to hospitalier who simply asked whether it was a good idea or
not.

On the Budget, I think most comments were broadly supportive of the Chancellor
andhis dreadful inheritance from Blairand Brown, with darkseid, Victor Meldrew,
pixie jade, edtheted and grumpyold manleading his supporters, but like many
others questioning to what extent his troubles, if not made in Brussels, are
compounded by Our Masters there.Even before it had become clear that the UK
would be bounced into coughing uptwo or three billion or so to thePortuguese
bail-out, many of you were commenting on the power of Our Masters in Brussels to
influence our Budget with some of you, including english pensioner,spotting the
reference to the "illegality" of possible changes in VAT on petrol.That prompted
stuart n

to ask if the Budget has to be "vetted or submitted to Brussels'". I have a
written question downawaiting answer concerning that very point and Iwill let
you all know what answer I get.

Amongst Osborne's critics were pietro99, who thought it a standstill Budget, and
getonit, who called for a stated objective of a top tax rate of 35 per cent and
standard rate of 20oper cent.I notice that is what Simon Heffer is saying.You
are not Simon in disguise are you, getonit?

A lot of you agreed with bickers, who thought Osborne did not go far enough and
certainly I agreed with bersher in disliking redistributive tax policies.There
were some unilluminating debates with some of the trolls who do not understand
the words "debt", "interest", "deficit", and some rather good ones involving
gregyank, auster and others.

Sadly, no one from the Left had anything worthwhile to say.As cool trousers
wrote, Balls has a cheek to criticise at all.Steven Dobbs even managed a shrill
scream against the Thatcher privatisations before being cut down by jester

For boudicca the Budget was lack ustre, but showed up how the EU has us tied
down, whilst darkseid described it as another advert for UKIP, with david in
rome agreeing that we get out, but must stabilise thr country first. That led to
a long series of exchanges between the sort of folk who give UKIP a poor
reputation and the odd hardy Europhile in which the Better Off Out view had the
best of the arguments.

Finally, thank youTeaddict for your support on the awful Equality Act and Nigel
W, pikumen, and steady barker for your kind personal remarks.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 27, 2011

Comment: Golly, what year do they think it is?

BYLINE: Barbara Ellen

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 308 words


Married couple and would-be councillors Bill and Star Etheridge resigned from
the Tory party after being suspended for posing on Facebook, clutching
golliwogs. Mr Etheridge has now joined Ukip, with the couple, both campaigners
against political correctness, saying the stunt was to provoke debate about what
they view as a "harmless toy".

Hark, do I hear yonder an anti-PC choir: "What happened to free speech?"
"Blimey, can't you say what you think anymore?" (Repeat ad nauseam.)

Far from this being an example of "political correctness gone mad", it seems to
me that it's the Etheridges who are over-reacting. It doesn't matter that
golliwogs were banished from jam jars or Enid Blyton books. The true reason they
disappeared was that British people decided en masse that the dolls were racist
and creepy and stopped buying them for their children.

For their part, British children survived their golly-deprivation - there have
been no scenes of heartbreak on Christmas morning, with disappointed kids
kicking the tree, wailing: "Where is my crude black caricature?" Generally,
modern children seem happy with their Buzz Lightyears and Xboxes.

Nevertheless, the anti-PC brigade persists in conjuring scenes of subterfuge and
repression. In truth, British society moves on, not because it has been forced
to by PC tsars, but because of natural wastage. Britons instinctively find their
own default cultural setting and, for obvious reasons, the likes of golliwogs
and The Black and White Minstrel Show aren't making the cut in 2011.

With this in mind, what are people such as the Etheridges trying to prove with
their golliwogs? There seems to be certain element that likes to style itself as
"anti-PC", when at best they are tragically dated or, at worst, catering to the
lowest common denominator. You could call it anti-political correctness gone
mad.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 27, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAN UKIP BECOME BRITAIN'S NEW PROTEST PARTY?;
INSIDE POLITICS

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 538 words


How strong is Ukip?

The UK Independence Party has long been dismissed as a somewhat eccentric party
on the fringes of politics. David Cameron once described its members as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly". Today, however, Ukip is
scoring 5 to 8 per cent in the polls. It finished runner-up in the recent
Barnsley by-election and also came second in the last European elections.

What are the issues that energise Ukip's voters?

The party's leadership isn't racist, but analysis has shown its support base
resembles that of the BNP. Its voters tend to be men who are anti-politics,
concerned about immigration, economically under pressure and socially
traditional. Concern about immigration - rather than Europe - was the main
explanation for the 300,000 extra votes Ukip won at the last general election.
The party's leader, Nigel Farage, aims to broaden its support.

What is Nigel Farage's strategy?

Farage wants to capitalise on the fact that the Lib Dems, chained to the Tories
in government, can no longer harvest protest votes. He wants Ukip to be seen as
representing the people against the political class. Farage charges that the
three main parties don't offer voters any choice on many big issues - they are
all, for example, signed up to the EU, higher aid spending, and to the conflicts
in Libya and Afghanistan. He predicts an upsurge in anti-EU feeling when new
rules come into force in May that give EU citizens greater rights to claim
benefits in this country.

Can Farage do serious damage to the Conservatives?

Ukip undoubtedly cost the Tories seats at the last election. There were 21
constituencies where if the Tory candidate had won all or most of the votes that
went to Ukip they would have become the MP. If the Coalition fails to deliver on
immigration or Europe, the Ukip vote could easily grow. But there's also the
danger that kowtowing to the party's agenda will upset voters who expect a focus
on jobs, the NHS and crime.

Can David Cameron counter the Ukip threat?

Two policies would help stop Tory voters defecting. First, Cameron must deliver
on his promise to reduce net immigration into Britain from the hundreds of
thousands to the tens of thousands. He's on course to do this. Second, he needs
to send a message to Eurosceptics. He can't take on many fights with the EU
because Nick Clegg, leading Britain's most pro-EU party, won't let him. What the
Prime Minister could do, however, is to change his mind and put a referendum on
Britain's membership of the EU in the next Conservative manifesto.

Is Europe about to catch fire as an issue?

Cameron had hoped Europe would not become a potent issue, but Downing Street is
discovering that a third of the PM's time is spent dealing with EU directives.
Expensive bailouts for Ireland, Greece and now, possibly, Portugal are causing
anger on his back benches. There have already been 15 Tory rebellions on various
European matters since last May. Tory MP Douglas Carswell says that the actions
of ministers are in danger of making this Government "the most
pro-integrationist administration since Ted Heath's". Cameron needs to be more
careful if he doesn't want his Eurosceptic back benches to explode.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of Conservativehome

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 27, 2011
                                   Edition 1;

Thought police out of control

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 871 words


DAVID AINSWORTH, the deputy chief constable of Wiltshire, hanged himself last
week. A father-of-four and a respected policeman for 24 years, his colleagues
nicknamed him The Brain because of his intellect and further promotion was
confidently assumed.

Last September, however, his inexorable progress stalled. He was put under
investigation for allegedly making sexist or bawdy remarks to women underlings.
He had, for example, apparently looked at a woman wearing a tailored blouse and
remarked "nice buttons". A junior officer and a civilian employee also came "out
of the woodwork" after the investigation started and accused him of making other
"minor inappropriate remarks".

Whatever the truth, his suicide was clearly an unforeseeable over-reaction but
it is easy to see why his mind was so troubled and events descended into
tragedy.

He couldn't cope with what he feared was a witch-hunt leading to public
pillorying and the destruction of his career. The complained-of conduct seems
little more than banter; tiresome and unwelcome but relatively trivial
nonetheless. It could have been handled by means of mediation or counselling but
a charge of sexism now demands the full majesty of the police disciplinary
process and a highlevel investigation headed by one of Britain's top female
officers.

A few months ago, some blokeish comments did for Sky Sports main football
presenters Richard Keys and Andy Gray. They moaned that female linesmen were
"****ing hopeless" and female officials don't know the offside rule. Oafish and
stereotypical of any lads' mag but what is the difference between that and a hen
party cackling disparagingly about man-flu or how hopeless men are at finding
butter in the fridge unless it has a flashing neon sign on it? Mr Ainsworth's
suicide was out of all proportion but so are the penalties exacted on anyone
falling foul of political correctness. Last week, husband and wife council
candidates were expelled from the Tory Party for posing with golliwogs on
Facebook. Bill and Star Etheridge organise their branch of the Campaign Against
Political Correctness and were making a point about how "an innocent child's
toy" had been transformed into "something sinister" by the paladins of political
correctness.

Stephen Phillips, the party's po-faced disciplinary committee secretary, told
the Etheridges their conduct raised "serious issues that might bring the party
into disrepute".

Give over! It's Phillips's idiotic over-reaction which does that. The Tories'
loss is UKIP's gain.

Human rights and anti-discrimination laws were supposed to protect minorities
but increasingly they have become engines of oppression used against the
majority or unfashionable minorities such as practising Christians. Peter and
Hazelmary Bull have a long-standing policy of banning unmarried couples, both
heterosexual and homosexual, from sharing a bed at the Chymorvah Private Hotel
near Penzance.

Yet a homosexual couple complained to the Equality and Human Rights Commission,
which then used taxpayers' money to sue the Bulls. No matter that Chymorvah was
the Bulls' private home or that their policy was based on their religious
beliefs about marriage. The judge ordered them to pay £3,600 in damages for the
poor lambs' hurt feelings. The couple's legal costs amounted to £45,000.

George Orwell invented "thoughtcrime" in his book 1984, imagining an allinvasive
tyranny watching over and controlling every aspect of human activity, even the
mind. Freedom of speech is supposed to be a human right but exercising it now
carries grave risks so we all unconsciously censor ourselves.

One of the most important freedoms is the freedom to offend; to challenge other
views and prejudices. Nowadays we look over our shoulders for fear some
oversensitive person accuses us of racism, sexism, ageism, anti-gayism or some
other heinous prejudice. The tyranny of a minority is as bad as that of a
majority.

Deputy Labour leader Harriet Harman proposed making it a serious crime to use
language which could be construed as offensive to gay men and women. Christopher
Biggins said: "The politically correct censors will be our own British version
of the East German Stasi. Under this new orthodoxy, almost any display of
theatrical high camp could be presented as stereotyping of gay life and fall
foul of the law. New laws so often have unintended consequences, especially when
introduced, not to combat a genuine crime but to establish the state's view of
orthodox thinking."

LAST week, Home Secretary Theresa May announced plans to scale down the Equality
Commission after a savagely critical report said it provided low-quality work
and poor value for money. It disburses £10million a year in grants but often has
no idea where the money has gone. For example it funded Our Space, a camp in the
Lake District where teenagers can be trained to be "equality activists".

Meddling and profligate outfits like the Equality Commission now employ armies
of people whose job it is to foment dissatisfaction.

It is high time they were wound up, not just scaled down. They should be
replaced by a Common Sense Commission, dedicated to rooting out political
correctness and undoing the untold damage it has done in the past 40 years.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESPECTED: High-flying police officer David Ainsworth committed suicide
amid allegations that he made sexist comments to female staff
KICKED OUT: Anti-PC campaigners Star and Bill Etheridge were axed by Tories
Picture: PATRICK MULVANEY/Newsteam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 26, 2011 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1048 words


On Saturday

EURO-HYENAS ARE NO LAUGHING MATTER!

PRO-BRUSSELS peers behaved 'like a pack of hyenas' in the Lords this week when
urged to declare strings-attached pensions they receive from the European
Commission.

The peers, including the increasingly unseemly Neil Kinnock, ganged up on Ukip's
Lord Pearson in an extraordinary manner. Some shouted at the Ukip man, heckling
him, sneering, scoffing and generally making him feel threatened.

Lord Pearson's 'crime'? All he did was ask why ex-Brussels Commissioners are not
required to declare their fat EC pension loyalties before they make
parliamentary speeches.

The crucial thing about these pensions is that they are 'forfeitable'. That
means they can be taken away if recipients criticise Europe. By any standards,
surely, this is an ongoing financial inducement. It seems amazing they can get
away with not having to declare it. Tuesday's debate on the European Union Bill
was among the most visceral the House of Lords has known. The Upper House may
recently have been increasingly raucous, but what was unprecedented about
Tuesday was the way a special-interest group (of supposedly dignified grandees)
ganged up on an individual. In effect, the Euro-bullies tried to silence Lord
Pearson by vocal intimidation.

'It was like a pack of hyenas coming in on one,' says Lord Pearson, who felt
that some of the 'outrageous' intimidation bordered on the 'fascist'. He stuck
to his guns, he says, because 'it was like skiing on ice , once you've started
you need to keep going'.

Lord Pearson was treated so badly that he has since received letters of sympathy
from colleagues across the political spectrum who were appalled by the
Europhiles' conduct.

Ex-European Commissioners who made speeches in the debate were Lord
Clinton-Davis (Lab), Lord Richard (Lab) and Eighties pin-up Lord Brittan (Con).
Lord Clinton-Davis did admit to receiving some EC largesse, but airily said 'it
is not a vast sum of money'.

Other (non-pensioned) Euro-whooper-doopers joining the 'pack of hyenas' included
former Foreign Office panjandra Lords Hannay and Kerr, ex MEP Lord Tomlinson and
sometime Ministers Lord Sewel and Lady Quin. Disgraceful.

WHY SO COY, LORD PATTEN?

ANOTHER ex-European Commissioner is Lord (Chris) Patten, new chairman of the
BBC. I tried yesterday to ascertain if he has a forfeitable Brussels pension. I
did not hear him declare one when he appeared recently before MPs for a
confirmation hearing.

A BBC spokesman says that only 'positions of employment and remunerated
directorships' have to be declared. Hmmm. Let it be stressed again. Former
Commissioners' pensions are forfeitable. That means there could be financial
leverage over the recipient , potential squeezing of the windpipe.

We're talking about the chairman of the BBC here , head of a corporation already
suspected of pro-European bias.

Lord Patten may be such a saint that he would never yield to such pressure. But
he should have declared this potential interest.

WE have further details of average salaries at the Equality And Human Rights
Commission (the state body which beards, bullies and berates us about
egalitarianism). Last month we learned it pays less, on average, to female
employees than to men.

Now, thanks to probing by feisty Tory MP Philip Davies, we find that white
employees at the Commission are paid an average of 635,800 while non-whites
receive 632,500. Able-bodied staff are on 635,400 while the disabled are on
633,500. Tut tut.

THERE was a twitchy moment in Shanghai the other day when young British actors
were performing Shakespeare in front of China's Premier Wen. It was the last day
of the Shanghai Expo and the youngsters were playing Romeo And Juliet at the
British Pavilion.

Director Leon Rubin from the E15 Acting School, Essex, takes up the story: 'It
was a fast and furious production, performed outdoors. As Premier Wen arrived,
members of the cast engaged in an enthusiastic fight sequence close to his
entourage.'

Uh-oh. Mr Wen's bodyguards were startled by the flashing swords. Hands shot to
concealed holsters. Happily, before our bright young actors were mown down, Mr
Wen smiled and waved to indicate his enjoyment. Safety catches back on. Phew.

SOME columnists say William Hague half-expects the people of Zimbabwe to take a
lead from North Africa's rebellions and rise up against Robert Mugabe. Not quite
right. The Foreign Office certainly does not expect Mr Mugabe to last much
longer, but that is because he is in the closing stages of prostate cancer.

SUBBUTEO-SIZED MP Simon Wright (Lib Dem, Norwich South), who toppled giant
Charles Clarke at the general election, is to become Parliamentary Private
Secretary to equally tiny Sarah Teather (pictured above struggling to see over a
lectern).

'Sarah wanted someone to look down on,' says an acquaintance. 'Simon was the
only runner.'

Side by side, they will look like a salt and pepper set. In his new
responsibilities, Mr Wright will visit schools with Education Minister Teather.
Is there not a danger they could be mistaken for new pupils and told to hurry
along into lessons?

MONDAY, around 9.20pm, BBC News Channel: the presenter (male, Northern English
accent), is conducting an interview about the Government's economic plans and
talks about 'brutal cuts'. Why do they never say 'brutal taxes'?

THE BRIGHT WAY TO SAVE ENERGY

CITING cost-saving and environmental concerns, the parliamentary authorities
have turned off every alternate light in the long Press corridor (nicknamed 'The
Burma Road') at the House of Commons.

Some of my colleagues are rather disgruntled. I feel the idea should be
expanded. Let's switch off half the electric lights burned by government
agencies. Let's switch off half the street lamps of Britain. It would save
money, reduce energy consumption and cut light pollution.

Energy Secretary Chris Huhne, here is an easy solution to some of your problems.

NICE MOTOR, YOUR EXCELLENCY

MEXICO'S ambassador to London, Eduardo Mora, is dipping a toe in the second-hand
motors market.

In the waiting room of his embassy's visa section, stuck to the wall next to a
flier for Spanish lessons, is an advert for a 1990 Bentley automatic limo,
numberplate MEX 1. It has done 34,000 miles.

His Excellency, diamond geezer, is looking for 66,500. You could always try
offering notes.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

THE RICHARD LITTLEJOHN COLUMN

LENGTH: 1462 words


WHO'S THE WALLY WITH THE GOLLY?

OVER the past few years, this column has kept you updated on the activities of
the Golliwog Squad, that section of the police devoted to pursuing shopkeepers
suspected of selling racially-offensive cuddly toys.

There have been a number of dawn raids on toy shops as far afield as Sussex and
Herefordshire.

In Worthing, store owner John Scadgell was threatened with prosecution under
Section 2 of the Public Order Act and had his entire stock of golliwogs
confiscated.

Sussex police accused him of committing a 'hate crime' and said the war on
golliwogs was a top priority.

I mentioned all this not to get involved in a petty squabble about the rights
and wrongs of selling dolls modelled on turn of-the-20th-century music hall
minstrels, but simply to highlight the ludicrous waste of police time and money
involved and the vindictive persecution of small businessmen trying to make an
honest living.

Taking offence on behalf of others, where no offence is intended, is one of the
banes of modern life. Using the criminal law to enforce compliance with the
doctrines of 'diversity' is a form ofÊfascism.

Having said all that, if there's one thing just as irritating as 'political
correctness', it's that peculiar breed of people who go out of their way to be
politically incorrect.

What I hate is intolerance, zealotry and stupidity from whichever quarter it
comes, not just when it is practised byÊthe state-funded enforcers of the
newÊpuritanism.

We hoped we'd left all this golliwog nonsense behind in the Eighties, when a
campaign led by Red Ken and his disciples at the now-defunct Greater London
Council forced Robertson's Jam to drop its trademark golly on the jar.

Back then I thought it was absurd, having never met a black person who looked
remotely like a golly Ñ unless you include flamboyant Seventies funksters such
as Bootsy's Rubber Band. Or met anyone, outside of the ranks of deranged
Guardianistas, who took offence.

Unfortunately, the PC headbangers are now deeply embedded in every branch of
government and so-called public service, both local and national. If we can't
ignore them, then at least we can treat them with the contempt and ridicule they
deserve.

That's what Bill and Star EtheridgeÊthought they were doing when they posed on
the internet with golliwogs. This married couple run the Sedgeley, West
Midlands, branch of something called the Campaign Against Political Correctness.

That should set the alarm bells ringing. I've never heard of this obscure
organisation and remain deeply suspicious of anyone who sets up a single issue
pressure group or joins any kind of committee.

They claim they were only trying to stimulate a 'healthy debate' about the role
of golliwogs in modern society. I thought we'd hadÊthat debate Ñ and lost it
yearsÊago.

Whatever their motives, it backfired spectacularly.

They have been deselected as prospective Conservative council candidates after a
'colleague' reported them to the local party. Frankly, it's their own fault,
even though this whole incident is a depressing illustration of our modern moral
morass.

From to the knee-jerk reaction of the Tory hierarchy Ñ desperate not to be
associated with anything 'nasty' Ñ to the prodnose who took offence and grassed
them up, nobody comes out of this well.

There's a world of difference between a child playing with a harmless golly and
an adult brandishing one on the internet to make a political point.

No doubt the Etheridges thought they were being funny. They weren't. Just crass.
They are like the self-appointed 'jokers' in every office Ñ the sort who have
been much in evidence during Red Nose month Ñ and those saloon bar bores who
protest noisily about the appropriation of the word 'gay'.

This is what happens when you air private thoughts on Facebook and Twitter. I've
lost count of the number of people who have committed professional suicide by
social network. What possesses them to share their mundane intimacies with the
world?

Star Etheridge actually sounds as if she ought to be a member of Bootsy's Rubber
Band, although perhaps reggae is more her forte. She's certainly got the hat for
it. On her web page she's wearing the kind of oversized woolly beret favoured by
Bob Marley & The Wailers.

Bill and Star have now stomped off in disgust to join UKIP. They'd be better off
in the BNP, which will sell you a nice line in golly memorabilia.

It probably won't be long before the Etheridges get a knock on the door from the
West Midlands Police Golliwog Squad.

AND A LARGE VAT FOR ME, GEORGE...

The Chancellor plans to merge income tax and National Insurance to create a
basic rate of 32 per cent. In so doing, he hopes to concentrate minds on how
much of our earnings is taken by the State.

If he was serious he'd abolish PAYE. Only when people had to fill in their own
tax returns and write out a large cheque twice a year would they realise the
extent of the robbery.

So-called 'take home pay' is a con-trick, designed to ease the pain. After the
Treasury has taken its share of salaries, we still have to fork out a fortune in
VAT, council tax, petrol duty, airport tax Ñ you name it, they tax it Ñ all out
of after-tax income.

In effect, we're paying tax on tax. If income tax and NI were scrapped and
switched to spending, VAT would have to rise to about 75 per cent.

Thousands of gadget freaks are expected to lay siege to Apple stores and
electrical retailers across Britain today to get their hands on the new iPad 2
and Nintendo gizmo Ñ even though they know they're being ripped off by the
manufacturers.

Millions will be spent on these must-have toys, at a time when people are
moaning about the soaring cost of living and the nation is drowning in debt.
Recession, what recession?

SCAREEE MONSTERS

When I was at school, geography lessons were about countries, cities, oceans,
rivers, mountain ranges.

We were taught the cash crops of nations, knew that Kenya produced coffee,
Argentina farmed beef and the capital of Australia was Canberra, not Sydney.

These days, children who don't know that Manchester is north of London or that
meat comes from animals, are force-fed 'global warming' propaganda in class.

Yesterday the BBC invited schools across Britain to make their own news
bulletins. After terrorism, children's biggest fear is 'climate change'.

One delightful girl told an interviewer that she knows from her geography
lessons that we are causing terrible damage to our planet.

'It's reee-eely scareeee.'

You can say that again.

Last Fifth of November, I brought you the story of Mark Sanderson who was
arrested and held in police custody for four hours, accused of letting off
fireworks after 11pm in his garden at Chislehurst, Kent.

He was charged with breaching the curfew set by the Fireworks Regulations Act
2004 and given an £80 fixed penalty, which he refused to accept Ñ preferring to
take his chances with the local magistrates.

The case came to court recently. He was found guilty, fined £175 and ordered to
pay costs of £620, plus a victim surcharge of £15.

Mr Sanderson plans to appeal. I'll keep you posted.

Two of the most amazing pictures to come out of Japan are the before-and-after
shots of the devastated highway rebuilt in just six days.

Can you imagine that happening here? It took seven years just to rebuild the
Brent Cross flyover in North London.

Heaven help us if we ever have an earthquake. You can picture the scene.

First we'd have demands for a full-scale investigation into who used the wrong
kind of concrete in the first place. Labour would blame the damage on the
'cuts', even though it had been in power when the road was built.

The site would be sealed off while police forensic teams were called in to
identify the bodies of a number of former Kray Twins associates who had been
propping up the flyover.

There'd be a row between local and central government over who should pay for
the repairs, followed by a sit-in of environmental activists demanding that the
flyover should be completely demolished and turned into a bird sanctuary.

Eventually a repair crew would arrive in a battered Transit van, erect a few
hundred cones and safety barriers, dump their equipment and go for lunch. When
they returned, several weeks later, they would discover that their bulldozer had
been stolen by a freelance Tarmacing gang.

As they finally began to start work, health and safety officials would move in
and shut the job down for at least two years pending a full risk assessment.

In the Budget, George Osborne announced an extra £100 million for repairing
potholes caused by the harsh winter.

Couldn't we just cut out the middle man and sub-contract the Japanese to fill
them in once they've rebuilt their own country?

Which, given the speed at which they're already working, should be in about a
fortnight.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Timo's waiting in EU wings

BYLINE: Ian King

SECTION: BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 119 words


Unless you are a member of the UK Independence Party, at whose conference he
spoke in 2009, you will not be aware of Timo Soini, a Millwall-supporting
Finnish MEP who converted to Catholicism after visiting Ireland. You may soon.

Mr Soini leads the True Finns, a nationalist party, who could join the
government after elections in April.

The current EU summit in Brussels was due to formalise the structure of the ESM,
a permanent eurozone rescue fund to replace the current EFSF, which itself could
then be expanded to (EURO)440 billion. But ratifying both must wait because
Finland, whose parliament has been dissolved, is unable to sign off on the
accord.

Mr Soini could yet delay it further.

ian.king@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OUSTED! TORY WALLIES HOLDING GOLLIES;
Party's fury over Facebook pics ; PC MAD 1

BYLINE: JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 134 words


TWO Tory council candidates have quit in a row over photos of themselves posing
with golliwogs.

Bill Etheridge, 41, and wife Star, 39, were suspended after a series of
complaints.

The pair, who are members of the Black Country Campaign Against Political
Correctness, questioned what was wrong with the black toys in a Facebook debate.

But Anne Millward, leader of Dudley Council, in the West Midlands, warned the
pair that their beliefs could give people ammunition against the party ahead of
local elections.

The couple, from Sedgley, West Mids, then resigned.

Last night Mr Etheridge, who is now joining UKIP, said: "The term political
correctness gone mad is well used but this is a total golly folly!" Mrs
Etheridge, who was due to stand for Coseley East, said: "It's ridiculous."

jerry.lawton@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUIT: Star and Bill with golliwog

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories posed with golliwog 'to challenge political correctness'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 176 words


Two prospective Tory councillors have quit the party after posting a picture of
themselves posing with golliwog toy on Facebook to "provoke a political
correctness debate".

Bill and Star Etheridge, a married couple from Dudley, West Midlands, resigned
after they were suspended following a complaint about the picture, which the
Tories said "might bring the party into disrepute".

The couple, who are members of the Campaign Against Political Correctness, claim
to have posted the picture to promote a "healthy debate".

Mr Etheridge, 41, said: "We both thought that the Conservative Party would have
had bigger issues to be worrying about at the moment. I think it's much better
to discuss and debate issues of political correctness like golliwogs than to let
them fester."

Mr Etheridge has since joined the United Kingdom Independence Party, and will
stand against the Tories in the May council elections.

A spokesman for the Conservative Party said: "Following a complaint by members
of the voluntary party in the area, two Conservative members have resigned."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 2nd Edition

OUSTED! TORY WALLIES HOLDING GOLLIES

BYLINE: by JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; 21

LENGTH: 134 words


Party's fury over Facebook pics

TWO Tory council candidates have quit in a row over photos of themselves posing
with gollies.

Bill Etheridge, 41, and wife Star, 39, were suspended after a series of
complaints.

The pair, who are members of the Black Country Campaign Against Political
Correctness, questioned what was wrong with the black dolls in a Facebook
debate.

But Anne Millward, leader of Dudley Council, in the West Midlands, warned the
pair that their beliefs could give people ammunition against the party ahead of
local elections.

The couple, from Sedgley, West Mids, then resigned.

Last night Mr Etheridge, who is now joining UKIP, said: "The term political
correctness gone mad is well used but this is a total golly folly!"

Mrs Etheridge, who was due to stand for Coseley East, said:

"It's ridiculous."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUIT: Star and Bill with golly doll

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

COUPLE WHO POSED WITH GOLLIWOGS ON FACEBOOK FORCED OUT OF TORY PARTY

BYLINE: BY CLAIRE ELLICOTT

LENGTH: 495 words


THEY saw it as a harmless stunt to highlight the more hysterical elements of the
politically correct bandwagon.

But perhaps it proved their point a little too well.

Two prospective Tory councillors have resigned from the Conservative Party after
being suspended for posting pictures of themselves holding golliwog dolls on
Facebook.

Married couple Bill and Star Etheridge, who campaign against political
correctness, say they were trying to promote 'healthy debate' about whether the
doll was a racist symbol.

But the pair were summoned before a disciplinary committee after a colleague
made a complaint.

Mr Etheridge, 41, who was due to stand alongside his wife for the Tories in the
Dudley Council elections in May, has now joined UKIP as he claims his right to
express his views is being stifled by the Conservative Party.

He said: 'We just wanted to stimulate debate and gollies are a perfect example
of an innocent child's toy that's been transformed into something sinister by
the politically correct brigade.

'We need to get back to a point where people can say what they think and not
live in fear. That's real democracy.'

The couple, who have been pictured with members of the Tory high command,
including David Cameron, say they feel betrayed by the party.

They bought the dolls at a market and posted pictures of them on Facebook in
December last year. A few days before Christmas, the Dudley North Conservative
Association asked them to remove the photos as they feared they could be used
against the couple.

The Etheridges, from Sedgley, West Midlands, who organise their local branch of
the Campaign Against Political Correctness, agreed reluctantly. But then an
anonymous colleague complained to the party about them and they were suspended
by a disciplinary committee. Outraged at their treatment, they resigned as
members.

Mrs Etheridge, 39, a mother-of-three, said she and her husband had wanted to
promote debate, not cause offence. She added: 'It's just a child's toy and the
politically correct brigade are the ones who have turned it into a racist
symbol. I grew up in Bury in Lancashire, so I have a lot of black and Asian
friends and as children we had golly dolls and we never once thought of them as
racist.

'Some people say it is offensive, but they're generally do-gooders who are
offended on behalf of other people.' She added that with the couple's
suspension, David Cameron had gone back on his party's pledge to curb political
correctness.

Golliwog dolls have been around for more than a century and first appeared as
friendly characters in children's books in the 1890s.

Conservative disciplinary committee secretary Stephen Phillips wrote to the pair
about their 30-day suspension, saying 'serious issues' had been raised 'that
might bring the party into disrepute'.

A Conservative Party spokesman said: 'Following a complaint by members of the
voluntary party in the area, two Conservative members have resigned from the
party.'

c.ellicott@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 21, 2011 Monday 4:55 PM GMT

David Cameron deserves credit for his swift action on Libya

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1259 words


One of the consequences of getting old is that one may have personal memories of
events which for younger people have fallen into that gap between experience and
history. Perhaps it was unworthy of me, but when I read of the alliance between
Britain and France to take military action against a North African dictator my
mind turned to a trip to the Far East in 1956 on which we had experienced a
typhoon at Hong Kong, riots in Singapore, had to offload an insane passenger at
Colombo and, in the early hours of November 1, while on our way from Karachi to
Bahrain, heard that Anglo-French forces were attacking Suez, which led to some
interesting moments too.

Setting that aside, it would be ungenerous, indeed it would be ignoring reality,
not to acknowledge that what began as no more than a Cameron-Sarkozy initiative
has now brought on board the Americans, the Arab League and indeed the Security
Council of the UN.

That is some considerable achievement and the Prime Minister deserves great
credit for his determination in driving it forward.

The affair, however, is not yet over. Whether the fact is spoken, or unspoken,
to end Gaddafi's violence against some of the Libyan people it seems clear that
the UN Resolution accepts that there will have to be regime change in Libya.

But I am not certain that there is even a potential political leadership in
Libya which is acceptable to all Libyans. Are we certain that the people of
Tripolitania no longer support him? What if the people of Cyrenaica and those of
Tripolitania are, after the downfall of Gaddafi, unable to agree on a new Libyan
government and a chaotic struggle, perhaps even civil war, ensues. It would be
difficult for those responsible for the overthrow of the present regime by
external military force to simply walk away  from the consequences of their
actions.

At such times the words of Drake's despatch  of 17th May 1587 to Walsingham come
back to my mind: "There must be a beginning of any great matter, but the
continuing unto the end until it be thoroughly finished yields the true glory."

I found that "Drake's Prayer", which is based on that despatch, was a favourite
of Margaret Thatcher. I hope that Mr Cameron will similarly take it to heart -
for much, far beyond the survival of the LibDemCon Coalition, hangs upon the
outcome of the great matter upon which he has embarked.

...

Not least because I will have some hard things to say later to Daekseid, let me
start by saying that his post of Saturday at 10.10 is a "must read" item on the
subject of The Cuts, the brutality of the Coalition and his Labour Council. It
brightened up my morning.

I was impressed once again by the number of posts from disaffected Tories,
pragamatist, bob1972 biatach, alb_einstein, jackade, and others  who have either
defected to UKIP, or who welcome the pressure which UKIP is putting on the
Government.

There was a complete absence of Europhile contributors willing to defend the
EU's efforts to spread AE and rabies to Britain but in fairness to the Coalition
I should say I see from answers given in Parliament, that Ministers are now
humbly entreating Our Masters in Brussels for their gracious permission to
continue to protect ourselves against these diseases as we have done for many
years. As an old hand at negotiating in Brussels, I suspect Our Masters will
give way, but we will have to pay a price on some other separate issue., perhaps
on one of those other political and economic infections which none of the above
noted keep coming from the mainland too.

On schools, ladymoneypenny (who I should thank for her good wishes) asked,
didn't we have good technical schools in the past? Well, yes, but not enough
really good ones I am afraid.

On the main theme of my blog, I finally understood where Darkseid stands. I had
thought at times he was somewhere in Conservative Central office, but I now
realise he is one of that endangered species, a LibDem supporter. Let me assure
him that there is a great difference between a backbench MP or party supporter
putting pressure on his senior colleagues and  the Deputy Prime Minister, having
helped to make a policy and publicly supported it, going to the Party Conference
of the junior coalition party and ratting on it. As Victor Meldrew said the role
of the LibDems in the coalition is mere opportunism, or as Xing Xing put it, to
even knife their own voters. Perhaps pietro 99 was being half kind to them
saying their problems come from a 90-year history as a "protest vote party". He
was not much kinder to the Tories who he saw as terrified of being out of
government and letting the MillieEd into No. 10. Nor was wishful, who saw the
problem as "too many spoiled brats in the political class."

Like simon_coulter who asked where would the Lib Dems go if they left the
coalition, Johnny Norfolk was robust on the LibDems, but he should heed the
words of macantab who mostly agreed with me but warned that people usually get
the government they deserve.

It was Jedibeeftrix who agreed that tails do normally wag dogs in coalitions and
in consequence he opposes AV. There was a weird post from jn99 who quoted a
report from Will Hutton's Work Foundation on the impact of immigration as though
it was an authoritative independent organisation. Well that was a laugh.

The all party House of Lords Select Committee report of April 2008 found that
immigration brought virtually no economic benefit to the UK. The recent studies
by Migration Watch, which was routinely abused by NuLab Ministers, but was
regularly proven to be a more accurate source of immigration statistics than the
Home Office, flatly contradict the opinion of the Work Foundation. It is well
worth reading the Migration Watch briefing papers 3.11 and 3.10 on this matter.

Nor do I know how jn99 can excuse the NuLab government from any responsibility
for the rise in unemployment on their watch. If it was all about world forces
why did not Germany suffer as we did?Then we had the worker's claim that
"Thatcher could not deal with real life". Oh, really. She just won three
elections in a row, gaining more votes at the third than the first, and was
never defeated in a general  election.

How odd that in the face of that, ben_arnulffsen claimed that she "convinced the
electors they had much to fear and nothing to gain from the Tories". What a
contrast with what rogerandout described as the "corruption of Blair, Cherie,
Mandleson and Kinnock".

For once duckham was right. Britain is going where its creditors tell it. That
is a consequence of being in debt. It is a consequence of the Blair-Brown years.

As ever I was grateful to those who expressed good wishes to my wife and
flattered by those who like highlander seem to think that it might make a
difference if I defected to UKIP, and  Goat Fakir who thought I might, but for
Farage.

I enjoyed many of the other posts, especially from our American readers, not
least 221gobikon2, for their well informed contributions.

I was asked by itf_tory for my views on the various electoral systems. That is
pretty easy. I do not like systems likely to lead to near permanent coalition as
in much of the EU, although in the case of Belgium it seem better at ensuring no
government at all. Of course Our Masters in Brussels favour weak coalition
governments in member states which make it easy for them. So I come down in
favour of FTP.

Finally, I am glad that after all these years neilcraig and I have found a lot
of common ground. I am indebted to him for his kind remarks. That is one of the
interesting things about blogging.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 20, 2011 Sunday

NOW MEPS CAN USE TAXPAYERS MONEY FOR PROPAGANDA TO KEEP BRITAIN IN EU

BYLINE: FROM MARY ELLEN SYNON in Brussels ***BY ARRANGEMENT ONLY***

LENGTH: 573 words


THE European Parliament has announced that taxpayers money will be used to fund
pro-Brussels propaganda in any referendum on Britain s future membership of the
EU.

The move by the Parliament s constitutional affairs committee comes less than a
week after the cross-party People s Pledge campaign was launched to secure a
referendum on whether Britain should stay in the EU or quit Brussels.

The committee overwhelmingly voted last week to change party financing rules to
allow European political groups to take part in domestic referenda campaigns in
member states. The groups are made up of MEPs of different nationalities but
similar political affiliation, such as Socialists or Greens.

Until now, MEPs could use their group s funds 85 per cent of which come from EU
taxpayers only to campaign in elections for the Strasbourg Parliament.

But the new rules will allow MEPs to use the funds to campaign when a referendum
has a direct link to an EU issue.

This is despite an admission by the committee that the existing ban was in place
because of a concern that European parties and foundations could interfere in
the domestic affairs of member states .

Now, however, MEPs say they must have the right to participate in such campaigns
as long as the subject of the referendum has a direct link with issues
concerning the European Union .

Last night, the move was denounced as outrageous by Roger Helmer, the
Conservative MEP for the East Midlands. He said: I take comfort in the fact that
it will probably be counterKproductive once people learn that European funds are
being used in this way.

Fellow Conservative MEP Daniel Hannan said the decision was clearly aimed at
interfering in any in or out referendum that may be held in Britain.

He added: I don't care how they rig it. I would be happy to hold a referendum on
any terms because I have confiK dence in the wisdom of the British people. They
will vote for independence and freedom.

He pointed out that the committee's announcement came just after a senior Lib
Dem MEP, Andrew Duff, made moves to stop a referendum blocking any future EU
treaty.

Mr Hannan said: Andrew Duff wants to allow treaties to come into effect before
all the signatories have ratified them. Instead of unanimous approval, as set
out in the Treaty of Rome, Mr Duff wants future EU accords to come into effect
once four-fifths of member states have ratified them. He is worried that the
British electorate would vote against any future EU treaty.

However, UKIP MEP Stuart Agnew said his eurosceptic group in the European
Parliament would use its funding to help the Britain out side in any referendum.
If we can t stop them passing this measure, we will take as much money as we can
get to campaign for a withdrawal from the EU, he said. Why should taxpayers
money just go to fund the Yes side?

One of the nonKvoting memK bers of the constitutional affairs committee is Elmar
Brok, a German MEP who earlier this month was given parliamentary immunity from
prosecution for incomeKtax evasion.

Last September, the public prosecutor in Bielefeld, Germany, requested the
European Parliament waive the immunity from criminal prosecution enjoyed by Mr
Brok and all other MEPs. The prosecutor alleged Mr Brok had failed to declare a
64,300 fee paid to him for giving a speech.

But the Parliament's legal affairs committee refused the request, claiming a
prosecution of Mr Brok for tax evasion would amount to political persecution.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 20, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HOW THE OTHER HALF LIVES

BYLINE: BRYONY GORDON; LUCY CAVENDISH

SECTION: STELLA;FEATURES; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 696 words


Single girl about town

BRYONY GORDON

I am on my way back from West Sussex - where I have been interviewing an
octogenarian member of Ukip (I am pretty sure most members of Ukip are over 80)
- when my BlackBerry rings. On the screen flash the sinister words 'private
number', which can mean only one thing: it is someone from work.

I clear my throat and put on my work voice. 'Hello,' I say.

'Bryony!' It is my colleague Charlotte. 'You need to come back to the office
right now.'

'But I'm halfway down the A3 and it's a quarter to seven. Can't it wait?' In my
mind I have already played out my boss telling me I have made a grave error in a
piece - I don't know which piece, any piece - and I am now in terrible trouble.

'No!' says Charlotte. 'It absolutely can't wait. You have to get back here this
instant.'

'But Charles [I call her this, and she calls me Brian - gosh, we're a laugh a
minute], I can't do that because I do not own a pair of red shoes that will take
me wherever I want when I tap them together.'

'Don't get all clever with me, Brian. Besides, it is worth your while...'

'You mean I'm not in trouble?'

'No! I mean, I don't know. Possibly. Probably not. Look, the reason I am calling
you is because we have just taken delivery of the hugest bunch of flowers. And
they're for you...'

It amazes me how excited people get about the arrival of a bunch of flowers in
the office. They are, 99 per cent of the time, from some sort of business
associate thanking you for work done on a project, and yet still everybody
around you erupts into a series of 'ooooohs' and 'aaaaaahs' (I am writing this
as if I am someone who gets flowers all the time, when I don't).

Anyway, I tell Charles that she can have them. I'm not good with flowers; I
always forget to cut their stems and they die within a day.

'But Brian! You can't just give them away. You need to know who they are from!'

'You've opened the card?'

'Maybe. Yes. It says, "Dear B, I hope you don't have hayfever. Lots of love,
Ollie. X."'

I haven't told you about Ollie, have I?

Country mother of four

LUCY CAVENDISH

My husband is now fêted as a hero. Tales of his derring-do have ricocheted round
the valley and he's gone from banging on a window to scare off the intruders
trying to break in to almost physically wrestling them to the ground.

And, of course, he is a hero. He did bang on a window very loudly and he did
call the police. Since then he has also had all the locks on the house changed
and had loads of keys cut so we can triple-lock everything. He's even put the
bicycles in the shed - something I've been asking him to do for a year - and
actually locked it.

'You have to think about what you value,' he says.

I look around our house, taking in the ancient television set and the computers
so old they can barely be switched on.

'I don't think I value anything,' I say.

But later on that day I realise there are things I value. I call my husband. 'I
don't want anyone to take my jewellery,' I say. 'Where should I hide it?' He
suggests I put it up the chimney.

An hour later I have I put my rings in a little box. I sit in front of the
fireplace in the bedroom and reach up in to the chimney. I carefully position
the box on a ledge. Then I let go. The box tumbles down the back of the chimney,
behind the iron-clad fireplace. They land with a dull thud. Gone.

I can't believe it. I don't know what to do. I just sit and stare at the
fireplace as if, somehow, the rings will magically float up and go back on to my
finger.

This is how Raymond finds me an hour later.

'What's the problem?' he asks.

'I've lost my rings down the back of the fireplace,' I say. I point helplessly
at it.

'Hmm,' says Raymond. Then he says, 'You'll have to knock that chimney down.'
'Knock the chimney down?'

'You'll never get them out otherwise.'

'I can't do that! It'll cost thousands and the house will probably fall down.'
We both sit on the bed and stare.

'Do you think it's an omen?' I ask him eventually.

'Nah. It's just you being clumsy,' he says.

'Bryony!' It is my colleague Charlotte. 'You need to come back to the office
right now.'

I sit and stare at the fireplace as if, somehow, the rings will magically float
back up and and on to my finger

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rick Pushinsky

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 20, 2011
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

HOW DEEP IS LABOUR'S SUPPORT;
INSIDE POLITICS

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 780 words


What's the big picture?

It's economic winter in Britain and chilling conditions may last for some time.
Growth is slow. Cuts are biting. Inflation is rising. Jobs are scarce. David
Cameron and George Osborne are digging in for the long haul. They're focused on
getting reelected in 2015 and keeping their coalition together in the meantime.
Ed Miliband, meanwhile, is partying as if the General Election is tomorrow. Her
Majesty's Opposition is having fun, throwing snowballs at every Coalition
minister. A year after it suffered one of its worst ever defeats, Labour is
building a big lead in the opinion polls but this may be as wide and thin as the
icy surface of a frozen lake. As economic spring arrives, it could crack beneath
Ed Miliband's feet.

Is Ed Miliband relying too much on Coalition failure?

Ed Miliband risks putting all of his eggs in the economic disaster basket.

This maximises his support now, when times are tough, but he will suffer if the
economy recovers and all the credit goes to the government that cleaned up the
mess. A brave successor to Gordon Brown would have acknowledged Labour's
wasteful spending during the boom years. A poll last week - for The Guardian -
found that two-thirds of people agreed that the state is spending too much
money. Twice as many voters blame Gordon Brown's legacy for the cuts, as blame
Cameron.

By jumping on every anti-cuts bandwagon Ed Miliband is doing nothing to rebuild
his party's economic credibility.

Are Labour activists questioning Miliband's strategy?

Not really. The Labour Party should be in an anxious state, searching its soul
to understand why Brown won only 29 per cent of the vote last year - worse than
John Major received in his landslide defeat of 1997.

With the honourable exception of Labour's former general secretary, Peter Watt,
and a few Blairite columnists, the inquiry into defeat is remarkable for its
absence.

The quick recovery in the opinion polls has acted like a tranquilliser.

Moreover, Labour is so scarred by the tensions between Brownites and Blairites
that the party is supersensitive to the signs of any new splits. Whenever voices
of concern are raised - such as last week by the modernising Shadow Defence
Secretary, Jim Murphy - they are quickly silenced.

What about the Ed Miliband problem?

This is the elephant in the Labour room. Ed Miliband defeated his bother, David
- who was the first choice of MPs and members - because of the perverse AV
voting system used in internal elections and because he was more popular with
the Labour Party's union paymasters.

This link to the unions gave him the tabloid nickname of 'Red Ed'.

But the Conservative Party's focus groups are finding that, in voters' minds,
the problem is more 'Odd Ed' than 'Red Ed'.

There is the Cain-and-Abel factor of assassinating his brother in the leadership
contest.

There is the fact he didn't marry his girlfriend or register as his first
child's father. There are his staring eyes. One Tory insider notes that bad
first impressions killed William Hague's chances of beating Tony Blair; Ed
Miliband's first impressions are at least as bad. Unlike Cameron - who faces no
serious internal rival - Ed Miliband could be replaced by the hugely ambitious
Ed Balls.

The opinion polls protect Miliband for now but Labour MPs are already ready to
turn against him when the need arises. On the day he launched his AV campaign,
many Labour MPs sat behind him in the Commons, sporting No2AV badges.

What should Labour do?

Peter Watt has urged Ed Miliband to stop opposing every cut and focus on the
rising cost of living. Inflation is three times as big a problem for most
households as cuts and it's the lower income, striving classes that are
struggling most as fuel and food prices rise.

Championing what Ed Miliband has called the "squeezed middle" - including their
views on crime and immigration - could see Labour begin to recover in Essex and
other southern battlegrounds. The party faces a challenge in the South every bit
as big as Hague, Howard and Cameron once faced in the north.

Is there any hope for Labour?

Yes, if the economic recovery is sluggish. Yes, if the NHS reforms go wrong.

Yes, if Ken Clarke continues to pursue a soft policy on crime. Yes, if enough
Conservative voters defect to Ukip Yes, if tuition fee-paying students defect en
masse to Labour.

But Ed Miliband has to start answering some strategic questions. Does he, for
example, want to lovebomb the Liberal Democrats so they become future allies or
does he want to destroy them and steal all their voters? Not for the first time,
Ed Balls seems to want to do the latter and Ed Miliband isn't really sure.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of Conservative Home

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Europe spending £80m a year on spin and TV

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 587 words


EUROPEAN Parliament spending has been questioned after a report showing that
more than £80million was paid to spin doctors and a television channel watched
by fewer than 1,000 people a day.

Ville Itala, a centre-Right Finnish MEP on the parliament's budgetary control
committee, is worried that the assembly is too concerned about its own image.

"I am looking out for the taxpayer and the normal citizen. We must be very
careful. We are here to represent citizens, not to justify our positions," he
said.

In his draft "discharge" report on expenditure in 2009, Mr Itala has demanded a
"detailed explanation of the underlying need" of the parliament's 722
communication posts that cost a total of £70.8 million.

Despite the number of spin doctors, the Finn noted, "with concern", that a
£4.9million campaign to persuade people to vote in the 2009 European elections
had resulted in an "overall decline in turnout" to its lowest ever level of 43
per cent.

He has singled out "deplorable" spending of £7.9 million a year on EuroparlTV, a
channel that "cannot be considered to be a success story in view of its very low
number of direct users". The station, which highlights the work of MEPs, is
thought to have only about 850 viewers a day, considerably less that the 9,000
people working in the parliament or the 500 million people the assembly
represents.

"The only people who watch it are in Brussels and they are MEPs or their office
staff, not normal citizens. Our job is to be a political and legislative
institution not to run our own TV station," said Mr Itala.

Mr Itala, a pro-European MEP, has also been angered over a "paternalist" prize
for journalism, worth £17,500 a year, to reward press coverage that "promoted a
better understanding of the EU".

"I really don't understand why we are giving money to journalists whose task
should be to be critical of EU institutions. It is not my idea of democracy," he
said.

The report, to be voted on by the budgetary committee on Tuesday, additionally
asks for a review of £37.6 million spent on 900 security guards who have failed
to prevent three armed robberies within the parliament in the past two years.

Also questioned is the £3.3million limousine service for MEPs at a time when
many ministers in national governments are losing their cars.

A European Parliament spokesman declined to comment on the draft report when
"MEPs have yet to express a view in a vote either at committee level or in
plenary".

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party's leader, said: "The European Parliament
has become nothing more than a spending machine that lavishes public money on
projects that are pointless, useless and turn off voters."

Spending by the parliament is under fire after MEPs earlier this month ignored
appeals to respect Europe-wide austerity measures by voting to increase their
personal staffing allowances by £15,336 a year.

The rise in staff expenses came despite research by The Daily Telegraph last
year which found that assistants to MEPs are the best paid in the world, earning
as much as £78,000 a year.

Also, under a loophole, known as la clause anglaise, at least 17 British MEPs
pay their close relations, including wives and children, from the staffing
allowances.

In December last year, MEPs increased expenses for "daily subsistence" and
"general expenditure" to up to £91,000 a year, without having to provide any
receipts or proof of expenditure.

850 The number of viewers a day of the TV channel, which costs £7.9million a
year, according to the EU budgetary report

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Chauffeurs and spin doctors, how EU wastes cash

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words


SQUANDERING Eurocrats fritter millions of pounds on security, chauffeur-driven
cars and spin doctors, it emerged last night.

The full scale of the European Parliament's excess is revealed in a report on
its 2009 budget - spent at the height of the world economic meltdown - to be
thrashed out next week in Strasbourg.

So shocking are the figures that critics say it is certain to add to the
momentum behind the Daily Express crusade for the UK to withdraw from the EU.

Almost £38million was spent on 900 security guards, most of whom were external
contract staff, while £70million was paid out on 722 spin doctors.

Of the total £1.5billion European Parliament budget, £3million was spent
ferrying officials around in chauffeur-driven cars in Strasbourg and Brussels.

Eurosceptic UKIP leader Nigel Farage said last night: "This report is like an
Exocet missile.

"It blows to shreds any last respectability that the European Parliament may
wish for. This simple factual report is the most devastating critique of EU
waste I have seen.

"Things have become so bad that even Europhiles like the report's author are
angry about the abuse of taxpayers' money."

Charlotte Linacre, of the Tax-Payers' Alliance, described the EU's "blatant
disregard" for taxpayers' money as "excruciating".

Insulting She said spending on spin doctors was insulting, adding: "Eurocrats
need to get out of their limos, come back to the real world and stop squandering
our money."

The juggernaut of EU excess shows no signs of slowing as Britons brace
themselves for a year of soaring food and fuel bills, wage freezes and services
cuts.

A new four-year contract with the chauffeur company has been signed for
£4.5million. Of the total £1.3billion European Parliament 2009 budget,
£400million went on salaries, expenses and translation costs for 6,000
officials.

About 25 per cent of the budget is dedicated to MEPs' expenses, including
salaries, costs for travel, offices and PAs.

Upkeep of buildings accounted for £130million - about 13 per cent - including
running costs of the three HQ in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. Another
£60million was spent on IT.

Last month the Daily Express revealed how Euro MPs squander at least £3million a
year on "medical expenses" for treatments including IVF, anti-ageing therapy,
massages, slimming products, breast reductions and antiimpotence drugs such as
Viagra. British taxpayers fund at least 66 per cent and up to 100 per cent of
the cost of all treatments.

This year's total EU budget has grown to £110billion, of which Britain pays
about £8.5billion.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Chauf feurs and spin doctors, how EU wastes cash

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 430  words


SQUANDERING Eurocrats fritter millions of pounds on security, chauffeur-driven
cars and spin doctors, it emerged last night.

The full scale of the European Parliament's excess is revealed in a report on
its 2009 budget - spent at the height of the world economic meltdown - to be
thrashed out next week in Strasbourg.

So shocking are the figures that critics say it is certain to add to the
momentum behind the Daily Express crusade for the UK to withdraw from the EU.

Almost GBP 38million was spent on 900 security guards, most of whom were
external contract staff, while GBP 70million was paid out on 722 spin doctors.

Of the total GBP 1.5billion European Parliament budget, GBP 3million was spent
ferrying officials around in chauffeur-driven cars in Strasbourg and Brussels.

Eurosceptic UKIP leader Nigel Farage said last night: "This report is like an
Exocet missile.

"It blows to shreds any last respectability that the European Parliament may
wish for. This simple factual report is the most devastating critique of EU
waste I have seen.

"Things have become so bad that even Europhiles like the report's author are
angry about the abuse of taxpayers' money."

Charlotte Linacre, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, described the EU's "blatant
disregard" for taxpayers' money as "excruciating".

She said spending on spin doctors was insulting, adding: "Eurocrats need to get
out of their limos, come back to the real world and stop squandering our money."

The juggernaut of EU excess shows no signs of slowing as Britons brace
themselves for a year of soaring food and fuel bills, wage freezes and services
cuts.

A new four-year contract with the chauffeur company has been signed for GBP
4.5million. Of the total GBP 1.3billion European Parliament 2009 budget, GBP
400million went on salaries, expenses and translation costs for 6,000 officials.

About 25 per cent of the budget is dedicated to MEPs' expenses, including
salaries, costs for travel, offices and PAs.

Upkeep of buildings accounted for GBP 130million - about 13 per cent - including
running costs o the three HQ in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg.

Another GBP 60million was spent on IT.

Last month the Daily Express revealed how Euro MPs squander at least GBP
3million a year on "medical expenses" for treatments including IVF, anti-ageing
therapy, massages, slimming products, breast reductions and antiimpotence drugs
such as Viagra.

British taxpayers fund at least 66 per cent and up to 100 per cent of the cost
of all treatments.

This year's total EU budget has grown to GBP 110billion, of which Britain pays
about GBP 8.5billion.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Fury over EU squandering taxpayer cash

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 402  words


SQUANDERING Eurocrats fritter millions of pounds on security, chauffeur-driven
cars and spin doctors, it emerged last night.

The full scale of the European Parliament's excess is revealed in a report on
its 2009 budget - spent at the height of the world economic meltdown - to be
thrashed out next week in Strasbourg.

So shocking are the figures that critics say it is certain to add to the
momentum behind the Daily Express campaign for the UK to withdraw from the EU.

Almost GBP 38million was spent on 900 security guards, most of whom were
external contract staff, while GBP 70million was paid to 722 spin doctors.

Of the total GBP 1.5billion European Parliament budget, GBP 3million was spent
ferrying officials around in chauffeur driven cars in Strasbourg and Brussels.

Eurosceptic UKIP leader Nigel Farage said last night:

"This report is like an Exocet missile. It blows to shreds any last
respectability that the European Parliament may wish for. This simple factual
report is the most devastating critique of EU waste I have seen.

"Things have become so bad that even Europhiles like the report's author are
angry about the abuse of taxpayers' money."

Charlotte Linacre, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, described the EU's "blatant
disregard" for taxpayers' money as "excruciating".

She said spending on spin doctors was insulting, adding:

"Eurocrats need to get out of their limos, come back to the real world and stop
squandering our money."

The juggernaut of EU excess shows no signs of slowing as Britons brace
themselves for a year of soaring food and fuel bills, wage freezes and services
cuts. A new four-year contract with the chauffeur company has been signed for
GBP 4.5million. Of the total GBP 1.3billion European Parliament 2009 budget, GBP
400million went on salaries, expenses and translation costs for 6,000 officials.

About 25 per cent of the budget is dedicated to MEPs' expenses, including
salaries, costs for travel and offices.

Upkeep of buildings accounted for GBP 130million - including running costs of
the three HQs in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg.

Last month the Daily Express revealed how Euro MPs squander at least GBP
3million a year on "medical expenses" for treatments including IVF, anti-ageing
therapy, massages, slimming products, breast reductions and anti-impotence drugs
such as Viagra.

This year's total EU budget is GBP 110billion, of which Britain will pay about
GBP 8.5billion.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Fear over 'too soft' probe on Euro court

BYLINE: KEVIN SCHOFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 169 words


FEARS grew last night that a planned crackdown on crazy Euro court rulings will
be nothing but a whitewash.

A commission set up to look at introducing a UK Bill of Rights has already
decided that the hated European Convention on Human Rights will "continue to be
enshrined in UK law".

The panel of eight experts looking into the plans is also stuffed with liberal
lawyers - including anti-war QC Phillippe Sands.

And the commission will not report back until the end of next year, kicking the
issue into the long grass.

Furious Tory backbenchers accused David Cameron of caving in to pro-Europe
Liberal Democrats.

Clacton MP Douglas Carswell said: "This commission is dominated by people who
think the rule of law is the same as being ruled by human rights lawyers. It's
not going to lead to real change."

Gerard Batten, UKIP's constitutional affairs spokesman, said: "The point of the
Commission is to look at the issues of a British Bill of Rights without
prejudice. This Government is proving it has no desire to do so."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hated ... Euro court HQ

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 18, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP success is warning to Tories

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 180 words


THE results of the Barnsley by-election probably mean little enough for two
reasons: the turnout was tiny and it was always a rock-solid Labour fortress,
even with a crooked MP. Non-Labour voters could vote their grievances rather
than their beliefs.

Still and all, for UKIP to beat the Tories into third place ought to have set
off a couple of warning bells at Tory HQ. But it didn't because it never does.
For all that I'm prepared to bet 90 per cent of the UKIP vote was from defecting
Conservatives. But, as they know that even a general election vote is a foregone
conclusion, why didn't Barnsley Tory voters declare their mood last May?

Now an official campaign has been launched demanding a referendum on the EU. The
Tories have ducked it for 20 years. But hold hard. If the May 5 referendum
flattens Lib Dem hopes of AV voting their autumn conference may simply demand an
end to coalition. Meaning a general election. Then Tory HQ will demand as of
right the loyalty of millions of Tory voters. Will it be forthcoming? A moot
point if Headshed goes on snubbing the faithful.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 18, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP success is warning to Tories

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 180  words


THE results of the Barnsley by-election probably mean little enough for two
reasons: the turnout was tiny and it was always a rock-solid Labour fortress,
even with a crooked MP.

Non-Labour voters could vote for their grievances rather than their beliefs.

Still and all, for UKIP to beat the Tories into third place ought to have set
off a couple of warning bells at Tory HQ. But it didn't because it never does.

For all that I'm prepared to bet 90 per cent of the UKIP vote was from defecting
Conservatives. But, as they know that even a general election vote is a foregone
conclusion, why didn't Barnsley Tory voters declare their mood last May?

Now an official campaign has been launched demanding a referendum on the EU. The
Tories have ducked it for 20 years. But hold hard. If the May 5 referendum
flattens Lib Dem hopes of AV voting their autumn conference may simply demand an
end to coalition. Meaning a general election.

Then Tory HQ will demand as of right the loyalty of millions of Tory voters.

Will it be forthcoming? A moot point if Headshed goes on snubbing the faithful.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

AV or not AV, that is the good question

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1121 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White:

FULL TEXT

In the unfolding aftermath of the Japanese earthquake the referendum campaign
hasn't got much of a look-in for very obvious reasons. Which referendum
campaign? Glad you asked. There are two.

On Saturday, a new campaign was launched - the People's Pledge - to bring about
an In/Out referendum on British membership of the European Union, allegedly
supported by activists on both sides of the argument (the Lib Dems cunning plan
before last May's election) but mostly europhobic.

Being by its nature an insular sort of campaign it doesn't seem to have noticed
that there is already an EU Referendum Campaign or that the EU may be busily
fracturing under centrifugal financial pressures caused by the eurozone's flawed
monetary union. Parties of the far right are on the march again, the centre
buckles.

So our lot may miss it when it's gone. But a referendum in the hand is worth
several in the bush. And Britain already has a lawfully-established ballot due
on 5 May to decide whether or not to back the alternative system of voting (AV)
to replace first past the post.

I would say the event "looms" but that would be an exaggeration. This week Ed
Miliband (remember him?) gave Clegg what I thought was sound advice when he
refused to appear on a shared Yes vote platform and advised the DPM to lie low
if he wanted their side to win the vote.

But on Friday there was a more interesting clash in print, just as the tsunami
overwhelmed north-east Japan - and all media attention. Some business leaders
wrote to the Telegraph urging a Yes vote while a group of 25 historians (mostly
Tories, so far as I can tell) wrote to the Times urging a historic No.

Being a technie-twit I can't find the Telegraph letter anywhere (the paper's own
search engine asked if I meant "TV referendum"?) but here's a . On Radio 4's
Today Amanda Foreman, author of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire,  slick City PR
man, Roland "Rat" Rudd, good friend of the BBC's Robert Peston.

I can't say either of them sounded very smart. More a case of reading from
guidance notes provided by their handlers. Rudd protested that here was a "once
in a lifetime opportunity to change our broken system" (copyright N Clegg),
called AV "a clapped out, won't work form of voting" which would undermine the
long-fought historic battle for equal votes for all, transparently counted to
achieve a result.

Foreman pointed out that 60% of Australians would like to abandon AV (there is
discontent with poltics there, too, as everywhere) and that activists hang
around outside AV polling stations telling folk how to vote - not something her
first-past-the-post heroine, Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, would ever have
stooped to do (ho, ho).

Rudd solemnly warned voters that Britain is the only European country to use
first past the post - as if that would swing many votes. Foreman countered that
the AV reform is being promoted by the same business community which urged
Britain to join the euro - "and thank goodness, we did not".

I think this is a telling point. In tough times, and easy ones, politics, like
life in general, is full of panaceas: joining Europe (or the euro), going
decimal, getting rid of the Windsors, putting fluoride into all drinking water,
banning page 3 girls in the Sun, promoting complimentary medicine ...

In this case the Yes camp claims MPs will be more responsive, more hard-working,
more representative if they are elected by "more than 50% of the voters" - by
which they actually mean those who turn out to vote. Clegg said it again at the
weekend.

As for panaceas they sometimes achieve useful reform, sometimes unexpected
consequences, benign or otherwise. But life's difficult choices remain what they
were before. The core case for a Yes vote on 5 May is that up to one-third of
voters now repudiate the binary voting tradition - Tory or Labour (formerly
Liberal/Whig - of the past. They seek greater pluralism and choice. To deny this
is "unfair" and a "wasted vote".

That's a powerful claim which impresses me. Systems are designed to meet human
needs. Yet I remain sceptical about both the substance of this argument and the
extent to which there is an overwhelming case for changing the traditional way
of deciding most things - first past the post is a sporting metaphor, after all
- just because a lot of people want it.

After all, a lot of people want cheaper petrol, capital punishment, better
public services and lower taxes. Not enough people value liberty, itself an
elusive concept on which so much else depends.

The issue is not resolved by looking at the line-up either. There are nice and
nasty people on both sides. Thus Ukip supports a Yes vote and the BNP opposes
it, both panacea parties with nasty tendencies, fundamentally unserious: their
policies don't stack up.

The No campaigners are caricatured as rightwing and elderly, denounced by the
likes of George Monbiot (no spring chicken) in ferocious, moralising terms - as
he did the No camp in the Welsh referendum. It's more complicated than that,
most parties are divided on the AV issue, some because it doesn't go far enough
for the pure PR lobby which wants STV (the single transferable vote).

The Nationalist parties favour a Yes. So does the communist party. A Daily
Telegraph blogger argues that a Yes will help "restore Britain's independence
from the EU" by helping elect Ukip MPs who can dictate to the Tory party in a
hung parliament at Westminster. That must be like the Lib Dems now dictate? Duh.

The real divide, I sense, is between those who assume Britain needs radical
voting change to shake up the system in favour of whatever it is they favour and
those - sceptical about zeal - who think there's no situation so bad that
idealists can't make it worse. Both are perfectly respectable views.

Personally, I am still undecided as to which to favour and ashamed of my
indecision. But I am beginning to sense that the No campaigners may prevail. It
depends on turnout, as the Yes camp knows. But there's a worry here, too, with
which I leave you.

London, cosmopolitan, progressive and basically pro-business, doesn't have any
local elections on 5 May - a problem for the Yes camp. Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland, where versions of PR voting exist for local historic reasons,
do have elections.

They are familiar with non first-past-the-post voting and can hope to benefit
from the greater leverage which fragmentation at the centre would probably give
them.

What if the Yes camp wins narrowly, on the votes of the Celtic Fringe? I know
what the Yes camp's answer will be (that Labour sometimes governs on Celtic
majorities at Westminster), but such a result will not be easy to manage.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Vote reform would benefit only BNP, Ukip and Lib Dems;
Comment

BYLINE: John Healey MP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 389 words


As we move closer to referendum day on 5 May, the momentum for a "No" vote is
gathering pace. Some are happy with the voting system we have. Others do want a
change but see the proposed Alternative Vote (AV) as a step backwards. Others
think the whole thing is a waste of time and money.

The reason the number of Labour MPs in favour of a "No" vote runs into three
figures is because we haven't been persuaded that AV is an upgrade to the voting
system. The arguments just don't stack up.

A referendum on AV should be a long way down our political priorities. David
Cameron knew he had to offer Nick Clegg something to get a coalition deal and so
here we are, being asked to vote for an electoral system that could produce
results less fair and proportional than the one we have now.

Our democracy has been built on one person, one vote. Under AV people who back
the likes of the BNP and Ukip would have several bites of the cherry,
transferring their votes between candidates. People who back mainstream
candidates would have their voices heard just once. We could expect more votes
(or first preferences) going to fringe candidates and we could also witness the
unedifying prospect of the major parties chasing transfers from racist, bigoted,
eccentric and single-issue candidates.

AV has been rejected the world over, except for in three countries. More often
than not, it would produce a hung House of Commons. The people would lose their
right to throw one government out and put another in. They would be handing this
power to Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats - the kingmakers in any hung
parliament.

Immediately after an election the parties would be scrambling to do coalition
deals. They would feel free to jettison policies that had been firm pledges only
a week earlier. This isn't the new type of politics people have been calling
for. They want politics that treats them with respect, not as fools.

I want to see Labour back in government, the people to have a fair chance at
electing Labour and to see politics done in a better way. The last thing we
should do is throw away what works in favour of an unfair, perverse electoral
system. Politicians should be seeking the trust of voters, not encouraging them
to move the goalposts.

John Healey is the Labour MP for Wentworth and Dearne, and shadow Secretary of
State for Health

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

Labour mixes views on AV

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 153 words


He made a major speech calling for change despite resistance from many Labour
MPs and some party activists. Labour's health spokesman John Healey is among
three members of Mr Miliband's shadow cabinet who are actively campaigning
against a change to AV. Mr Healey denounced it as "an unfair, perverse electoral
system" today. He warned that it would put the Lib Dems in the position of
"kingmakers.""Our democracy has been built on one person, one vote," said Mr
Healey." Under AV people who back the likes of the BNP and Ukip would have
several bites of the cherry." A referendum on AV will be held on May 5 as part
of the Tory-Lib Dem coalition deal. Despite his support for AV, Mr Miliband has
contemptuously rejected sharing a campaign platform with widely despised Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg. The Labour leader declared: "We can't reduce the second
referendum in British political history to the betrayal of one man."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 16, 2011 Wednesday 1:15 PM GMT

Not finking straight

BYLINE: By Julian Astle

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 591 words


I like Danny Finkelstein. And, despite being on the other side of the
blue/yellow coalition, often find myself agreeing with him. But I can't resist
pulling him up on his piece in today's Times in which he tries to make the case
for voting 'No' to AV.

If you can get behind the paywall, it's worth reading the whole thing. But
here's the key passage:

Which all brings me to the reason why I intend to vote "no". The alternative
vote will not reduce the number of safe seats. In seats where the winning
candidates have more than 50 per cent of the vote under the present system, or
are more than 20 per cent ahead of their nearest rival, the MPs that win under
first-past-the-post will win under AV. So AV is about determining how marginal
seats are allocated.

To understand why this isn't true, it's worth reading this excellent blog by the
LSE's Patrick Dunleavy in which he illustrates just how profoundly politics has
changed over the last half century. Hepresents two charts, reproduced below, the
first from the 1955 general election, the second from last year's election. In
both, thedots inthe three colouredtriangles (red, blue and pinkish/orange)
represent Labour, Conservative and'Other' MPs withmore than 50 per cent ofthe
vote in their constituencies. Thedots in the white section in the middle are MPs
without majority support locally.

1955:

2010:

What is remarkable is the movement of the dots from the red and blue triangles
into the white area in the centre, showing the growth inthe number of MPs (now
around two thirds) who do not enjoythe support of a majority of their electors.
This is because of the steady increase in the number of votes going to other
parties, chiefly the Liberal Democrats, but also UKIP, the Greens, Plaid, the
SNP and others. In 2010, inonly a small number of constituencies did the
'Others' receiveless than 20 per cent of the vote. In 1955, the
non-Labour/Conservative vote was below 20 per cent in the vast majority of
cases.

What does all this mean? It means that we have moved decisively beyond two party
politics, yet our existing electoral system is completely unable to make sense
of it. As Professor Dunleavy explains:

The trend for more British voters to support parties other than the
Conservatives or Labour has not been absolutely continuous over time, but it has
been ineluctable, long-lived and in one direction for a long time now. There is
no reason whatever to suppose that the pattern of change across the 1955 and
2010 charts above is somehow going to reverse. Hence unless we change the voting
system to acknowledge it we will perforce have to live with a situation where
fewer and fewer MPs have majority backing amongst voters in their local areas.

Which brings us back to Danny's point. The amazing thing about the growth in the
number of seats where the MP does not enjoy the support of a majority of voters
is that it has not been accompanied by a commensurate increase in the number of
marginal seats. The vast majority of the seats located in the white section in
the middle of the second chart are still regarded as 'safe' by Labour and
Conservative campaigners. Under AV, a lot of those would become less safe.So AV
isn't just about the way in which "marginal seats are allocated" as Danny
argues. It is about creating more marginal seats - moreseats where MPs need to
worry about whether or not they will get re-elected; more seats where MPs might
be punished by the voters for complacency or corruption.In short, more seats
where MPs are properly accountable to those they represent.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     March 16, 2011 Wednesday 10:59 AM GMT

The Lib Dems are good at knifing their coalition partners. But how long before
real Tories start imposing their views on the Government?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1339 words


What can be learned from the spring conference of the Cameron Conservative
Parry's allies, the Lib Dems?Well, let's set aside any subjective judgments
about whether they are either liberal, democratic or even agreeable people - one
does have to admire their skill and determination in knifing their coalition
partners, or come to that their own leader.

Not that I am quite sureMr Clegg was wholly unhappy aboutbeing beaten up in
public.After all, it did enable him to stagger back into No 10 and demand salve
for his wounds in the shape of changes in Health Secretary Lansley's proposed
NHS reforms.

Whether what he is to be given will be just soothing words or something more
substantial, we have yet to see, but it has demonstrated once again the truth
that in coalition politics it isthe tail which always tries to, and usually
does,wag the dog.

If I were the Government Chief Whip, I would be worrying about how long it will
be before the Conservatives in this coalition will latch on to the idea of
imposing their views on the Government, rather than deferring to the junior
partners.

It is Conservative policy, and one that is overwhelmingly supported by the party
at all levels, including on the back benches, to oppose the change to AV.The one
way to have scuppered AV would have beento requirea 40 per centpoll threshold to
make the referendum valid.That is what the Lords voted for.It is what
Conservatives wanted.A decent rebellion in the Commons would have got it,but
there was no talk of any concession to those threatening to rebel in favour of
Conservative policy.

I know it is much easier to be a rebel in the Lords than to risk deselection and
the loss of one's seat in the Commons, but things may be beginning to
change.Whilst the grip of Central Office on local Conservative Associations is
tightening (there is no talk of the Big Society there)there is still the
possibility of representatives at this year's Party Conferencekicking up as
roughly in favour of Conservative policy as the Lib Dems did for theirs.With a
bit of encouragement from the Party's grass roots,the pressure of thePledge
Campaign and a possible strong showing by UKIP in May,it might be the Tory
backbench dog which is temptedto wag the Government'stail.

That would give Mr Clegg somecause to wonder on which side his bread is
buttered.

...First of all I would like to thank all of you, including Delboy36, spark
flash, biatach, the locksmith, robertsonjames, milroy666, jm, londonistar and
Teaddict, who expressed kind thoughts and wishes to my wife and me.As many
families know, caring for someone who is severely disabled and has other health
problems especially in their later years is full of difficulties. However a
glance at the dreadful scenes in Japanbrings back a sense of proportion about
one's own problems.It was back in the 1950s when the war was still fresh in my
mind that I first went to Japan and was both surprised and puzzled to find that
I could not harbour ill will to the Japanese people I met.Someone called it a
"land of cousins" and it has a sense of community that I have found nowhere else
in the world, which I hope will be strong enough for their country to weather
this storm.

There was a great deal of agreement that, as Victor Meldrew put it, these
nonsenses about which I wrotecome from the top down, from the EU to Westminster
and local councils.I do not think that incompatible with pietro99's suggestion
that the "common thread" in them is the drift from a free country to a regulated
rights one, nor indeed biatech's comment that it fits well with the Frankfurt
School of Marxism which seeks to destroy our faith in our own institutions.That
I think important to remember, and it links with my opinion that most of our
institutions are sound and fit for purpose, but they have been occupied by
people dedicated to, or compliant intheir destruction.As bryanstives fears, that
damage may already be near terminal.

I found the post by ben arnulfssen interesting on this point too.Quite rightly
he says that when we reformed employment law and reduced the ability of the
trades union movement to attack both our economy and political institutions,
those involved did not give up or head for freedom in the USSR but, as he put
it, the neo-fascist Left moved into local government and the quangocracy to
continue their work.Ican assure him that I was well aware of that, as were
certain agencies, but by 1987 I was out of government and soon after that those
in office lost interest in the matter.

Choosing my words carefully, I would say that some of those involved are quite
obviously now posing as part of the centre Left, or even marrying into it.

You mostly agreed to that our unfortunate police force has been substantially
undermined in its efforts to preserve the Queen's Peace by a process which
toboot called the addling of their brains by politically correct superiors
during which, as greenlander observed, they have no choice but to endure.Surely
there could not be a better example of that than startled cod's note of the
Essex Police purge against drivers of cars in which someone had smoked tobacco,
or English pensioner's account of a speed trap on an accident free road.
Rightly, sgiobar said this leaves decent coppers in despair, and as jingleballix
noted, so hamstrung in dealing with yobs thatthey do daft things to justify
their existence and keep the money rolling in.I also liked erewhon's thought of
trying to organise a "restorative justice conference" with a family of
travellers.Some of you, including richyork, had suffered at the hands of these
efforts by the police to go for soft targets.

I was asked by johnpatrick if the powers that be agreed with me.I am afraid I do
not know, as they do not talk to me, but I surmise from what they say to others
that they think that this is a lot of silly nonsense dreamed up by ageing
malcontents who will soon be extinct.What they do not understand is that there
are a lot like Ryscemera who, to his surprise,is coming to agree with us as he
gets older.

On Libya, jastar thought it not unreasonable to arm the rebels but, as the
locksmith said, Gaddafi armed the rebel IRA/SinnFein, whom he called freedom
fighters, and conormac reminded us that the West armed the Taliban, which seemed
a good idea at the time, as they say. Of course many of us would share
rogerandout's puzzlement that Islam has not sorted it all out.

The question of selective education seemed divisive, with pitmannng saying it
did not work for the majority and praising the German system.But, asjackfrost
said, it does not make sense to abolish grammar schools because the secondary
moderns failed, as drmeack said,to produce literate adults.

Perhaps the answer would be selective education, with adequately resourced and
directed technical schools alongside the grammars and secondary moderns.

It was encouraging to hear from so many UKIP supporters who have defected from
the ranks of the Conservative Party because you are what will put pressure on
the Conservative Party to reassess its prospects unless it changes course.Of
course Cameron does not want a referendum on membership of the EU, but the
Pledge Campaign may have an effect on Party thinking.The heart of it is that
electors would pledge themselves to vote against sitting MPs who did not in
writing commit themselves to vote for a referendum, so my advice is sign up to
the campaign today.

Sevendeuce is right to be concerned at the threat of rabies ariving here from
the mainland. As greenlander says, this, like AE, arises from the mad EU
directive giving freedom of movement across frontiers to pets.

The answer to that threat is to leave the EU.

I think jn99 addressed his rant about the unemployed to the wrong blog site.It
was NuLabour which imported millions of immigrants to take jobs in this country
left unfilled by the youngsters they had failed to give a decent education.

Lastly, sorry neilcraig forgetting wrong the crime for which you were ejected
from the Lib Dems, but you are welcome here as a liberal!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It is time for the British people to decide on the EU

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 883 words


.... .....

LAST Wednesday in the House of Commons the Prime Minister failed to answer a
question put to him but answered one that had not been put instead. Nothing
unusual about that you might think and you would be right. It is a tried and
tested technique of politicians faced with a question they would rather not
answer to resort to evasion.

But what was different on Wednesday was that David Cameron was not being
deliberately evasive. He made a much more telling error than that.

The question came from Conservative MP Peter Bone, who went through a list of
those wanting a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union that
began with "373,000 readers of the Daily Express" and ended with his wife. "Can
we have a referendum on whether the United Kingdom remains in the European
Union?" asked Mr Bone. Mr Cameron replied: "I think we are better off inside the
EU but making changes to it in the way that we are setting out."

Everyone already knew this was the Prime Minister's own view. What he was
actually asked about was the case for a referendum. For Mr Cameron to believe
that just because he supports EU membership it follows that a referendum cannot
be held tells us two things. The first is that he believes the outcome of the
referendum would not be amenable to him, ie that Britain would vote to leave the
EU. The second, even more significant thing it tells us is that deep down he
does not believe in modern democracy.

IT IS now well established in this country that a referendum is the appropriate
means of deciding major constitutional issues. For example, the various
devolution programmes of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have all required
the popular assent of the people in referendums. Indeed recently the people of
Wales had another referendum on proposed modest extensions of the devolved
powers of their assembly and executive.

In May the proposal to change the voting system for general elections is also to
be put to the people in a referendum and both sides in that dusty debate are
presently doing what Willie Whitelaw once memorably described as "going around
the country stirring up apathy". On matters European the principle of popular
consent being required to legitimise change is also well established. We had a
referendum way back in 1975 when the public was asked if it wanted to remain
inside the "Common Market".

The leaders of all the main parties agreed before the 1997 general election that
there would have to be a referendum on any plan to take Britain into the
European single currency. And all parties promised to hold a referendum on the
European Constitution that culminated in the Lisbon Treaty (though one by one
they ratted on this pledge).

There is even a Bill going through Parliament that decrees any future transfer
of sovereignty from Britain to Brussels must win majority popular support in a
referendum. And yet Mr Cameron is prepared to argue that just because he
believes Britain should stay in the EU the British people should not be asked
what they think. Britain's relationship with Brussels has changed out of all
recognition since the 1975 referendum. Major treaties signed at Luxembourg,
Maastricht, Amsterdam, Nice and Lisbon have transferred to the EU all kinds of
powers once vested in national legislatures.

And yet nobody under the age of 54 has ever had a chance to express a view on
the relationship with Europe and nobody at all about its extension from those
humble "Common Market" beginnings. The Prime Minister wishes to bank on behalf
of the political elite 36 years of sovereignty transfers without popular consent
while at the same time posing as a true believer in popular consent for any
future transfers. It does not add up.

So radically has Britain's relationship with Brussels changed since 1975 that
even pro-EU politicians such as Labour former Europe minister Keith Vaz now
argue a referendum is needed to win the people's assent for all the power
transfers that have taken place. Before the election the equally pro-EU Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg also passionately argued for an in/out referendum.

In February 2008 he complained: "We've signed up to Europe by default, two
generations have never had their say." Little has been heard of this argument
from Clegg since he became Deputy PM but his words show he is aware of the
democratic deficit that casts such a shadow over Britain's role in the EU.

TODAY a new all-party campaign group The People's Pledge is being launched to
add to the momentum for an in/out referendum on the EU. The People's Pledge
joins the Daily Express crusade, the EU Referendum Campaign, UKIP, the Campaign
for an Independent Britain and numerous other groups from across the political
spectrum in clamouring for a referendum.

This newspaper has declared not only that it will crusade for the referendum but
that when the time comes it will also be spearheading the campaign for Britain
to leave the EU.

Yet Mr Cameron believes that just because he thinks Britain should stay in the
EU the arguments should not be put to the test. This is a display of the worst
and most outmoded kind of elitism on behalf of a political class that has failed
Britain and made the wrong judgments on many big issues. It is not democracy and
it will not do.

'Only a referendum can settle the issue'

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO VOTE: Cameron opposing a referendum on UK relations with Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

It is time for the British people to decide on the EU;
LEADER

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 874  words


LAST Wednesday in the House of Commons the Prime Minister failed to answer a
question put to him but answered one that had not been put instead. Nothing
unusual about that you might think and you would be right. It is a tried and
tested technique of politicians faced with a question they would rather not
answer to resort to evasion.

But what was different on Wednesday was that Mr Cameron was not being
deliberately evasive. He made a much more telling error than that.

The question came from Conservative MP Peter Bone, who went through a list of
those wanting a referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union that
began with "373,000 readers of the Daily Express" and ended with his wife. "Can
we have a referendum on whether the United Kingdom remains in the European
Union?" asked Mr Bone.

Mr Cameron replied: "I think we are better off inside the EU but making changes
to it in the way that we are setting out."

Everyone already knew this was the Prime Minister's own view. What he was
actually asked about was the case for a referendum. For Mr Cameron to believe
that just because he supports EU membership it follows that a referendum cannot
be held tells us two things.

The first is that he believes the outcome of the referendum would not amenable
to him, ie that Britain would vote to leave the EU. The second, even more
significant thing it tells us is that deep down he does not believe in modern
democracy.

I T IS now well established in this country that a referendum is the appropriate
means of deciding major constitutional issues. For example, the various
devolution programmes of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have all required
the popular assent of the people in referendums. Indeed recently the people of
Wales had another referendum on proposed modest extensions of the devolved
powers of their assembly and executive.

In May the proposal to change the voting system for general elections is also to
be put to the people in a referendum and both sides in that dusty debate are
presently doing what Willie Whitelaw once memorably described as "going around
the country stirring up apathy". On matters European the principle of popular
consent being required to legitimise change is well established.

We had a referendum way back in 1975 when the public was asked if it wanted to
remain inside the "Common Market".

The leaders of all the main parties agreed before the 1997 general election that
there would have to be a referendum on any plan to take Britain into the
European single currency.

And all parties promised to hold a referendum on the European Constitution that
culminated in the Lisbon Treaty (though one by one they ratted on this pledge).

There is even a Bill going through Parliament that decrees any future transfer
of sovereignty from Britain to Brussels must win majority popular support in a
referendum.

And yet Mr Cameron is prepared to argue that just because he believes Britain
should stay in the EU the British people should not be asked what they think.
Britain's relationship with Brussels has changed out of all recognition since
the 1975 referendum. Major treaties signed at Luxembourg, Maastricht, Amsterdam,
Nice and Lisbon have transferred to the EU all kinds of powers once vested in
national legislatures.

And yet nobody under the age of 54 has ever had a chance to express a view on
the relationship with Europe and nobody at all about its extension from those
humble "Common Market" beginnings.

The Prime Minister wishes to bank on behalf of the political elite 36 years of
sovereignty transfers without popular consent while at the same time posing as a
true believer in popular consent for any future transfers. It does not add up.

So radically has Britain's relationship with Brussels changed since 1975 that
even pro-EU politicians such as Labour former Europe minister Keith Vaz now
argue a referendum is needed to win the people's assent for all the power
transfers that have taken place.

Before the election the equally pro-EU Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg also
passionately argued for an in/out referendum.

In February 2008 he complained: "We've signed up to Europe by default, two
generations have never had their say."

Little has been heard of this argument from Clegg since he became Deputy PM but
his words show he is aware of the democratic deficit that casts such a shadow
over Britain's role in the EU.

T ODAY a new all-party campaign group The People's Pledge is bein g launched to
add to the momentum for an in/out referendum on the EU. The People's Pledge
joins the Daily Express campaign, the EU Referendum Campaign, UKIP, the Campaign
for an Independent Britain and numerous other groups from across the political
spectrum in clamouring for a referendum on Europe.

This newspaper has declared not only that it will press hard for the referendum
but that when the time comes it will also be spearheading the campaign for
Britain to leave the EU.

Yet Mr Cameron believes that just because he thinks Britain should stay in the
EU the arguments should not be put to the test.This is a display of the worst
and most outmoded kind of elitism on behalf of a political class that has failed
Britain and made the wron g judgments on many big issues.

It is not democracy and it will not do.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO VOTE: Cameron opposing a referendum on UK relations with Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Fellow reader hit the nail on the head over Tories;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 62

LENGTH: 74  words


MY congratulations to Mrs Carnie for her letter printed today in the Express
(March 14).

The only thing missing from her letter is the millstone of Europe round our
necks and how nobody does anything about it; however, the headline of the
letter, "Cameron's Britain just a poor j oke", sums everything up.

All my life I have been a Tory but I am having serious doubts now that we are
being led by a man of straw. UKIP beckons.

Name and address supplied

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

New fight to let the people have their say on EU

BYLINE: Louise Sassoon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 532 words


HOPES for a referendum on the EU get a major boost today with the launch of a
campaign to give hard-working Britons a voice.

The People's Pledge claims 61 per cent of people polled would like to see a vote
on whether Britain should remain a member of the European Union - or simply quit
Brussels for good.

Organisers hope the strength of feeling among the public will heap pressure on
politicians to put their weight behind calls for a poll on whether to stay in.

As part of the campaign, members will take to the internet in a bid to drum up
support in every constituency.

The initiative comes just weeks after the Daily Express delivered a
373,000-signature petition calling for Britain to quit the EU to No 10 Downing
Street.

At that time MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said:
"Nobody asked for a referendum on the minutiae of how we vote for those who
govern us, but millions wish to decide who governs us.

"A referendum on membership of the EU will allow the people to decide who really
makes decisions on our behalf."

While Downing Street has continued to insist the issue of EU membership is not
on the table, it is hoped that the fresh approach will bring results.

Voters who support the campaign will be invited to sign up to the People's
Pledge by promising to vote for candidates at the next election who support an
EU referendum.

The information will then be put on a website so MPs and rival candidates can
see the level of support in their constituency.

Mark Seddon, the director of the campaign, said: "Our message is simple.

Promises

"If you believe that the people, and not politicians, should decide the UK's
relationship with the EU, sign up to the People's Pledge.

"There is huge latent demand for this, as our polling shows.

"We want to put as much pressure on political parties as possible to agree to
hold a referendum.

They keep on making promises about referendums, but they never deliver."

In 1975, the public voted to stay in the European Economic Community, as it was
known then, but campaigners say a new vote must be held because the EU has
changed a great deal.

So far Prime Minister David Cameron has rejected calls for a referendum. He says
he prefers to fight the EU's injustices and inconsistencies from the inside.

But Keith Vaz, Labour's former Europe minister, said he would back the campaign,
despite long being a supporter of the EU.

"After 38 years of membership it is time for the British people to decide where
their future lies," he said. The People's Pledge emerged from Labour, but its
popularity has snowballed to encompass supporters of all political parties,
mostly Conservatives.

A convincing 77 per cent of Tory party voters support the call for a vote, as
well as 51 per cent of Labour voters and 48 per cent of Lib Dem voters,
according to the campaign's own polling.

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said he thought a referendum could be held as a result of
the initiative before the next election - but only if enough people signed up.

"It ticks every box for a referendum," he said.

"It is a major constitutional issue, it divides the parties internally and it is
an issue on which, until recently, all three parties were promising a
referendum."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 14, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

New fight to let the people have their say on EU

BYLINE: By Louise Sassoon

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 531  words


HOPES for a referendum on the EU get a major boost today with the launch of a
campaign to give hard-working Britons a voice.

The People's Pledge claims 61 per cent of people polled would like to see a vote
on whether Britain should remain a member of the European Union - or simply quit
Brussels for good.

Organisers hope the strength of feeling among the public will heap pressure on
politicians to put their weight behind calls for a poll on whether to stay in.

As part of the campaign, members will take to the internet in a bid to drum up
support in every constituency.

The initiative comes just weeks after the Daily Express delivered a
373,000-signature petition calling for Britain to quit the EU to No 10 Downing
Street.

At that time MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said:
"Nobody asked for a referendum on the minutiae of how we vote for those who
govern us, but millions wish to decide who governs us.

"A referendum on membership of the EU will allow the people to decide who really
makes decisions on our behalf."

While Downing Street has continued to insist the issue of EU membership is not
on the table, it is hoped that the fresh approach will bring results.

Voters who support the campaign will be invited to sign up to the People's
Pledge by promising to vote for candidates at the next election who support an
EU referendum.

The information will then be put on a website so MPs and rival candidates can
see the level of support in their constituency.

Mark Seddon, the director of the campaign, said: "Our message is simple.

"If you believe that the people, and not politicians, should decide the UK's
relationship with the EU, sign up to the People's Pledge.

"There is huge latent demand for this, as our polling shows.

"We want to put as much pressure on political parties as possible to agree to
hold a referendum. They keep on making promises about referendums, but they
never deliver."

In 1975, the public voted to stay in the European Economic Community, as it was
known then, but campaigners say a new vote must be held because the EU has
changed a great deal.

So far Prime Minister David Cameron has rejected calls for a referendum. He says
he prefers to fight the EU's injustices and inconsistencies from the inside.

But Keith Vaz, Labour's former Europe minister, said he would back the campaign,
despite long being a supporter of the EU.

"After 38 years of membership it is time for the British people to decide where
their future lies, " he said. The People's Pledge emerged from Labour, but its
popularity has snowballed to encompass supporters of all political parties,
mostly Conservatives.

A convincing 77 per cent of Tory party voters support the call for a vote, as
well as 51 per cent of Labour voters and 48 per cent of Lib Dem voters,
according to the campaign's own polling.

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said he thought a referendum could be held as a result of
the initiative before the next election - but only if enough people signed up.

"It ticks every box for a referendum, " he said.

"It is a major constitutional issue, it divides the parties internally and it is
an issue on which, until recently, all three parties were promising a
referendum."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 14, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Clegg tells party sceptics: We have not lost our 'soul'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 462  words


NICK Clegg stood firm against his grassroots critics last night and insisted the
Liberal Democrat party has not lost its "soul".

In a passionate defence of his deal with the Tories, he told his party's spring
conference:

"My life may have changed a fair bit since the last election, but I haven't
changed one bit."

As he tried to steady his party's nerves after a 10 per cent plunge in opinion
poll ratings, he risked a joke: "David Cameron hasn't kidnapped me."

He urged Lib Dems at the Sheffield conference to trumpet the concessions the
party had wrung out of the Tories in the coalition Government.

He asked: "Would a Government without Liberal Democrats have cut taxes for the
poorest? I don't think so."

The depth of discomfort among activists was made clear at the weekend, however,
when the conference condemned the leadership's U-turn on student tuition fees
and voted against coalition plans to reorganise the NHS.

But Mr Clegg pleaded with the party rank and file to hold their nerve despite
the pressures of being in the Government.

He said: "Yes, we've had to toughen up but we will never lose our soul."

He went on: "Being in coalition with another party isn't always easy. Making
compromises, settling differences, and going out to explain decisions which
aren't exactly the ones we'd make on our own.

"But every single day I work flat out to make sure that what we're doing is true
to our values.

"I know that being in the coalition Government means us having to take some
difficult, even painful, decisions. But clinging to the comfort blanket of
opposition would not have made life more comfortable for our fellow citizens.

"It would have been an abdication of responsibility." His speech risked
irritating Tory ministers and MPs as he listed the string of Lib Dem policies
that Government has introduced in the past year.

He questioned whether the Tories on their own would have ended detention of
children in immigration centres, held a referendum on voting reform, put up
capital gains tax, increased taxes on banks, or overhauled control orders on
terrorism suspects.

Mr Clegg sought to define his brand of liberalism, insisting he wanted to stand
up for people striving to support themselves.

He said: "We are not on the Left and we are not on the Right.

"We have our own label: Liberal.

We are Liberals and we own the freehold to the centre ground of politics."

He risked further Conservative Party wrath when he discussed the forthcoming
referendum on the voting system.

"On the 'yes' campaign, we have the Liberal Democrats, Labour Party supporters,
the Green Party, UKIP, Plaid Cymru, the SNP, Friends of the Earth, Colin Firth,
Eddie Izzard and Helena Bonham Carter, " he said.

"On the 'no' side of the argument are the BNP, the Communists, the Conservative
Party."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Clegg and his wife Miriam are all smiles in Sheffield yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

Miliband and Clegg row causes cancellation of yes to AV event: Labour wanted
Kennedy to appear instead Lib Dem leader says no campaign is desperate

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Allegra Stratton

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 677 words


A planned cross-party event involving Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg for the yes to
the alternative vote campaign has collapsed as the offices of the two party
leaders trade bitter recriminations.

The row reveals just how raw relations have become between the two parties, and
comes as the polls start to show that the no campaign is gaining momentum,
although it is still behind.

The yes campaign had planned to stage a rally with Charles Kennedy, the former
Lib Dem leader, Miliband, and Caroline Lucas, the leader of the Greens, at a
London educational institution tomorrow .

Lib Dem sources say that there were suggestions that Clegg take part, in order
to present a united front. They say Labour rejected the idea as they decided
late on that Miliband should speak alone.

The two party leaders' offices also discussed the possibility of Clegg speaking,
but not while Miliband was on the platform. Labour, they say, rejected this
offer too. Labour claims Clegg's office subsequently ordered Kennedy not to
attend.

The Lib Dems categorically deny vetoing Kennedy's appearance and say they were
assured that Miliband intended to make a speech alone, his first on AV. They
also said the issue of which Lib Dems would appear had diminished as the event
changed format. A senior Lib Dem said: "We are relaxed about whoever wants to
appear on a platform. We're not vetoing anyone."

As a result of the spat, the event has been cancelled, but discussions are
apparently continuing about the possibility of a joint platform before the 5 May
referendum.

Miliband will instead go ahead with a separate launch of the Labour yes campaign
with Neil Kinnock and Peter Hain on Wednesday, at which he will say he "bows to
no one in his disgust at what Clegg is doing in propping up a Tory government".
But he will argue that AV is the best chance the progressive majority in Britain
has of getting its voices heard.

The Miliband team said the yes campaign had told them that Clegg's involvement
would set back their cause. "Nick is not the right poster boy for this campaign
. . . We are still willing to share a platform with a Liberal Democrat figure
like Paddy Ashdown or Kennedy at some point."

It is said that Miliband will not have much more time to campaign for a yes vote
as his priority from April will be the Welsh, Scottish and local council
elections. The Lib Dems are frustrated by Miliband's attitude, arguing that
Labour needs to realise that it is unlikely to be allowed to govern alone - and
that if the AV referendum is lost, there won't be another chance of electoral
reform for 30 years.

In his speech to party members in Sheffield yesterday, Clegg claimed the no
campaign was desperate. He said reform would end the scandal of safe seats. "If
you want more democracy, vote yes. We have seven weeks to get our message across
that 'if you want MPs to work harder for your vote, vote yes'.

"On the yes side, we have the Liberal Democrats, Labour supporters, the Green
party, Ukip, Plaid Cymru, the SNP, Friends of the Earth, Colin Firth, Eddie
Izzard and Helena Bonham Carter. On the no side are the BNP, the communists, the
Conservative party, John Prescott, Norman Tebbit and David Owen."

In his speech to the Labour yes compaign on Wednesday, Miliband will say: "I
know this referendum is harder to win because of Nick Clegg's broken promises.
But we can't reduce the second referendum in British political history to the
betrayal of one man. I supported the inclusion of an AV referendum in our
manifesto because I believed the time was ripe for change. If it was right then,
it is right now.

"I also say this: the tragedy of British political history for the left has been
the split in the progressive parties. For most of the last 100 years, Britain
has been a progressive country with a reactionary government. Two progressive
parties have split their votes under first past the post and one Conservative
party has mopped up a substantial minority."

Captions:

Nick Clegg attacked the no campaign in his speech but Ed Miliband will attack
the Lib Dems' 'broken promises'

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

AV's divided supporters must unite

BYLINE: Chris Rennardguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 765 words

ABSTRACT

Chris Rennard: Leaders such as Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg who support AV must
lay their differences aside to work for it together

FULL TEXT

 chose the weekend of the Lib Dem conference to offer his personal advice about
the  referendum. Having attacked the first-past-the-post voting system so
vociferously for many years, it will seem odd to some people that he now urges
support for this system on 5 May. He says that he hopes for a referendum with an
option of a  instead.

Almost all those people who have consistently supported the cause of  for much
longer than he has take a different view. It is very clear that voting against
change on 5 May will mean sticking with the present voting system for the
foreseeable future. It is incredibly hard to overcome the self-interested nature
of most sitting MPs in order to get a change in the voting system. The
referendum will be the first chance that voters will have had to change the
system since it was effectively introduced in 1872 in wholly different political
circumstances to those of today.

A change to the alternative vote system was recommended by a Royal Commission as
far back as 1910. It was recognised 101 years ago that first-past-the-post
doesn't work when you have more than two political parties. A "no" vote in the
referendum will leave us with the voting system that was appropriate for the
19th century not the 21st.

Owen was simply being disingenuous when he followed the line of opponents of
electoral reform and suggested that votes for a party that comes second or third
will have "more weight" than votes for a party that comes first. The whole point
of the reform is that every vote will be of equal value and people will not have
to fear "wasting" their votes on candidates who may not win. He even repeated
lines saying that more power may go to extremists with AV when the reverse is
true. He fails to explain why the BNP urges its supporters to vote "no".

Owen further argued that AV was rejected by inquiries. AV was in fact a part
(but only a part) of the recommended system proposed by the  in 1998. It is of
course widely used by political parties including all those supported by Owen
over the last 30 years when they are choosing a single person.

There are a number of completely bogus arguments against AV now being made by
those who are determined to hang on to first-past-the-post. At the same time,
there appear to be no coherent arguments emanating from the same sources to
defend this system. We hear claims from others in the "no" camp that AV is
"un-British". One problem with this claim is that the system is used to vote for
leaders and candidates in the Conservative party (as well as almost all other
British political parties) and other organisations representing 14 million
people in Britain. I am waiting to hear David Cameron declare his own party to
be "un-British" because it used AV to choose him as leader.

The most absurd claims from the "no" campaign are that "it would cost too much
to count the votes if we used AV". This claim is probably worthy of many
dictators. They could say that their country could only afford to count the
votes for the governing party and there wasn't enough money to count the votes
for opposing parties. The argument is a disgrace.

Owen does not have an alternative strategy to deliver PR. He led his closest
followers in to a political cul-de-sac when as SDP leader he failed to respect
the referendum of SDP members on their future. I doubt he will have many
followers on this issue.

But those seeking a fairer voting system may be rather more dismayed if the
Guardian is correct that there are  in support of the referendum. Political
rivalry over other issues should not prevent all supporters of reform from
campaigning for a cause on which they agree. Lessons should be learned from the
Scottish referendum in 1997 when Labour had to campaign with its great rivals in
the SNP (as well as the Liberal Democrats) to secure a Scottish parliament.

The leaders of the Labour party, the Liberal Democrats, the SNP, Plaid Cymru,
Ukip and the Greens are all on the "yes" side in this referendum. Against them
are the leaders of the Conservative party and the BNP. With only two choices in
the referendum, the leaders who want change need to show that they can work with
each other on this crucial issue even if they differ quite fundamentally on
other issues.

· David Rowntree:

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 14, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

We still have a soul, Clegg tells his party

BYLINE: Oliver Wright

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 411 words


Nick Clegg wants to reposition the Liberal Democrats from being a party of
protest to becoming the voice of Middle England, as he reaches out to a new type
of voter ahead of "difficult" local elections in May. In a move to define Lib
Dem ideology in government, Mr Clegg said the party should "own the freehold to
the centre ground of British politics".

Aides said Mr Clegg realised that his party's message in coalition had been
unfocused and that the Lib Dems had failed to state clearly "who they stood
for".

Mr Clegg said the party was "on the side of everyone who wants to get up and get
on" and reprised his slogan of "alarm clock Britain". "These are the people
Liberals have always fought for," he said. "People who have to work hard to make
ends meet. People who need good schools, who rely on the NHS."

The Lib Dems finished sixth in the recent Barnsley Central by-election, behind
Labour, the UK Independence Party, the Conservatives, the BNP and an independent
candidate.

In an acknowledgement of the problems the party has faced in government, Mr
Clegg said they had been forced to take "painful decisions". But, he added:
"Clinging to the comfort blanket of opposition would not have made life more
comfortable for our fellow citizens."

The speech was seen in advance by David Cameron.

Mr Clegg suffered some embarrassment whenactivists passed an emergency motion
criticising the "Project Merlin" deal which the Government struck with banks to
restrain bonuses and boost lending. Overall, officials believe the Sheffield
conference has not been as bad for the party as feared. Its travails have been
overshadowed by events in Japan, and the protests were smaller than predicted.

Activists leaving Sheffield City Hall said that while they expected May's
elections to be "difficult", they were heartened by the leadership's efforts to
talk up their achievements in government. "Until this weekend, I felt we had a
hodge-podge of policies in government but with no real story to tell," said
Matthew Folker, from Newcastle, where the party is defending control of the city
council. "But now I think we're beginning to get a message across."

A lone protestor offered a parody of David Steel's much derided conference
proclamation of 1983: "Go back to your constituencies and prepare for oblivion."

Nick Clegg lives to fight another day

Leading article, Viewspaper, page 2

He knows he can't stay quiet about his little victories forever

Mary Ann Sieghart, Viewspaper, page 5

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 14, 2011 Monday 1:06 PM GMT

Nice Nick or Nasty Nick? Both were on parade in Sheffield

BYLINE: By David Hughes

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 274 words


It's going on for a year since Nick Clegg became Deputy Prime Minister but it is
still surprisingly difficult to get a real handle on what makes him tick. His
leader's speech at the Lib Dem spring conference in Sheffield yesterday
perfectly illustrated this ambivalence. He can put on the self-deprecating charm
with the best of them:

"I've really enjoyed fielding questions, queries - yes, some criticisms too -
from many of you over the last couple of days. But it was a passing remark from
one delegate that took me most by surprise. 'It's so nice to see you back' she
said. 'I thought we'd lost you when you walked through that door of Number 10'.
Let me reassure you. David Cameron hasn't kidnapped me. Although I gather some
people were planning to this weekend. My life may have changed a fair bit since
the last election. But I haven't changed one bit. We all know that we did not
take the easy path last May. But we did take the right path."

Then he turns on a sixpence and comes up with the kind of sly little smear at
which the Lib Dems have long excelled. Turning his attention to May's AV
referendum, Clegg said:

"On the Yes campaign we have the Liberal Democrats, Labour party supporters, the
Green Party, UKIP, Plaid Cymru, the SNP, Friends of the Earth, Colin Firth,
Eddie Izzard and Helena Bonham Carter. On the No side of the argument are the
BNP, the Communists, the Conservative Party."

In other words, if you're a Tory who is opposed to AV, you only have the
fascists and the commies for company. Young Nick really isn't as sweet as he
looks, is he?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 14, 2011 Monday 11:52 AM GMT

This country's public authorities are going dotty

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1680 words


Although it is tempting to speculate on exactly how Nick Clegg will oppose the
NHS reforms to which he has put his name and given his support, I think it might
be wiser to wait and see how he gets on at his next appearance in the Commons to
answer questions in his role as David Cameron's loyal lieutenant.

I remain of the view that he will be given enough scraps to persuade him to stay
at the cabinet table rather than return to the scruffy mob of no-hopers from
which he came.

I have been wondering if there is a common thread to some of the absurdities
perpetuated or allowed by our public authorities. For example how has it come
about, as the Telegraph reported on March 10, that a bunch of 13-year-old
schoolboys' sniggering reference to a woman police officer, out of her hearing,
as 'Pc Nipples' could take a police sergeant, two other police officers, a
deputy head teacher and four sets of parents to attend a "restorative justice
conference" lasting an hour and a half?

Come to that, how has the public been protected by the court ruling reported in
the Telegraph of the next day, that while a "warlock" charged with carrying a
five inch bladed knife should be confined to his home by a 7pm to 7am curfew,
that curfew would be suspended on the nights of a full moon? Either the man is
dangerous at night or he is not.

Then in the Spectator of March 12 I found a list of 50 penalties exacted
recently by our courts, among them that imposed on the gentleman who burned
poppies at an Armistice Day ceremony in order to insult our war dead, and on the
pipe smoker in Chesterfield who dropped a match while lighting his pipe. What
happened to the Islamist's match, or the burned poppies is not recorded, but
surely they were worth 50 a time too.

It might be said that these are trivialities. So they are. But they are not only
just a sample of thousands of such irritating trivialities, they betray a
mindset among those charged with upholding the law. Even worse, they risk
undermining the confidence of the rational normal majority in those institutions
which are under sustained attack from the political left, the drunken yobs who
contaminate our streets at weekends, the squatters who steal property, the
travellers who seem virtually exempt from the planning laws and the yobs
protesting on the streets against the idea that they might be required to earn a
living for themselves.

All right, maybe this is all part of the price of living in a democracy,
although I do not think it is, but how about the proposal to introduce into
Britain the fatal disease Alveolar echinococcosis (AE). As reported by Shooting
And Conservation magazine, this could well happen when our temporary derogation
from a directive allowing the free  movement of domestic dogs, cats, ferrets and
rodentsacross borders expires on 31/12/11. We won't be protected by 22 miles of
water if some friendly European brings an infected animal across.

God knows what will happen if our urban fox population gets infected with
something like AE. It can be passed onto us, and currently 90 per cent of humans
infected with AE die of liver failure. In Switzerland there currently 20-30
cases a year, so we might expect about 200. No prizes for guessing which supra
national authority is proposing to visit this entirely new health hazard on us.
But I am told it is in our national interest that such things are accepted. It
sounds like contagious insanity to me.

...

I was glad to find such overwhelming support for my view that Britain should be
very cautious indeed about intervening with military force in Libya. It was only
the leftist who wanted to get into another of what one called  an "arranged
war", referring I think to Blair's wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

For some of you the main point was that we no longer had armed forces adequate
for the task.  Others, like Q46, questioned whether what follows Gaddafi is
likely to be much better, whilst darkseid was confused over how one can define
what is the British national interest.

None the less, apart from  pogleswoodsman, who was the first to post a comment
to coltek and billyrawone who were around the 200th, the overwhelming majority
said stay out.  I did, like most of you, admire duckham's chivalrous defence of
fabian solutions, although I thought his call for pogroms against those whose
opinions he does not like was just a little too fascist for my tastes.

The overwhelming majority of your comments on my blog concerning what appears to
be our need to seek permission from Our Masters In Brussels to adjust fuel tax
in some of our islands expressed a weary sense of disillusion with what george
24      and a number of others called the Vichy wing of the Conservative Party.

Before I say more about those perhaps I should dispose of a few of the disident
minority.  There was duckham who said, without giving any reason, that he did
not believe that I joined the Conservative Pary at 13.  As usual he gave no
reason for his delusion. He went on to say that the United Kingdom "could not
survive on its own".  That was a mistake made by Phillip of Spain, Bonaparte and
Hitler too and as usual birds of a feather flock together. He was well put down
by huree-jamset-ram-singh listing some very small countries surviving well on
their own.  Then we had the benefit of petervl giving us advice from Holland on
how to run our affairs. He started from the an error born of wilful ignorance.
He should know that  I do not object to the concept of rules to maintain an open
and free market.  I do object to wilful interference by unelected authorities in
the insurance market in this kingdom, based on prejudice.  I think he might be
better employed asking, as did theantisocialist, why his countrymen voted
against the Lisbon Treaty and were then told they had got it wrong and had to
vote again.

There was a complaint from daviddee that my blogs are "too long and disjointed".
Being of a generous frame of mind, I hereby grant him the right not to read them
any more. Then olcrom struggled to overcome the incoherence of his dotage to
suggest that I am too old and should give up.  He might benefit from taking his
own advice.  If I recollect rightly it is he who wants me to intervene on his
behalf in some sqabble with a past Tory minister. I do not think he should rely
on me.  I suggest he should approach Cherie Blair who is not only a brilliant
lawyer, but is utterly uninterested in money and I am sure would offer her
services free of charge.  It was ava 78 who in a fit of amnesia decared the if
the Party listened to me "it would never get near government". Perhaps I should
remind him that when the Party listened to Margaret Thatcher and me it was
elected three times to government.

It has been a lousy week as we are short handed on carers for my wife and I feel
better for getting that off my chest. So turning with some relief to the more
rational comments, I have to say  that I was struck by darkseid's observations.
I think he was ungenerouse to say I do not mention the successes of the
Coalition.  These are early days and successes do not come quickly in
Government, so there are not many of them as yet.  However I think I have made
clear my support for the thrust of Chancellor Osborne's policies on public
spending and Gove's educational reforms, even though I think Gove's objectives
could have been achieved more surely and quickly by a return to selective
education which we know works.  Duncan Smith, too, certainly has my support for
his brave programme to free people from their addiction to welfare rather than
work.

I am sorry that I cannot give an ecouraging answer to julier who asked what are
the chances of getting an EU referendumn. Since neither Cameron nor Clegg, nor
Hague want one I would say we will not get one this side of an election.  To
that end bryan_stives advised us to vote UKIP and it short of a coup in the
Conservative Party it is hard to see another way.

Then phantom asked if UKIP would leave the EEA.  I'm sorry, that is a question
for Farage, not me. I was grateful for the understanding of a lot of former
Conservative voters  who are now UKIP supporters and activists, Simxn and
henrietta  amongst them, and indeed neilcraig who was expelled from the LibDems
for nationalism,   that I have chosen to stay in my Party to put it back on
track and not just on Europe I would add.    As flyinthesky said, there is a
risk that the change may come too late, but that is no reason not to try.  I do
not see why ravenscar thinks there should be another new nationalist party, but
not the BNP. After all, isn't that what UKIP is?  It may be that if I and my
friends cannot rescue the Conservative Party from large scale infiltration of
SDP people to which pixie_jade referred,   that UKIP will become the new home
for Conservative philosophy which upik is seeking.

I do not agree with pietro 99 who said the Conservartive party is gone, but
certainly as edthetod said, it will be hard to get the vote out in May.

However it was darkseid's challenge to me to show my manifesto which has got me
thinking. That would not be  something I could do over a weekend (especially
whilst I am  a deputy unskilled unpaid carer with two books to complete already)
but it is a challenge I should accept.

As ever I am grateful to bersher who found a very good Enoch Powell quotation
and phantom who found one from Hayek,  which uderlined hauptman_dachs statement
that to be a "player" in European or world affairs we need political and fiscal
independence.    I was glad to know that my Gladstone quotation is a favourite
of jedibeeftrix who thinks it should be tattooed on the heads of Lib Dems,
although it might be better on their brains.

Once again, thanks  to the many of you who expressed concern about the
Conservative Party and understand what I am trying to do.  It brought back to
mind Churchill's reply to those who asked him in those darkest days before Pearl
Harbour, "What is your policy?"  "Just keep buggering on," the old man would
say.  I know how he must have felt.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 March 13, 2011
                                 First Edition

The people's crud is deepest pink ...;
Standards have plunged in entertainment, as they have in politics and the art of
rudeness. Plus, several gigs I didn't go to The bottom line The Poujade moment
Rudeness and class What the public wants 100 greatest gigs

BYLINE: D J Taylor

SECTION: WEATHER; Pg. 102

LENGTH: 1076 words


All last week, as the row over bankers' bonuses reignited, and a new report
forecast a post-retirement "squeeze" on middle-income families, the spectre of
Pierre Poujade has drifted enticingly across the political landscape. Poujade
(1920-2003) may not be a name to conjure with on this side of the Channel, but
in the 1950s the movement that bore his name whipped up a storm on the margins
of the Fourth Republic and at one point amassed more than 50 deputies in the
National Assembly. That its shadows are, even now, not entirely dispersed is
confirmed by the presence of Marine Le Pen at the head of early opinion polls
for next year's presidential election. It was Poujade, after all, who gave her
father, Jean-Marie, his first big break.

Poujadism's platforms gave all the usual lower-middle-class right-wing
grievances a Gallic airing: anti-tax, anti-state, virulently nationalistic,
convinced that the "little man" - Poujade was a shopkeeper - was being
sacrificed on the twin altars of corporatism and organised labour. Its success
derived from the fact that it spoke for a part of the demographic whose
interests are never adequately represented. Here in Britain, for example, there
must be several million people who earn between £15,000 and £30,000 a year, who
are violently opposed to Britain's European Union membership; regard
multiculturalism as an expensive joke; and wonder why the Government doesn't do
something about RBS boss Stephen Hester's umpteen million a year.

Who is there to represent their interests? The Conservative Party which used to
be their natural home is too keen to suck up to big business. Labour has
presided over the decay of practically every institution these people hold dear.
Ukip is still tarred with the brush of minor-party eccentricity. No amount of
sanitising will ever make the BNP respectable. The scope for a political party
bent on upholding the rights of the British petit-bourgeoisie is enormous. Who
knows, perhaps even now, out there in the debatable lands of the provincial
suburbs, in the Essex boondocks, or the Luton backstreets, some English Poujade,
his hour come at last, is slouching towards Westminster to be born?

?????????

Many a newspaper columnist in the early part of the week could be found amusing
him or herself at the expense of luckless Prince Andrew. The Duke of York's
supposed boorishness was made much of, as was his habit of inflicting what one
commentator called "golf-club opinions" on people whose grasp of the subject
under discussion probably exceeded his own. Throughout these critiques there
lurked a suspicion that rudeness of the kind the Prince apparently brings to his
daily routines is an upper-class trait, a seign-eurial incivility exclusive to
blue blood and rolling acres. Nothing could be further from the truth.

For Prince Andrew's bracing personal manner, it must be said, isn't in the least
studied. It is assumed in the same way as his morning suit, skiing costume or
regimental ties. Real rudeness, on the other hand, is generally the province of
the middle-class arriviste, who has had self-consciously to school himself in
the art of making his presence felt. One sees this in the antics of the
so-called "Brideshead Generation" of the inter-war era, whose most offensive
elements were usually middle-class boys on the make. They included Evelyn Waugh,
who when congratulated by a fan on the excellence of Brideshead Revisited, is
said to have remarked that he had thought it pretty good, but now a vulgar
American woman liked it, he wasn't so sure, or Robert Byron, who, when asked
what he wanted to "be" in life, answered: "An incredibly beautiful male
prostitute with a sharp sting in my bottom." Clearly Prince Andrew has some way
to go.

?????????

It was fascinating to read the reviews of the ongoing X Factor Live Tour 2011.
Generally the response has been one of tolerant disdain. The Independent's Luke
Grundy described Wagner as "absolutely tuneless but wildly entertaining, a blend
of circus act and karaoke night" before going on to declare that the musical
quality "remained negligible throughout". At the same time, Mr Grundy was
careful to make the point that the crowd loved it.

Here in a relativist age, where nobody wants to be seen "judging" other people's
cultural preferences, the standard critical line on these occasions is that,
yes, this is rubbish but that the punters are entitled to queue up for it if
they choose. The curious thing is that, historically, the punters were not
always so avid for tat. One of the striking findings of Jonathan Rose's
monumental The Intellectual Life of the British Working Classes, inset above, is
the huge popular enthusiasm expressed by the early 20th-century mass audience
for what is now known as "high culture". In 1924 the Labour MP JR Clynes could
be found campaigning for public subsidy for opera on the grounds that it was
what his working-class constituents liked. One grows tired, 90 years later, of
hearing about all the splendid cultural choices on offer to
entertainment-seekers, when increasingly all they are being asked to choose is
the single thing before them.

?????????

This week's New Musical Express carries an eye-catching feature on "100 Gigs You
Should Have Been At". What featured on the list? Why, The Who at Woodstock.
Nirvana at Reading. The Beatles and the Stones at the 1966 NME Poll-winner's
Concert. Queen at Live Aid. Had I been to any of them? No. And would I have
wanted to go? Oddly enough, despite a 35-year obsession with popular music, no.

The disadvantages of live music aren't always emphasised enough by excitable
reviewers. If it isn't over-amplified to the point of constituting a health
risk, then the act turns up late to play a truncated set (The Fall) or makes
alienating efforts to elevate good old rock'n'roll to the level of an artistic
happening (Lou Reed). Still, one never likes to be left out of one of these
cultural rosters. Was there an event here with which I could claim some indirect
attachment? Miraculously there was: the No 1 gig, the Sex Pistols at
Manchester's Lesser Free Trade Hall on 4 June 1976. I wasn't there but,
wonderful to relate, I know the man who organised it. Instantly all the exalted
moments of one's professional life - the hobnobbing with Mario Vargas Llosa, the
mute attendance on VS Naipaul as he dismissed the entire Castilian literary
tradition before a petrified lunch-table audience - dwindled into
insignificance.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 March 13, 2011
                                 First Edition

Rant & Rave

BYLINE: Katy Guest

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 334 words


Rant


So, in the space of one week, the triumvirate of trendy that is Kate Moss, Nigel
Farage and Eva Braun all turn out to be fans of smoking. Gosh, it must be sooooo
cool. Unseen photographs were released last week showing Braun enjoying a quiet
ciggie, as well as in blackface and snuggling up to Hitler.

At the same time, Kate wheezed down the catwalk with a fag hanging out of her
mouth. And, get this: it was on No Smoking Day! What a rebel! (What is she, 14
or something?) Immediately, Ukip's farcical leader, Mr Farage, released a
statement saying, "Kate Moss and I have something in common besides the fashion
sense - we both smoked on No Smoking Day." (What is he, 12 or something?)
Seriously: it took James Dean et al a long time to make smoking tobacco seem
attractive; this lot have just spoiled a century of iconic cinema imagery in the
space of three days. Ms Moss is, of course, already famous for her
counterproductive style of leadership. In 2009, she revealed that her motto is:
"Nothing tastes as good as skinny feels." Maybe if she had ever tasted a lamb
jalfrezi or cheese on toast instead of the lingering aroma of Lambert & Butler
she might feel differently. Remember, girls: nothing looks as good as fusilli
bolognese tastes - especially not Kate Moss.

Rave

I confess, I have not always been a fan of Lily Allen, but you have to admit
that she has cojones somewhere in that little ballgown. In a documentary to be
shown on Channel 4 on Tuesday, she reveals the diet secrets that led to her
much-praised weight loss in 2009: the secrets include misery, depression, and
making herself sick after meals. "I'm a pop star not a model," she says. "Don't
make me feel shit for not being really skinny and having an eating disorder."
Not that her looks are any of my business, but for what it's worth, Lily, you're
an exceptionally good-looking woman with an enviable figure and an infuriating
knack for writing catchy pop tunes. What's more, you probably smell quite a lot
nicer than Kate Moss.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THERE IS A NEW KIND OF FLOATING VOTER FOR CAMERON TO CONTEND WITH

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 395 words


SINCE the outset of his leadership of the Conservative Party David Cameron has
been almost entirely focused on attracting "floating" voters. Only by convincing
these centreground voters that the Tories had changed and were now caring,
sharing types could the party hope to win power, he believed.

There was no point in "banging on" about issues such as law and order,
immigration, tax cuts and above all Europe because that would please only core
Tory voters who had nowhere else to go while alienating these centrist hordes.
The recent recruitment of the revered opinion pollster and arch-moderniser
Andrew Cooper into the Downing Street operation shows this is still Mr Cameron's
view.

Well I wonder if he has been paying sufficient attention to a new kind of
floating voter that has emerged in recent months: the kind that floated off to
the UK Independence Party in the Barnsley by-election? UKIP is on the rise and
already registering six or seven per cent in national opinion polls. With more
by-elections on the horizon that will generate it extra publicity and with
public antipathy growing towards the European Union there is every chance that
it will soon catch Mr Cameron's coalition partners, the cravenly pro-Brussels
Lib Dems, in the polls. So the Prime Minister may come to regret the flippant
way in which he this week dashed the hopes of millions for a referendum on
Britain's membership of the European Union.

While it is true that he was asked about the matter in a humorous manner I do
not think the 373,000 Daily Express readers backing our crusade will consider it
a laughing matter that they cannot have their referendum simply because the PM
supports the EU.

On my Twitter account (@oflynnexpress) I asked for active Tories to give me
their reaction to the PM's words. The vast majority of respondents were critical
of the PM and several said they were defecting or had already defected to UKIP.

Mr Cameron has a delicate balancing act to perform to keep his coalition
together and that will necessarily mean offering some concessions to the Lib
Dems. But the Lib Dems officially back an in/out EU referendum (even though they
have no intention of actually lobbying for one) so they could hardly complain
were the PM to arrange one.

Mr Cameron and his new opinion diviner Mr Cooper need swiftly to understand that
there are two types of floating voter now.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP PILOT: NO THREATS;
COURT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 51 words


THE pilot in UKIP leader Nigel Farage's election day plane crash yesterday
denied threatening to kill him and an air investigator.

Justin Adams, of Buckland, Oxon, faces six charges at Oxford crown court.

Adams, 45, was remanded in custody for trial in April.

Mr Farage was badly hurt in the crash in Northants.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SUPERMODEL Kate Moss caused a [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 69 words


SUPERMODEL Kate Moss caused a stir this week when she returned to the catwalk
defiantly smoking a cigarette on No Smoking Day.

Now UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage declares on Twitter: "Kate Moss
and I have something in common besides the fashion sense - we both smoked on No
Smoking Day."

While not wishing to cast aspersions on Mr Farage's good looks, it's fair to say
the similarity pretty much ends there.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 11, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 69  words


SUPERMODEL Kate Moss caused a stir this week when she returned to the catwalk
defiantly smoking a cigarette on No Smoking Day.

Now UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage declares on Twitter: "Kate Moss
and I have something in common besides the fashion sense - we both smoked on No
Smoking Day."

While not wishing to cast aspersions on Mr Farage's good looks, it's fair to say
the similarity pretty much ends there.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday

MUMBLER MILIBAND LOOKS LIKE CLOUSEAU'S GORMLESS BROTHER

LENGTH: 633 words


QUENTIN LETTS YESTERDAY IN PARLIAMENT

THE Coalition Government has been biffed by recent events. 'The whole thing's
falling to pieces!' cried Ukip's Lord Pearson happily when I bumped into him
before midday. Prime Minister's Questions was ten minutes away and certainly
presented a hairy ordeal for David Cameron. How could young Lochinvar escape
peril this time?

Answer: with ease. No matter how much things seem to go wrong from Thursday to
Tuesday, along comes Wednesday and Sunny Boy, with his perfect hair and lovely
vowels, makes it all seem a shimmering success.

Mr Cameron is lucky to be faced by a Labour leader who is turning out to be, oh
dear, a bit of a clunker. Mr Miliband's furry-tongued oratory is like listening
to a mobile phone on the train. His slowness in repartee does not help, either.

But his main problem is that Labour blew the economy's big end and now complains
about the cuts. It were their chooffin' fault in t'first place, as Eric Pickles
might put it.

Mr Cameron has an ability, maddeningly Mayfair, to charm and cajole and tease
and reason all at the same time. Gordon Brown used to fall flat on his hooter
trying just one of those things. Mr Cameron's spiel may or may not be as fake as
a Barbie doll's permanent wave but it somehow enables him to avoid the clutches
of his critics.

It really must be infuriating for Edward Miliband and his schemers. They try to
depict Mr Cameron as incompetent. They keep banging on about him needing to 'get
a grip'. Yet every Wednesday along sashays this male model, making mumbler
Miliband look like Inspector Clouseau's gormless brother.

PMQs began with Ian Mearns (Lab, Gateshead) telling everyone that it was No
Smoking Day. Hang on, it was also Ash Wednesday.

Mr Cameron said that he supported No Smoking Day but that he feared he had not
always managed to heed its message. See what he was doing there? A dab of
self-deprecation, presenting himself as the flawed acquaintance of vice.

If Ed Miliband ever tried a fag, the smoke would probably leak out of his ears.

Then we moved to the fortunes of William Hague. Mr Miliband suggested that Mr
Cameron had dumped Mr Hague in trouble over Libya. David Cameron reacted
initially with a short stare of anger before coldly remarking on Labour's
behaviour re: the Lockerbie bomber.

Then Mr Cameron changed the tone and declared that 'we have an excellent Foreign
Secretary'. Loud cheers from the Tory benches.

Mr Cameron's final twist of the fish hook in Mr Miliband's mouth was to observe
that 'there is only one person round here I can remember knifing a Foreign
Secretary and I think I am looking at him'. The fratricide argument! Ouch, ouch,
ouch. The House went bananas and up in the press gallery there was a hiss of
exhilaration at this flash of blood-soaked steel. Ed Miliband looked a bit
startled. 'Right,' said Mr Cameron, very Blairish. 'I think we have dealt with
that.'

Mr Hague was not in the Chamber but he did appear later at a select committee
meeting with Defence Secretary Liam Fox, the prolix Oliver Letwin, and Andrew
Mitchell, International Aid Secretary. Mr Mitchell is reported to fancy his
chances of succeeding Mr Hague at the Foreign Office.

Some merchants of filth even suggest that Mr Mitchell (who wears a plastic
bracelet) has been spreading anti-Hague dirt. I can only declare myself shocked.

At the committee meeting Mr Hague spoke with gusto, grabbing the air with his
fists. He seemed re-energised. Mr Mitchell sat beside him, stroking his (own)
chin. He did not say much.

Mind you, he is certainly on the lickety-lick. At the end of PMQs I saw him put
on a little spurt of acceleration.

This meant he was right behind Mr Cameron as he left the Chamber. Before they
departed from view I saw Mr Mitchell apply a loving pat to Mr Cameron's right
shoulder. Ew.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron must not ignore calls for referendum on EU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 268 words


DAVID CAMERON was yesterday challenged in the Commons to grant the British
people a referendum on whether to leave the European Union. At the top of the
list of people demanding such a vote, the Prime Minister was told, were 373,000
readers of the daily Express.

The Prime Minister's response was disappointing. He said Britain should remain a
member of the EU and reform it from within.

There are several flaws in that answer. The first is that we live in a democracy
and it is widely accepted that great constitutional questions should be settled
by referendums. The second is that only by unveiling the prospect of an in/out
referendum can Mr Cameron secure the leverage necessary to win back sovereignty
from a powerhungry Brussels machine.

If Brussels knows the British people are to be allowed to decide on future
relations then it will have to make a serious offer to repatriate lost authority
in order to try to secure their support. Without a referendum there is no
prospect of Britain winning back any lost sovereignty at all.

Finally Mr Cameron should consider the prospects of his own party. The
Conservatives were beaten into third place by the UK Independence Party in the
Barnsley byelection.

UKIP's support mainly comes from disenchanted Conservatives.

Without the support of the great bulk of voters holding rightofcentre views
there is no chance of the Conservatives winning a Commons majority.

This newspaper always knew the crusade for an EU referendum would be a long and
arduous one. The Prime Minister has given his initial answer. It is the wrong
one. So we must set about changing his mind.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Our EU crusade is here to stay!

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 464 words


CAMPAIGNERS last night vowed to step up the fight for a referendum on Britain's
membership of the European Union after David Cameron again rejected calls for a
national poll.

The Prime Minister was yesterday given a stark reminder of the massive public
support behind the Daily Express's crusade for the UK to quit the Brussels
bureaucracy.

During rowdy scenes in the Commons, Mr Cameron was asked to recall how a huge
army of 373,000 readers had backed the newspaper's petition against EU rule.

Demands But he repeated his belief that Britain was "better off inside" the EU.
Last night, campaigners and MPs insisted the Daily Express' crusade against
Brussels was now needed more than ever. The petition - one of the biggest in
newspaper history - was raised during Prime Minister's Questions by Tory MP
Peter Bone.

Mr Bone urged an "in-or-out" referendum on the EU. He asked the Prime Minister:
"373,000 Daily Express readers want it, 80 per cent of Conservative members
support it, the Deputy Prime Minister would love it, and my wife demands it."

He was referring to Nick Clegg's Lib Dem election manifesto promise to hold an
"in-out referendum" on EU membership. Mr Bone added: "The British people,
Conservative supporters, the leader of the Liberal Party and especially Mrs Bone
cannot all be wrong."

Mr Cameron replied: "I think we are better off inside the EU, but making changes
to it in the way that we are setting out. I'm afraid I'm going to have to
disappoint the honourable gentleman, and Mrs Bone."

Mr Bone later expressed his disappointment at Mr Cameron's response and called
for the Daily Express crusade to continue.

The Tory MP for Wellingborough said: "He didn't answer my question. The Prime
Minister said he didn't want to come out of the EU but preferred to reform it.
But my question was about having a referendum so the British people can make
their minds up, not about his mind."

He added: "We are having a referendum on AV (alternative voting) even though
most people are not interested in the issue."

Mr Bone said the second place gained by the UK Independence Party in the recent
Barnsley by-election indicated the strength of feeling on the issue of EU
membership.

Meddling "We will keep plugging away. Why can't the British people have the
referendum they want? "Is it because the Government is scared of the answer?"
Earlier this year, the Daily Express delivered the petition to Downing Street.
Last week, officials responded by pledging that the Government would stand up to
further Brussels meddling but would not seek an exit from the EU.

Last night, UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Cameron cannot or
will not answer the question.

He knows that the people of Britain would vote to leave, so he claims that
Britain must stay in."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The PM in the Commons yesterday
Some of the 373,000 Daily Express petitions en route to Downing Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

EUROCRATS OPEN BORDERS

SECTION: NEWS; 16

LENGTH: 148  words


VISA restrictions on North Africans who want to come to Europe will be eased if
their countries pledge to crack down on illegal migration, Brussels has
announced.

As tens of thousands of illegal immigrants flee the upheavals rocking the
region, meddling Eurocrats issued a directive calling for EU states to open
their borders.

In exchange for "increased mobility" Brussels asks only that the African
countries "undertake" to fight "irregular migration" The scheme only covers
visas for countries in the Schengen Area of the EU, but critics fear allowing
migrants into mainland Europe will make it easier for them to then reach the UK.

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: " The EU is prepared to start opening our borders
to North Africa, but only asks North African countries to make statements about
dealing with their own problems. Talk is cheap, but not for us when we have to
pick up the tab."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Our EU crusade is here to stay!

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 458  words


CAMPAIGNERS last night vowed to step up the fight for a referendum on Britain's
membership of the European Union after David Cameron again rejected calls for a
national poll.

The Prime Minister was yesterday given a stark reminder of the massive public
support behind the Daily Express's crusade for the UK to quit the Brussels
bureaucracy.

During rowdy scenes in the Commons, Mr Cameron was asked to recall how a huge
army of 373,000 readers had backed the newspaper's petition against EU rule.

But he repeated his belief that Britain was "better off inside" the EU.

Last night, campaigners and MPs insisted the Daily Express' crusade against
Brussels was now needed more than ever. The petition - one of the biggest in
newspaper history - was raised during Prime Minister's Questions by Tory MP
Peter Bone.

Mr Bone urged an "in-or-out" referendum on the EU. He asked the Prime Minister:
"373,000 Daily Express readers want it, 80 per cent of Conservative members
support it, the Deputy Prime Minister would love it, and my wife demands it."

He was referring to Nick Clegg's Lib Dem election manifesto promise to hold an
"in-out referendum" on EU membership. Mr Bone added: "The British people,
Conservative supporters, the leader of the Liberal Party and especially Mrs Bone
cannot all be wrong."

Mr Cameron replied: "I think we are better off inside the EU, but making changes
to it in the way that we are setting out. I'm afraid I'm going to have to
disappoint the honourable gentleman, and Mrs Bone."

Mr Bone later expressed his disappointment at Mr Cameron's response and called
for the Daily Express crusade to continue.

The Tory MP for Wellingborough said: "He didn't answer my question.

The Prime Minister said he didn't want to come out of the EU but preferred to
reform it. But my question was about having a referendum so the British people
can make their minds up, not about his mind."

He added: "We are having a referendum on AV (alternative voting) even though
most people are not interested in the issue."

Mr Bone said the second place gained by the UK Independence Party in the recent
Barnsley by-election indicated the strength of feeling on the issue of EU
membership.

"We will keep plugging away. Why can't the British people have the referendum
they want?

"Is it because the Government is scared of the answer?"

Earlier this year, the Daily Express delivered the petition to Downing Street.
Last week, officials responded by pledging that the Government would stand up to
further Brussels meddling but would not seek an exit from the EU.

Last night, UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "Cameron cannot or
will not answer the question. He knows that the people of Britain would vote to
leave, so he claims that Britain must stay in."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The PM in the Commons yesterday
Some of the 373,000 Daily Express petitions en route to Downing Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron must not ignore calls for referendum on EU;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER COLUMN; 12

LENGTH: 268  words


DAVID CAMERON was yesterday challenged in the Commons to grant the British
people a referendum on whether to leave the European Union. At the top of the
list of people demanding such a vote, the Prime Minister was told, were 373,000
readers of the Daily Express.

The Prime Minister's response was disappointing. He said Britain should remain a
member of the EU and reform it from within.

There are several flaws in that answer.

The first is that we live in a democracy and it is widely accepted that great
constitutional questions should be settled by referendums. The second is that
only by unveiling the prospect of an in/out referendum can Mr Cameron secure the
leverage necessary to win back sovereignty from a power-hungry Brussels machine.

If Brussels knows the British people are to be allowed to decide on future
relations then it will have to make a serious offer to repatriate lost authority
in order to try to secure their support.

Without a referendum there is no prospect of Britain winning back any lost
sovereignty at all.

Finally Mr Cameron should consider the prospects of his own party. The
Conservatives were beaten into third place by the UK Independence Party in the
Barnsley by-election. UKIP's support mainly comes from disenchanted
Conservatives.

Without the support of the great bulk of voters holding right-of-centre views
there is no chance of the Conservatives winning a Commons majority.

This newspaper always knew the crusade for an EU referendum would be a long and
arduous one. The Prime Minister has given his initial answer. It is the wrong
one. So we must set about changing his mind.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday

Sport: Digger: Gill gives taxman ammunition

BYLINE: Matt Scott

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 624 words


The Premier League's efforts to maintain the football creditors rule in the face
of a challenge by Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs have been undermined by David
Gill's comments before a parliamentary committee.

The taxman has launched a high court action against the League over the
controversial rule, which guarantees that in club insolvencies players and
football-transfer creditors are paid in full. Invariably, large tax debts go
unpaid as HMRC and other unsecured creditors such as local service suppliers are
unprotected.

Gill, the Manchester United chief executive, told the culture, media and sport
committee's review of football governance on Tuesday that he feels the rule has
"had its time". Although Gill said he was speaking only "in general" terms of
the view at his club, his comments do carry the force of his status as an
influential board member of the Football Association.

"What I think the positive benefit (with its abolition) would be that clubs
wouldn't get in to that situation," Gill said. "Their due diligence in dealing
with another club - whether in transfers or whatever - would be perhaps more
rigorous."

Niall Quinn, Sunderland's chairman, said: "The fan in the street meets the guy
who printed the programmes who didn't get paid and he sees the player driving
out in the big car who was paid and I think that's damaging."

The Premier League has said that it will "robustly defend" the HMRC action.

No calendar discussions

Relations between Europe's biggest clubs and Fifa appear to have reached
breaking point after a top-level meeting failed to reach agreement even on what
to tell the media.

The European Club Association chairman, Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, its
vice-chairman, Umberto Gandini, and its general secretary, Michele Centenaro,
were on one side of the table at Fifa House in Zurich on Tuesday. On the other
were Fifa's president, Sepp Blatter, below, and general secretary, Jerome
Valcke. The key item on the agenda was expected to be the international match
calendar. Elite clubs hold grievances about the fixtures calendar, which has
been described to Digger as "the worst kind of compromise", suiting neither the
federations nor clubs. Whether the ECA even had the chance to present its case
is unknown.

Neither Fifa nor the ECA would comment as to the contents of the meeting. One
individual said: "It was not a long meeting."

Wrexham appeal

Pity poor Wrexham fans. Their club does put them through the ringer. Geoff Moss,
who took them down and out of the Football League for the first time in their
history, is now selling up. Suitors have included Steven Vaughan, on whose watch
Chester City collapsed, Stephanie Booth, a local caterer who is a disqualified
director - and therefore not "fit and proper" - and Stephen Cleeve, a man who
proved too much for the UK Independence Party, which deselected him as a
parliamentary candidate. Cleeve admitted to Digger that he has past
misdemeanours but insisted he has cleaned up his act.

The latest party to declare an interest in buying Wrexham is Ashley Ward, the
erstwhile Derby County and Blackburn Rovers footballer and property developer.
Ward's firm, Bilton Ward Developments, entered into a company voluntary
arrangement with creditors on £1.6m of debts last October.

Cleeve cleans up his past

One of Cleeve's past scrapes was with a website called stephencleeve.com, which
he took to a World Intellectual Property Organisation arbitration panel (and
lost). In the hearing he was described as a "conman", which is also how he had
been described by the website, which objected to his conduct in selling land
investments. Cleeve insists he is no such thing, and that he has sorted out his
differences with the author of the website.

matt.scott@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday

Feature - Fight back - We will not be Con-Demned;
There is an alternative, and women will be at the forefront on March 26 to help
it grow, writes Anita Halpin

BYLINE: Anita Halpin

LENGTH: 980 words


The TUC Women's Conference kicks off the union conference season and the agenda
spells out sharp hostility to this corrupt coalition government. In the punning
words of one motion, the cuts are "Con-Dem'd."

The title of the first motion Women United Against The Cuts says it all. Every
day more and more women and men - whether in work or on the dole, whether school
students or pensioners - are coming together united in opposition to
public-sector cuts.

Women bear the brunt of the effects of such cuts and it's only right that the
voice of working women sets the scene for the fightback.

All the arenas of struggle to defend public services and halt the regressive
tide of welfare and benefit "reforms" feature on the agenda. Primary targets
such as pensions, education, health services and arts funding, as well as areas
of collateral damage - child poverty and increasing violence against women.

The conference is also strong in its defence of hard-won women's rights against
a government which shows scant regard for equal rights. In a way the drastic
cuts are being cynically used to hide the right-wing ideological mission to turn
the clock back on women's liberation, so women once again "know their place"
and, indeed, children "are seen and not heard."

The myth that that cuts are necessary and that 'we're all in it together' is
fast losing credibility as banks and businesses announce increased profits and
still hand out obscene bonuses and share option packages.

It's more than a myth, it's a downright lie - cuts are not necessary at all.

But as the slogan of the TUC national demonstration in London on Saturday March
26 says: "We are all together for public services," and the call is to join the
march for the alternative - for jobs, for growth and for justice.

And there is another way that will boost public investment, sustain industry and
create jobs. The Communist Party proposes an alternative strategy, a left-wing
programme, that would start by taxing the rich and big business.

For example, stopping tax dodgers stealing our money would add £70 billion every
single year to the public purse, so a pro-working class government could afford
to increase pensions, benefits and the national minimum wage significantly.

Such a government could put more money into the economy to increase demand and
spending, meaning more workers are needed to meet that demand. And when the
economy is buoyant wages go up and tax revenue inreases. It really is a win-win
situation for working people and just one example of what a reflationary
economic policy can achieve.

Do I stray from the women's conference agenda? No, because only such an
alternative economy can deliver the aspirations of the agenda for the long term.

We won't make this Con-Dem coalition change its economic policy, so it's got to
go.

Any coalition government is a fragile beast and this one has two potential fault
lines.

On the one hand, the Con-Dem's draconian cuts package is becoming more unpopular
by the day, not least because it was never actually put to the electorate but
was a product of post-election negotiations which, somewhat bizarrely, saw a
policy emerge that was tougher than the original Tory version rather than, as
might have been expected, a weaker compromise.

On the other hand the gap between the Lib Dems in Westminster and their
supporters in the communities is widening as the cuts bite. The is clearly shown
in recent by-election results. Only two weeks ago the Lib Dems came sixth in the
Barnsley Central by-election, with their share of the vote down from 17.2 per
cent to just 4.1 per cent and another lost deposit.

Most alarmingly in Barnsley both Ukip and the BNP beat the Lib Dems, reminding
us sharply how the misery of a recession fans support for nationalist, racist
and fascist ideologies.

The expectation is that some half a million people will flood London on March
26, but we need to be more ambitious and work to mobilise one million or more -
not impossible given the growing public anger at the cuts in cities, towns and
villages.

This demonstration is part of the movement for change - it is the beginning and
the goal is the end of this government. Yes, it's going to be a long-haul, but
what a prize.

Trade unionists will be central to this success. Trades councils have a pivotal
role in building community campaigning and industrial struggles in defence of
jobs. There is on-going action in transport, across the media, among post office
workers, and BA are balloting yet again. These workers are all part of the
fightback and together they can make a difference.

A massive turnout on March 26 of trades unions and anti-cuts groups united
behind the message that we are all in it together to fight the cuts will build
confidence and solidarity.

But what next after the London demo?

In our communities the results of the local elections on Thursday May 5 will no
doubt rattle the cages of many coalition MPs - both Lib-Dem and Tory. And, if
the lessons of poor election results are not learned, local and regional
anti-cuts and anti-government protests will grow in size and number as more and
more services fall casualty to the cuts.

Wages and jobs will be under growing threat as the recession continues to bite
so the battle on the industrial front will sharpen. On this front the Communist
Party sees the next significant event as a one-day public sector general strike
with solidarity action from other sectors.

Who knows, somewhere down the line we may even find ourselves sitting in our
city, town and village squares rather than in conference halls. Until such time,
we want strong motions which are fully implemented and supported by the widest
possible co-ordinated actions.

nAnita Halpin is a long-serving member of the Communist Party of Britain
executive and political committees, and chairwoman for the past 10 years. She is
now the party's trade union coordinator.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TXT US ON 07900 946 486

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 140 words


Don't forget to include your name. Standard text rates from your provider apply

HOPE Peter Andre wins custody of his lovely kids. Jordan is a disgrace.

GRIFF, Pontefract, West Yorks

FOR God's sake get rid of Kenneth Clarke before he brings Government down. Best
weapon Labour have.

COL

BANG goes another wheel and suspension arm. When is Gov going to spend our road
fund licence money on roads?

JAMES, Dorchester

JEREMY CLARKSON is so funny. His column makes my weekend.

DIANE, Sunderland, Tyne and Wear

I VOTED for Cameron but he's www - weak on immigration, weak on EU referendum,
weak on scrapping Human Rights Act.

DAVE, Staffs

TIME to leave the EU and vote UKIP into government with a majority.

ADAM, Upminster, East London

WELL done, Cameron. You lump us English with a prescription increase while the
rest of UK get it for free.

TONY, Margate, Kent

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TXT US ON

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 145 words


TXT US ON 07900 946 486 Don't forget to include your name. Standard text rates
from your provider apply HOPE Peter Andre wins custody of his lovely kids.
Jordan is a disgrace.

GRIFF, Pontefract, West Yorks FOR God's sake get rid of Kenneth Clarke before he
brings Government down. Best weapon Labour have.

COL BANG goes another wheel and suspension arm. When is Gov going to spend our
road fund licence money on roads? JAMES, Dorchester JEREMY CLARKSON is so funny.
His column makes my weekend.

DIANE, Sunderland, Tyne and Wear I VOTED for Cameron but he's www - weak on
immigration, weak on EU referendum, weak on scrapping Human Rights Act. DAVE,
Staffs TIME to leave the EU and vote UKIP into government with a majority.

ADAM, Upminster, East London WELL done, Cameron. You lump us English with a
prescription increase while the rest of UK get it for free.

TONY, Margate, Kent

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 10, 2011 Thursday 3:51 PM GMT

My local Tory party has just died. What the hell is going on?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 444 words


As the Tories gathered in Cardiff for their National Convention, and David
Cameron told the faithful that the Conservatives are "the party of builders and
business women, electricians and engineers, roofers and retailers," Mark Wallace
reports that all is not well in the party:

While the collapse of the Lib Dem campaigning machine is the focus for many
politicos at this weekend's Conservative Spring Forum, there are some rumblings
around about the Conservatives' own operation in some parts of the country.

This morning there was a closed meeting of the Party's National Convention at
which the matter was discussed.

A source who was at the meeting has exclusively passed me some of the most
alarming information that came up. Apparently Andrew Feldman reported on a study
CCHQ has carried out into the effectiveness of local Conservative Associations.

In a "mystery shopper" exercise, CCHQ wrote to over 300 associations under the
guise of being a person who wanted to join up, and asking how to do so.

Over half of the letters received no response at all, which is bad enough.
Weirdly, a handful who wrote back saying the applicant would need to pass a
membership interview before they could join the Conservatives. Most worryingly,
though, around 10 per cent wrote back to the pretend applicant saying they were
"closed to new members".

My local constituency, Hornsey and Wood Green, certainly is closed to new
members - it was recently wound up altogether, and I've heard that other party
organisations in north London are in trouble (admittedly not Tory heartlands).
All I get for my party membership are bulk emails from "David Cameron", "William
Hague" and "Baroness Warsi", all of which now go straight in the junk filter
with emails from Nigerian fraudsters.

The malaise comes, I hear, from the very top. A loyal Tory stalwart I know, who
has dedicated literally his entire adult life to the service of the party,
organising events, recruiting members, spending cold Tuesday evenings canvassing
in hostile Labour areas, told me that when he applied for a job at party
headquartersthey didn't even bother to acknowledge it.

Political activism is incredibly tedious and selfless work, but as recent
by-elections have illustrated, a local presence and local activists willing to
campaign is crucial to a party's fortunes. There is already a certain political
and ideological distance between the Tory leadership and its membership, many of
whom are UKIP-curious, but this is aggravated by poor handling from above. If
headquarters does not look after the foot soldiers, and the party continues to
haemorrhage members, they will be in serious trouble down the line.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday

DON'T BLAME THE SERVANTS, MR CAMERON

BYLINE: BY ANDEW ALEXANDER

LENGTH: 818 words


David Cameron promises that we shall get 'a Budget for growth' later this month.
We shall see.

Meantime, we have to deal with his views on enterprise which are odd, even
schizophrenic.

He told the Tory weekend conference that businesses are so loaded with costs and
regulations that 'frankly they cannot take it any more'. Business will heartily
agree.

So why is Cameron talking like a leader of the Opposition? After all, he has
been Prime Minister for nine months and ideally positioned to deregulate to his
heart's content.

But, he explains, he is up against what he calls 'the enemies of enterprise' ,
who turn out to be civil servants who administer the rules and regulations.

They are, apparently, so successful in defying the official line that Cameron
threatens to call these Whitehall offenders into his office for a rebuke. All
this is utterly bogus. Civil servants may administer regulations, but only with
their minister's say-so.

At this stage, the only thing to the Government's credit in the field of
regulations is that it has not actually added to them. We still await the
bonfire of regulations Cameron's regime likes to hint at but never ignites.

There is a hangover of regulations from Labour which are due to come into
operation between now and 2015. We await their cancellation.

Perhaps it will come in Chancellor George Osborne's forthcoming Budget, though
this would be an unusual place to announce them. They are not normally a
Treasury responsibility.

It might be argued in mitigation that the Lib Dem ministers would make
difficulties about cancelling various forthcoming regulations, drawn up to
safeguard pay and conditions at work. But all that Cameron need murmur in reply
to such protests is 'Barnsley', a name liable to make Lib Dems break out in a
sweat.

Last Thursday's by-election there saw the Lib Dem candidate come sixth , behind
UKIP, the BNP and even an independent. The Lib Dems would be massacred at the
polls if they flounced out of the Coalition now.

They are already nervous about May's local government contest and the
Alternative Vote choice which looks unlikely to go their way.

The dreadful showing at Barnsley has holed the Lib Dems below the waterline and
all they can do is cling to the wreckage and wave at the good ship AV in the
hope it will turn their way.

The chances are poor because the British electorate does not like complicated
systems. In May's vote, the issue will effectively face a simple question: 'Do
you want the candidate you voted for to win? If Yes, vote No to AV.

If you want a polling form as daunting as a tax return, then vote Yes,
obviously. Without a win on AV, the Lib Dems are certainly doomed.

Perhaps even with it. At election time , when the parties are supposed to
regroup and fight their own campaigns , the Lib Dems will get all the blame for
supporting government policy and none of the credit for, supposedly, diluting
it.

Which could mean that even under AV they would not gain the many second
preferences they bank on.

EURO IN THE TWILIGHT ZONE

As if things were not tough enough these days, the euro crisis has taken yet
another turn for the worse.

Greece's credit rating has been downgraded three notches by a top credit-rating
agency to 'highly speculative'.

It puts Greek bonds on a par with those of Bolivia, Vietnam and Albania. In
plain English, you lend to the Athens government at your peril.

It also means that eurozone countries on the periphery, such as Ireland,
Portugal and Spain, will also find it harder to borrow on the suspicion that
they might also be downgraded.

The markets, happily, have not been too flustered about all this as they've
already largely discounted the dangers of a default by Greece certainly, and
others possibly.

Only politics holds the eurozone in one piece at the moment. If the currency
zone crumbled, the EU would be in danger of falling apart.

Various strategies have been worked out to get round any eurozone government
defaulting, that is, repaying only a part of its debt. But these solutions all
suffer from the problem of being hideously expensive , and unacceptable to the
Germans as the principal contributors.

A break-up of the eurozone is desirable, allowing weaker countries to return to
their old currencies and conditions. But it is prevented by the major powers'
desperate urge to maintain what they think of as a united and powerful Europe.

The economics of one currency and one interest rate for a great batch of
countries with different needs was always absurd, though some refused to see it
, especially our own Lib Dems, none too hot on financial matters. The political
handicap of the EU is similar to its economic handicap.

If the 17 members of the eurozone find it hard to agree on the right course in a
crisis, the problem of the 27 nations of the EU agreeing on policy problems is
inevitably harder. We were wise not to join the eurozone , a great pity we took
on EU membership.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The party of love;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 76 words


SIR - Ukip hates neither Islam nor foreigners nor Europe (report, March 5).

As the only party that trusts the voters of Britain to call referendums on any
matter on which our remote governing elite fails to represent their wishes, with
the results binding Parliament, we are the party not of hatred or of xenophobia,
but of love. That is why the young and idealistic are joining Ukip.

Viscount Monckton of Brenchley Joint Deputy Leader, Ukip Rannoch, Perthshire

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If Cameron doesn't get a grip, his troubles will only get worse;
Ukip's success in Barnsley will be replicated elsewhere unless the Tories shape
up

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1194 words


It has been great sport - and I, too, have participated in it - to taunt, deride
and generally vilipend the Liberal Democrats after their pathetic performance in
the Barnsley by-election last week.

Attention now turns to the events of May 5, when the party is expected to suffer
a trouncing in English council elections and in the contests for seats in the
Scottish parliament and the Welsh assembly. There may even be a difficulty with
the AV referendum, though one should be less sure of the outcome of that. If Mr
Clegg is regarded as inadequate now, heaven knows how his party would see him
then.

This persecution of the junior partner in the Coalition has diverted attention
from the problems of the senior one. In case you missed it, the Tories came
third in Barnsley. They were beaten by the United Kingdom Independence Party,
whose share of the vote rose dramatically compared with last year's general
election. This was bound to happen sooner or later. Ukip's raison d'être is
opposition to our membership of the European Union. However, it is also a party
that believes in a small state, tax cuts, welfare reform, strong defence,
grammar schools and strict non-racial controls on immigration. In short, it is
remarkably like the Conservative Party used to be in the days when it won
elections outright. No wonder that Ukip is so appealing to voters who have seen
a Conservative-led government for the last 10 months, and who voted
Conservative, but now wonder why.

It seems unlikely that the Tories will benefit much, or at all, at the May
elections from the decline of their Coalition partners. One Lib Dem council
leader I talked to recently spoke of desertions by the former faithful not just
to Labour, as might have been predicted, but to the Greens as well. Any Tory
gains from such a realignment would be accidental. It does not look good for the
party in Scotland, and not much more so in Wales. One senses it is bracing
itself for a kicking, but hopes to be able to hide, on the day, behind an even
greater one being given to the Lib Dems. Lulled by the belief that we are still
four years away from a general election, the Conservatives are keeping panic at
bay. Should that belief be challenged, however - such as by certain Lib Dems,
after a thrashing in May, deciding to go their own way in the hope that it might
reinforce them in their constituencies - the momentum that breeds panic could
crank itself up remarkably quickly.

Much of the disaffection among voters is bred of the feeling that Mr Cameron has
taken his party to the Left not simply to accommodate its new friends, but
because that is what the Prime Minister and his cronies would in any case want.
All the talk of deficit reduction and swingeing cuts simply means public
spending increasing less quickly than was planned. Priorities have changed. We
would rather use our money for Lady Bountiful initiatives in the Third World
than to maintain our Armed Forces at serious strength, for example. This
ideological question is a problem; but a more pressing difficulty, and one
capable of doing even more damage to the reputation of the Prime Minister, his
party and the Government, is also apparent.

The difficulty is one of competence: or, rather, lack of it. Each day, one hears
a new story of something the Government simply hasn't done well. On Monday, for
instance, there was a rollercoaster ride for the Duke of York. Was the Prime
Minister washing his hands of our trade envoy? Or was he giving him Her
Majesty's Government's full support? This was a trivial matter, though, compared
with the humiliation of the SAS that resulted from the idiotic decision last
week to send them into Libya on a "diplomatic mission", for pity's sake. This
followed on from the chaos of the previous week, when we seemed to struggle to
devise a plan to get British nationals out of Libya; which itself followed on
from the disastrous haste and ignorance with which the defence cuts were
organised and announced last October.

It makes one nervous about other important aspects of Government policy. In a
fortnight we have a Budget. Will we have a growth strategy? George Osborne, the
Chancellor, has been free with his hostility toward the banks. How would he feel
about HSBC relocating to Hong Kong, as it threatens to do, taking perhaps 52,000
jobs and billions in tax revenue with it? How would he feel about other
financial institutions, and their profits, deciding to follow suit? Bankers are
pretty thickskinned people, and it will not be his name-calling that drives them
away - it will be his refusal to allow them to operate in a tax regime that
encourages their growth and enterprise. How many successful companies must go
offshore before he gets the message?

What do we imagine will happen to our elite universities if Mr Clegg, entirely
for class reasons, decides that they must, if they are to be funded properly,
take a quota of students intellectually unequal to the courses they offer? How
long is the Government going to pretend that the problem with our education
system lies in the universities when, as most fools know, it lies in primary
schools that fail in the basics of education and secondary schools that work
towards a low level of achievement at GCSE and A-level?

How long is it going to kid itself that either academies or free schools can
rectify this problem, which requires the expansion of an educational elite
within the state school system? How long can the Government persist in its
face-saving claim that the defence review need not be reopened? When is it going
to understand that we cannot have a sane or effective foreign policy without the
logistical means to enforce it - not by declaring war on other countries, but by
safeguarding our commercial and humanitarian interests in those places? And when
is it going to understand the gulf between its policy on Europe and the public's
feelings towards the EU, and particularly towards EU interference in what should
be our sovereign rights?

Mr Cameron embarrassed himself before becoming Prime Minister by threatening to
do all sorts of things about the Lisbon Treaty. Thanks to Gordon Brown, it was
too late to do anything. Instead of trying to work out a way of proceeding in
accordance with his pre-election promises, Mr Cameron appears instead to have
lapsed into the traditional posture of sullen acceptance of our fate. If he
wonders why Ukip is so popular, he need look no further than that for the
reasons.

As with all prime ministers when the going gets rough, Mr Cameron is becoming
neglectful of his power base in the Commons. He has long had a reputation for
rudeness and arrogance, but people were happy to put up with it when the party
was seeking power. Such traits are less tolerable when the question is how to
hold on to power. But there is also this question of what the satisfactory
exercise of power requires. It requires competence; and a preparation for
competence is an adequate grasp of reality. A number of Tory MPs are starting to
wonder whether Mr Cameron and his circle have the necessary grip. I think they
have a point.

Comment on Simon Heffer's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEP vote bolsters fears of Tobin tax

BYLINE: Philip Aldrick

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 256 words


BRITAIN'S banks have been threatened with a damaging Tobin tax on financial
transactions after the European Parliament voted through a report advocating the
move.

Under the proposal, the tax would be levied on each financial transaction by
banks based in the European Union at a rate of up to 0.05pc - raising as much as
(EURO)200bn (£170bn) annually.

Support for the tax has been gathering momentum in Brussels after initially
being rejected as unworkable by the International Monetary Fund unless it
secured global agreement.

Michel Barnier, EU internal markets commissioner, last month endorsed the tax,
saying: "I personally consider this to be the right idea." However, he added
that it would have to be implemented worldwide. The European Commission also has
a financial transaction tax under consideration.

MEPs were voting on an own-initiative report by Greek Socialist Anni Podimata.
It was approved by 529 to 127, with 18 abstentions.

Although not legally binding, it will maintain pressure on Brussels to consider
the tax when negotiations for the next budget begin later this year. The next
seven-year budget is due in 2013.

It is highly unlikely a Tobin tax would be accepted by the UK Government unless
all global financial centres, including New York and Hong Kong, signed up. The
Government has a veto over any new Brussels legislation.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the EU going it alone would be "an act of kamikaze
economics".

£170bn The annual amount that a 0.05pc levy on financial transactions by banks
in Europe could come to

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Kamikaze' EU finance tax is attack on the City

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 462  words


CALLS for a new EU tax on banks and finance houses to help repay the cost of the
economic crisis were slammed yesterday as an attack on the City of London.

Euro-MPs in Strasbourg voted overwhelmingly for the tax - with proceeds going
straight to the EU budget - in a move to plough extra cash into development aid
and the fight against climate change.

But the European Commission cautioned against such a move without matching
international measures, fearing an EU-only tax would hit European
competitiveness.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage branded the move "kamikaze economics".

He said: "If we continue down this route, Britain will lose its biggest
industry.

"The time has come for the City of London and the financial markets to rise up
against EU membership. This transaction tax has been proposed here because the
EU is desperate for money. It is in so much trouble."

Tory MEP Vicky Ford said the proposed tax would effectively add hugely to the
UK's EU budget contributions, while putting a part of national tax policy in the
hands of Brussels.

She attacked Labour MEPs' backing for the plan, adding: "While it is absolutely
right that financial services companies should pay increased taxes, this is not
the way to do it.

"A European financial transaction tax would be a tax on the City of London
raised by Brussels to fund pet projects. Any such tax must be levied in concert
with at least the G20 countries, with revenues going to national exchequers, not
to the EU.

"Imposing such a tax without a global agreement would cause some of our
financial services sector to relocate, losing the UK billions in tax revenues
and costing untold jobs."

Tory MP Matthew Hancock said:

"The EU should be making savings, not proposing lavish new spending."

The UK already has a bank levy in place that will raise GBP 2.5billion a year by
2012-13.

Yesterday's vote is not legally binding but the commission will soon be
publishing proposals for legislation.

CBI director in Brussels Sean McGuire warned that such a tax would hit jobs and
growth. He said:

"It would hamper the EU's long-term competitiveness as a leading centre for
financial services companies."

Think-tank Open Europe believes the extra tax burden on the UK would be between
GBP 40-GBP 180billion.

But TUC boss Brendan Barber welcomed the plan, saying:

"European politicians have turned public anger into support for a Robin Hood tax
- a tiny tax that could make a big difference.

"Banks should pay for the crisis they caused, rather than ordinary people in
Britain and abroad."

Does Britain already give too much to EU?

QYES: 0901 030 8342 NO: 0901 030 8343 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088 No text DXWEDNO
to 80088 Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New battle for Britain?Euro MPs want to levy a bank tax for Brussels
but Farage says it only shows we must quit EU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

New EU banking tax is 'kamikaze economics'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 252  words


CALLS for a new EU tax on banks and finance houses to help repay the cost of the
economic crisis were slammed yesterday as an attack on the City of London.

Euro-MPs in Strasbourg voted overwhelmingly for the tax - with proceeds going
straight to the EU budget - in a move to plough extra cash into development aid
and the fight against climate change.

But the European Commission cautioned against such a move without matching
international measures, fearing an EU-only tax would hit European
competitiveness.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage branded the move "kamikaze economics".
He said: "If we continue down this route, Britain will lose its biggest
industry. The time has come for the City of London and the financial markets to
rise up against EU membership. This transaction tax has been proposed here
because the EU is desperate for money."

Tory MEP Vicky Ford said the proposed tax would effectively add hugely to the
UK's EU budget contributions. She said: "Imposing such a tax without a global
agreement would cause some of our financial services sector to relocate, losing
the UK billions in tax revenues and costing untold jobs." Yesterday's vote is
not legally binding but the Commission will soon be publishing proposals for
legislation.

TUC boss Brendan Barber welcomed the plan, saying: "European politicians have
turned public anger against the financial sector into support for a Robin Hood
tax.

"Banks should pay for the crisis they caused, rather than ordinary people in
Britain and abroad."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP leader Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Powers of EU must be stalled'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 101 words


DAVID Cameron was last night urged to block moves to cement European judges'
power over the British parliament.

A leading MEP has demanded the Prime Minister stall the plan to enshrine the
European Convention on Human Rights in EU law. All member states must agree
before it can go ahead.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP for London, said: "Mr Cameron said that the [European]
Court's decision to give prisoners the vote, even though our parliament voted
against it, made him physically sick.

"Now he can do something about it. If he won't pull out of the Convention
altogether he must move against it becoming EU law."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday

Cameron urged to block EU powers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words


DAVID Cameron was last night urged to block moves to cement the power of
European judges over the British parliament.

A leading MEP has demanded the Prime Minister stall the plan to enshrine the
European Convention on Human Rights in EU law.

All member states must agree to the move, permitted under the Lisbon Treaty,
before it can go ahead.

Gerard Batten, UkIP MEP for London, said: "Mr Cameron said that the [European]
Court's decision to give prisoners the vote, even though our Parliament voted
against it, made him physically sick.

"Now he can do something about it. If he won't pull out of the Convention
altogether, he must move against it becoming EU law."

After the ruling on prisoners, senior judge Lord Hoffman said the Strasbourg
court had got completely out of control.

He said that the court was "in practice answerable to no one".

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Cameron urged to block EU powers

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 140  words


DAVID Cameron was last night urged to block moves to cement the power of
European judges over the British parliament.

A leading MEP has demanded the Prime Minister stall the plan to enshrine the
European Convention on Human Rights in EU law.

All member states must agree to the move, permitted under the Lisbon Treaty,
before it can go ahead.

Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for London, said: "Mr Cameron said that the [European]
Court's decision to give prisoners the vote, even though our Parliament voted
against it, made him physically sick.

"Now he can do something about it. If he won't pull out of the Convention
altogether, he must move against it becoming EU law."

After the ruling on prisoners, senior judge Lord Hoffman said the Strasbourg
court had got completely out of control.

He said that the court was "in practice answerable to no one".

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Powers of EU must be stalled'

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 101  words


DAVID Cameron was last night urged to block moves to cement European judges'
power over the British parliament.

A leading MEP has demanded the Prime Minister stall the plan to enshrine the
European Convention on Human Rights in EU law. All member states must agree
before it can go ahead.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP for London, said:

"Mr Cameron said that the [European] Court's decision to give prisoners the
vote, even though our parliament voted against it, made him physically sick.

"Now he can do something about it. If he won't pull out of the Convention
altogether he must move against it becoming EU law."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hague defends botched Libya mission

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Michael Evans; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 704 words


William Hague blamed a "serious misunderstanding" with rebel leaders for the
botched diplomatic mission to eastern Libya as recriminations flew around
Whitehall.

The Foreign Secretary insisted that the anti-Gaddafi council in Benghazi had
welcomed the idea of meeting British diplomats, as he defended his decision to
authorise the operation. It ended with the two MI6 officials and their six
special forces "bodyguards" from the Special Boat Service being withdrawn after
they were detained for two days by armed Libyan farmers.

Diplomatic and defence sources blamed the "mindset" of the special forces for
surprising locals with a drop-off by helicopter under cover of darkness instead
of deploying from HMS Cumberland in Benghazi harbour.

However, other officials pinned blame on an intelligence and diplomatic failure
for misjudging conditions on the ground. "We have not had our finest hour," said
one Whitehall official.

Mr Hague said that the timing and details of the mission had been "decided by
the professionals", but added that he took full ministerial responsibility. The
Prime Minister was aware that it was going ahead. Mr Hague told the Commons that
he would shortly send in another team of diplomats, but "on a very different
basis".

A poll for The Times today shows that there is significant support among voters
for Britain to take a leading role in the Libyan crisis. Almost half back
military intervention on humanitarian grounds and a clear majority support help
for refugees regardless of their country of origin.

In the Commons, Mr Hague was taunted from both sides of the chamber for the
failings of the weekend mission. Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Liberal
Democrat leader, said it had been "ill conceived, poorly planned and
embarrassingly executed".

Douglas Alexander, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, said the failed mission raised
further questions about Mr Hague's response to events in Libya.

Mr Alexander, referring to the night-time helicopter landing, said that voters
would wonder, if new neighbours moved in next door to the Foreign Secretary,
"whether he would introduce himself by ringing the doorbell or instead choose to
climb over the fence in the middle of the night".

The Special Boat Service team took off in a Chinook from Valetta, Malta, in the
early hours of Friday, it emerged yesterday. By the time senior government
officials in London had discussed sending diplomats to meet the rebels, the team
had already been detained.

However, the Populus poll found that 49 per cent of respondents believe that
Britain should be prepared to use military force to prevent foreign regimes from
launching attacks against citizens campaigning for freedom. This compares with
45 per cent of respondents who were against such a measure. Liberal Democrats
were least in favour, with 50 per cent opposed to intervention.

The poll also found that a big majority supported Britain helping refugees, with
68 per cent in favour and 28 per cent against such a move. This effectively
endorsed the mission last week by Andrew Mitchell, the International Development
Secretary, to help refugees on the Libyan-Tunisian border. Britain also has an
obligation to passport holders working abroad when their safety is threatened by
political unrest, according to voters, with 86 per cent in favour and 11 per
cent opposed.

Mr Hague said that any no-fly zone would require "a clear legal basis" and
support from the region.

State of the parties

Labour has edged further ahead in the latest Populus poll for The Times amid
evidence that enthusiasm is fading for the Tories and Lib Dems working together.

Labour's support rose 2 points to 41 per cent; the Conservatives' fell 1 point
to 35 per cent. The Lib Dems remain on 11 per cent. UKIP has 5 per cent and the
Greens 4 per cent.

Last September, 68 per cent supported the decision to form a coalition. The
public are now evenly divided, with 48 per cent in support, and 49 per cent
against. Populus interviewed 1,511 adults on March 4-6. See www.populus.co.uk

Lab 41% 2%) Tory 35% (-1%) Lib Deb 11% (N/C) Others 13% Voting intention change
since last month) Do you support the coalition? September 2010 Agree Disagree
68% 29% Now Agree Disagree 48% 49% ee Disagr ee Disagr

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A sailor carries a child as evacuees from Benghazi disembark from HMS
Cumberland in Malta yesterday
DARRIN ZAMMIT LUPI / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Hague defends botched Libya mission

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Michael Evans Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 674 words


William Hague blamed a "serious misunderstanding" with rebel leaders for the
botched diplomatic mission to eastern Libya as recriminations flew around
Whitehall.

The Foreign Secretary insisted that the anti-Gaddafi council in Benghazi had
welcomed the idea of meeting British diplomats, as he defended his decision to
authorise the operation. It ended with the two MI6 officials and their six
special forces "bodyguards" from the Special Boat Service being withdrawn after
they were detained for two days by armed Libyan farmers.

Diplomatic and defence sources blamed the "mindset" of the special forces for
surprising locals with a dropoff by helicopter under cover of darkness instead
of deploying from HMS Cumberland in Benghazi harbour.

However, other officials pinned blame on an intelligence and diplomatic failure
for misjudging conditions on the ground. "We have not had our finest hour," said
a Whitehall official.

Mr Hague said that the timing and details of the mission had been "decided by
the professionals" but that he took full ministerial responsibility. The Prime
Minister was aware that it was going ahead. Mr Hague told the Commons that he
would shortly send in another team of diplomats, but "on a very different
basis".

A poll for The Times today shows that there is significant support for Britain
to take a leading role in the Libyan crisis. Almost half of voters back military
intervention on humanitarian grounds and a clear majority support help for
refugees regardless of their country of origin.

In the Commons, Mr Hague was taunted from both sides of the Chamber for the
failings of the weekend mission.

Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Liberal Democrat leader, said that it had been
"ill conceived, poorly planned and embarrassingly executed".

Douglas Alexander, the Shadow Foreign Secretary, said that the failed mission
raised further questions about Mr Hague's response to events in Libya. Referring
to the night-time helicopter landing, he said that voters would wonder, if new
neighbours moved in next door to the Foreign Secretary, "whether he would
introduce himself by ringing the doorbell or instead climb over the fence in the
middle of the night".

The Special Boat Service team took off in a Chinook from Valletta, Malta, in the
early hours of Friday, it emerged yesterday. By the time senior government
officials in London had discussed sending diplomats to meet the rebels, the team
had already been detained. Sources defended their conduct on the ground. "Can
you imagine what would have happened if they had killed the Libyan farmers who
detained them?" The Populus poll found that 49 per cent of voters believe that
Britain should be prepared to use military force to prevent foreign regimes from
launching attacks against citizens campaigning for freedom, with 45 per cent
against. Liberal Democrats were least in favour, with 41 in favour of
intervention and 50 per cent opposed.

A big majority of voters support Britain helping refugees, with 68 per cent in
favour and 28 per cent against. This effectively endorsed the mission by Andrew
Mitchell, the International Development Secretary, to help refugees on the
Libyan-Tunisian border. Britain also has an obligation to passport holders
working abroad when their safety is threatened by political unrest, according to
voters, with 86 per cent in favour and 11 per cent opposed.

Mr Hague said that any no-fly zone would require "a clear legal basis" and
support from the region.

Thunderer, page 22 Labour has edged further ahead in the latest Populus poll for
The Times amid evidence that enthusiasm is fading for the Tories and Lib Dems
working together.

Labour's support rose 2 points to 41 per cent; the Conservatives' fell 1 point
to 35 per cent. The Lib Dems remain on 11 per cent. UKIP has 5 per cent and the
Greens 4 per cent.

Last September, 68 per cent supported the decision to form a coalition. The
public are now evenly divided, with 48 per cent in support, and 49 per cent
against. Populus interviewed 1,511 adults on March 4-6. See www.populus.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A sailor carries a child as evacuees from Benghazi disembark from HMS
Cumberland in Malta yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 7, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The tide is turning and we see the EU for what it truly is

BYLINE: Leo McKinstry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 913 words


.... .....

No politician symbolises the twisted values of the EU more graphically than
Baroness Cathy Ashton, the Brussels foreign affairs boss. All the European
Union's traits of hypocrisy, profligacy, arrogance and lack of democracy are
embodied in this ridiculous bureaucratic parasite. Baroness Ashton has never
been elected to any public office during her unedifying career. Yet now, amid
the turmoil of North Africa, she has the nerve to give lectures about the
importance of elections and liberty. "True democracy is the necessary foundation
of tolerance, peace and prosperity," she piously intoned in an article last
Friday.

Well, if she really believes that, why does she not apply such a principle to
the unaccountable, self-serving oligarchy of her own EU Commission? If anywhere
needs the breath of democracy it is the closed politburo of Ashton and her
cronies.

Similarly, as a second-rate Labour apparatchik, Ashton has never run any major
organisation in her life. But she now finds herself in charge of a burgeoning EU
diplomatic empire, with a lavish headquarters in Brussels, a huge army of
offi-cials and expensive self-styled embassies all over the world. She is also
head of the European Defence Agency, an outfit that is assuming ever greater
importance as Brussels accelerates the process of integration. Already she has
proved herself to be hopelessly out of her depth, unable either to rise to the
challenges of her role or to control her colossal budget.

YESTErDAY, as the civil war intensified in Libya, Ashton announced that she is
to send "a fact-finding mission" to the region. Just what the world needs in the
middle of a ferocious conflict: over-paid penpushers wandering the desert so a
socialist mediocrity can give the illusion of doing something to justify her
existence. Equally disastrous has been her lack of grip over finances. In our
age of austerity, when public services throughout Britain are facing heavy cuts
so that the Government can tackle the fiscal deficit, it is a scandal that this
year alone, the cost of Ashton's new, unwanted diplomatic corps has risen by
£29million to more than £400million. Soon, the overall bill is expected to reach
£2.5billion, more than we spend in Britain on prisons. Nearly all this money
will be squandered on pointless layers of officialdom for which we never voted.

Such contempt for public money is all too characteristic of Ashton, who has
spent most of her political career living off taxpayers' cash. Last month, she
declared that she wants to give an extra £2.1billion in aid to North Africa,
supposedly to support the civil rights movement, though we can be sure that much
of that funding would end up in that hands of Islamic extremists. In any case,
what possible business is it of the EU to use our money to interfere in the
internal affairs of African states? once more the self-important imperialist
mindset of the Brussels cabal is on display.

Ashton also recently decided to spend £8.5million on the recruitment of public
relations consultants to improve the image of the EU. It is hard to conceive of
a more sickening abuse of our money. The reason the EU has such a dismal
reputation is not because of poor Pr but because it is such a menacing, wasteful
leviathan bent on destroying our independence and democracy. The only way to
improve its image would be to announce its dissolution.

Ashton's spendthrift conduct is all too typical of the EU, which has no concept
of fiscal restraint. Yesterday it was revealed that Brussels is to spend
£51million on a new museum to celebrate the political integration of Europe.
This will be a vast monument to political vanity, the kind of edi-fice that the
Soviet Union used to build to impose its ideology on its oppressed population.
Last week also saw members of the European Parliament voting for an £11.4million
increase in their staffing allowances - about £18,000 a month per
representative.

ThE extravagance, abuses and bullying by Europe's institutions are now out of
control. Individual member states are now treated with complete disdain by the
powermad officials, whether it be over car insurance or lightbulbs, prisoners'
votes or welfare benefits for immigrants. What is so striking is that the EU and
the Court of human rights no longer try to hide their determination to subjugate
the peoples of Europe. They used to proceed by stealth, pretending that
integration was not really happening. But now they are quite open about their
drive to crush our sovereignty. "The time of the homogenous nation state is
over," declares herman Van rompuy, President of the EU.

We cannot go on pretending that we can survive as a nation within the EU. At
last the British people are waking up to the reality of the loss of our
selfgovernance under Brussels rule. The vote in last week's Barnsley
by-election, where the UK Independence Party came second and the euro fanatics
of the Lib Dems came sixth, shows that there is a swelling tide to take our
country back. Withdrawal from the EU used to be regarded as an extremist
position but, as Brussels grows ever more intolerable, support for such a policy
is becoming increasingly popular.

The antics of Baroness Ashton and her ilk have exposed the crisis of democracy
that we have here in Britain. If we cannot govern ourselves, then all other
political issues are an irrelevance. That is why we desperately need a
referendum now on our membership of the EU.

'We cannot survive as a nation within it'

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNELECTED: Baroness Ashton lectures on democracy
Picture: EPA/STR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 7, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

The tide is turning and we see the EU for what it truly is;
LEADER

BYLINE: Leo McKinstry

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 908  words


NO politician symbolises the twisted values of the EU more graphically than
Baroness Cathy Ashton, the Brussels foreign affairs boss. All the European
Union's traits of hypocrisy, profligacy, arrogance and lack of democracy are
embodied in this ridiculous bureaucratic parasite.

Baroness Ashton has never been elected to any public office during her
unedifying career. Yet now, amid the turmoil of North Africa, she has the nerve
to give lectures about the importance of elections and liberty. "True democracy
is the necessary foundation of tolerance, peace and prosperity, " she piously
intoned in an article last Friday.

Well, if she really believes that, why does she not apply such a principle to
the unaccountable, self-serving oligarchy of her own EU Commission? If anywhere
needs the breath of democracy it is the closed politburo of Ashton and her
cronies.

Similarly, as a second-rate Labour apparatchik, Ashton has never run any major
organisation in her life. But she now finds herself in charge of a burgeoning EU
diplomatic empire, with a lavish headquarters in Brussels, a huge army of
officials and expensive self-styled embassies all over the world.

She is also head of the European Defence Agency, an outfit that is assuming ever
greater importance as Brussels accelerates the process of integration. Already
she has proved herself to be hopelessly out of her depth, unable either to rise
to the challenges of her role or to control her colossal budget.

Y ESTERDAY, as the civil war intensified in Libya, Ashton announced that she is
to send "a fact-finding mission" to the region. Just what the world needs in the
middle of a ferocious conflict: over-paid penpushers wandering the desert so a
socialist mediocrity can give the illusion of doing something to justify her
existence.

Equally disastrous has been her lack of grip over finances.

In our age of austerity, when public services throughout Britain are facing
heavy cuts so that the Government can tackle the fiscal deficit, it is a scandal
that this year alone, the cost of Ashton's new, unwanted diplomatic corps has
risen by GBP 29million to more than GBP 400million. Soon, the overall bill is
expected to reach GBP 2.5billion, more than we spend in Britain on prisons.
Nearly all this money will be squandered on pointless layers of officialdom for
which we never voted.

Such contempt for public money is all too characteristic of Ashton, who has
spent most of her political career living off taxpayers' cash. Last month, she
declared that she wants to give an extra GBP 2.1billion in aid to North Africa,
supposedly to support the civil rights movement, though we can be sure that much
of that funding would end up in that hands of Islamic extremists. In any case,
what possible business is it of the EU to use our money to interfere in the
internal affairs of African states? Once more the self-important imperialist
mindset of the Brussels cabal is on display.

Ashton also recently decided to spend GBP 8.5million on the recruitment of
public relations consultants to improve the image of the EU. It is hard to
conceive of a more sickening abuse of our money. The reason the EU has such a
dismal reputation is not because of poor PR but because it is such a menacing,
wasteful leviathan bent on destroying our independence and democracy.

The only way to improve its image would be to announce its dissolution.

Ashton's spendthrift conduct is all too typical of the EU, which has no concept
of fiscal restraint. Yesterday it was revealed that Brussels is to spend GBP
51million on a new museum to celebrate the political integration of Europe. This
will be a vast monument to political vanity, the kind of edifice that the Soviet
Union used to build to impose its ideology on its oppressed population.

Last week also saw members of the European Parliament voting for an GBP
11.4million increase in their staffing allowances - about GBP 18,000 a month per
representative.

T HE extravagance, abuses and bullying by Europe's institutions are now out of
control. Individual member states are now treated wit h complete disdain by the
powermad officials, whether it be over car insurance or lightbulbs, prisoners'
votes or welfare benefits for immigrants.

What is so striking is that the EU and the Court of Human Rights no longer try
to hide their determination to subjugate the peoples of Europe.

They used to proceed by stealth, pretending that integration was not really
happening. But now they are quite open about their drive to crush our
sovereignty. "The time of the homogenous nation state is over, " declares Herman
Van Rompuy, President of the EU.

We cannot go on pretending that we can survive as a nation within the EU. At
last the British people are waking up to the reality of the loss of our
selfgovernance under Brussels rule. The vote in last week's Barnsley
by-election, where the UK Independence Party came second and the euro fanatics
of the Lib Dems came sixth, shows that there is a swelling tide to take our
country back.

Withdrawal from the EU used to be regarded as an extremist position but, as
Brussels grows ever more intolerable, support for such a policy is becoming
increasingly popular.

The antics of Baroness Ashton and her ilk have exposed the crisis of democracy
that we have here in Britain. If we cannot govern ourselves, then al l other
political issues are a n irrelevance. That is why we desperately need a
referendum now on our membership of the EU.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNELECTED: Baroness Ashton lectures on democracy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 7, 2011 Monday

Reply: Letter: The coalition prison and a Lib Dem split

BYLINE: Ian Sharp

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 199 words


While Liberal Democrat ministers can only watch helplessly from behind the bars
of their coalition prison as their rightwing leaning voters in Barnsley escape
into the waiting arms of a drooling Ukip suitor, they must cling on to the hope
that their more left-leaning supporters will wait for them till they get out in
four years' time. If the left could produce their own version of Ukip, a party
which was not in hock to the unions but took a strong left-of-centre line on
economic, international and environmental matters, then on their release in
2015, as Vince, Nick, Chris, Danny and Sarah rub their eyes trying to get used
to the bright lights of freedom again, they will look around and find nobody to
welcome them back from their incarceration, not a car to meet them, no homes to
go to and, more to the point, no prospect of employment. Tim Horton is right
(The Libs are not the Dems, 5 March), it's time for the Dems to have a party to
themselves. I suggest we call it the Radical party and we start setting it up
today. There's no time to lose. You never know, they might be out sooner than we
think; they could get time off for bad behaviour.

Ian Sharp

Scunthorpe, North Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 7, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Clarke's plain speaking ruffles Lib Dem feathers;
CONFERENCE DIARY

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 428 words


Kenneth Clarke used the conference platform yesterday to rally Conservatives
behind the No campaign for the 5 May referendum on adopting the alternative vote
(AV) system at general elections.

Safer, Tory party managers judged, than allowing him to speak about his
sentencing policy. Yet the plain-speaking Mr Clarke still managed to ruffle
feathers. He dismissed supporters of electoral reform as usually coming from the
"fringes of politics". That will not endear him to the Liberal Democrat
ministers with whom he often agrees around the Cabinet table. Declaring the
Tories deserved to lose the 1997, 2001 and 2005 elections, Mr Clarke said: "I
really cannot recall ... a general election where I think the great British
public got it wrong ." Only one problem: David Cameron's failure to win an
overall majority last year. If there is one thing that the Cameroons don't like
to be reminded of, it is that. Oops.

On the wrong side

Ministers declared their support for "freedom of expression" in Libya, but it
seems to be in doubt closer to home. Conservative Yes, a band of Tory activists
who support AV, was barred from launching its campaign at the conference. In
contrast, the No to AV campaign was allowed its own stall and its propaganda was
distributed by Conservative Campaign Headquarters (CCHQ). Conservative Yes
claims support from former MPs and candidates, Tory peers, councillors and
assembly members. Although some Tory MPs sympathise, none has been persuaded to
risk Mr Cameron's wrath by coming out in favour of reform, which might blight
their career prospects.

Naughty list

Some ministers decided to stay away from the Cardiff conference. Warning to the
absentees: Tory whips are said to be checking the register to discover the
naughty boys.

Cable's mission

Spotted in the same hotel as Tory representatives: Vince Cable, the Business
Secretary. He is regarded as a dangerous leftie by many Tories. But Mr Cable was
not there to build bridges. He addressed the Lib Dem Welsh conference and stayed
on for meetings with local business leaders. Business as usual, alas.

Don't mention...

Baroness Warsi, the Tory co-chairman, avoided any mention in her speech of the
party's embarrassing third place in the Barnsley Central by-election -
discussion was relegated to a behind-closed-doors session. Some activists
grumbled privately the Liberal Democrats have blunted the Government's message
on Europe, allowing the Ukip to come second in Barnsley. If Ukip does well in
the May elections, Tory Eurosceptics will be on the march, Mr Cameron is being
warned.

Tricky.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 7, 2011 Monday 12:21 PM GMT

I joined the Conservatives long before Cameron was born. I won't be pushed out

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1055 words


I know that I will be accused of "banging on about Europe", but in fact I am
banging on about whether we should govern our own country or leave it to Our
Masters in Brussels. Personally I think that is not an unimportant matter.

So even I was shocked to read in the Daily Telegraph that in order to help
people in the Scottish islands, Danny Alexander, Chief Secretary to the
Treasury, is to ask the EU to give Britain permission to offer a discount to
drivers who face higher pump prices than on the mainland.

I presume that this is because it would affect the yield of VAT, but how clearly
it illustrates that we are not and - to be fair to the present Government - have
not for a long time been masters in our own house.

It was all but 120 years ago, in a speech at Hastings on 17 March 1891, that
Gladstone - a real Liberal - spoke about these matters. His words are ever more
relevant today:

"The finance of this country is intimately associated with the liberties of this
country. It is a powerful leverage by which English liberty has been gradually
aquired ... It lies at the root of English liberty. If these powers of the House
of Commons come to be encroached upon, it will be by tacit and insidious
measures and therefore, I say public attention should be called to this."

Curiously it was almost exactly a century later (13 March 1991) that Chancellor
Kohl told the Bundestag that "However important the completion of economic and
monetary union, it would remain mere patchwork unless political union were
established simultaneously".

These are different sides of the same coin. Unless a government has control of
taxation and public spending it is not an effective government. Any government
which does not have those powers is ineffective. At present neither Westminster
nor Brussels is in effective control. Hence we have a failure of democratic
government here and a failure of economic government within the eurozone.

Something has to give.

Well, one or two things at least became clear in your comments on my blog post
of 5 March. First of all, steven dobbs' contribution on Sunday at 4.05 pm was
just so far over the top that there can now be no doubt at all that it was a
magnificent send up of the Left-wing Euroloony brigade, as I have suspected for
some time. Wonderful stuff! Then muttlee and dipplepskik demonstrated that they
have still not read either the manifesto of the BNP which they support, or
indeed a biography of Britain's most prominent fascist Oswald Mosley, but I am
grateful to eggy, conservative monarchist, and bluepeter for putting them right
yet again.

Sadly, it is also obvious that however often I write here (and elsewhere) why I
remain a member of the Conservative Party people like britishindependence still
froth with a heady mixture of ignorance and ill manners. So let me say it
again.The Conservative Party is my Party. I joined it 65 years ago, long before
Finklestein and Cameron were born. I do not see why such recent arrivals in the
Party, unable to accept its culture, should push Conservatives like me out. Of
course I understand why many former Conservative voters like David Page now vote
UKIP and defectors like him strengthen the hands of me and my friends who are
trying to put the Party back on track. As albeinstein put it, either I, or
Cameron is in the wrong party, but he happens to be the leader.

Of course I also understand why many former conservatives have now become UKIP
supporters. What is more, I am flattered that so many of those, like
jock_mcsporran and oggy think it would help UKIP if I joined them, with
nerdgirlthefirst even suggesting that I should become leader. As I will be 84 by
the time of the next election (if I last that long), I think I might be a bit
too old for that, so I think Tebbit for PM is being a bit optimistic too!

It is also true that I have explained why Thatcher and I, and many others in her
government, went along with our membership of the EEC, but not the EU.

For the sake of mockpudding, james01 and others I will repeat that explanation.
In its earliest days, many of us could see benefits in creating a trading bloc,
eliminating tariffs which were high in those days, promoting greater
independence of food supplies and getting rid of the non tarriff barriers to
trade. There was a lot of sense in doing that by treaty. In those days it was
reasonable to think that we, and some of the others who did not what to lose
their independence, could resist the march towards a European republic. It was
the overthrow of Thatcher by the Euro fanatics when she dug in her heels against
the Delors plan, and then the Maastricht treaty, which made it clear that we had
lost the battle. That persuaded many of us that barring some event such as the
collapse of the euro forcing a fundamental change to the Treaty of Rome we would
be better off out. No doubt david in rome will come to the same conclusion one
day.

Yes, because our judiciary insist on observing the primacy of Euro law over
domestic law and the French courts do not, we are losing our independence faster
than the French, but they too will be ground down sooner or later. In the
meantime, as gloucestermum suggested, it may be that the Germans will have
decided that they have had enough.

I will say only that it is plain daft to think that should we leave the EU it
would damage our trade. It would simply relieve us of a huge burden of costs.

I fear that these comments are becoming too long, so I will end by joining in
the general chuckles at the Barnsley result, telling davidalbion I do not know
what he was talking about, ben-arnulffsen that Tories do not "believe in
unrestrained markets", thanking bohemond for putting him right, and for those
two thoughtful Americans, bersher and gregyank as well as so many more of you
for some cracking good comments. I ought to remind The Slog, who declared that
we are beholden to the banks, that debtors always are beholden to their
creditors.

Lastly, I welcome the fact that although there was not unaminity over the matter
of insurance premiums, there was broad agreement that it was a matter for us,
not the Commission, to decide.

Thank you all, but in order to stop this blog from becoming far, far too long,
much as I enjoy our debates, I think that in future I should reply only to
comments on the theme of my blog posts.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 March 6, 2011
                                 First Edition

Barnsley is a faulty barometer;
Tempting as it is to find general election clues in Labour's by-election win,
the numbers are misleading

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 987 words


I have tried, but I cannot make the Barnsley by-election mean anything. It was a
"bad result for the Liberal Democrats", as Nick Clegg put it, but we knew that
they were in trouble before Thursday. For everyone else, it was a Mirror of
Erised election, in that you saw in it whatever you wanted to see.

For the shiny-faced New Generation of Ed Milibandites, it was evidence that two
new spin-doctors and a bit of steadiness at Prime Minister's Questions was
enough to expose the Tory-led coalition for the deeply unpopular craze of
right-wing horridness that it really is.

For the hard-faced Conservative traditionalists, whose main complaint is that
this is precisely what the Coalition ought to be but is not, it was evidence
that Sunshine Cameron is being dangerously outflanked by the true Tories of the
UK Independence Party.

(For Jim Murphy, Labour's defence spokesman, it was vindication of his advice
that the party should choose more candidates who have served in the armed
forces.)

Yes, it was a striking result. Labour is not used to increasing its share of the
vote in by-elections, mainly because it has been in government for so long. It
was the first time that Ukip had come second in any parliamentary election. And
sixth place, down from second, was embarrassing for the Lib Dem, coming behind
the Tory, the BNP and a local independent, Tony Devoy, a former miner whose main
pledge was to donate half his MP's salary to charity if he won.

However, once you twiddle all the dials on the vote-interpreter to account for
known variables, the machine tells us what we already know. First, it was a
by-election, and by-elections tend to be poorly attended street parties of
anti-government sentiment. Second, a good candidate (or the absence of a weak
candidate) can maximise this anti-government effect. Third, a sense of
nationhood, to put it delicately, matters to a lot of voters. Fourth, the
coalition parties performed as poorly as each other when you take into account
the collapse in Lib Dem support last year.

This last point may need some explanation. The formation of the coalition last
May roughly halved the Lib Dem base line by driving away the Labour-leaning half
of Lib Dem voters. Thus, while the Tory share of the vote in Barnsley halved
compared with the general election, the Lib Dem share shrank by three-quarters.

But a grim result for both governing parties doesn't mean what the coalition's
opponents say it means. Mid-term by-election wins are a poor predictor of
general election victories. Labour's current lead in national opinion polls, of
about five percentage points, is not much better. Nor even, I would suggest, is
a more significant polling number, which is David Cameron's 12-point lead over
Ed Miliband when people are asked who would make a better prime minister. But
that last figure describes the underlying structure of British politics: it's
just that we've got four years of spending cuts and unknowable economics to pile
on top of it.

Nor should we waste time on the argument that Ukip's success is a warning to
Cameron that he should return to the policies that lost elections for William
Hague and Michael Howard. Ukip is not the provisional wing of the 1988
Conservative Party: its vote is almost as much a disaffected Labour vote as it
is a disaffected Tory vote. The only poll in Barnsley, by a new company called
Survation, suggested that the largest chunk of the Ukip candidate's support came
from people who had voted Labour in the general election.

No, the success of Ukip and the BNP in Barnsley reflected a largely
working-class disillusionment with the political establishment, which is seen as
soft on immigration and weak in standing up for British interests in Europe. And
we knew that, too.

Which is not to say that the Lib Dems are in good shape. Nick Clegg's strategy
of proving he can be trusted with the tough decisions of government by being
just as enthusiastic as the Tories about cutting public spending was never going
to give his party a separate identity. The big political event of this month,
the Budget, is essentially a Tory-Labour fixture, or even just the Osborne and
Balls show. Ed Balls limbered up last week by launching a campaign against his
policy in government, which was to raise the tax on petrol from April, while
Osborne countered by suggesting that next month's cuts - most of which were
planned by Alistair Darling - are "Labour's cuts".

So it was interesting that Clegg gave a speech last week on multiculturalism in
which he set out the difference between him and the Prime Minister. The week
before it was voting reform. This is intended to get away from what one insider
described as "the danger of homogenised language". Where Cameron suggested, I
thought, that "state multiculturalism" in some way helped to radicalise the 7/7
bombers, Clegg was robust - even "muscular" - in rejecting any role for
government policy, however misdirected, in causing terrorism. Clegg's speeches
have often been poor, but this was a good one.

Other Lib Dem cabinet ministers have been giving what they regard as important
speeches. Vince Cable, at the Mansion House last week, trumpeted his success in
getting the Bill through the Commons for part-privatising the Post Office. Chris
Huhne came close to saying that $100-a-barrel oil was a jolly good thing because
it made a low carbon economy less expensive by comparison.

Even if anyone had noticed, none of that really hangs together as a distinctive
Lib Dem contribution to the coalition, still less as the outline of a
vote-winning Lib Dem programme at the next election.

The main lesson to be learned from the Barnsley by-election was provided by Nick
Clegg, who warned people not to "write off the Liberal Democrats". Ah, now,
writing off the Liberal Democrats. No one had actually said that. But now that
he has put it in people's minds ...

twitter.com/JohnRentoul independent.co.uk/jrentoul

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 6, 2011

The Lib Dems need to whistle their way through these dark days: It's not
impossible for Nick Clegg's party eventually to win back support, but they
mustn't lose their nerve

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1480 words


Always look on the bright side of life. This is the Monty Python tune that the
Lib Dems will have to whistle if they are to endure the next 18 months. So first
the good news for them from their otherwise humiliating showing at the Barnsley
Central byelection. Dominic Carman, the Lib Dem candidate, did manage to attract
more support than Howling Laud Hope . By a margin of 814 votes, the Lib Dems
thus avoided the terminal embarrassment of being beaten by the Monster Raving
Loonies. That really can be a killer in British politics. Back in May 1990,
David Owen's continuity SDP - the bit of the SDP that refused to merge with the
Liberals when the Liberal Democrats were formed - was finally put out of
business when the Owenite candidate at the Bootle byelection was out-polled by
the late Screaming Lord Sutch.

That is their only fragment of consolation. True enough, this has always been a
rock-solid Labour seat. Turnout was dismal. Barely more than a third of the
electorate could be bothered to vote. It was a decent outcome for Labour, but Ed
Miliband should not get too intoxicated that his man won with the support of
14,724 people out of a potential electorate of 66,000. All that duly noted, it
is nevertheless a punch to the Lib Dem solar plexus. They were abandoned by five
out of six people who voted Lib Dem last May. They were out-polled by Labour,
Ukip, the Conservatives, the BNP and an unemployed miner standing as an
independent. Sixth place is the party's lowest-ever ranking in an English
byelection. The symbolism of that has to sting.

They will hope to do better in more promising territories, but this is the
harbinger of painful losses in the much more important contests in early May,
when everyone outside London will be voting in local and devolved elections.
Angst in the party will be intensified if losses are accompanied by a defeat for
electoral reform in the referendum on the same day.

In the evaporation of their support, we are seeing several factors at work. For
the many decades when they were in opposition and looked like they'd stay that
way for ever, the Lib Dems fed on anti-politics, anti-establishment feeling and
made gains at the expense of both Labour and the Tories by attracting those who
wanted to stick up two fingers to both red and blue. These erstwhile supporters
were bound to be off elsewhere once the Lib Dems became a party of government.
The protest voters now seek a different pot to piss in.

In Barnsley, a lot of them chose Ukip with the result that the Europe-hating
party leapfrogged into second place. Some Conservatives are getting lathered
about that and warning David Cameron that this is a sign of discontent with the
compromises of coalition among right-leaning voters. Some of that support for
Ukip will indeed have come from disaffected Tories. Some will have come from
people who used to vote Lib Dem. Bizarre as it may seem, there has historically
been a lot of interchangeability between support for the Lib Dems and Ukip among
voters who either didn't know or didn't care that the two parties have
diametrically opposed views on Europe. They just saw them both as vehicles for
protest.

Then there is the unwinding of support for the Lib Dems among those who once saw
the party as a leftish alternative to Labour. From Tony Blair's second term
onwards, the Lib Dems successfully attracted voters who had become alienated
from New Labour because of its authoritarianism and the Iraq war, among other
things. Those voters were always likely to head home to Labour once it was in
opposition. The process was accelerated by the Lib Dems' decision to go into
coalition with the Tories.

A third group of voters backed the Lib Dems at the last election because they
posed as a saintly alternative to the grubby compromises of power. It is
arguable that disillusionment among this group might not have been so swift and
severe had the Lib Dems made some different decisions. If they knew then what
they know now, if they had anticipated that Nick Clegg would be burnt in effigy
on the streets, the senior Lib Dems would surely have thought harder about the
consequences of breaking their promise on tuition fees. Even so, they would
still be a disappointment to many of those voters once they had made the big and
redefining choice to go into coalition with the Tories.

So the protest voters are off to find different vehicles to express their
discontent. Many of the change voters are cross that the coalition is not the
change they wanted or expected. The leftish support for the Lib Dems has largely
fallen back into the arms of Labour. Who does that leave? The Lib Dems still
have some residual backing among voters who continue to prefer them to Labour or
Tory. Then there are the hardcore Lib Dems, the sort of people who will stick
with the party through thick, thin and thinner. There are not huge ranks of
them. The number of voters who tribally identify with the Lib Dems has never
been that large. Their core vote could be as low as 5%.

Nick Clegg has privately warned colleagues that they should be braced for a
"remorseless battering" over the next 12 to 18 months as the government becomes
more unpopular and forces from left, right and within their own party attempt to
pull the coalition apart. He will be spending a lot of his time urging Lib Dems
to keep a cool head and insisting, as he did after the Barnsley result, that
people would be wrong to "write us off". For it will be increasingly fashionable
to declare that they are doomed. From within his own ranks, there will be more
restlessness that the Lib Dems aren't being assertive enough within the
government and more fear that their identity is being emasculated by coalition.
Some Lib Dem ministers are nervous that there will be outbreaks of open mutiny
at their party's spring conference this week. The Lib Dem candidate in Barnsley
offered ammunition to the dissenters by reporting that his party was seen "as
one" with the Tories. According to Mr Carman: "In the minds of many voters, if
you wear a yellow badge you might as well wear a blue one."

From the inception of the coalition, it has been Nick Clegg's strategy to take
"ownership" of all the coalition's policies, including the most unpopular ones.
He is still reluctant to trumpet behind-the-scenes victories which have blocked
the Tories from doing things that they would have done if they were governing
alone, a biting-your-lip approach which has frustrated some of his colleagues.
The word from those close to Mr Clegg is that he won't be shifting from that
position, but there are indications that the strategy is being tweaked. His
speech on multiculturalism last week was importantly and deliberately different
from the speech on the same subject by David Cameron a fortnight before. The two
leaders have agreed that they need to give each other a bit more "breathing
space" to express distinctively Liberal and Tory positions in order to reassure
their members and voters that neither is selling his soul to the other.

In terms of the big picture, Mr Clegg is right to argue with his party that it
would be a mistake to respond to adversity by changing the broad strategy. It
would look opportunistic, unconvincing and panicky if they suddenly tried to put
distance between themselves and government policies that they have signed up to.
It would poison the coalition. If it precipitated a collapse of the government,
the Lib Dems would be hurled into an early general election at which they would
be eviscerated. It would also be bad long-term politics. The bleakest scenario
for the Lib Dems is that they suffer all the present unpopularity of the cuts
only for the Tories to enjoy the gains if and when the government rebounds. That
has been the fate of some junior coalition partners on the continent.

There has been a precipitous plunge in Nick Clegg's personal poll ratings for
trust. One consolation is an uptick in his ratings for decisiveness and
resilience. Another is that people continue to place him in the centre of the
political spectrum, the location where most voters put themselves. That is the
glimmer of light for his party. Their best hope is to win credit if the
coalition is broadly seen to have been a success by the time of the next
election. By demonstrating that they are no longer a wasted vote and can be
credible wielders of power, the Lib Dems may then find a new constituency among
centre-ground and swing voters, including some who have not taken them seriously
in the past and have reluctantly voted Labour or Tory instead because they
didn't believe the Lib Dems had a chance.

Is that an impossible aspiration for them? I don't believe so. But to have a
hope of realising that dream, they will first have to hold together through many
months which will be nightmarish. The darker it gets, the more they will need to
keep whistling that tune.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                 March 6, 2011
                                 3 Star Edition

Bad week

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 83 words


Lib Dem candidate DOMINIC CARMAN, was pounded into sixth place by angry voters
in the Barnsley Central by-election. Carman lost his deposit and polled fewer
votes than the UKIP and BNP.

Real Madrid boss and ex Chelsea coach JOSE MOURINHO narrowly escaped unhurt
after a crazed fan tried to stab him at La Coruna airport in north west Spain.

The WEST INDIES CRICKET SQUAD who beat Bangladesh in the World Cup - only to
have their team coach stoned by furious fans as they left the stadium in Dhaka.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

You can't dismiss all those who reject the EU as bonkers

BYLINE: ALASDAIR PALMER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 663 words


Is it worth staying in the EU? That used to be a question that very few people
asked - and they were usually dismissed as eccentric, if not barking mad. But
recently it's a question that a much wider range of people have started to
consider. And it's not easy to dismiss them all as bonkers.

The European Court of Justice, the body that enforces European law, has helped
that process by issuing a series of daft judgments. Last week, the ECJ ruled
that insurers are not entitled to take into account the differences between men
and women when charging for policies. At present, insurers in most European
countries, including Britain, charge young women less for car insurance than
young men, on the sensible grounds that young men are about 10 times more likely
to be involved in an accident.

Women also usually live several years longer than men. The firms that sell
annuities (which convert your pension savings into an income for the rest of
your life) therefore charge women more than men, since it will be more expensive
to provide them with an annuity. The ECJ has decided that this, too, amounts to
sex discrimination and that every member of the EU will have to stop
"discriminating" in that way by 2013.

The judges made an elementary mistake about the meaning of the word
"discrimination", confusing the unacceptable practice of manifesting prejudice
against groups of people with the perfectly legitimate process of drawing
distinctions between them on the basis of well-attested evidence. Charging
people whose main leisure activity is hang-gliding more for their life insurance
than people who stay inside playing tiddlywinks is not an example of prejudice.
But it is an example of discrimination. And if the ECJ's rulings were to be made
consistent, it would have to be outlawed.

This is, by any standards, simply crazy. No sane person thinks that by charging
them more to insure their cars, companies are treating young men in the way
Germany treated the Jews in the Thirties. Do we really want decisions on what
our laws should be to be taken by officials who cannot distinguish
discrimination from prejudice, or actuaries from Nazis?

It is rulings like this that explain why the UK Independence Party came second
in last week's by-election in Barnsley, easily gaining more votes than the
Conservatives and the Lib Dems. It didn't hurt that on the very day of the
by-election, the European Commission reminded us that Britain will soon have to
abandon its restrictions on the entitlement of Eastern European migrants to
claim benefits here. Fear of such "benefit tourism" led the Labour government,
in 2004, to impose restrictions on what migrants from the poorest states in the
EU could claim: no Jobseekers' Allowance, no housing benefit, no council tax
benefit. The EU, however, ruled that the restrictions would have to be lifted
after seven years. That time will soon be up, so British taxpayers will have to
cough up tens of millions of pounds in additional payments.

A fisheries policy that leads to thousands of tons of fish being thrown away,
agricultural subsidies that support property developers, bail-outs for
profligate countries - and that's just a few items from an everlengthening list
of objectionable EU policies. The response of the Europhiles is to try to close
down the discussion. Baroness Ashton, the EU's foreign minister, has just
offered £8.6 million to a PR company to improve her organisation's image. It's
an initiative that sums up what's wrong with the EU: don't address the problems,
just spend public money trying to pretend there aren't any.

So is it worth staying in the EU? Without a full and open debate, how can anyone
tell? That debate will only happen if there is a referendum on UK membership.
Without it, an increasing number of people will come to the conclusion that the
only answer is "no".

Comment on Alasdair Palmer's view telegraph.co.uk/personalview

Do we want to be subject to a court that can't tell actuaries from Nazis?

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK THAT WAS

BYLINE: JAMES HICKLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 453 words


LIBYAN UNREST CONTINUES

Unrest continued in Libya, with anti-government fighters establishing a
provisional government in Benghazi and Colonel Gaddafi's troops clinging on to
power. The International Criminal Court in the Hague warned Gaddafithat he will
be held criminally responsible for his regime's violent suppression of
protesters. And fallout from the crisis has extended to the London School of
Economics, which was criticised after it emerged that it had made a
million-pound deal to train members of Gaddafi's future political elite. The
deal was brokered by the dictator's son, Saif al-Islam, a former student at the
LSE. Documents published by WikiLeaks showed that the university agreed to give
650 Gaddafiloyalists management training.

More than 200 people were thought to have been arrested in Iran after
anti-government protests in Tehran on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, in Afghanistan, Lance Corporal Liam Tasker of the Royal Army
Veterinary Corps, 1st Military Working Dog Regiment was shot dead in Helmand
province on Tuesday. The spaniel he worked with, Theo, died of a heart attack
two days later. L/Cpl Tasker was the 358th British military fatality of the
campaign.

LIB DEMS LOSE OUT

The Liberal Democrats' candidate, Dominic Carman, won just 4.1 per cent of the
vote in Thursday's Barnsley Central by-election, losing his deposit as he
finished sixth behind Ukip, the BNP and an independent candidate. The
by-election was called following the conviction of the previous incumbent,
Labour MP Eric Illsley, for expenses fraud. It follows a string of opinion polls
since last year's General Election that all show a collapse in Lib Dem support.
The party's leader, Nick Clegg, vowed to prove the doubters wrong and said
people would be wrong to "write off" his party.

Labour's Dan Jarvis - a former serviceman who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan -
increased his party's majority slightly to 11,771. Ukip beat the Conservatives
into second place, their candidate Jane Collins winning 2,953 votes and
increasing the party's share of the vote since the election by 7.5 per cent -
one of the party's best by-election results.

JUST THE JOBS

Lighter, faster and thinner than the original, the "iPad 2" was unveiled by
Apple CEO Steve Jobs in San Francisco on Wednesday. Some were surprised by Job's
presence at the event, considering the health problems he has been dealing with
following treatment for pancreatic cancer.

The device comes equipped with new video capabilities, an "A5" microchip that
increases processing speed, and thin "smart covers" that snap on to protect the
screen and keep the machine turned off until peeled off.

The launch boosted Apple shares - they closed at $352.12, up from $348.40.

JAMES HICKLING

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron will turn himself into a tribune of the people;
The PM will back the spirit of enterprises against the 'forces of stagnation'-
but he's got a long struggle ahead

BYLINE: MATTHEW D'ANCONA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1208 words


One of the great Spitting Image sketches portrayed Margaret Thatcher dining out
with the Cabinet. "Steak, please," she says. "How would you like it?" inquires
the waiter. "Raw," replies the Iron Lady. "And what about the vegetables?" he
asks. "Oh," she says, "they'll have the same as me."

One of Mrs Thatcher's most cunning tactics was to distance herself from the
government she led when it was underperforming.

Routinely, she would refer to her own administration as "they" - signalling that
her deeper loyalty lay with the electorate. Now, in a smoother, less combative
fashion, David Cameron is borrowing this very technique.

"You'll see him using the platform of Prime Minister," according to one of his
closest allies, "to act as a critic of the Government, a tribune of the people
against the Government when it falls short." It is in this spirit that Cameron
will address the Conservative Spring Conference in Cardiff today. The speech is
intended to present him as a national leader, full of passionate principle and
impatience, rather than yet another institutionalised prime minister, gone
native in Whitehall. It has been planned as a declaration of "gut belief" -
especially in the glory of enterprise - rather than a defensive inventory of
policies.

Cameron can expect his audience to be in edgy mood. As councillors, Scottish
MSPs and Welsh assembly members, many will be fighting for their political lives
in the May elections, defending the cuts on the doorstep. On the same day, the
first UK-wide referendum since 1975 will be held, and many Tory activists feel
that the party's high command is doing scandalously little to defend the
first-pastthe-post electoral system against the threat of AV. Though it is risky
to draw conclusions from a by-election with a turn-out of 36.5 per cent, Ukip's
second place in Barnsley Central on Thursday, ahead of the Tories, has
exacerbated the frustrations of those who believe (mysteriously) that the Tory
party would do better in general elections if it made Europe its priority. As
Melissa Kite reports in this paper today, tempers in some constituency
associations are so frayed - in this case over the Coalition's proposed HS2
high-speed rail link - that Lord Feldman, the party's co-chairman, has
confronted near-mutiny in local meetings.

In truth, there isn't much about the Coalition that the Conservative
rank-and-file like, apart from the minor detail that partnership with the Lib
Dems is keeping their party in power: they scent sell-out to Nick Clegg in every
policy announcement. Cameron, who seized the leadership in 2005 as darling of
the conference floor, can expect no such warmth these days - and he knows it.
What matters now is that his party, whatever its reservations, retains a respect
for the Prime Minister, however grudging; a confidence that, for all their
reservations, he knows what he is doing. That respect and confidence will
survive if, as one Cabinet minister puts it, "we hold our nerve".

With that in mind, this weekend's gathering is essentially an extended drumroll
for the Budget on March 23: what Cameron calls "pitch-rolling", the essential
preparation for the main event. Yesterday, George Osborne offered Heseltinian
fervour and Lawsonian rigour in a fine speech promising that the measures
unveiled in 17 days' time would be "unashamedly pro-growth", an attack on the
"forces of stagnation". Announcing up to 10 new enterprise zones as a taster, he
found time to make a tribe-pleasing dig at Nick Clegg, who once described AV as
a "miserable little compromise". Once again, the Chancellor declared his
optimism about the future, and a sensitivity to the ordinary family's anxieties
about the cost of living (especially the price of fuel). But the strength of his
message was its realism about the present. The rhetorical temptation for a
Government well behind in the polls is to start painting the skies blue long
before it is appropriate. To his credit, Osborne shows no sign of falling into
that trap.

Today, the PM will make his strongest argument yet for the virtue of enterprise,
developing the themes he explored in his CBI speech in October (in which he
called for "a new economic dynamism") and linking his Big Society narrative to
the Government's growth strategy. This will be a speech militantly in favour of
small- and medium-sized businesses, the sector of the economy most likely to
produce new jobs, but also the "little platoons" of commerce that correspond
with Cameron's vision of social cohesion and mutual responsibility. Seen through
this prism, enterprise is not only an economic force, but essential to the
connective moral tissue of a decent society. This cluster of ideas, the Cameron
camp believes, has not yet been fully explained, and today's address is intended
(among other things) to correct that. Not that the PM or any senior minister is
likely to get much credit for anything they say this weekend; not yet, anyway.

"We will do badly in the local elections," said Baroness Warsi, the Tory
co-chairman, in yesterday's Daily Telegraph, "and Labour should do very well
because of where we are in the electoral cycle." Inevitably, the baroness has
been widely criticised for such candour - but her expectation management is spot
on. No Government in living memory has tried to do so much, so fast: inflicting
a painful round of cuts, while embarking upon root-and-branch reform of the
welfare system and public services. Such ambition deserves to be rewarded with
success. But it positively invites short- and medium-term unpopularity. For the
foreseeable future, the Coalition parties would be mad to expect anything other
than kickings of every variety.

"We are in the foothills of a very difficult two-year patch," according to one
Cabinet minister. "The real audience is the one that looks back four years from
now and says we were right." Not literally, of course. I seriously doubt that
many voters will enter the polling booth in 2015, nodding wryly as they reflect
upon how right Dave and George were to say what they did about enterprise in
Cardiff in March 2011.

The mechanism is otherwise. Senior members of this Coalition, having committed
themselves to a necessary but perilous strategy, must explain it time and again,
in as many different ways as they can, adapting the message to context but never
straying from the essentials. They cannot say too often that they are cleaning
up Labour's mess, that deficit reduction is a precursor to growth, not a threat
to it, that the modernisation of public services is desirable as well as
necessary, that the Big Society is not a small-state conspiracy. They will feel
physically nauseous from the process of repetition long before this message is
firmly embedded in the public mind.

Which is why Cameron must appear to be the most energetic, the least satisfied,
the most sleeplessly animated of them all. That doesn't mean calling his
colleagues "vegetables" or referring to his Government as "they". But it does
mean soaring above the fray to share the public's frustration, impatience and
expectation of more, better, faster. In the long, long haul ahead, victory will
go to the man with stamina.

Comment on Matthew d'Ancona's view at telegraph.co.uk/ matthewdancona

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CAMERON'S FIGHTBACK STRATEGY;
Tim Montgomerie on the week's big topic

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 670 words


How unpopular is the Government?

Nearly twice as many voters now disapprove of the Coalition as approve (55 per
cent versus 30 per cent).

Labour has neither apologised for the economic problems it left behind nor
helped argue for the cuts necessary to fix Britain's deficit, but less than a
year after his party's massive defeat, Ed Miliband is 10 per cent ahead in some
opinion polls. As the cuts, inflation and higher mortgage rates bite, the
Government should prepare for much worse to come.

Should Cameron worry?

Most governments can ignore midterm opinion polls, but if enough Lib Dems
conclude that the Coalition is ruining their electoral chances, it could
collapse. The Barnsley byelection, where Nick Clegg's candidate was beaten into
sixth place by the BNP, shocked his party. In May's local, Scottish and Welsh
elections, the Lib Dems are set to suffer their worst losses in modern history.
This won't produce an immediate walkout, but Nick Clegg will be under pressure
to get more concessions to prove that the Lib Dems are making a difference.
However, 58 per cent of Tory party members already think Cameron has surrendered
too much.

How can Cameron keep Clegg in the Coalition?

At the end of this parliament, the deficit should be eliminated and the next
generation will be liberated from impossible levels of debt and taxes. Getting
to that point will be painful, but the Prime Minister and his deputy will be
able to say that Labour opposed every step. If the Lib Dems walk out before that
job is done, they will face the worst of all worlds: hated by the Left for
cosying up to the Tories and by the Right for weakness.

Is Cameron doing anything other than wait?

Yes. He is ready to take a leaf out of Margaret Thatcher's book and pick some
fights with what George Osborne calls "the forces of stagnation". Thatcher chose
the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, trade union barons and loony Left
councils, battles that ensured she kept the Right on side. Downing Street is
ready for big, defining fights with critics of its most popular projects,
arguing that it's morally right to cut welfare dependency, control immigration
and reduce the huge perks gap between private sector workers and public sector
union members.

Will Cameron toughen up on crime and Europe?

Ukip is getting stronger because the Coalition is not throwing red meat to
traditional Tories on issues like military spending, human rights laws and
criminal justice. MP Bill Cash has written that Cameron is actually taking
Britain "backwards" on Europe.

Downing Street counters that even if the Tories had won an outright majority, it
would have been difficult to get other governments to give powers back. Cameron
will need to find other ways of keeping his troops happy. Defeating the
Alternative Vote and appointing a new party chairman to lead attacks on Labour
will help.

What about ditching unpopular policies?

One of the reasons why the Coalition hasn't looked in charge of events - such as
the evacuation of Libya - is that it's doing too much. The Downing Street
operation has just been beefed up, largely because it hadn't been able to focus
on the projects that are central to its success. The Government would be wise to
jettison its high-speed rail plan and the reorganisation of the NHS.
Unfortunately, the Government is already very committed to both projects;
U-turning now would make it look weak.

What is the Conservative master plan for the 2015 election?

It has three big dimensions. Growth will be the focus of this month's Budget: an
economic boom would mean by 2015, Cameron would be able to offer modest tax cuts
alongside public spending increases. The second aim is to keep pensioners happy.
Even during these toughest of times, older people's benefits have been
protected, because they are the biggest and most reliable voting bloc. Cameron's
third big hope is that Labour keeps Ed Miliband as leader: all the research
suggests that voters don't see him as prime ministerial material.

TIM MONTGOMERIE IS EDITOR OF CONSERVATIVEHOME

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£51m to build EU house of horrors

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


EURO MEPs have approved a £51million project to create a museum in Brussels to
celebrate themselves. The massive cost of the House Of European History, dubbed
the "House of Horrors" by critics, was revealed last week as Britons bunkered
down for a year of soaring food and fuel bills, wage freezes and cuts in council
services. The age of austerity is even used as an excuse for splashing
taxpayers' cash on a museum that will ignore most of Europe's past and start its
timeline with the Union's creation.

"Especially in difficult times there is a need to be reminded of how the
European integration developed and how many other crises during the years have
been overcome," said an official document. "The HEH is dedicated to focus on
political, economic and social history of European and of European integration,
including its background and its achievements, from a European, not a purely
national perspective, also emphasising the roots of common European values." The
paper suggests the new museum, due to open in 2014, will draw 500,000 visitors
annually. This, it argues, will "substantially increase" the "communication and
dialogue between Parliament, its members and citizens". It also argues the new
centre will allow visitors to "spend a full day in parliament's premises without
the work of the institution and its members being affected". UKIP MEP Marta
Andreasen said: "Before the House of European History even starts operating
European taxpayers will have to foot a bill of £51million just for its
refurbishment. I find no justification for such expense even if funded out of
savings. History can be found in books and many museums around Europe cover the
history of Europe. "Such an expenditure in times of crisis will be judged as
insulting by the citizens of Europe." She was the only MEP to vote last week
against paying £2,1million to the architects creating a vision for the museum.
Parliamentary documents estimate the costs of buying the Eastman building, where
the museum will be based, at £16million. Renovating the art deco building and
buying a collection for the permanent and first temporary exhibitions will cost
another £47million. That brings the total set-up costs for the museum, due to
open in 2014, to more than £65million. Estimated annual running costs are almost
£7.7million, including £1million for 18 full time staff, £1.7million on swapping
the temporary exhibition and £1.2million on running an internet site and staging
events.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FIRST CAME THE FLOODS,THEN CAME THE SNOW... AND THE CLIMATE SCIENTISTS WERE
SILENT;
Report Climate change ;As the world is gripped by extreme weather, the global
warming sceptics are gaining ground. Who is winning the battle for our hearts
and minds, asks Bryan Appleyard

BYLINE: Bryan Appleyard

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 50,51,52,53,55

LENGTH: 2486 words


Report

In a basement in London, in probably the smallest office in the world, an
American television crew is demanding to know what the weather will be like on
April 29, the day Prince William marries Kate Middleton. Any mainstream
meteorologist would tell them their question is unanswerable so far in advance.
But Piers Corbyn is not mainstream.

"It looks like being a cool day with blustery showers, although we do have to
see if there will be a blocking high pressure to keep things away. But to do it
properly we need a little more time."

Corbyn, who is the brother of the Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn, has the air of a
Dickensian clerk - crazy hair, disordered clothes, and he sniffs persistently
through a giant nose. "He comes across," muses one climate scientist, "as mad as
a hatter, but he's not daft."

Not being daft makes him, to the vast majority of climate scientists, a very
dangerous man indeed and one in serious need of a good slap.

"He is... an utter prat."

That was Professor Philip Jones of the University of East Anglia Climate
Research Unit. His view of Corbyn appeared in one of the leaked emails in the
"Climategate" scandal, which proved to global warming sceptics that scientists
like Jones were prepared to rig the evidence to advance their case. Corbyn, you
see, thinks that global warming is a scam, a fraud, bad science, you name it.
"There is no evidence whatsoever," he says, "for any long cycle connected with
carbon dioxide, absolutely none."

Later, over breakfast at his club, Brooks's, the 3rd Viscount Monckton of
Brenchley - pinstripe suit, clashing shirt and tie - tells me that he also
thinks warming is a scam, a fraud, etc. "Selfsustaining nonsense," he calls it,
"where anybody who wishes to be part of the establishment dare not stand up and
say it's nonsense."

Christopher Monckton, joint deputy leader of Ukip, the anti-immigration party,
is perhaps the most high-profile warming sceptic on the planet. Though not a
scientist, he is highly scientifically informed. "If it were him versus Al Gore
or him versus David Cameron, he's vastly better scientifically qualified," says
Richard Lindzen, professor of meteorology at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

Monckton is lapped up by sceptical Americans for two reasons. First, he has a
plummy English accent and he peppers his talk with classical references.
Secondly, he has a habit of suggesting that warming is a quasi-communist plot.
The believers, he says, are those who once would have been communists. They are
intent, he claims, on a form of world government capable of overruling
democratically elected leaders. He is very self-conscious and aware that he
might be taken as bonkers. At one point, in the middle of a long story about a
cold war Soviet plot, he stops and looks at me. "I watched your face and you
looked as if you were thinking, 'Oh, my God, what kind of a nutter am I talking
to?'" There are good reasons to treat Corbyn and Monckton with caution. Corbyn
bases his weather forecasts and his carbon denial on a system he will not
divulge; he maintains that climate change is the result of solar activity rather
than manmade.

"The thing about Piers," says Professor Chris Rapley of University College
London, one of our most distinguished climate scientists, "is that he will not
reveal his methodology and therefore cannot be taken seriously as a scientist."

Monckton, meanwhile, has a nasty habit of rewriting his own story. To me, for
example, he denies he advocated quarantining those infected with HIV in an
article in the American Spectator in 1987. He says he simply said they should be
warned about the dangers. In fact, he was very specific about quarantine. The
infected, he wrote, should be "isolated compulsorily, immediately, and
permanently... Carriers need not be isolated from each other... and carefully
supervised visits from uninfected people would be possible."

Both of them tend to alienate other sceptics. One anti-warmist had doubts about
Monckton when he argued that coal was as clean as wind and solar.

And Corbyn's assertion that there is no carbon effect is dismissed by even hard
sceptic scientists. Neither man, in short, is strictly credible. But they are on
a roll, both making regular appearances on American TV. The question is: what
should the reasonable person now think? Since I wrote about being converted to
warmism in this magazine just over a year ago, the greens - and I - have been on
the run. They are so much on the run that, on key issues, they have fallen
silent. The last few months have seen a series of spectacular weather events -
floods in Pakistan, Brazil and Australia, cyclones hitting Australia, huge
snowfalls on the eastern coast of America, and two very cold winters in Britain.

Such extreme events were, in fact, predicted by global warming models. But
nobody has dared to claim them for the climate change case.

"Not a single climatologist," says Rapley, "has even dared to discuss the
possibility that these events are linked to climate change... The truth is you
cannot attribute any one of these things to human-induced climate change, but
they represent a series of coincidences that seem very unlikely."

The climate scientists have been demoralised by a series of heavy blows to their
credibility - among them the Climategate affair. The Labour MP Graham Stringer
was on the select committee that questioned Dr Philip Jones about his emails.
"It was quite a shock," Stringer says. "It was not just the emails, which were
probably over the top, but when you look below at what they were actually doing,
they weren't doing science."

Stringer, a scientist by training, is one of the few politicians to come out as
a warming sceptic. But there are plenty of closet sceptics. "With Labour MPs,
it's become more of an issue like racism: 'Of course you're against it, and if
you're not, you're not going to be invited to my dinner party.' " There was also
the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, at which world leaders got together to
do almost nothing, and then last year's Cancun summit, at which the poor accused
the rich of failing to deliver the $30 billion promised to help mitigate the
effects of warming. And, finally, the science itself turned weird. After decades
of temperatures increasing steadily, the trend levelled off in the noughties. It
did not, as some sceptics claimed, go flat. It was still the warmest decade on
record, but the rise had dropped to one-tenth of what climate models had
predicted.

In America the Republicans' success in the midterm elections has given the
sceptics' cause what it does not have here: important mainstream representation.
But that could be about to change.

Down in the leafy lanes, something is stirring.

"We prefer not to use the word 'sceptic'," says Fay Kelly-Tuncay. "We prefer
'realist'." She is the Surrey housewife organising a campaign to repeal the 2008
Climate Change Act, which commits the UK to cutting carbon emissions by 80% by
2050.

"We've become very aware that data has been manipulated, and the most annoying
thing is the closing down of debate. There have been complaints about the BBC
having meetings to decide that all scientists agree, so let's stop talking to
sceptics. I think that's undemocratic... "We've had a scare story running since
the 1970s. It started off as global cooling. Then they said the Earth was
warming and it would be catastrophic, there would be tipping points - and those
things just haven't happened."

Zeroing in on the 2008 Act potentially gives the campaigners real political
traction. "We think MPs rushed to judgment on global warming and made a
catastrophic policy blunder," she continues. "We feel energy subsidies will be
too high. Wind farms and solar, they're uneconomic. Also, the government is
ignoring gas from shale and shale oil, which is very cheap and in plentiful
supply... We don't really understand why."

Graham Stringer adds the jobs issue into the anti-act mix. "Gradually, those MPs
who take the global warming arguments at face value are beginning to realise
they'll have to explain to their constituents why industries are closing down
and why their domestic fuels bills are going up. Making renewable energy three
times as profitable as traditional energy, and making my constituents pay for it
- that's a very bad idea."

Finally, there is the moral issue. The Rev Philip Foster is now retired from his
job as vicar of St Matthew's, Cambridge. About 10 years ago he was talking to a
scientist who asked him how much he thought temperature had risen in the last
120 years. "I said about two or three degrees. He said about half a degree."
Foster was shocked that so much was being made of so little, and in retirement
he has immersed himself in warming science. He is now a card-carrying realist.
He does not believe rising carbon dioxide levels cause warming, rather that
warming causes rising CO2.

I ask him why he thinks the warmists believe otherwise. "Scientists of a certain
kind say, 'There's a problem. Will you give us money to research it?' It then
becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy."

But the real issue for Foster is moral. "If Africa is told it mustn't touch its
coal, mustn't touch its oil, when it desperately needs electricity to run basic
services, that's morally shocking. This western obsession is actually killing
people. It is Christian charities pushing this, and it distresses me."

Repeal the Act, the campaign to overturn the 2008 Climate Change Act, will be
launched formally at a meeting in St Ives, Cambridgeshire on March 19. This
immediately precedes Climate Week, which runs from March 21 to 27.

Climate Week, and green politics in general, show that, if sceptics rely on
dubious science, warmists rely on bad politics. The week is, as the website
says, "a supercharged national occasion that offers an annual renewal of our
ambition and confidence to combat climate change". Nothing damages a cause in
secular Britain like quasi-religious language; it spreads suspicion.

Well, there is one thing even more damaging, and that is the pursuit of clearly
unattainable goals. Caroline Lucas is the Green party leader and our first Green
MP. She recently came up with the idea of the New Home Front initiative. Based
on our performance during the second world war - when we cut coal use by 25%, we
saved waste to feed pigs, car use plummeted and so on - it calls for Britain to
get onto a war footing again to combat climate change. The glaringly obvious
objection to this is that slowly rising temperatures do not have quite the same
persuasive power as the Luftwaffe and massed panzer divisions on the French
coast. So I asked Lucas how on earth she expected people to be talked into
joining the new Home Front. The answer is leadership.

"If you think of the political capital that Tony Blair expended on persuading
people there was a genuine threat from Iraq, if he had used that same political
capital he had back in 1997, that charisma, that leadership, around the issue of
climate change... you could communicate in a clear way what the threat is, what
the benefits are of acting, and you could galvanise people."

This is the Greens shooting themselves in both feet prior to standing on a rake.
If evoking the war as a model for our response to climate change is a mistake,
then evoking Iraq is an egregious blunder. Blair did not get us into that war on
the basis of his popular leadership skills; he got us in against massive popular
resistance and on the basis of wrong intelligence and extremely dodgy dossiers.

So, torn between bad politics, grass-roots unease, eccentric deniers, terrible
weather and unbelievably complicated science, what should you, the reasonable
person, think? First, the heart of the matter is science, not politics. The
kneejerk right-winger who embraces hard-ass scepticism as a necessary political
accessory is as stupid as the kneejerk left-winger who embraces radical,
back-toausterity warmism for the same reason. These people are pre-programmed
ideologues.

Nevertheless, the science says that global warming is happening and that human
activity is almost certainly the cause. There are important arguments to be had
about the rate of warming, about its impact, and about "climate sensitivity",
the degree to which the climate responds to small changes. But the simple truth
is, unless some staggering new development reveals factors at work that have
concealed themselves for 40 years from the best scientists in the world, denying
the basics of the case is irrational, mere prejudice. Piers Corbyn claims to
have such a revelation but, since he refuses to share his methods, he need not
trouble the reasonable person.

Secondly, that rational formulation of the issue does not in itself solve any of
the political problems. Our uncertainties about rate and impact entail profound
uncertainties about action. How much should we spend, how much should we change
our lives? The short answer is neither question is politically meaningful, since
politics is seldom about "should". In Britain the current green consensus in
parliament is likely to weaken and, internationally, there is no prospect of any
enforceable deal on emissions. So we will spend money on green technologies, do
a bit of recycling but, unless there is some clear warmingcausing catastrophe,
our resolve will falter.

So what does the reasonable person think? The philosopher Roger Scruton has an
answer. Scruton is a very unprogrammed right-winger. He thinks human-caused
global warming "very likely", and he is quite green. He has a book called Green
Philosophy coming out next year. But his view is that the greens have let mass
panic overcome rational argument. "We must come up with incentives for people
not to consume energy. Yet all the campaigning is not about finding incentives
but about passing treaties that impose obligations nobody has a motive to obey."

Neither side is winning this fight, though the greens are on the ropes. As they
slug it out, the language grows ever more vicious and the claims of both sides
ever more extreme. To the sceptics the greens are lying, cheating,
catastrophe-crazed group thinkers; to the warmists, the sceptics are mad, bad,
neo-fascist defenders of Big Oil.

At the margins it is, admittedly, all too easy to find evidence for all these
charges. But in the middle, the ground occupied by the reasonable person, there
is only confusion and uncertainty. Meanwhile, the planet cycles on regardless.
In time, it will make its own decisions about the viability of our troublesome
species.

ASTROPHYSICIST PIERS CORBYN 'THERE IS NO EVIDENCE WHATSOEVER FOR ANY LONG CYCLE
CONNECTED WITH CARBON DIOXIDE, ABSOLUTELY NONE'

FIRST GREEN MP CAROLINE LUCAS 'IF WE ARE TO OVERCOME THE CLIMATE CRISIS, WE MUST
MOVE ON TO THE EQUIVALENT OF A WAR FOOTING'

CLIMATE SCIENTIST PROFESSOR PHILIP JONES JONES'S LEAKED EMAILS UNLEASHED THE
'CLIMATEGATE' SCANDAL. IN THEM HE CALLED CORBYN 'AN UTTER PRAT'

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: YORKSHIRE, NOV 2010 A shepherd in search of his flock wades through
deep snow as Arctic weather grips the north PAKISTAN, AUG 2010 Below: marooned
with his animals during floods in Punjab that leave 2m homeless, a man waves
frantically for help CHINA, JUNE 2010 Below right: lightning strikes a Guangdong
factory as heavy rains flood southern China
CHRIS BOURCHIER/THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 51m to build EU house of horrors

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 414  words


EURO MEPs have approved a GBP 51million project to create a museum in Brussels
to celebrate themselves.

The massive cost of the House Of European History, dubbed the "House of Horrors"
by critics, was revealed last week as Britons bunkered down for a year of
soaring food and fuel bills, wage freezes and cuts in council services.

The age of austerity is even used as an excuse for splashing taxpayers' cash on
a museum that will ignore most of Europe's past and start its timeline with the
Union's creation.

"Especially in difficult times there is a need to be reminded of how the
European integration developed and how many other rises during the years have
been overcome, " said an official document.

"The HEH is dedicated to focus on political, economic and social history of
European and of European integration, including its background and its
achievements, from a European, not a purely national perspective, also
emphasising the roots of common European values."

The paper suggests the new museum, due to open in 2014, will draw 500,000
visitors annually. This, it argues, will "substantially increase" the
"communication and dialogue between Parliament, its members and citizens".

It also argues the new centre will allow visitors to "spend a full day in
parliament's premises without the work of the institution and its members being
affected".

UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen said:

"Before the House of European History even starts operating European taxpayers
will have to foot a bill of GBP 51million just for its refurbishment.

I find no justification for such expense even if funded out of savings. History
can be found in books and many museums around Europe cover the history of
Europe.

"Such an expenditure in times of crisis will be judged as insulting by the
citizens of Europe."

She was the only MEP to vote last week against paying GBP 2,1million to the
architects creating a vision for the museum. Parliamentary documents estimate
the costs of buying the Eastman building, where the museum will be based, at GBP
16million.

Renovating the art deco building and buying a collection for the permanent and
first temporary exhibitions will cost another GBP 47million.

That brings the total set-up costs for the museum, due to open in 2014, to more
than GBP 65million.

Estimated annual running costs are almost GBP 7.7million, including GBP 1million
for 18 full time staff, GBP 1.7million on swapping the temporary exhibition and
GBP 1.2million on running an internet site and staging events.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

DAILY MAIL COMMENT

LENGTH: 610 words


Column

COALITION MUST FOCUS ON SAVING BRITAIN

SETTING party differences aside in the national interest, and bound by a clear
and urgent sense of common purpose, the Coalition came to power last year on a
spring tide of public goodwill.

Just how far that support has receded, l ess than ten months on, became
dramatically plain yesterday as the Barnsley by-election results came in.

For the LibDems, whose vote plummeted from 17 per cent last May to just 4 per
cent, leaving them in sixth place behind UKIP and the BNP, the poll was nothing
less than a rout.

For the Tories, beaten into third place by UKIP, with their share of the vote
slashed from 17 to 8 per cent, it was scarcely less humiliating.

The reasons are all too plain. That single-minded sense of mission, which so
impressed the country in the Coalition's infancy, has all but evaporated after
months of bickering, indecision, policy reversals, ill thought-out initiatives
and gratuitous distractions.

In the depths of the worst debt crisis in our history, with prices soaring and
the economic revival faltering, we're faced with a 6250million referendum on an
arcane proposal to change our voting system, while a 6500million census is going
ahead as if money is no object.

The much-trumpeted 'bonfire of the quangos', which was to rid us of legions of
parasitical placemen and return power to voters, is already fizzling out - with
bodies such as Ofcom being cynically reprieved (in return for nodding through
the Murdoch BSkyB deal) as fast as their death warrants are signed.

As front-line services face cutbacks, council executives continue to help
themselves to lavish pay and perks, the MoD goes on shelling out 622 for each
65p lightbulb and billions are being squandered on grossly inefficient wind
turbines, simply to appease the LibDem open-toed sandals brigade.

Meanwhile, we've seen a Tory Justice Minister openly at odds with David Cameron
over penal policy and European courts trampl i ng unhi ndered over Parliament.

Then there was a half-baked and hastilyabandoned scheme to privatise our
woodlands and even a sterile argument between the Prime Minister and his
punch-drunk deputy over, of all things, the pros and cons of multiculturalism.

Welcome to the politics of drift and displacement.

On foreign policy, too, Mr Cameron has displayed a worrying unsureness of touch
- first preaching democracy to Arab tyrants with a posse of arms dealers in his
train, now threatening Libya with a no-fly zone, to be enforced by imaginary
warplanes taking off from aircraft carriers we no longer possess.

With only a few honourable exceptions, such as welfare reform and the drive to
restore school standards, policy seems to be losing all sense of direction.

So let the Mail remind the Coalition of its purpose: above all, it is to rescue
Britain from an economic disaster that threatens to plunge us from the first
rank of nations into the third.

Only a revival in the private sector can ensure that recovery. And this in turn
will not come about unless the Coalition swiftly enacts a meaningful strategy
for business. That means lifting the monstrous burden of the state, with all its
paraphernalia of red tape, workers' rights and employment litigation.

This month's Budget will give George Osborne his opportunity to set businesses
free. They have waited long enough.

As for the LibDems, the message from Barnsley is clear: if they break up the
Government and force an early election, they will be walking to oblivion.

Their one hope lies in making this Coalition work. Like the Tories, they must
focus, focus, focus on the common commitment that brought them together - and
won them the nation's goodwill.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

CLEGG TO HOLD CRISIS TALKS AFTER BY-ELECTION 'KICKING'

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN AND TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 671 words


NICK Clegg is to hold crisis talks with senior Liberal Democrats following their
party's sixth-place 'kicking' in the Barnsley by-election.

Party chiefs believe they face two years of deep unpopularity and even the
prospect of a wipeout in May's local elections.

There are increasing signs that the Deputy Prime Minister will not only lose his
flagship Alternative Vote referendum on May 5, but also control of councils such
as Newcastle and Sheffield.

Despite tensions within the government over foreign affairs, electoral reform
and multiculturalism, the dramatic collapse in Lib Dem support will stop them
walking out of the coalition before 2015, Tory counterparts believe.

Mr Clegg and his allies are pinning their hopes on gaining credit for an
economic recovery and restored public finances.

The Lib Dems had been prepared for a poor result in a by-election held in the
safe Labour seat vacated by convicted expenses cheat Eric Illsley. But they were
shocked by the scale of the drubbing which saw them pushed from second to sixth
place behind the UKIP, the Tories, the BNP and an independent candidate. The
Liberal vote plummeted from 17 per cent last May to 4 per cent.

It was the first time since 1945 that one of the main three parties has suffered
such a dramatic decline at a by-election. The Lib Dems lost 5,000 of the votes
they won at the general election and lost their 6500 deposit.

David Cameron also faces renewed pressure from his Eurosceptic Right wing after
the Tories were overtaken by UKIP in Thursday's poll.

Former Lib Dem leader Paddy Ashdown urged his party to 'stand firm' behind Mr
Clegg during what could be years of 'hard pounding' from voters.

'We have got to have the discipline and toughness to stand there and do what
needs to be done and take the flak for that while this country gets through the
most difficult economic crisis it has faced for 40 or 50 years,' Lord Ashdown
insisted.

Vanquished Lib Dem candidate Dominic Carman said: 'The voters here in Barnsley
have given me and the Liberal Democrats a kicking.' But ,he added: 'We can take
it.' The Deputy Prime Minister is expected to subject himself to a masochism
strategy with voters in order to show 'resilience' in the face of what his aides
described as a drubbing.

Mr Clegg is urging his internal critics to give him an easy ride at his party's
spring conference next weekend in his home town of Sheffield.

Thousands of union members and student protesters are set to disrupt the
conference over his party's U-turn on university tuition fees.

Mr Clegg is also concerned by rising internal opposition to the coalition's
plans to restructure the Health Service.

His aides admit they are powerless to prevent grass-roots members tabling
emergency motions condemning both policies in order to embarrass the leadership.

They expect party members to force a vote calling for the total abolition of
tuition fees.

Mr Clegg has been told he needs to 'show resilience' in the face of setbacks.
But he seemed shellshocked yesterday when responding to the disaster in
Barnsley.

'I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to write off the
Liberal Democrats,' he said. 'They have done it in the past and we have proved
them wrong and we will prove them wrong again.'

In a variation of Tony Blair's masochism strategy at the 2005 election, the
Deputy Prime Minister will arrive in Sheffield on Thursday and will quickly 'get
out and about', with visits to Sheffield Wednesday Football Club and
high-profile doorstep campaigning.

A senior Lib Dem said: 'The theme will be resilience from Nick. You're going to
see steely determination. You can't change your philosophy just because you get
a drubbing in Barnsley.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband, who yesterday visited the South Yorkshire town to
congratulate his new MP Dan Jarvis, will use a speech today to claim the result
shows voters are punishing the Lib Dems for 'truly terrible decisions'.

He will reach out to 'decent Liberal Democrats out there who hate what their
leadership is doing'.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

MARK SEDDON

LENGTH: 1311 words


On Politics And Power

WILL THE PRICE OF POWER FOR CLEGG BE THE DEATH OF THE LIB DEMS?

By all accounts, Nick Clegg is not a happy man. This week his candidate trailed
into a truly humiliating sixth place in the Barnsley Central by-election, losing
his deposit and coming behind both Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party and the
far-Right British National Party.

Not all that long ago, Clegg's Liberal Democrats were seen as the great
insurgents of politics, mopping up the protest vote as they grabbed headlines
with sensational by-election wins.

How things have changed. On the basis of this latest performance in South
Yorkshire, Clegg's party may soon be picking up fewer votes than the Monster
Raving Loony Party. The Barnsley by-election disaster follows a particularly
miserable fortnight for the Lib Dem leader.

To begin with, he was caught on the hop by the crisis fast unfolding in North
Africa. David Cameron was visiting the Middle East, and Clegg was in Britain
when he was asked by journalists if he was the 'acting Prime Minister'.

Sipping from a mug with 'Deputy Prime Minister' emblazoned on its sides, an
insouciant Clegg replied with jaw-dropping infantilism: 'Yeah, I suppose I am. I
forgot about that.'

He went on to say he was hoping to take the end of the week off with his
children: 'Someone else will have to do it [the job] then.'

Clegg duly took himself off to the ski slopes of Switzerland Ñ just as Libya
began tearing itself apart and the sheer inadequacy of Britain's efforts to
rescue its citizens stranded in the Libyan desert became apparent.

Clegg's astonishing, lackadaisical approach is vaguely reminiscent of that shown
in 1979 by former Prime Minister James Callaghan, who was neatly, if unfairly,
paraphrased as saying 'Crisis, what crisis?' when he returned from an IMF
Conference in sunny Guadeloupe to a strike-torn Britain shivering in the Winter
of Discontent.

Say what you like about former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, but at least
he knew when he was supposed to be in charge.

But the tragedy for Mr Clegg is not just his manifest failure as Deputy Prime
Minister. It's the deepening anger among rank-and-file Lib Dems and MPs who are
becoming increasingly aware of the heavy price of Clegg's Faustian pact with
power.

Up and down the country, Lib Dems are seeing support for their party demolished
Ñ polling and morale are both at an all-time low. We may be in government, they
are saying, but will it cost us our beloved party?

O f course, there are those who say the Barnsley poll result is simply the
inevitable result of the Lib Dems being in government just as the cuts are
beginning to bite. Governments usually get a good kicking in by-elections, and
this one is no exception.

But many Ñ no, most Ñ Lib Dems are nothing like as sanguine. After all, the
speed of the party's descent in popularity since Nick Clegg became Deputy Prime
Minister is staggering.

In those halcyon days just before the election, when he surprised everyone with
his performance in the televised debates between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and
himself, the party stood at 35Êper cent in the polls. Today, it is hovering at
around 10Êper cent.

In those few weeks when he was riding high, Clegg promised a 'new politics' and
castigated the two other parties for their tired old ideas. How hollow his words
now sound to those party supporters who have sacrificed everything to give him
his moment in the sun.

How harsh they must find it to swallow U-turn after U-turn Ñ from VAT increases
to tuition fees, spending cuts and immigration policy. And only to be wiped out
in the polls.

Little wonder that Liberal Democrats, MPs, councillors and activists alike, are
now looking as though they have just chewed their way through a swarm of wasps.

Clegg can't be happy either that the city of Sheffield was chosen by party
managers, in headier, happier days, to host the Liberal Democrat Spring
Conference, to be held in just over a week's time.

For the conference will see the Lib Dem activists rounding on him as never
before.

And while the city council has been meeting in recent days to discuss making
savings amounting to around £80Êmillion, some £2Êmillion is to be spent erecting
a six-foot-high fence around the conference centre Ñ and a 'ring of steel' to
protect Nick Clegg and the Lib Dems from furious voters.

Even the choice of the phrase 'ring of steel' provokes furious reaction in
Sheffield, which takes pride in being known as 'Steel City'.

Many locals have still not forgiven Clegg for what they saw as his massive
betrayal of local firm Sheffield Forgemasters, when he refused to persuade the
Government to provide an £80Êmillion loan which was designed to help it win
orders from the British Nuclear industry and create 200 new jobs.

In Sheffield Hallam, the prosperous constituency represented by Nick Clegg, the
mood towards their MP is unforgiving.

Locals here are fully expecting that a banner first seen at the time of the
Forgemasters surrender will make an appearance at the Lib Dems' Conference. It
reads simply, 'Sheffield against Clegg'.

One disillusioned voter who supported Clegg at the last election tells me that
members of her bowls club will 'never support Nick Clegg again'.

And while the membership of one Sheffield Hallam bowls club may not constitute a
professional polling sample, locals believe that Clegg may only be able to hang
on to his seat at the next General Election if the Conservatives agree not to
run a candidate against him.

The Liberal Democrats' Sheffield Spring Conference is supposed to be Nick
Clegg's springboard for a successful round of local election results on May 5.
But Ed Miliband, cheered by this week's result in Barnsley Central, where a
Labour candidate won, is hoping that a whole string of Lib Dem-held councils
could come falling his party's way.

Labour sources fight shy of predicting that some Liberal Democrats MPs are now
so disenchanted that they are considering defecting to Labour. But they do
expect to see significant defections by councillors before and after the May
local government elections.

A ccording to Labour sources in London, the party has been approached by a
number of councillors in the East End who are thinking of defecting.

And it is becoming increasingly clear that a number of Liberal Democrats MPs are
increasingly unhappy at the political cul-de-sac that they find themselves in.
Their numbers include Bob Russell, Charles Kennedy, Mike Hancock and Menzies
Campbell.

Clegg will be nursing the hope that however bad the results may be for his party
in the spring local council elections, a majority of voters will vote 'yes' in
the national referendum on voting reform.

Now that the 40Êper cent turn-out requirement for that vote has been dropped,
many Liberal Democrats are confident of winning a vote for the Alternative Vote
system (AV).

But even this could prove to be something of a poisoned chalice for Clegg.
Altering Britain's electoral system is a major constitutional change and with it
will come new constituency boundaries Ñ a prospect already infuriating sitting
MPs of all parties.

If the turn-out in the AV referendum is as low as it was this week in the Welsh
referendum Ñ with only 35Êper cent bothering to vote Ñ the cry will inevitably
go up that only a small minority of the electorate have voted for a new system
granted to Clegg by Cameron to save him and his party's skin.

The truth is that both the fate of Clegg and his once proud party are now
dependent on the goodwill of Cameron and the Conservatives. Lib Dems have
nowhere to go, so are likely to cling on unhappily in the Coalition with their
existing leader for the time being.

But the this week's by-election result seems to confirm many a party activist's
worst fear Ñ that, as an independent party, the Lib Dems are in their death
throes.

Anger: Nick Clegg has been criticised over his U-turns

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'If aliens did ever make contact with me, I'd offer them a cup of tea';
Interview Sir Patrick Moore is celebrating the 700th episode of The Sky at Night
and his 88th birthday

BYLINE: Bryony Gordon

SECTION: FEATURES; EXCLUSIVE, PROFILES AND INTERVIEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 838 words


Leaving Sir Patrick Moore's rambling house in West Sussex, misery descends. It's
not that the experience of interviewing him has been bruising, or that he has
been impolite - quite the opposite, actually - more a sense of frustration on
his behalf. Sir Patrick's brain can go to galaxies all over the universe, but
his body is confined to his bedroom and the study, moved between the two by his
carer in a piece of equipment he cheerily calls George, despite the fact it
resembles a sort of crane-like winch. This makes me pity Sir Patrick. And you
don't want to pity a man who has written over 100 books on astronomy, who mapped
the Moon for Russia.

Sir Patrick turned 88 yesterday. Today he will hold a party at Farthings, the
house he has lived in for almost 50 years. "Patrick likes a party," says his
neighbour, who pops over for a gin and tonic mid-afternoon. His carer Dawn tells
me there will be celebrities in attendance. Brian May, the Queen guitarist who
is also a keen astronomer, is coming. Brian Cox, Sir Patrick's heir, will
probably be there. And possibly Nigel Farage, with whom Sir Patrick has become
good friends since he signed up to Ukip. "You must come," says the astronomer,
and it is tempting to be a fly on the wall.

There is another reason to celebrate. Tomorrow is the 700th episode of The Sky
at Night, the world's longest running television show. It started in 1957, which
makes Sir Patrick the most enduring TV presenter.

He has only missed one show, after he caught salmonella from a goose egg in
2004.

Stick that in your pipe and smoke it, Simon Cowell. Moore has a very impressive
pipe collection, and no, he has never seen The X Factor. His favourite
programmes are Dad's Army, 'Allo 'Allo and Yes Minister. I don't think he
watches much television.

The rickety little set in his study is tuned into teletext, and when the local
astronomy society clubbed together to buy him a plasma screen he refused to
watch it because he doesn't really do technology.

Anyway, here he is, heaven sent to the BBC on account of the fact he proves that
a) the corporation isn't ageist, and b) it doesn't pay every presenter a
ridiculously inflated wage. In fact, Sir Patrick says they don't pay him
anything. "Recently they asked me if I would take a 20 per cent pay cut." He
gives a quizzical look through his monocle. "I said to them 'what is 20 per cent
of pounds zero?'

"I think that is the reason The Sky at Night has carried on for so very long,"
he continues. "It's cheap." They have filmed it at Farthings for the past 10
years or so, since Sir Patrick's arthritis made it impossible for him to leave
the house. He cannot even go into his observatory; can't look through the
telescope he has had since the Fifties, the one he used to map the Moon. It is
rusty and rickety now, but I imagine that one day it will be worth a lot of
money indeed.

I am shown this by his friend Hilton Ratcliffe, an astro-physicist who has flown
from South Africa for the party. It is useful to speak to him, because Sir
Patrick finds it difficult to talk. During the war, when he was an RAF
navigator, he was in a plane crash which killed his pilot and co-pilot. Sir
Patrick lost all his teeth, and they were replaced hurriedly. As he has got
older, the slurring has got worse.

Ratcliffe takes me around Farthings. He shows me the pictures of Sir Patrick
with Neil Armstrong, and an astonishing one with Albert Einstein. They dueted on
The Swan when they met at Princeton - Einstein on violin, Sir Patrick on piano
(he is an accomplished musician). "I think I am the only person alive who has
met the first man in space, the first man on the Moon, the first man who flew,
and then Albert Einstein," says Sir Patrick. The house is lined with
certificates. Sir Patrick never had a formal education because he was ill as a
child and was schooled at home; when he was due to go to Cambridge, the war
started. He never married. After his fiancée was killed by a German bomb, he
never wanted another woman.

Sir Patrick was exceptionally close to his mother, who lived with him until her
death in 1981. He still has the cuckoo clock she gave him for his sixth
birthday, and the walls are lined with pictures she drew of ''bogeys'' - her
imaginings of extra terrestrials. "If aliens did ever make contact with me,"
says Sir Patrick, "I would say 'hello, would you like a cup of tea?' I don't
think they'd be hostile. We are the hostile ones, with all our wars."

He misses his observatory "terribly". But Farthings is a treasure trove of
memories and tiny pieces of meteorites. And he has his beloved cats, Jeannie and
Ptolemy. "When I met them, it was love at first sight. I am a cat man. I have
had eight or nine. It is so sad when they go."

Will he leave all his belongings to them? He looks at me through his monocle.
"Ha! You are presuming that they will outlive me."

'The Data Book of Astronomy' by Patrick Moore is published by Cambridge
University Press

"I've met the first man in space, the first man on the Moon and the first man
who flew"

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Patrick Moore is now confined to his home by arthritis, but he is
the world's most enduring TV presenter
PAUL GROVER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fix parliaments and rig the constitution;
Simon Heffer ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 586 words


We are now partly governed by one party that can only manage to come sixth in a
by-election, and by another that manages only two thirds of the votes of Ukip.
Some will say that the contest in Barnsley, a safe Labour seat with a low
turnout, signifies nothing. I disagree. In exactly two months, on May 5, we
shall see a much bigger contest, with seats at stake in councils all over
England and in Scottish and Welsh assembly elections: then we'll see the full
measure of the slump in popularity of the members of the Coalition.

For all his other faults, Dave is not stupid - he has other colleagues who
fulfil that role for the operation - and he knew all along that this was coming.
It is one reason he is trying to rig the constitution as best he can, to ensure
that he stays in power for as long as possible. To this end, Parliament is
currently considering whether or not we should have fixed-term governments.
Anticipating the outcome, Dave has already announced, with his customary
humility, that the next election will be in May 2015. But what happened on
Thursday in Things can Barnsley presents just one reason why this is outrageous.

If a government dramatically loses the confidence of the public, there is always
the hope that it will be thrown out of office, as an election can be held at any
time. It happened in 1979. That is democracy in action, and a rather wonderful
thing it is too. Or a prime minister can decide, before the end of his term, to
seek the endorsement of the electorate in difficult times, as Ted Heath
disastrously did in 1974. Or, if a government is elected with either a small
majority or no majority at all, it can go back to the country in a matter of six
to 18 months and seek legitimacy, as Attlee tried to do in 1951, and Wilson
successfully did in 1966 and in October 1974. All this keeps government close to
the people.

Under the fixed-term proposals, there is still scope for a vote of confidence
that would force the government out, which seems to me to make a mockery of the
whole exercise. But if a party cannot govern on its own, fixed terms would force
the sort of shabby, useless Coalition with which we are now saddled. If a great
challenge arises that divides opinion - as in the winter of 1974 - a government
cannot ask the electorate to endorse it. Thus would such a scheme violate some
of the democratic precepts our constitution has been designed to protect.

Dave's supporters lie about the reason for this measure. They say it is "unfair"
that a prime minister should choose when to go to the country. That is nonsense.
It is one of the perks - the last perk - of having won the previous election.
And, as Ted Heath would tell you were he alive, it doesn't guarantee reelection.
The new arrangements also threaten the Sovereign's prerogative powers, since
they include the Orwellian notion that the Commons can vote for a dissolution on
a two-thirds majority. I hope if they ever did, the Queen would tell them to get
lost, for choosing whether or not there is a dissolution remains Her Majesty's
decision.

This is all about retaining power by the banana-republic means of fiddling the
constitution, and chucking a bone to a limping dog of a party that can only come
sixth in a by-election. No one who voted for the majority party in the Coalition
voted for this antidemocratic swindle. As it wasn't in Dave's manifesto, he
should call a referendum on so grave a constitutional change. But on Thursday's
showing, his side would be lucky to get into double figures.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Things can only get worse

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If it means you have a short but productive life, that is worth doing;
Baroness Warsi tells Robert Winnett of the risks attached to her role

BYLINE: Robert Winnett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 888 words


EVER since Baroness Warsi was appointed Britain's first Muslim Cabinet minister
she has faced serious threats from Islamic extremists.

The role has made her one of the most high-profile targets in politics - so much
so that her family has urged her to step away from the limelight.

But the co-chairman of the Conservative Party, who is 40 later this month, said
she believed the cause was too important.

Her rise from a working class childhood to the highest echelons of the Tory
party is said to play well with Thatcherite root-and-branch members.

She is aware that for many people she represents the "aspirational, workingclass
opportunity".

The baroness said: "I spoke to a girl only about six months ago who said her
brother and father were asking her to stand as a councillor.

"She was quite shocked because she never thought this was what her family would
ask her to do. 'Oh we want you to do that because look how well Sayeeda Warsi
has done.' So it has now become an aspirational thing."

Such conversations - and the threats she has received - have led to her thinking
long and hard about the risks she is taking.

But she concluded: "Why go into politics if you are not going to be brave? If
you want to stand on the sidelines and not stand up for what you believe in,
politics is the wrong game to be in.

"If that means you have a short but productive life, that is worth doing."

Last month, she stirred controversy after claiming that prejudice against
Muslims in this country had "passed the dinner table test" and was now seen as
socially acceptable. The remarks caused her to be criticised amid suggestions
that she had angered the Prime Minister.

So, is the woman apparently prepared to die for her work, now shying away from
further controversy or might she make another speech about religion? "Despite
what you might read in the great newspapers, David [Cameron] is quite keen for
me to do another one."

The fighting attitude may prove crucial in what she believes will be a dismal
few years for the Tories.

The baroness is doing all she can to rally the party. She arrives in Cardiff
today for the Conservative spring conference having travelled via Yorkshire,
Scotland and London over the past 48 hours.

Baroness Warsi is resigned to several years of electoral meltdowns before her
job becomes easier - hopefully in time for the next general election in 2015.

Thursday's by-election, in which the Tories were beaten into third place in
Barnsley by Ukip, was another reminder of the scale of the task before her.

"We will do badly in the local elections and Labour should do very well because
of where we are in the electoral cycle," Baroness Warsi said.

Conservative strategists are privately forecasting that Ed Miliband will
recapture at least 1,000 council seats this May, although the baroness refuses
to be drawn on figures. However, she said the party was not experiencing any
"honeymoon" from being in power.

"We had no honeymoon to walk into," she said. "They left us with a huge mess ...
you are not going to be popular. But we did not form this Coalition in the
interests of being popular - well, neither of the parties did that - we formed
this Coalition to clear up the mess - to act in the national interest."

Baroness Warsi said the party's success or failure at the next election would be
entirely reliant on the performance of the economy.

"Everything else that we deliver has to be delivered alongside a more balanced
and stable economy," she said. "If we deliver that more balanced and stable
economy before the next election then that is a record that we will go on and
that is what we are all working towards."

But, in the coming weeks, the Tory chairman has a more pressing priority - to
stop a change in the voting system.

On May 5, there will be a referendum on switching from a first-past-the-post
electoral system to the alternative vote in which candidates are ranked.

There is widespread apathy towards the referendum and the Conservatives are
growing increasingly alarmed. If the system changes, Mr Cameron may find himself
- and his successors - never able to win a general election outright.

Baroness Warsi has the task of trying to increase public awareness towards the
"threat".

She said: "I think it would be a disaster for good, strong democratic elections
in this country.

"That's the one [poll] I am concentrating on and saying to my colleagues up and
down the country - that's what we should be focusing on. Now is the time to get
passionate to avoid apathetic politics for ever."

The Conservatives are clearly rattled by celebrities such as Colin Firth, the
recent Oscar winner, who are lining up behind the campaign in support of
electoral reform.

She said: "If you can get some stars like Colin Firth and others to add a bit of
stardust to it, yes it might sound sexy or it might sound exciting and it might
sound like change, but once you start going through the arguments of what it is
- people very quickly switch to 'no'."

"This situation is far too serious for it to be about razzmatazz.

"I mean if people said to me, 'would you want to go and do the same
razzmatazz?', I would actually say this is more than about the stardust. This is
actually about the fundamental values of our country."

"Why go into politics if you are not going to be brave? If you stand on
sidelines politics is the wrong game

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Warsi has had threats since becoming Britain's first Muslim
Cabinet minister
HEATHCLIFF O'MALLEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Don't write us off, pleads Clegg after 'kicking' in by-election

BYLINE: Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words


VOTERS should not "write off" the Liberal Democrats despite the party's slump to
sixth place in the Barnsley Central by-election, Nick Clegg insisted last night.

In a series of interviews, the Deputy Prime Minister and other senior Lib Dems
rushed to defend the party amid growing unrest among supporters.

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, will today say that British politics is once
again a choice between "two directions", with Mr Clegg's party increasingly
irrelevant.

Labour comfortably won the Barnsley by-election on Thursday night, despite the
party's previous MP for the constituency, Eric Illsley, being jailed for
expenses fraud. The Lib Dems, who came second in the area in the general
election, polled fewer votes than the BNP and an independent candidate. The
Conservatives were pushed into third place by Ukip.

In a speech today, Mr Miliband will warn Lib Dem voters that they are "powerless
to stop Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrat leadership from signing up for some
truly terrible decisions".

"I think it's becoming clear to voters that, while there might - still - be
three main political parties, there are only two directions," he will say.

The Lib Dems' poor performance will raise concerns in the party about the local
elections on May 5, the day of the referendum on electoral reform, a policy
pushed by Mr Clegg.

If changes to the electoral system are blocked, the Lib Dem leader will face
increased pressure over the wisdom of being in the Coalition with the Tories.

Mr Clegg defended his party's performance by saying that Barnsley Central was a
"very safe" Labour seat, although he admitted it was a "bad result".

"I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to write off the
Liberal Democrats," he said. "They have done it in the past and we have proved
them wrong and we will prove them wrong again."

Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president and MP for Westmorland and Lonsdale, admitted
that the result was "a kicking" for his party.

"It was a poor result for us. It was a poor result for the Tories. The Coalition
parties didn't do very well here. Surprise, surprise," he said on Thursday
night. "At this time of the evening, there's nothing more laughable than a
politician who's got a kicking pretending it's all right."

Lord Ashdown, the former party leader, said it was normal for parties in power
to perform badly at by-elections. Dominic Carman, the Lib Dem candidate, took
only four per cent of the vote, compared with the 17 per cent his party received
last year.

The new MP, Dan Jarvis, 38, is a former Major in the Parachute Regiment, with
which he served in Afghanistan, Sierra Leone and Kosovo. His wife, Caroline,
died last year after a four-year battle with cancer, leaving him as a single
parent to his two children.

Mr Jarvis warned the Government that its cuts agenda was damaging the country.

"Your reckless policies, your broken promises and your unfair cuts are letting
your country down," he said.

Ukip also celebrated its performance in the poll after Jane Collins won 2,953
votes, 12 per cent of those cast.

There has only been one other by-election since last May, when Labour won Oldham
East and Saddleworth after a special court found that Phil Woolas, a former
Labour minister, had lied about his Lib Dem general election rival.

In a further blow to Mr Clegg, Lembit Öpik, the former MP, said he would stand
as London Mayor next year, even though the party is yet to select a candidate.

BARNSLEY RESULT Dan Jarvis (Lab) 14,724 Jane Collins (UKIP) 2,953 James Hockney
(Con) 1,999 Enis Dalton (BNP) 1,463 Tony Devoy (Ind) 1,266 Dominic Carman (LD)
1,012 Kevin Riddiough (Eng Dem) 544 Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 198 Michael Val
Davies (Ind) 60 LABOUR MAJORITY TURNOUT (%) 11,771 36.5

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed Miliband joins Dan Jarvis, right, Barnsley Central's new MP, to meet
voters who gave Labour a majority of nearly 12,000
FURLONG/GETTY IMAGES CHRISTOPHER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEPs pass £11m rise in allowances

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 188 words


THE cost of the European Parliament will rise by £11.4million a year after MEPs
voted yesterday to boost their staffing allowances.

A majority of MEPs on the Parliament's Budget Committee opted to go through with
a £1,285-a-month increase in secretarial allowances, taking the payments to
about £18,000 a month per representative.

Applied to all Britain's 72 elected Brussels representatives, the move lifts the
maximum total cost of their assistants by some £93,000 a month. Across the
736-member taxpayer-funded Parliament, it adds £950,000 per month or
£11.4million a year to the bill, which could rise further as the Lisbon Treaty
provides for there to be 751 MEPs including one extra from Britain. MEPs agreed
last year to phase in a £2,570 rise in the monthly allowance and yesterday's
vote completes this.

But British UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen, in a minority on the Budget Committee who
voted against the rise, said: "The secretarial allowance is already generous. "I
remain flabbergasted that MEPs, in the midst of the worst financial crisis in a
generation, saw fit to award themselves this second increase. I am disgusted."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton controls an empire of more than 100 highly-paid
bureaucrats and recruits in line with quotas to reflect gender balance and
country of origin
Picture: GABRIEL KUCHTA/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Don't write us off pleads Clegg as Lib Dems crash at polls

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words


NICK Clegg struggled to put on a show of defiance last night after the Liberal
Democrats' worst ever by-election humiliation.

The Deputy Prime Minister urged critics not to "write off" his beleaguered party
following its slump to sixth place in the Barnsley Central poll.

But senior Lib Dems were understood to be concerned that their party could be on
the brink of electoral meltdown.

And there was growing discomfort in Tory ranks that the Conservative candidate
was beaten to second place by the anti-EU UK Independence Party.

Labour celebrated after candidate Dan Jarvis was elected as MP for the South
Yorkshire constituency, holding the seat vacated when ex-Labour MP Eric Illsley
was jailed for expenses fraud.

But attention focused yesterday on the Lib Dems after their candidate, Dominic
Carman, lost his deposit and was beaten by Ukip, the British National Party and
an unemployed ex-miner who stood as an independent.

Downcast Mr Clegg said yesterday: "The by-election last night was obviously a
bad result for the Liberal Democrats.

"I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to write off the
Liberal Democrats.

"They have done it in the past and we have proved them wrong and we will prove
them wrong again.

"In Government, we will continue to do what I think is absolutely vital for the
long-term benefit of the country - namely sort out the economic mess we
inherited from Labour."

Publicly, senior Lib Dems including former leader Paddy Ashdown and deputy
leader Simon Hughes dismissed the result. But anxiety is understood to be
spreading among the grassroots.

Mr Jarvis, a former Army major, increased Labour's majority from 11,093 to
11,771 on a turnout of 36.5 per cent.

The Lib Dems' vote share tumbled from 17.28 per cent to 4.18 per cent, and their
Conservative coalition partner's from 17.26 per cent to 8.25 per cent.

At the general election, the Lib Dems came second in the safe Labour seat.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said his party were the "real winners" after coming
second with 2,953 votes. He said: "We are delighted, though I have to say not
completely surprised. Because just over the last month, whether it's votes for
prisoners, car insurance for young women, annuities for old men, increasingly
our Parliament is seen to be completely impotent.

"So the Ukip message that we should take back control of our own lives is very
relevant to voters."

Some Tories were understood to be anxious about being overtaken by Ukip. One MP
said: "This is what happens to the Conservatives if they abandon low taxes and
standing up for Britain against the EU."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dan Jarvis celebrates win with Labour MPs Andy Burnham, left, and John
Healey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Don't write us off pleads Clegg as Lib Dems crash at polls

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 440  words


NICK Clegg struggled to put on a show of defiance last night after the Liberal
Democrats' worst ever by-election humiliation.

The Deputy Prime Minister urged critics not to "write off" his beleaguered party
following its slump to sixth place in the Barnsley Central poll.

But senior Lib Dems were understood to be concerned that their party could be on
the brink of electoral meltdown.

Mr Clegg is set to hold crisis talks with party grandees as it appears he looks
set to lose his flagship referendum on the Alternative Voting system on May 5
and lose control of key councils including Sheffield and Newcastle.

Tories believe that despite differences in the Government over multiculturalism,
foreign affairs and electoral reform, the huge drop in Lib Dem support will now
stop Mr Clegg's party from walking out of the coalition before the next general
election in 2015.

The Deputy Prime Minister and his allies are now banking on winning back voters
through the economic recovery and restored public finances.

A downcast Mr Clegg said yesterday:

"The by-election last night was obviously a bad result.

"I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to write off the
Liberal Democrats. They have done it in the past and we have proved them wrong
and we will prove them wrong again.

"In Government, we will continue to do what I think is absolutely vital for the
long-term benefit of the country - namely sort out the economic mess we
inherited from Labour."

Labour were celebrating after candidate Dan Jarvis was elected as MP for the
South Yorkshire constituency, with an increased majority. But the by-election
drubbing for the governing parties, which saw Lib Dem candidate Dominic Carman
lose his deposit, also sparked growing discomfort in Tory ranks after their
candidate was beaten to second place by the anti-EU UK Independence Party.

The Lib Dems' vote share tumbled from 17.28 per cent to 4.18 per cent, while
their Conservative coalition partner's fell from 17.26 per cent to 8.25 per
cent.

At the general election, the Lib Dems came second in the safe Labour seat.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage claimed his party were the "real winners" after coming
second with 2,953 votes.

He said: "We are delighted, though I have to say not completely surprised.

Because just over the last month, whether it's votes for prisoners, car
insurance for young women, annuities for old men, increasingly our Parliament is
seen to be completely impotent."

Some Tories were understood to be anxious about being overtaken by Ukip.

One MP said: "This is what happens to the Conservatives if they abandon low
taxes and standing up for Britain against the EU."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dan Jarvis celebrates win with Labour MPs Andy Burnham, left, and John
Healey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Don't write us off pleads Clegg as Lib Dems crash at polls

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 433  words


Political Editor NICK Clegg struggled to put on a show of defiance last night
after the Liberal Democrats' worst ever by-election humiliation.

The Deputy Prime Minister urged critics not to "write off" his beleaguered party
following its slump to sixth place in the Barnsley Central poll.

But senior Lib Dems were understood to be concerned that their party could be on
the brink of electoral meltdown.

And there was growing discomfort in Tory ranks that the Conservative candidate
was beaten to second place by the anti-EU UK Independence Party.

Labour celebrated after candidate Dan Jarvis was elected as MP for the South
Yorkshire constituency, holding the seat vacated when ex-Labour MP Eric Illsley
was jailed for expenses fraud.

But attention focused yesterday on the Lib Dems after their candidate, Dominic
Carman, lost his deposit and was beaten by Ukip, the British National Party and
an unemployed ex-miner who stood as an independent.

Downcast Mr Clegg said yesterday:

"The by-election last night was obviously a bad result for the Liberal
Democrats.

"I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to write off the
Liberal Democrats.

"They have done it in the past and we have proved them wrong and we will prove
them wrong again.

"In Government, we will continue to do what I think is absolutely vital for the
long-term benefit of the country - namely sort out the economic mess we
inherited from Labour."

Publicly, senior Lib Dems including former leader Paddy Ashdown and deputy
leader Simon Hughes dismissed the result. But anxiety is understood to be
spreading among the grassroots.

Mr Jarvis, a former Army major, increased Labour's majority from 11,093 to
11,771 on a turnout of 36.5 per cent.

The Lib Dems' vote share tumbled from 17.28 per cent to 4.18 per cent, and their
Conservative coalition partner's from 17.26 per cent to 8.25 per cent.

At the general election, the Lib Dems came second in the safe Labour seat.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said his party were the "real winners" after coming
second with 2,953 votes. He said:

"We are delighted, though I have to say not completely surprised. Because just
over the last month, whether it's votes for prisoners, car insurance for young
women, annuities for old men, increasingly our Parliament is seen to be
completely impotent.

"So the Ukip message that we should take back control of our own lives is very
relevant to voters."

Some Tories were understood to be anxious about being overtaken by Ukip.

One MP said: "This is what happens to the Conservatives if they abandon low
taxes and standing up for Britain against the EU."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dan Jarvis celebrates win with Labour MPs Andy Burnham, left, and John
Healey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MEPs pass GBP 11m rise in allowances

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 191  words


THE cost of the European Parliament will rise by GBP 11.4million a year after
MEPs voted yesterday to boost their staffing allowances.

A majority of MEPs on the Parliament's Budget Committee opted to go through with
a GBP 1,285-a-month increase in secretarial allowances, taking the payments to
about GBP 18,000 a month per representative.

Applied to all Britain's 72 elected Brussels representatives, the move lifts the
maximum total cost of their assistants by some GBP 93,000 a month.

Across the 736-member taxpayer-funded Parliament, it adds GBP 950,000 per month
or GBP 11.4million a year to the bill, which could rise further as the Lisbon
Treaty provides for there to be 751 MEPs including one extra from Britain.

MEPs agreed last year to phase in a GBP 2,570 rise in the monthly allowance and
yesterday's vote completes this.

But British UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen, in a minority on the Budget Committee who
voted against the rise, said: "The secretarial allowance is already generous.

"I remain flabbergasted that MEPs, in the midst of the worst financial crisis in
a generation, saw fit to award themselves this second increase. I am disgusted."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

MEPs PASS GBP 11M ALLOWANCES RISE

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 89  words


THE cost of the European Parliament will rise by GBP 11.4million a year after
MEPs voted to boost their staffing allowances.

A majority of MEPs on the Parliament's Budget Committee opted to go through with
a GBP 1,285-a-month increase in secretarial allowances, taking payments to about
GBP 18,000 a month per representative.

Across the 736-member taxpayer-funded Parliament, it adds GBP 950,000 per month
or GBP 11.4 million a year to the bill. British UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen, who
voted against, said she was "flabbergasted"by the rise.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Scott: By-election disaster won't hurt Scottish Lib Dems

BYLINE: By Kerry Gill

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 377  words


TAVISH Scott yesterday brushed aside the Liberal Democrats' worst ever
by-election humiliation as he predicted his party had the right policies to
attract Scottish voters in May.

The Scottish Lib Dem leader faced a difficult job of trying to enthuse delegates
at their conference in Perth just hours after the party slumped to sixth place
in the Barnsley Central poll.

Labour celebrated yesterday after candidate Dan Jarvis was elected as MP for
South Yorkshire.

He held the safe seat vacated when former Labour MP Eric Illsley was convicted
of fraud and jailed for fiddling his expenses. But attention focused yesterday
on the Lib Dems after their candidate, Dominic Carmen, lost his deposit and was
beaten by UKIP, the British National Party and an unemployed ex-miner who stood
as an independent.

However, Mr Scott determinedly fixed on Scottish issues - the need to boost the
economy, improve education, and make services more local - and stressed the Lib
Dems' fierce opposition to a national police force.

South of the Border, though, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg could not escape
the backlash. Downcast Mr Clegg admitted: "The result in the by-election last
night was obviously a bad result for the Liberal Democrats. I have no doubt that
people will try to use this single result to write off the Liberal Democrats.
They have done it in the past and we have proved them wrong and we will prove
them wrong again."

Mr Scott and his party north of the Border are hoping that the backlash seen in
the south will not translate into lost seats at Holyrood.

Speaking in Perth, Danny Alexander, Chief Secretary to the Treasury and Lib Dem
MP for Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey, said the result in Barnsley
would not deflect ministers from tackling the deficit.

Mr Alexander said: "Of course it was disappointing, but it's not going to stop
us doing the right thing in the national interest, and sort out the ghastly
economic mess Labour has left behind."

In his speech, Mr Scott said: "No matter the commentary, the media chatter and
the speculation, just remember this. We know people will vote Liberal Democrat
if we give them good reason to do so. Fear nothing in this election. We have no
time to lose if we want to win, we have everything to work for."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tavish Scott did his best to rally the Lib Dems at their conference

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WHY IT IS NOT LOVE ACTUALLY IN DOWNING STREET ANY LONGER

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 434  words


AT ONE time last summer David Cameron and Nick Clegg could not be seen in each
other's company often enough. Like a honeymooning couple they joshed and beamed
and cooed. It was almost enough to make their political families forget that it
had been a shotgun wedding.

How different things are now. This week Nick Clegg was not present for Prime
Minister's Questions, the week before he looked uncomfortable and offered David
Cameron no vocal support. And he will no longer defend Cameron's Big Society
idea, despite having once done so in the Commons.

On Thursday Clegg travelled to Luton to give a Left-wing speech in support of
multiculturalism that flatly contradicted one given by Cameron a few weeks ago.

Cameron himself has also sensibly abandoned the idea that rule by coalition is
better than a fully Conservative administration.

While having a second party on board undoubtedly strengthens the effort to
reduce the public sector deficit, reform welfare and improve schools, there are
many issues on which the two parties disagree.

As well as multiculturalism, the areas of law and order, immigration and above
all Europe are major fault lines.

Behind the scenes I am told that relations between Cameron and Clegg are still
good but that each has accepted that a more businesslike and less effusive
public attitude is now appropriate.

Certainly the Barnsley by-election, in which not only Labour but UKIP too
hammered both governing parties, indicates that playing the coalition like a
Richard Curtis romcom does not impress the electorate.

The future of the Cameron-Clegg union will in large part be dictated by the
result of the referendum on changing the voting system on May 5. If, as is
highly likely, Britain votes to keep First Past The Post then the Lib Dems will
be in trouble and Clegg's position as party leader will be in grave doubt.

If the public decides to adopt the Alternative Vote, however, it will be Cameron
who has most to fear. AV favours the centre party. Lib Dems will therefore be
able to look forward to holding the balance of power in Parliament for many
years to come and both Cameron and Ed Miliband will have to set out to woo them.

Clegg will suddenly be the one wearing the trousers and Cameron will be blamed
by his MPs for destroying any prospect of a Conservative majority. They may even
seek to break the coalition in order to provoke an early general election that
would have to be run under existing First Past The Post rules.

Either way, all those who attended the early Cameron-Clegg love-ins and sniffed
"it won't last, you know" have little reason to change their minds.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Leading article: Byelection and referendum: Ballot box backlash

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 456 words


Normally it is not advisable to draw too many political conclusions from the
result of a single byelection in a rock-solid safe seat just 10 months into a
parliament, especially on a turnout of only 37%. But the Barnsley Central
byelection was not just the predictably easy win for Labour. It also sent some
wider messages that should be taken seriously, in spite of the acknowledged
limitations of the evidence.

The first is that Labour has very quickly rediscovered its electoral appeal and
cutting edge after its dismal general election defeat in May 2010. In both
byelections this year, Labour has boosted its share of the poll by more than
10%. That is an unusually good performance so early in a parliament. It points
to the damage that Gordon Brown's failed leadership did to Labour and to the
strength of feeling that Ed Miliband, in his unspectacular way, has been able to
mobilise against what the newly elected MP Dan Jarvis rightly called the
coalition government's recklessness and unfairness.

The other side of this coin is the unusually poor showing by both the
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats. Barnsley is not natural territory for
either of them; yet both parties were simply abandoned by their 2010 voters. The
Tories deserted in force to Ukip, while five out of every six people who voted
Lib Dem last year evaporated into thin air. Both parties can naturally hope
their votes will hold up better in more favourable parts of the country. But it
is surely that same feeling of the coalition's recklessness and unfairness, even
among the coalition's own electorate, which has drained their votes away. This
is a national phenomenon.

Thursday also produced a big referendum win in Wales, though again on a low 35%
turnout, for more devolved powers. This was not, on the face of it, a party
issue, since even the Welsh Tories campaigned for a yes vote. Yet the result can
be seen in the same anti-coalition, anti-cuts context. The scale of the yes
victory - much more emphatic than the devolution votes in 1979 and 1997 -
speaks, among other things, to an aroused hope among the voters that Wales can
protect itself against that same recklessness and unfairness from London.

This week's voting - echoed in local byelections too - packs a serious warning
to the coalition. It says they will lose if they do not change course. That
warning is particularly acute for the Lib Dems. This week's voting has been a
reminder that, even after Labour's mistakes and for all Labour's unresolved
weaknesses, Britain remains a broadly progressive country, opposed to
destructive cuts and ill-thought-out change. The Lib Dems have got themselves on
to the wrong side of the divide. They need to find a way back to where they
belong.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Letter: Measure for measure

BYLINE: Ken Baldry

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 85 words


It was always Labour which had a minor party, the Lib Dems, stealing votes with
a "nicer" left-of-centre image. The Conservatives did not have this handicap,
the alternative rightwing parties all being obvious headbangers. But the
right-of-centre voters of Barnsley (Report, 4 March) have decided Ukip is a
respectable way of voting Tory without having to vote Conservative and
left-leaning voters are no longer fooled by the Lib Dems. To quote Willie
Whitelaw: "Gloating, of course I'm gloating."

Ken Baldry

London

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Sixth-place Lib Dems humiliated in Barnsley and facing more setbacks: Byelection
result raises fears on voting reform Miliband claims Labour is regaining
people's trust

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 613 words


The Liberal Democrats, driven into a humiliating sixth place in the Barnsley
Central byelection, are braced for further setbacks in northern cities in the
local elections on 5 May.

With the referendum on the AV voting system to be held on the same day, the no
campaign claimed the Barnsley result also marked the deathknell of Lib Dem
efforts to secure a yes vote, saying it would redouble its efforts to show AV
would lead to a permanent Lib Dem presence in government.

The Lib Dem candidate in Barnsley, Dominic Carman, trailed behind Labour, the
Conservatives, Ukip, the BNP and an independent - the first time the Lib Dems
have come sixth in an English byelection. It was the party's third-worst showing
in an English byelection in terms of proportion of the vote since the second
world war.

Carman said his party had to do more to preserve its distinctive identity. He
said most voters now saw the Lib Dems and Conservatives as one party. "In the
minds of many voters, if you wear a yellow badge you might as well wear a blue
one."

Nick Clegg, who is facing questions about why he failed to help the candidate
with a visit from his nearby seat in Sheffield, said the party could "take that
kicking, because we have got to do unpopular things to clear up Labour's mess".

The deputy prime minister added: "No doubt people will try to use this single
result to write us off. They've done so in the past, we have proved them wrong
and we'll prove them wrong again."

The result is likely to lead to louder calls at the party's spring conference
next week for the leadership to take a more independent stance inside the
coalition. It also fuelled Lib Dems' fears that they will see reverses in
northern English councils.

The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, visited Barnsley from his Doncaster North
constituency, just a few miles away, to echo his candidate's speech after the
declaration. Former paratroop major Dan Jarvis brushed aside doubts about the
dismal 36.5% turnout to claim his increased majority was "fantastic". Miliband
said: "This is indeed fantastic, and another step on the road to regaining the
trust of the British people." In a speech today he will say there are good Lib
Dems, but will add: "It is becoming increasingly clear to voters that while
there might still be three main political parties there are only two directions
for the future of the country."

His brother, David, will warn in a speech on Tuesday that social democracy is
still in retreat across Europe. The former foreign secretary will ask why Europe
has seven rightwing governments in the larger or largest economies, and say the
left and social democracy must understand why in order to remedy it.

Jarvis was initially mocked as a London appointment parachuted in over the heads
of worthy locals, but it was a jibe that backfired. The Parachute Regiment
recruits strongly from South Yorkshire, and Jarvis's record in Iraq and
Afghanistan won back potential defectors to Ukip or the BNP. Jarvis restored
Labour's traditional 60%-plus share of the vote and increased the 11,093
majority of his predecessor, Eric Illsley, who was disgraced in the expenses
scandal.

Labour pointed to good news from other polls on Thursday. Five council
byelections saw the party gains seats from Plaid Cymru and the Tories in Cardiff
and Manchester and surges in its vote in Cambridgeshire, West Dunbartonshire and
Salford that would give it a three-point lead over the Conservatives nationally.

Tim Horton, page 33 >=

Leader comment, page 34 >=

Captions:

Sharing the glory

Labour leader Ed Miliband and the newly elected Labour MP for Barnsley Central,
Dan Jarvis, on a victory walk through the town centre Photograph: Peter Byrne

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Conservative party Cardiff conference - politics live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 348 words

ABSTRACT

Andrew Sparrow is in Cardiff as the party leadership gathers for its Welsh
conference and spring forum

FULL TEXT

I'm writing this on the train to Wales. It's the weekend of the Conservative
spring conference (or spring forum, as they call it - anyone know why?) and over
the next 48 hours we'll hear from at least 10 cabinet ministers, as well as
David Cameron, who will be giving the closing speech tomorrow afternoon.

Spring conferences can be low-key affairs, but with the economy wobbling, severe
spending cuts coming into effect, the Libyan crisis deepening, Ukip beating the
Tories in the Barnsely Central byelection and the budget looming, it will be odd
if this event doesn't generate some solid political news.

Today's main story seems to be about the budget. George Osborne is speaking this
afternoon and the Treasury has already revealed that he will announce . The
budget will be "unashamedly pro-growth", he will say, and it will include plans
to set up enterprise zones in 10 areas of the country.

My train arrives in Cardiff mid-morning and so I'm going to miss the first hour
or so of the conference, which is about what the party has been doing in Wales.
(The Welsh Conservatives normally have their own spring conference; this year
their event has merged with the national spring forum.) But here are the main
events I'll be covering.

· 12pm: Lady Warsi, the Conservative co-chairman, gives a speech.

· 2pm: George Osborne, the chancellor, opens a session on economic growth with a
speech. There will then be a panel session on regional growth, with MPs and AMs
(members of the Welsh Assembly) speaking.

· Around 3pm: Eric Pickles, the communities secretary, gives a speech.

· Around 3.30pm: Oliver Letwin, the Cabinet Office minister and chairman of the
Conservative Policy Forum, gives a presentation. There will then be a discussion
on developing economic policies for the future.

· Around 4.30pm: Cheryl Gillan, the Welsh secretary, closes the session.

I'll post again after 11am, once I've arrived.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Bad, but not terminal, in Barnsley;
Leading Articles

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 330 words


IT IS just over 20 years since David Owen's Social Democratic Party came
seventh, behind the Monster Raving Loony Party, in a by-election in a rock-solid
Labour seat in the north of England. Dr Owen got the message, and a few days
later, the SDP ceased to be.

An almost identical disaster has now befallen the Liberal Democrats, but the
effect will not be so terminal. Their very poor showing in the Barnsley Central
by-election does not signal the death of Liberal Democrat England, nor a return
to two-party politics. But it is a startling humiliation. There cannot be anyone
who seriously expected their candidate to trail in sixth place with a lost
deposit, beaten by the UK Independence Party, the BNP and an independent
candidate.

This is a very bad portent indeed for hundreds of Liberal Democrat councillors
who have to defend their seats in local elections on 5 May, and a hard lesson
for a party which, as constituted at present, had never been in government
before last year. At a time when professional politicians generally are
unpopular, the Liberal Democrats can no longer pose as the clean alternative to
dirty party politics. They are part of the system, the junior half of a
government making difficult and unpopular choices. They are not alone in seeing
their support ebb away - the Conservative candidate in Barnsley was beaten into
third place by Ukip - but they have taken the bigger hit because the policies
they have endorsed in office are so different from what they said in opposition.

However, Nick Clegg was right to warn people not to "write off" the Liberal
Democrats. It is in the nature of democratic politics that governments cram
their least popular decisions into the early years of a new parliament in the
hope that they pay in the form of rising popularity when the next general
election is imminent. The Liberal Democrats are taking more than their share of
the blame; they can reasonably expect their share of the credit when things are
looking up.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Humiliation in Barnsley fuels critics of Clegg

BYLINE: Oliver Wright Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 529 words


NICK CLEGG is engaged in a series of last-minute talks with senior Liberal
Democrats in an attempt to head off a rebellion at the party's spring conference
in Sheffield next week.

Mr Clegg has met a number of backbench MPs, council leaders and peers to shore
up his support and limit the damage from Thursday's disastrous by-election
result in Barnsley.

The Liberal Democrat leadership fears that anxiety over the party's poor poll
ratings and the prospect of losing control of several large city councils in
May's local elections could spill over into open revolt. It is expecting
rank-and-file rebellions over the Coalition's NHS reform policy and condemnation
from the floor over tuition fees.

On top of that, thousands of union members and student protesters are set to
picket the conference, which will be particularly embarrassing for Mr Clegg as
he is a Sheffield MP.

One of those Mr Clegg is understood to have met is Greg Mulholland, the head of
the newly formed Liberal Democrat Backbench Group. He has also spoken with
Warren Bradley, the Liberal Democrat leader of Liverpool council and a critic of
higher tuition fees. Mr Bradley has warned that the Coalition's cuts could
result in the Liberal Democrats being wiped out in the North within five years.

Among others contacted by Mr Clegg are the Newcastle council leader, John
Shipley; Richard Kemp of the Local Government Association; and the Liberal
Democrat leader of Sheffield City Council, Paul Scriven.

He has warned them that if the party's disagreements are aired in public, this
could damage their prospects in May's council elections as well as the chance of
securing a Yes vote in the referendum on voting reform. Mr Clegg will unveil a
slogan for the conference: "In government and on your side".

The Deputy Prime Minister will arrive in Sheffield on Thursday and attempt to
seize the initiative by getting "out and about" with visits to Sheffield
Wednesday football club and a high-profile campaign knocking on doors with
activists.

A senior Liberal Democrat said: "He'll be reminding people not to forget what we
have done. The theme will be resilience. You can't change your philosophy just
because you get a drubbing in Barnsley."

Today the Labour leader, Ed Miliband, will turn up the heat on Mr Clegg after
his party finished sixth in the Barnsley by-election, behind Ukip and the
British National Party. He is due to give a speech suggesting the Liberal
Democrats are no longer a distinctive force. "I think it's becoming clear that
while there might still be three main political parties, there are only two
directions for the future of our country," he will say.

As expected, Labour cruised to victory in a seat vacated by former MP Eric
Illsley, who was jailed last month for expenses fraud. His successor, Dan
Jarvis, increased Labour's majority to 60.8 per cent. The Liberal Democrats'
vote share tumbled from 17.28 per cent to just 4.18 per cent, and the
Conservatives' from 17.26 per cent to 8.25 per cent, as Ukip claimed second
place.

Bad news from Barnsley for the Lib Dems - but it's not terminal

Leading article, page 34

Miliband's 'squeezed middle' is a potent message

Saturday Politics, page 18

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

This by-election was a warning to the Tories, too;
Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 468 words


Barnsley Central was meant to be boring. After all, any candidate wearing a
Labour rosette in the town always seems bound to win. Not even the sight of the
former Labour MP being sent down for fiddling his expenses seemed likely to
disturb that rule.

In the event, the result proved anything but boring. True, Labour did secure its
inevitable victory. By increasing its share of the vote by 13 points it more
than reversed the loss of support it suffered in the constituency between 2005
and 2010. The performance confirmed the message from the Oldham East and
Saddleworth by-election in January that Labour has rapidly put Gordon Brown's
legacy behind it.

The big surprise was in how badly the Liberal Democrats did. The party won under
4.2 per cent of the vote, its third-worst post-war performance in an English
by-election. Not since the voters of Walsall North went to the polls in 1976 has
the party obtained a lower share of the vote. And whereas it suffered the
indignity of coming fifth in Walsall, in Barnsley it tumbled to sixth - the
first time in history that the Liberal Democrats have sunk that low in an
English by-election.

One excuse the party often uses when it does poorly is that its vote was
squeezed in a two-horse race. The Walsall disaster occurred in the wake of
Conservative success in grabbing what had looked like a safe Labour seat.
Equally, similar catastrophes in many a previous Scottish by-election have
happened when the Scottish National Party was posing a challenge to Labour. But
in Barnsley, Liberal Democrat voters were not squeezed - they disappeared.

The party does, though, have a new excuse - that it is having to take tough,
unpopular measures in Government. But so are the Conservatives. Yet whereas the
Liberal Democrat vote fell by more than 13 points, the Conservative tally
dropped by just nine. As the opinion polls have long suggested, the Coalition's
tough measures are apparently less acceptable to former Liberal Democrat voters
than they are to Conservatives.

But the Barnsley result was surprisingly discomfiting for the Conservatives. The
party could blame the near 14-point drop in its support in Oldham on many of its
supporters switching to the Liberal Democrats as the party best placed to defeat
Labour. That was not true in Barnsley.

Yet the Tories still lost a lot of ground. Meanwhile, Ukip recorded a 7.5-point
increase in its support, sufficient for it to overtake the Tories and register
its best by-election performance yet.

Barnsley could well prove a warning to the Conservatives that, with the party
now in league with the Liberal Democrats, Ukip may become the protest vehicle of
choice for disaffected Tories. The last thing David Cameron needs is trouble on
his Eurosceptic right.

The writer is professor of politics at Strathclyde University

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

THEY ASKED FOR IT FROM [...]

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 259 words


THEY asked for it from the good people of Barnsley. They got it, and they
deserve it. Nick Clegg and his power-infatuated administerial pals are taking
the Lib Dem party down the path to political oblivion. Less than nine months
since "Clegg-mania" was sweeping the country and he was the popular leader, his
candidate performed almost as badly as the Monster Raving Loonies. In the 80s,
Clegg's old party the SDP was wound up because it was beaten by Screaming Lord
Sutch in a by-election on Merseyside. The humiliating result signals that they
are closing in on that tipping point once again. To be beaten by Labour in its
heartland is no disgrace. But to come sixth behind the Euro looney UKIP and the
fascist BNP with only 4% of the vote is a disaster.

Vo t e r s don't like parties that break their cast-iron promises so soon after
being elected. They don't like leaders who lie. This is a collective punishment
for the Lib Dems - the voters' verdict on the poodle politics of "coalition"
with the Tories. And there will be more.

Tricky Nicky can expect further annihilation at the polls in elections for the
Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and local councils in England on May 5. And
if the people see the referendum on a new voting system as a vote for "Clegg's
way", that will go down too. Last night, Nick Clegg promised that the Lib Dems
would bounce back. This looks more like a dead cat bounce. Once down, never up
again. The writing is on the bedroom wall for the Lib Dems - get out from under
the duvet with the Tories... or court extinction.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

NOT A CLEGG TO STAND ON;
BY-ELECTION THE BACKLASH

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 762 words


NICK Clegg was yesterday warned to expect a leadership challenge - after his
by-election disaster revealed the full extent of the damage he has done to the
Lib Dems by backing Tory cuts.

Senior colleagues admitted the party took a humiliating kicking in Barnsley -
where they finished SIXTH behind rivals including an independent and the racist
BNP - as Labour romped to a comfortable victory.

Ex-Lib Dem leader Paddy Ashdown warned years of "hard pounding" lie ahead. And
party official Sue Gymer predicted activists could launch an attempt to topple
Mr Clegg within days.

With the Lib Dems facing meltdown in May's local elections, she said people
should "wait and see what happens" at the party's spring gathering in Sheffield
next weekend. The chair of the South Cambridgeshire constituency party, added:
"I think if it is not at this conference then perhaps the next."

Glum Mr Clegg admitted that opponents would try to "write off" his party in the
wake of the devastating result in Barnsley Central.

He had stayed away from the Yorkshire poll battle and gave his reaction from the
garden of his pounds 1.5million home in exclusive Putney, South-West London.
Looking pasty-faced and troubled, the Deputy PM kept glancing at his shoes as he
insisted he was right to jump into bed with the Tories and had no lessons to
learn.

He said: "I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to
write us off. They have done it in the past and we have proved them wrong and we
will prove them wrong again."

David Cameron will also face recriminations after the Tories finished third
behind their bitter anti-EU rivals the UK Independence Party on a dark night for
the Coalition. Labour's Dan Jarvis, a former major who quit the Paras to stand
for Parliament, romped home in a contest triggered by ex-MP Eric Illsley's
conviction for expenses fraud.

Widower Mr Jarvis, a father-of-two, increased the party's majority to more than
14,000 in the ultra-safe seat despite a big drop in turn-out.

The Lib Dems, who were second at last year's general election, saw their vote
collapse from 17.2% to just 4.1% and lost their pounds 500 deposit in the
party's worst result for 35 years.

The Conservatives, who were just a whisker away from second last time round,
were leap-frogged by UKIP in a move that will pile pressure on Mr Cameron to
move further to the right.

Speaking at the count, Lib Dem candidate Dominic Carman admitted voters had
given him and his party a "kicking". His comments were echoed by Lib Dem
president Tim Farron, who admitted: "There's nothing more laughable than a
politician who's got a kicking pretending it's all right."

Mr Ashdown tried to rally disillusioned rank-andfile activists, calling for them
to hold their nerve and keep a "sense of proportion". He conceded it was "fair
enough" to call the result a humiliation, saying "you don't hear any popping of
champagne corks, that is true".

He insisted: "The dividend of doing what is right for the party and I'm
absolutely convinced is right for the country is not going to be delivered this
year and it's not going to be delivered next year, it is going to be delivered
in four years' time."

But he added: "It's going to be tough, it's going to be hard. There was a moment
at the Battle of Waterloo when the Duke of Wellington rode up and said 'hard
pounding, gentlemen'.

"We have got to have the discipline and toughness to stand there and do what
needs to be done."

Mr Jarvis, 38, a veteran of Iraq and Afghanistan, will take his seat in
Parliament on Monday. Bookies have already made him a 100-1 shot for next Labour
leader. The newly-elected MP said his victory sent a clear message to the
coalition about public fury over their "reckless policies and unfair cuts".

He said: "Labour fought a strong campaign but this was a very bad result for the
Tories and a truly disastrous result for the Liberal Democrats.

"It shows the depth of anger not just in Barnsley but across the country at the
cuts that this Government are making which are too fast and too deep." Labour
leader Ed Miliband, who travelled to Barnsley to congratulate Mr Jarvis, said:
"There are some decent Liberal Democrats out there who hate what their
leadership is doing.

"But at a local and at a national level voters understand they are powerless to
stop Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrat leadership from signing up for some
truly terrible decisions."

He stressed that it was also a bad night for Tories and said Mr Cameron appeared
"to have written off the people of Barnsley, just as he is writing off vast
swathes of the country".

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAMILY Camerons at Flo's christening yesterday WALKOVER Barnsley result
is announced VICTORY Mr Miliband with winning Labour candidate Dan Jarvis
yesterday BLOW Now the knives may be out for Mr Clegg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

TORIES SAY CAM'S GOING SOFT

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 274 words


DAVID Cameron has received a stark warning about grass-roots anger as the Tories
gather for their spring conference today.

A majority of activists say they believe the Coalition is bad for their party, a
poll by website Conservative Home reveals.

They want rebel MP David Davis installed as chairman because they think the PM
has gone soft on tax, crime, Europe, immigration and defence. Worryingly for Mr
Cameron the survey was taken BEFORE the Tories were beaten into third place by
hated rivals UKIP in the Barnsley Central by-election.

The dire poll result followed two terrible weeks which have seen the PM - at
daughter Florence's christening in South Kensington, West London, yesterday -
slammed for his dithering over Libya and disastrous arms selling tour of the
Middle East.

Chancellor George Osborne will try to regain the political initiative and focus
on the economy when he addresses the Cardiff conference this afternoon. He will
give more details of his plans for 10 enterprise zones, where planning rules
will be scrapped and business rates slashed in a desperate bid to encourage
growth.

But the Chancellor and Mr Cameron need to do much more to get Tory activists
back on side.

Almost two thirds believe the Lib Dems are wringing too many concessions from
their Coalition partners. And there is major dissatisfaction with Baroness
Warsi, the peer appointed party chair by Mr Cameron. Just one in 10 reckons she
is right for the job while 42% said it should go to former Shadow Home Secretary
Mr Davis.

Tom Montgomerie, who runs the website, said: "The concern is Mr Cameron isn't
delivering the policies that appeal to constituencies."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

LIB DEMS FACE RUIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 167 words


NICK Clegg's fleeting reign as Britain's most popular politician must have felt
like a dream as he surveyed the Lib Dem by-election disaster yesterday.

Shell-shocked colleagues freely admitted the party had received a humiliating
kicking from the people of Barnsley, but even that didn't do justice to the dire
result.

From second at a general election less than 12 months ago they finished sixth,
beaten not only by Labour and the Tories but also the UK Independence Party, an
independent candidate and even the vile BNP.

David Cameron will face trouble from his party after they were dumped into third
by the anti-EU rabble of UKIP.

But for Mr Clegg, who tried but failed to put on a brave face, this was a
catastrophe that leaves his leadership and party in crisis.

The full enormity of the Lib Dem chief's decision to ditch his principles and
adopt the Tories' Thatcherite agenda in return for a ministerial car are
becoming apparent.

Mr Clegg's misjudgment was wrong for his party and wrong for the country.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Britain - Lib-Dems crash in Barnsley

BYLINE: Louise Nousratpour

LENGTH: 475 words


Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg pleaded with critics not to "write off" his
party today after a crushing defeat during Thursday's Barnsley Central
by-elections.

The Lib Dems' vote share tumbled from 17.28 per cent to just 4.18 per cent, with
candidate Dominic Carman finishing sixth behind the UK Independent Party (UKIP),
the racist BNP and an independent candidate.

The Conservative vote also collapsed, from 17.26 per cent to 8.25 per cent, as
UKIP claimed second place.

Labour cruised as expected to a resounding victory in a seat vacated by the
resignation of their former MP Eric Illsley, jailed last month for expenses
fraud.

Mr Carman, who lost his deposit, said: "The voters here in Barnsley have given
me and the Liberal Democrats a kicking."

Lib Dem president Tim Farron acknowledged the scale of his party's humbling.

"The coalition parties didn't do very well here. Surprise, surprise," he said in
an interview immediately after the declaration.

This was the most humiliating result the party has suffered since 1989.

By contrast, Labour's newly-elected MP Dan Jarvis increased his party's majority
by 13.53 per cent - the biggest increase in vote share at a by-election since
1997.

The victorious Mr Jarvis, a former member of the Parachute Regiment who has
served in Iraq and Afghanistan, said today that the results 'show the depth of
anger not just in Barnsley but across the country at the cuts that the
government are making, which are too fast and too deep."

Liberal Democrat MP Bob Russell, who has been a vocal critic of some of the
coalition's policies, described the Barnsley result as "disappointing."

But he rejected suggestions that this could be a foretaste of what is to come
when electorates go to the polls in England, the Scottish Parliament and Welsh
Assembly elections on May 5.

He compared the Lib-Dems' humiliation on Thursday to when Labour got "hammered"
in Henley by-elections in 2008, adding: "These things happen.

"It is important we keep our nerve and don't allow one setback to be anything
other than a reminder of why we are in politics."

In a brief appearance before the TV cameras today Mr Clegg said: "We will
continue to do what I think is absolutely vital for the long-term benefit of the
country."

louise@peoples-press.com

BARNSLEY ELECTION RESULTS

Labour hold

Dan Jarvis (Lab) 14,724 (60.80 per cent, +13.53 per cent)

Jane Collins (UKIP) 2,953 (12.19 per cent, +7.53 per cent)

James Hockney (C) 1,999 (8.25 per cent, -9.01 per cent)

Enis Dalton (BNP) 1,463 (6.04 per cent, -2.90 per cent)

Tony Devoy (Ind) 1,266 (5.23 per cent, +3.58 per cent)

Dominic Carman (LD) 1,012 (4.18 per cent, -13.10 per cent)

Kevin Riddiough (Eng Dem) 544 (2.25 per cent)

Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 198 (0.82 per cent)

Michael Val Davies (Ind) 60 (0.25 per cent)

Lab majority 11,771 (48.60 per cent)

3.00 per cent swing UKIP to Lab

Electorate 65,461:

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Comment - It's a matter of language

LENGTH: 580 words


Cuts, BBC home editor Mark Easton informed us all on the BBC website on December
21, are not the same as savings.

He's certainly right there.

"Cuts" implies reductions both in expenditure and services delivered for that
reduced expenditure, while 'savings" implies that the services will remain the
same even though expenditure drops.

At least, that would be a reasonable interpretation by anyone concerned with the
accuracy of the English language and the precision with which news is delivered
in that language.

And it would be a blatant abuse of the language and an abandonment of any
pretence at objective reporting to consider the two terms interchangeable.

Yet that is, according to at least one well-respected commentator, precisely
what the BBC is indulging in with its news reporting.

The widely read Liberal Conspiracy website reported on Thursday that BBC
journalists have been instructed by senior editorial staff to use 'savings"
instead of "cuts'" in their news coverage to stop the BBC coverage looking too
negative.

And it quotes an unnamed source claiming that this is an example of the
government applying pressure on the Corporation.

If there is truth in this story and, without naming names, the website quotes
several journalists as confirming both that there is and that it is being
actively opposed by staff members on the ground, it really is a sign of both the
determination of this government to control the political complexion of the news
and the supine acquiescence of the leadership of the BBC.

It beggars belief that the people of this country are so stupid that they cannot
tell the difference between legitimate cost savings and the swingeing cutbacks
being applied by councils across the country as a result of government funding
cuts.

So attempts to doctor the language to hide the cuts reveal the searing contempt
in which ordinary people are held both in the upper reaches of government and
the higher echelons of the BBC.

Mind you, one should not overstate the case here. The Tories have a firm grip on
government at the moment, with the help of their Lib Dem toadies.

But their grip is being gradually eroded by the constant pressure of hundreds of
small campaigns against the cuts in virtually every town and city.

And the result of the Barnsley election must have sent a chill down the spines
of senior right-wing politicians.

Not because Labour won the seat, of course.

Any other result would have been virtually inconceivable in one of the party's
biggest strongholds.

But because of the huge drop in the Lib Dem vote, which consigned them to a
well-merited bottom place in the polls, below even independents and UKIP.

And when the polls suffer, political control of the media becomes hugely
important to our supposedly democratic and open Tories in coalition with the Lib
Dems.

Representation in Parliament suddenly becomes contingent on misrepresentation in
the media and the BBC is the biggest media deal there is in this country.

It's no coincidence that the government now is pushing senior Tory
troubleshooter Chris Patten as the next chairman of the BBC Trust.

And it's also no coincidence that our paper is finding it increasingly difficult
to force the BBC to even acknowledge our existence.

Phoney and inaccurate cant about objectivity should not be allowed to interfere
with basic truthfulness and we wish the BBC news teams well in resisting any
attacks on their professional integrity by the Tories and the corporation's own
complaisant management.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Chop, chop!

BYLINE: Sun SAYS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 221 words


NO ONE said it was going to be easy.

And yesterday the Coalition partners discovered just how tough it gets ruling a
stony-broke Britain.

The result in Barnsley saw the Tories' vote share chopped in HALF and the Lib
Dems' slashed by three-quarters - their worst by-election meltdown for 35 years.

Of course, the Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg can't rely on the protest vote now he's
in Government. Instead, that goes to fringe parties like UKIP and the BNP.

But the result in Labour's rock-solid heartland MUST make the coalition partners
even more determined to clear up the mess left by Labour.

They MUST work harder to get their message across, especially on confusing
issues like the Big Society and the planned health reforms.

They MUST avoid clangers like announcing massive defence cuts on the same day
Prime Minister Cameron was rattling his sabres about military action in Libya.

They MUST make sure that this month's Budget plots a strategy for jobs. A plan
that Chancellor George Osborne will launch today.

Grumbling left-wing Lib Dems and rebellious right-wing Tory MPs must realise
that the only alternative to the Coalition right now is a return to the
nightmare days of Labour. Barnsley made that clear.

The worst is yet to come. The cuts have only just started.

The Coalition's message must be: Britain can take it. And so can we.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Lib Dems' 6th place pounding

BYLINE: KEVIN SCHOFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 152 words


PADDY Ashdown last night warned Lib Dems to prepare for a "hard pounding" in
English council elections. The warning for May came after their candidate
finished a humiliating sixth in the Barnsley Central by-election.

Ex-party leader Lord Ashdown said it would be years before voters show their
gratitude "when we have pulled this country through its present economic
crisis".

Commenting on the by-election disaster, he said: "There's a moment in the battle
of Waterloo when the Duke of Wellington rides up and says, 'Hard pounding
gentlemen'."

Labour's Dan Jarvis held the seat for Labour following the jailing of expenses
fiddler Eric Illsley. Lib Dem Dominic Carman lost his deposit, trailing in
behind the BNP. UKIP pushed the Tories into third. The Lib Dems lost more than
80 per cent of the votes they got in the General Election. Leader Nick Clegg
told critics not to "write off" his party.

The Sun Says - Page Ten

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Poll humiliation ... Carman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Chop, chop!

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 207 words


NO ONE said it was going to be easy.

And yesterday the coalition partners discovered just how tough it gets ruling a
stony-broke Britain.

The result in Barnsley saw the Tories' vote share cut in HALF and the Lib Dems'
slashed by three-quarters - their worst by-election melt-down for 35 years.

Of course, the Lib-Dem leader Nick Clegg can't rely on the protest vote now he's
in Government. Instead, that goes to fringe parties like UKIP and the BNP.

But the result in Labour's rock-solid heartland MUST make the coalition partners
even more determined to clear up the mess left by Labour.

They MUST work harder to get their message across.

They MUST avoid clangers like announcing massive defence cuts on the same day
Prime Minister Cameron was rattling his sabres about military action in Libya.

They MUST make sure that this month's budget plots a strategy for jobs. A plan
that Chancellor George Osborne will launch today.

Grumbling left-wing Lib Dems and rebellious right-wing Tory MPs must realise
that the only alternative to the Coalition right now is a return to the
nightmare days of Labour. Barnsley made that clear.

The worst is yet to come. The cuts have only just started.

The Coalition's message must be: Britain can take it. And so can we.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Lib Dem activists to challenge Clegg over strategy after humiliation in
by-election

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 622 words


Nick Clegg will face a serious challenge over strategy when he faces his party's
increasingly nervous grassroots in Sheffield next week.

After a disastrous result in the Barnsley by-election - the Lib Dems came sixth,
behind the BNP and an independent - members are preparing to demand a new
direction. A motion laid down by the party's federal executive calls on MPs and
ministers to spell out loudly and publicly which aspects of government policy
originate from the Conservative Party, and which have been changed by the Lib
Dems.

They believe the time has come for Mr Clegg and his senior colleagues to
distance themselves further from their coalition partners, and to be open to a
partnership with the Labour party in the future. The motion demanding distance
from the Tories continues: "The Liberal Democrats intend to enter the next
general election campaign with no preference for potential future coalition
partners."

Mr Clegg's advisers insist that it is not right to create divisions within the
coalition and that the Lib Dems must take joint responsibility for major policy
areas. The leader was said to be increasingly irritated by ministers who were
taped expressing anti-Tory views by journalists late last year. But that is
exactly the sort of thing many activists want to hear. Some senior Lib Dems
warned that Mr Clegg was in for a rockier ride than at the party's conference in
Liverpool last autumn. Evan Harris, the former Lib Dem MP who is on the federal
executive, said there would be sharper debates, including one challenging the
Government's health reforms and questioning party strategy. The motion on
distinctiveness was "not a rebel thing", but a core grassroots desire. "The
party is very clear, and I think Nick realises this, that we have to work harder
to develop a clearer identity within the coalition," Mr Harris added. "Not just
for the things we have done but the things we have stopped and the things we
don't like. The Conservatives have managed to do that on human rights."

The Social Liberal Forum, a group on the left of the party, is holding a series
of events about distinctiveness. David Hall-Matthews, predicted a combative
mood, with local elections looming and many councillors' seats at risk. "The
leadership will be asked to explain its strategy and may be challenged on it,"
Mr Hall-Matthews said. Some party members are worried that the local base will
be seriously damaged in May's local elections. Mr Hall-Matthews said that many
people had backed the Lib Dems as a centreleft party between the Conservatives
and Labour. Failure to show that the position remains the same "could cost us
three quarters of our vote, according to Barnsley", he added.

However, he and others warned against reading too much into the by-election
result, in a place with no local Lib Dem powerbase.

Tim Farron, the Lib Dem president, said: "Of course it is a crap result." But he
pointed out that the party had put almost no resources into the campaign. "Where
you work, you win," he added.

Richard Kemp, the leader of the Lib Dems in the Local Government Association,
said: "We are aware that we are doing something we have never done before in
living memory. Yes, we have concerns. We are aware that governing parties
usually lose council seats." But he added he was heartened by local polls: "It
is going to difficult but we are not predicting a meltdown."

The result

Dan Jarvis (Labour) 14,724 Jane Collins (UKIP) 2,953 James Hockney (C) 1,999
Enis Dalton (BNP) 1,463 Tony Devoy (Ind) 1,266 Dominic Carman (Lib Dem) 1,012
Kevin Riddiough (Eng Dem) 544 Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 198 Michael Val Davies
(Ind) 60 Labour majority 11,771 (48.60%) Electorate 65,461 Turnout 24,219
(37.00%)

"Would you like a cuddle?"

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Barnsley: triumph for Ed Miliband and Dan Jarvis but disaster for the
Lib Dems
PETER BYRNE / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Activists challenge Clegg on strategy after Lib Dem humiliation in by-election

BYLINE: Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 381 words


Nick Clegg will be challenged on strategy by his party's increasingly nervous
grassroots in Sheffield next week.

After a disastrous result in the Barnsley by-election - the Lib Dems came sixth,
behind UKIP, the BNP and an independent candidate - members want a new
direction.

A motion laid down by the party's federal executive calls on MPs and ministers
to declare publicly which coalition policies are Tory and which have been
changed by the Lib Dems. It also demands that the party should fight the next
general election with no preference between Tory and Labour as possible
coalition partners.

Mr Clegg insists on joint responsibility within the coalition and was irritated
by some Lib Dem ministers' anti-Tory remarks last year, but some senior Lib Dems
warned that he will be challenged.

Evan Harris, a former MP who is on the federal executive, said there would be
sharper debates, questioning NHS reform and party strategy.

The motion on distinctiveness was "not a rebel thing" but a core grassroots
desire. "The party is very clear, and I think Nick realises this, that we have
to work harder to develop a clearer identity within the coalition," Mr Harris
said. "Not just for the things we have done but the things we have stopped and
the things we don't like. The Conservatives have managed to do that on human
rights."

The Social Liberal Forum, a group on the left of the party, is holding a series
of events about distinctiveness. David Hall-Matthews, its chairman, predicted a
combative mood, with local elections looming and many councillors' seats at
risk.

"The leadership will be asked to explain its strategy and may be challenged on
it," Mr Hall-Matthews said. However, he and others warned against reading too
much into the by-election result. Tim Farron, the party president, said: "Of
course it is a crap result." But he said that the party had put almost no
resources into the campaign. "Where you work, you win," he added.

The result

Dan Jarvis (Labour) 14,724 Jane Collins (UKIP) 2,953 James Hockney (C) 1,999
Enis Dalton (BNP) 1,463 Tony Devoy (Ind) 1,266 Dominic Carman (Lib Dem) 1,012
Kevin Riddiough (Eng Dem) 544 Howling Laud Hope (Loony) 198 Michael Val Davies
(Ind) 60 Labour majority 11,771 (48.60%) Electorate 65,461 Turnout 24,219
(37.00%)

"Would you like a cuddle?"

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU's invisible woman offers spin doctors £8.6m to rescue her office's public
image

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1209 words


Baroness Ashton of Upholland is offering ¤10 million to public relations experts
to transform the image of her "EU Foreign Office" - the European External Action
Service.

The Labour peer chosen as the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and
Security Policy is in dire need of better PR, after a dismal first year when she
and the EAS were repeatedly criticised for being invisible on the international
stage.

Lady Ashton already has a spokesman, deputy spokeswoman, media adviser and two
press offices at her disposal at the European Commission and European Council,
and is busy creating her own in-house strategic communications team of about a
dozen people. The EAS, set up under the Lisbon treaty, has an annual budget of
¤475 million and is preparing to move into new headquarters in Brussels costing
¤12 million a year. It has access to the communications directorate at the
European Commission, which employs 448 people in Brussels and 562 in member
states at an annual cost of ¤212.5 million.

Despite all that, the four-year, £8.6 million deal being offered to PR
consultants asks for help with the "conceptualisation and preparation of press
material" and "press trips and briefings on specific subjects or projects". The
PR experts must be able to organise a "VIP reception with champagne and
top-of-the-range appetisers" as well as "draft, edit, correct and/or translate"
articles and interviews on behalf of Lady Ashton or her team, according to the
lengthy tender document.

The contract also calls for promotional material such as DVDs and websites that
show what the EAS does through its 136 offices around the world.

The tender has renewed concerns about profligacy in Brussels after David Cameron
failed to win a freeze in this year's EU budget and settled for a 2.9 per cent
rise, taking spending to ¤126.5 billion.

One eurocrat said: "Why does she need to put all this out to tender when she has
already got people doing this stuff?" Geoffrey Van Orden, a Conservative MEP,
has demanded explanations from the European Commission for the PR spending by
Lady Ashton after her assurance that "the build-up of the External Action
Service takes account of the impact of the economic crisis on public finances in
member states".

Mr Van Orden said: "I think this is an appalling waste of money. The EU already
spends millions on PR in press and communications."

Marta Andreasen, a UKIP MEP and former EU chief accountant, added: "The EAS has
not really shown many achievements for its first year and has spent a lot of
money hiring officials and renovating a headquarters. Using an external PR
company to try and define its image is not a good use of taxpayers' money.
Foreign policy should just be left to national governments."

Lady Ashton spent her first year mired in technical details over creating the
service from departments of the European Commission and the European Council.
She was also criticised by politicians across Europe for being slow to spell out
what the EU was doing to help the earthquake victims on Haiti or give timely
support to protesters in Tunisia and Egypt.

Even avid supporters of the EAS believe that some enhancement of its public
image may be called for.

"Clearly the External Action Service is in need of improved PR," said Andrew
Duff, the Liberal Democrat MEP who co-chairs the federalist group in the
European Parliament.

"This money is being spent on selfpromotion which is absolutely worthwhile. You
cannot do diplomacy in secret and if the European Union is going to be proud of
its mission of becoming a credible player in international affairs we have got
to tell people about this."

A spokesman for Lady Ashton said that the EAS had a total press and information
budget of ¤15 million a year. "This money is spent providing basic information
on what the EAS does. It is standard practice for, for example, national foreign
ministries to provide such information. This is about providing information on
EU external policies in 27 member states and across the globe. It is not new
money to do PR for the EEAS. Looked at objectively, it provides good value for
money."

She missed the boat on Haiti, Tunisia and Egypt

Analysis David Charter

Anovice on the diplomatic scene when appointed, Baroness Ashton has shied away
from the public eye during her first 15 months as EU High Representative.

She disappointed many in Europe after she pledged to conduct a "quiet diplomacy"
to make the EU more effective when many wanted an international giant waving a
blue and gold flag.

David Miliband was seen as an ideal candidate by several capitals but he decided
to stay and fight for the Labour leadership.

Britain was asked to provide an alternative and Baroness Ashton, a peer created
by Tony Blair, was thrust forward.

She had previously served as trade commissioner, replacing Lord Mandelson of
Foy.

Her first year was spent building up European External Action Service which
became operational on December 1 last year.

It was clear that she would not be on TV screens every night while fighting
institutional battles in Brussels.

After her failure to make an impact during the Haiti earthquake despite the
millions of euros being spent by the EU, she was expected to seize the crisis in
North Africa as her springboard.

Again she missed opportunities and was rounded on by MEPs on all sides of the
European Parliament for being slow off the mark to speak out on Tunisia.

She nearly missed the downfall of President Mubarak of Egypt, hastily catching
the Eurostar from London back to Brussels on the Friday he was ousted to pose
for the EU cameras.

The expensive decision to reach for outside help in promoting herself and the
EAS is understandable given the struggle to be heard on a global stage.

But it does not fit in with her own country's view of the EAS. British diplomats
fought to stop Lady Ashton's post being called EU Foreign Minister and her new
service the EU Foreign Office, which it is likely to grow into.

Her low-key style perfectly suits the Government and leaves the way clear for
traditional Foreign Secretaries like William Hague to hog the limelight.

Rebrandings that backfired

Royal Mail spent £500,000 to change its name to Consignia in 2001. The next year
it lost a record £1.1 billion and 17,000 jobs before spending another £1 million
to change back to the Royal Mail

British Airways scrapped the Union Jack on its planes' tailfins in 1997, leading
to problems identifying the planes on runways

The Sci-Fi Channel, an American television channel specialising in science
fiction, renamed itself SyFy.

Unfortunately, this was also a commonly used slang for syphilis and many
long-time fans deserted the channel

Andersen Consulting split with the accounting firm Arthur Andersen and renamed
itself Accenture in 2001, a lucky move just one year before Arthur Andersen
surrendered its licence to practice for its role in the Enron scandal

Tropicana attempted to modernise the design of its orange juice box in 2008 but
consumers thought it looked cheap

Private security firm Blackwater changed its name to Xe after bad press for a
shooting incident in Iraq in 2007, but reports still frequently identify Xe as
the company formally known as Blackwater

'Her low-key style lets Foreign Secretaries hog the limelight'

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lady Ashton wants professionals capable of organising "VIP reception
with champagne and top-of-the-range appetisers"
RICHARD POHLE FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

100,000 'BENEFIT TOURISTS' ON WAY;
EU allows migrants to get full benefits

BYLINE: GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 264 words


BRITAIN is being forced to let eastern European immigrants claim full benefits
under an EU ruling.

Restrictions which stopped foreign workers receiving handouts straight away will
be lifted in May.

Britain insisted on the ban in 2004 when we opened our borders to eight former
Soviet bloc countries.

Strict rules meant they had to work here for a year before they were eligible
for payouts. But Brussels says the UK must scrap the restriction, which will
leave about 100,000 migrants free to start raking in Jobseekers' Allowance,
council tax and housing benefits worth up to £250 a week. There are fears
socalled "benefit tourists", many of them gypsies from poorer nations, will
flock here to cash in.

MEP Nigel Farage of the UK Independence Party said: "I'm absolutely furious.

It's about time this Government stood up for taxpayers rather than giving in to
Brussels all the time."

The rules mean immigrants will no longer have to join the Working Registration
Scheme.

The Department for Work and Pensions said: "We have to remain in line with our
national and international obligations."

Immigration Minister Damian Green said the May changeover means more migrants
could head for Germany and Austria as they relax their rules too.

gary.nicks@dailystar.co.uk

SHOULD THEY GET FULL BENEFITS?

YES: 0901 030 8389 NO: 0901 030 8390

If you want to use sms text:

Yes text DSFRIYES to 80088 No text DSFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Texts cost 25p plus network rate. Lines close
at midnight. Yesterday 96% of Star readers said they do not think we should be
getting involved in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDER: Mr Green
HANDOUTS HERE WE COME: Romanian migrants head for UK and easy money

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain's Conservative-majority Government is failing to assert her sovereignty;

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 415 words


SIR - Michael Fallon can trumpet the accomplishments of the Coalition all he
likes (Comment, March 3), but the Westminster Parliament is becoming an
ever-increasing irrelevance in today's Britain.

No matter what the Coalition does, judge-made law, whether home-grown or from
European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) diktat, can seemingly over-ride the wishes
of any government by use of legislation which the Liberal Democrat minority will
not allow to be scrapped or amended.

David Cameron, by agreeing to give a binding referendum (irrespective of voter
participation) on AV, risks giving this country future governments that are
effectively run by Europhile Liberal Democrats in perpetuity.

If we cannot assert our national sovereignty now, with a Conservativemajority
Coalition, what hope is there for the future, with an ever-present Liberal
Democrat Party forever blocking any attempt to redefine our relationship with
Europe or the ECHR? Parliament is no longer sovereign, nor does it possess the
ability to overturn any laws passed by previous administrations.

As a Conservative supporter, helper and one-time party member of over 40 years'
standing, I can no longer support a party that is willing to oversee the end of
our Parliament. Ukip beckons.

Dr Chris Topping Pilling, Lancashire

SIR - What Mr Cameron should do about Brussels (Leading article, March 2) is
ditch our traditional attitude that we must always "play the game, chaps", and
instead cherry-pick which EU regulations are adopted into British legislation,
as other member states do.

Michael Clarke Wittersham, Kent

SIR - You ask what Mr Cameron intends to do about the intense frustration
expressed by ministers with the burdens imposed by Brussels. I can tell you in a
word: nothing. He is a Europhile. He wants Britain to remain in the EU because
he believes it best for Britain, and his Foreign Secretary not only believes
that but also wants to see the further expansion of the EU to include Turkey and
other Eastern European countries. That is their "Conservative" policy.

Mike Bridgeman Market Lavington, Wiltshire

SIR - Before last year's general election, David Cameron and other Conservatives
told me that if I voted Labour, our Armed Forces would not be safe and rural
life would be in jeopardy.

Furthermore, they said that this country would be in even greater thrall to
Europe.

Well, they were right. I voted Labour.

Our Armed Forces are not safe and the countryside is in jeopardy.

Bernard Warneken Hartwith, North Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

100,000 'BENEFIT TOURISTS' ON WAY

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 267 words


EU allows migrants to get full benefits

BRITAIN is being forced to let eastern European immigrants claim full benefits
under an EU ruling.

Restrictions which stopped foreign workers receiving handouts straight away will
be lifted in May.

Britain insisted on the ban in 2004 when we opened our borders to eight former
Soviet bloc countries.

Strict rules meant they had to work here for a year before they were eligible
for payouts. But Brussels says the UK must scrap the restriction, which will
leave about 100,000 migrants free to start raking in Jobseekers' Allowance,
council tax and housing benefits worth up to GBP 250 a week. There are fears
so-called "benefit tourists", many of them gypsies from poorer nations, will
flock here to cash in.

MEP Nigel Farage of the UK Independence Party said: "I'm absolutely furious.
It's about time this Government stood up for taxpayers rather than giving in to
Brussels all the time."

The rules mean immigrants will no longer have to join the Working Registration
Scheme.

The Department for Work and Pensions said: "We have to remain in line with our
national and international obligations."

Immigration Minister Damian Green said the May changeover means more migrants
could head for Germany and Austria as they relax their rules too.

SHOULD THEY GET FULL BENEFITS?

YES: 0901 030 8389 NO: 0901 030 8390

If you want to use sms text: Yes text DSFRIYES to 80088 No text DSFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Texts cost 25p plus network rate. Lines close
at midnight. Yesterday 96% of Star readers said they do not think we should be
getting involved in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SORTED: Frank Gallagher in Shameless
HANDOUTS HERE WE COME: Romanian migrants head for UK and easy money
ORDER: Mr Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

Victory for Labour at Barnsley by-election

BYLINE: Jaya Sisodia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 118 words


THE near-certainty Labour candidate Dan Jarvis romped home in the Barnsley
Central by-election early today.

The inquest will begin now for Liberal Democrat chief Nick Clegg after his party
were relegated to sixth place having come second in last year's general
election.

The by-election was prompted by the resignation of Eric Illsley, the Labour MP
who was jailed for 12 months in February for expenses fraud.

With Labour currently riding high in the polls and Illsley having retained the
seat with an 11,093 majority in last year's general election, Mr Jarvis was seen
as a shoo-in.

Only six votes separated the secondplaced Lib Dem and third-placed Tory last
May.

This time they trailed UKIP who came in second.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Victory for Labour at Barnsley by-election

BYLINE: By Jaya Sisodia

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 118  words


THE near-certainty Labour candidate Dan Jarvis romped home in the Barnsley
Central by-election early today.

The inquest will begin now for Liberal Democrat chief Nick Clegg after his party
were relegated to sixth place having come second in last year's general
election.

The by-election was prompted by the resignation of Eric Illsley, the Labour MP
who was jailed for 12 months in February for expenses fraud.

With Labour currently riding high in the polls and Illsley having retained the
seat with an 11,093 majority in last year's general election, Mr Jarvis was seen
as a shoo-in.

Only six votes separated the secondplaced Lib Dem and third-placed Tory last
May.

This time they trailed UKIP who came in second.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

Reply: Letter: Multiculturalism and national identity

BYLINE: Denis MacShane MP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 115 words


*David Miliband notes that Britain has not had the same experience as
continental countries with their extremist parties. Could this be because our
electoral system prevents populist identity political parties from winning
seats, save in the more proportional European parliament elections? I lost faith
in PR as I witnessed PR delivering seats in continental parliaments to
xenophobes and antisemites. AV is not PR and is no help to the BNP, EDL or Ukip
or single-issue parties. But the 47% of anti-immigration voters identified in
the Searchlight survey will, under AV, be pandered to as candidates trim their
views to search for second and third preferences.

Denis MacShane MP

Labour, Rotherham

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

Humiliated Lib Dems come sixth in Barnsley byelection

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 422 words


Labour coasted to victory in the Barnsley Central byelection last night, in
spite of the jailing of the party's previous MP for expenses fraud, but Ukip
ended the night with a huge rise in its share of the vote and most to celebrate.

The result was particularly grim for the Liberal Democrats who slumped to sixth
place despite fielding an experienced candidate in Dominic Carman, son of the
celebrated barrister George Carman.

Voters took revenge on Nick Clegg, whose U-turn on student fees and hawkish line
on cuts have made him particularly unpopular in South Yorkshire, where he
represents Sheffield's affluent Hallam constituency. His party was beaten by the
BNP and a local independent as well as Labour, Ukip and the Tories.

Labour's Dan Jarvis, a former paratroop major, won an overwhelming share of the
vote but on an abysmal turnout of 36.5% which left the coalition partners with
humiliatingly low figures.

Clegg and the prime minister David Cameron stayed away from the contest, after
little evidence emerged that the disgrace of Illsley, Labour MP for 24 years,
was damaging Labour's campaign. A popular former miner, Illsley's conviction and
12-month prison sentence caused genuine shock locally.

Jarvis, 38 and a single father-of-two after his wife's recent death, chimed with
voters in one of the services' traditional recruiting grounds, modestly
down-playing a record in Iraq and Afghanistan which spoke for itself. This
outflanked initial hopes by the BNP that its candidate, Enis Dalton, might win a
showcase result. Internal splits also affected the former BNP stronghold, where
the party has previously polled more than 25% in four of the constituency's
wards at local polls.

Jarvis is the first Labour MP for the seat since 1938 not to have been born in
Yorkshire or have links with coal mining. But none of his serious contenders
were from Barnsley either and his energy, enthusing activists by naming his
campaign Operation Honey Badger after the 'ferocious and fearless animal' - kept
morale high.

Born in Nottingham, he has moved from Hampshire to Barnsley after resigning from
the army to fight the election. He joined the Labour party 20 years ago but was
not allowed to take part in active politics while a serving soldier.

The Tories' James Hockney was credited with sticking to his guns in Barnsley,
where he fought the neighbouring East constituency in May in Yorkshire.

Captions:

Barnsley Central's new MP Dan Jarvis (Labour) hit out at the coalition's 'broken
promises' after winning with an 11,771 majority

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

Results

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 33 words


Dan Jarvis (Labour) 14,724 (+13.53%)

Jane Collins (Ukip) 2,953 (+7.53%)

James Hockney (Con) 1,999 (-9.01%)

Enis Dalton (BNP) 1,463 (-2.90%)

Tony Devoy (Ind) 1,266 (+3.58%)

Dominic Carman (LD) 1,012 (-13.10%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

Barnsley Central 'kicking' will not knock Lib Dems off course, says Nick Clegg

BYLINE: Helene Mulhollandguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 941 words

ABSTRACT

Leader warns critics not to 'write off' his party after it finished last after
Ukip and a local independent in the northern byelection

FULL TEXT

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, has insisted he would not be knocked
off course by a "kicking" in the Barnsley Central byelection which saw the party
finish sixth.

The Lib Dems faced the humiliation of finishing behind not only Labour and the
Conservatives but also UK Independence Party (Ukip), the British National Party
and a local independent, unemployed ex-miner Tony Devoy.

The Lib Dems had finished second in the same constituency in last year's general
election, before going on to form a coalition government with the Conservatives.

Clegg is likely to come under pressure from his own party for a change in
direction as the Lib Dems reel from one of the most humiliating results they
have suffered in decades.

But commenting on Thursday's result, Clegg warned that critics should not to
"write off" the party on the basis of a vote in a safe Labour seat on a low
turn-out.

Labour's newly-elected MP Dan Jarvis, a former army major, increased Labour's
majority from 11,093 to 11,771 (60.8%), on a turnout of just 36.5%, in a
byelection triggered by the resignation of their former MP Eric Illsley, jailed
last month for expenses fraud.

The Lib Dems' vote share tumbled from 17.28% to just 4.18%, and their
Conservative coalition partner's from 17.26% to 8.25%, as Ukip claimed second
place.

In a brief appearance before the TV cameras today, Clegg admitted it was
"obviously a bad result for the Liberal Democrats".

He added: "I have no doubt that people will try to use this single result to
write off the Liberal Democrats. They have done it in the past and we have
proved them wrong and we will prove them wrong again. In government, we will
continue to do what I think is absolutely vital for the long-term benefit of the
country - namely sort out the economic mess we inherited from Labour for the
long-term benefit of the country."

He said Lib Dem candidate Dominic Carman had never stood a chance in the safe
labour seat: "Labour got a huge majority on an abysmally low turnout. Everybody
else was left to pick up the pieces," he said.

Carman, who lost his deposit, said: "The voters here in Barnsley have given me
and the Liberal Democrats a kicking. We can take it."

Jarvis cast the result as representing the "depth of anger by voters against
cuts".

Sir Paddy Ashdown, the former Liberal Democrat party leader, urged the party to
"stand firm" and keep "a sense of proportion" over the result, arguing that it
was "not unusual" for parties to take a hammering when they are in government.

However, critics say that such results are usually witnessed later in a
government's rein.

The Lib Dem peer said the party needed to face "tough times" ahead as spending
cuts beginning to bite.

"It is not going to be easy, this is a moment when we have to stand firm," he
told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"We have got to have the discipline and toughness to stand there and do what
needs to be done and take the flak for that while this country gets through the
most difficult economic crisis it has faced for 40 or 50 years. The dividend for
this is not going to come now, it is not going to come next year, it will come
when we have pulled this country through its present economic crisis."

Ashdown added: "It is in the party's interests to do what is in the nation's
interests and that is what we are doing. If we did not do that, if we were not
now fulfilling the function of trying to get the country out of the mess that it
is in, we would do the party, in my view, far more damage."

Lib Dem president Farron admitted it would be "churlish" not to congratulate
Labour's Dan Jarvis, who won an overwhelming share of the vote in the safe
Labour seat but on a dismal turnout of 36.5%, down from 56.45% at last year's
general election.

"Dan Jarvis will be a good MP, I'm sure, and it would be churlish not to
congratulate him," said Farron. "But perhaps the biggest story is that 70% of
people didn't think it was worth bothering."

Jarvis - a former member of the Parachute Regiment who has served in Iraq and
Afghanistan, told Sky News: "Labour fought a strong campaign, but I think this
was a truly disastrous result for the Liberal Democrats and actually a very bad
result for the Tories as well. It shows the depth of anger not just in Barnsley
but across the country at the cuts that the government are making, which are too
fast and too deep."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said the result marked a major shift in the electoral
landscape with the Lib Dems losing their status as the established third party.

"This marks a big change for us. We are now the voice of opposition in British
politics. The Lib Dems have lost that mantle," he said.

"And, if you're a Eurosceptic Tory you are now realising that Mr Cameron's
government isn't providing anything for you at all."

The BNP came fourth - the same position as last May - but with a smaller share
of the vote.

The Barnsley Central byelection was the first caused by the fallout of the
expenses scandal, after being triggered by the resignation of Eric Illsley, the
Labour MP who was jailed for 12 months in February for expenses fraud.

Jarvis, 38 and a single father-of-two after his wife's recent death, chimed with
voters in one of the services' traditional recruiting grounds, modestly
down-playing a record in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Jarvis is the first Labour MP for the seat since 1938 not to have been born in
Yorkshire or have links with coal mining - even the Tories' James Hockney beat
him on that with a grandfather who worked down the pit.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 4, 2011 Friday 7:58 AM GMT

Lib Dems humiliated as Labour wins by-election

BYLINE: By Daniel Bentley and Dave Higgens, PA

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 647 words


The coalition was dealt a major by-election blow today as the Liberal
Democrats finished a woeful sixth place and the Tories were overtaken by the
UK Independence Party (Ukip).

In a humiliating result for Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg in Barnsley
Central, his party finished behind not only Labour and the Conservatives but
also Ukip, the British National Party and a local independent.

There was also embarrassment for Prime Minister David Cameron as the Tories
saw their vote share slump dramatically and the anti-Brussels Ukip beat them
into third.

Labour cruised as expected to a resounding victory in what is one of the
party's safest seats.

Newly-elected MP Dan Jarvis, a former army major, increased Labour's majority
from 11,093 to 11,771, despite a much lower turnout than in last May's   general
election.

Only 36.5% of registered voters cast their ballots, down from 56.45% last year.

The Lib Dems - whose candidate Dominic Carman lost his deposit after securing
a meagre 4.18% vote share - admitted they had been given a "kicking".

Party president Tim Farron said: "It was a poor result for us. It was a poor
result for the Tories. The coalition parties didn't do very well here.
Surprise, surprise."

"Dan Jarvis will be a good MP, I'm sure, and it would be churlish not to
congratulate him.

"But perhaps the biggest story is that 70% of people didn't think it was worth
bothering."

Mr Farron suggested the Lib Dems, who finished second in the same constituency
in last year's general election - had been "concertinaed".

"But at this time of the evening, there's nothing more laughable than a
politician who's got a kicking pretending it's all right," he acknowledged.

The extent of the Lib Dems' slide surpassed all predictions, with advance
speculation suggesting that one or both of the BNP and Ukip might overhaul   Mr
Clegg's party.

To be beaten also by an independent candidate with no party machine behind him
- unemployed ex-miner Tony Devoy - is particularly embarrassing for the Lib
Dems.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said the result marked a major shift in the electoral
landscape with the Lib Dems losing their status as the established third
party.

"This marks a big change for us. We are now the voice of opposition in British
politics. The Lib Dems have lost that mantle," he said.

"And, if you're a Eurosceptic Tory you are now realising that Mr Cameron's
government isn't providing anything for you at all."

Mr Jarvis - a former member of the Parachute Regiment who has served in Iraq
and Afghanistan - said Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg were paying the price for   their
"reckless policies".

"The people of Barnsley Central are sending the strongest possible message to
David Cameron and Nick Clegg," he said in his acceptance speech.

"Your reckless policies, your broken promises and your unfair cuts are letting
our country down.

"I grew up in Margaret Thatcher's Britain. I remember how angry it made me
feel. Whole communities abandoned to unemployment, public services run down,
talents wasted, opportunities taken away.

"Thatcher was wrong then and Cameron is wrong now."

The Lib Dems' vote share in Barnsley Central fell from 17.28% to 4.18%, the
Tories' from 17.26% to 8.25%.

Mr Jarvis increased Labour's vote share from 47.26% to 60.8%.

Ukip, which came fifth last year, saw their share of the vote surge from 4.67%
to 12.19%.

The BNP came fourth - the same position as last May - but with a smaller share
of the vote.

The by-election was caused by the resignation of Eric Illsley, the Labour MP
who was jailed for 12 months in February for expenses fraud.

Press Association analysis of the Barnsley Central result suggests that if the
by-election voting trend was repeated across the country at a general
election, Labour would have a Commons majority of 124.

Liberal Democrats would be reduced from 57 to 30 MPs.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 4, 2011 Friday 7:25 AM GMT

Lib Dems humiliated as Labour wins by-election

BYLINE: By Daniel Bentley and Dave Higgens, PA

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 793 words


The Liberal Democrats were relegated to a humiliating sixth place in the
Barnsley Central by-election today, in a dire result for Deputy Prime   Minister
Nick Clegg.

Having come second in last year's general election, the Lib Dems were
overtaken by the Tories, the UK Independence Party (Ukip), the British
National Party and an independent.

The anti-Brussels Ukip came second, ahead of the Conservative Party.

Labour candidate Dan Jarvis cruised to a resounding victory - as expected in
what is one of Labour's safest seats.

Lib Dem candidate Dominic Carman lost his deposit, securing a meagre 4.18% of
the vote. The Lib Dem vote share last May was 17.28%.

Mr Carman said: "The voters here in Barnsley have given me and the   Liberal
Democrats a kicking. We can take it."

In a major reverse the for the Tories as well, their vote share fell from
17.26% last year to 8.25% for candidate James Hockney.

Mr Jarvis increased Labour's vote share from 47.26% to 60.8%, giving party
leader Ed Miliband a boost.

Ukip, which came fifth last year, saw their share of the vote surge from 4.67%
to 12.19% for their candidate Jane Collins.

The BNP came fourth - the same position as last May - but with a smaller share
of the vote.

Turnout was a low 36.5%.

The by-election was caused by the resignation of Eric Illsley, the Labour MP
who was jailed for 12 months in February for expenses fraud.

Press Association analysis of the Barnsley Central result suggests that if the
by-election voting trend was repeated across the country at a general
election, Labour would have a Commons majority of 124.

Liberal Democrats would be reduced from 57 to 30 MPs.

The extent of the Lib Dems' slide surpassed all predictions, with advance
speculation suggesting that one or both of the BNP and Ukip might overhaul   Mr
Clegg's party.

To be beaten also by an independent candidate with no party machine behind him
is particularly embarrassing for the Lib Dems.

Fifth-placed Tony Devoy - who finished 254 votes ahead of the Lib Dem
candidate - is an unemployed ex-miner who campaigned as a "local born   and
bred".

He had pledged to donate half of his MP's salary to charity if he won.

The result will alarm Lib Dems at all levels of the party, which has seen its
support plummet since joining the coalition Government with the Tories last
May.

Mr Jarvis managed to increase Labour's majority from 11,093 last May to
11,771, despite the much smaller turnout in yesterday's by-election.

Speaking at the count, UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "I've been to so many
by-elections where you go along with optimism, hope and expectation because
people in the street say, 'Hey, we agree with the UKIP message', but they
don't, in the end, go out and do it.

"Tonight they've gone out a done it.

"This marks a big change for us. We are now the voice of opposition in British
politics. The Lib Dems have lost that mantle.

"And, if you're a Eurosceptic Tory you are now realising that Mr Cameron's
government isn't providing anything for you at all."

Mr Farage said he had no sympathy for the Lib Dems.

"They've been trading for years on being opposition in British politics. The
reality is that the Lib Dems are every bit a part of that political class,"   he
said.

He added: "They're getting their comeuppance and not before time."

Newly-elected MP Mr Jarvis - a single father and a former member of the
Parachute Regiment - accused Mr Clegg and Prime Minister David Cameron of
paying the price for their "reckless policies".

"Tonight the people of Barnsley central are sending the strongest possible
message to David Cameron and Nick Clegg," he said.

"Your reckless policies, your broken promises and your unfair cuts are letting
our country down.

"I grew up in Margaret Thatcher's Britain. I remember how angry it made me
feel. Whole communities abandoned to unemployment, public services run down,
talents wasted, opportunities taken away.

"Thatcher was wrong then and Cameron is wrong now."

Also speaking at the count, Lib Dem president Tim Farron said: "It was a poor
result for us. It was a poor result for the Tories. The coalition parties
didn't do very well here. Surprise, surprise."

"Dan Jarvis will be a good MP, I'm sure, and it would be churlish not to
congratulate him.

"But perhaps the biggest story is that 70% of people didn't think it was worth
bothering."

Mr Farron said the turnout should be a boost to the campaign for a Yes vote in
the AV referendum in eight weeks' time.

"That cascade from second to sixth was very concertinad and we happened to be
at the bottom of that," he said.

"But at this time of the evening, there's nothing more laughable than a
politician who's got a kicking pretending it's all right."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

BARNSLEY CHOP;
LIB DEMS FINISH SIXTH AS LABOUR ROMP POLL

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 284 words


THE Lib Dems were humiliatingly beaten into sixth place at the Barnsley
by-election last night.

It was Nick Clegg's party's second bashing at the polls in the last couple of
months.

Labour's ex-Army major Dan Jarvis, who served with the Paras in Afghanistan and
Iraq, won in a landslide with 14,724 votes, followed by UKIP's Janes Collins
with 2,953 votes. The Tories came third on 1,999.

Embarrassingly, Lib Dem candidate Dominic Carman polled just 1,012 votes -
nearly 5,000 fewer than in the General Election - finishing behind local
independent Tony Devoy (1,266) and the result heaped more pressure on Mr Clegg
following the Oldham East and Saddleworth by-election in January when Labour
increased its majority over the Lib Dems.

In his acceptance speech Mr Jarvis said: "Tonight the people of Barnsley Central
have sent the strongest possible message to David Cameron and Nick Clegg, 'Your
unfair cuts are letting yoour country down'."

Yesterday's ballot in Barnsley Central was triggered after Labour's Eric Illsley
was convicted over dodgy expense claims. He was returned with an 11,000 majority
last year, but jailed for 12 months in February for falsely claiming pounds
14,000. The Lib Dems chose London-based journalist Mr Carman as their candidate.

The Tories put up James Hockney, 32, who contested neighbouring Barnsley East in
2010 and came third with 16.5% of the vote. Labour have accused Deputy PM Mr
Clegg of "going missing" during the campaign.

They say he has not turned up once - even though the seat is just 10 miles from
his Sheffield constituency.

In contrast Labour candidate Mr Jarvis, 38, has had the support of leader Ed
Miliband and 17 members of the shadow cabinet over recent weeks.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COUNT Jarvis' votes pile up WINNER Dan Jarvis last night and, inset, as
soldier

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 4, 2011 Friday 2:43 PM GMT

Lib Dems: now even less popular than the BNP

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 334 words


Please can someone explain to me the point of the Lib Dems: so loony left they
make Labour look like Thatcherites; so eco-bonkers they make the Green party
look like the Tea Party; yet bizarrely currently engaged in pervy, masochistic
coition with a Conservative-dominated Coalition.

Something's got to give hasn't it? And whoops, it just has!

From the Barnsley Central by-election come tidings so joyous it's like winning
the Lottery on the same day that Al Qaeda renounces violence, England win the
World Cup simultaneously in every sport ever invented, and in your home
laboratory you finally discover the elixir of eternal youth: the Lib Dems - the
totally useless, impossible-to-justify-on-any-grounds-whatsoever Lib Dems - have
been beaten by virtually everyone except the raving Loony party.

I know certain political savants are going to disagree with me. Nick Boles, for
example: he'd like his party's bizarro love-in with the Lib Dems to go on till
the end of time. But I can't help thinking this is a win-win situation for
anyone who still likes to delude himself that Britain has a smidgen of a future.

Important sign number 1: UKIP came second. Ed West rightly sees the significance
of this. It's a shot across the bows of all those Tory leftist appeasers and
fellow travellers such as Ken Clarke and, er, Nick Boles who have been getting
far, far too cocky of late.

Important sign number 2: it came a day after Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg's
grotesquely irresponsible speech defending multiculturalism. In Luton, of all
places. Obviously one can see what he was trying to do: find some clear orange
water (horrible thought) between himself and Dave. Problem is, until such time
as demographics bring us permanent status as the UK branch of the Umma,
pretending that the massive social division, grievance-mongering,
taxpayer-waste, ghetto-building and terrorism-fostering which have been brought
about by the suicidal philosophy of multiculturalism is not - duh! - going to
prove a massive vote-winner.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 4, 2011 Friday 10:35 AM GMT

A great night for UKIP. I reckon it will be the largest British party in
Brussels come 2014

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 292 words


Less than a week after the Observer revealed that 48 per cent of people might
consider voting for a far-Right party as long as it wasn't violent, racist,
anti-democratic or in any sense whatsoever far-Right, UKIP has finished second
in the Barnsley Central by-election with 12 per cent of the vote.

While the major focus this morning will be on the Liberal Democrats, who are
surely doomed now and may as well just do a Masada-style mass suicide, what does
this mean for Britain's only economically literate anti-EU party?

Curiously enough, while UKIP traditionally wins most of its support from the
Tories, one poll suggests that the Liberal Democrats had a higher proportion of
defectors to UKIP than the Tories did.  And in the 2009 election UKIP won more
support from people in traditional Labour-voting families than from Tories.

UKIP's potential popularity can be explained by the fact that on two of policies
people care most about - immigration and crime - it easily has the most popular
stance of any mainstream party.

Even among Liberal Democrat voters, more people agree than disagree that "all
further immigration to the UK should be halted", which puts them further to the
Right than me (only Green Party supporters want more immigration - presumably as
long as no one comes by plane). Whatever anyone claims, there is no "progressive
majority" in Britain whatsoever.

UKIP could do more to win support - although hugely important, Europe comes way
down the list of everyday concerns, and it must change its colour scheme. It
would be interesting to see how it will do if AV goes through.But whatever the
result of that referendum, I would put money on UKIP becoming the biggest
British party in Brussels after the 2014 European Parliament elections.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Lib Dems come sixth in by-election rout;
Coalition gets a 'kicking' as Labour wins in Barnsley

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words


The Liberal Democrats suffered deep humiliation today after they were even
beaten by an independent candidate to finish sixth in the Barnsley Central
byelection.

Dan Jarvis held on to the seat for the Labour Party, earning more than 60 per
cent of the vote in the safe constituency.

However, Nick Clegg's party saw its support evaporate, having narrowly beaten
the Tories to second at the general election last May.

The Lib Dem result was so poor that the party lost its £500 deposit, an ignominy
heaped on candidates earning less than 5 per cent of the vote.

Its candidate, Dominic Carman, whose father was the notable barrister Sir George
Carman QC, said: "The voters here in Barnsley have given me and the Liberal
Democrats a kicking. We can take it."

The result will fuel fears among Liberal Democrats that it is being deserted by
traditional supporters angry at its participation in the coalition Government.

Fringe parties were the beneficiaries, with Nigel Farage's UK Independence Party
claiming a distant but unexpected second place. The Conservatives came third,
with the British National Party in fourth.

But the Lib Dems, with 1,012 votes, faired worse than even the most pessimistic
predictions and were beaten to the fifth place by more than 200 votes by the
local independent candidate, Tony Devoy.

Fewer than two out of every five eligible voters headed to the ballot box amid
cold weather and the virtual certainty Labour would hold the seat.

The by-election was prompted by the resignation of the former Labour MP Eric
Illsley, who stood down over expenses fraud. He was convicted and jailed for 12
months earlier this year after falsely claiming £14,000 in parliamentary
expenses.

But Mr Jarvis's victory indicated that Illsley's fall from grace had not
affected the party's popularity in the town.

In his victory speech, Mr Jarvis said the people had sent "the strongest
possible message" to David Cameron and Mr Clegg. Mr Jarvis, 38, a former major
in the Parachute Regiment, took the seat with 14,724 votes and is the first
Barnsley Central MP to be born outside Yorkshire for more than 70 years. He is
also the first with no direct links to the mining industry. Upon entering the
Commons, he will be only the second MP on Labour's benches with Armed Forces
experience. His wife Caroline died last year after a four-year battle with
cancer, leaving him as a single father bringing up his son, 8, and daughter, 6.
The poor Lib Dem result will alarm Mr Clegg, who has seen his party's
popularity, as well as his own, plummet in opinion polls. The Lib Dems have been
criticised for reversing their opposition to tuition fees and ceding ground to
their Tory partners on security and immigration issues.

The Lib Dem candidate, an author and journalist, had been criticised locally for
living in London. He stood against Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, in the East
London seat of Barking at the last general election. Tim Farron, the president
of the Lib Dems, said that his party "never had any chance" of winning the seat.

Andy Burnham, Labour's Shadow Education Secretary, said: "We've been out working
hard here and not taking a single vote for granted. The absence of the two
government parties here has been amazing as they prepare to inflict huge cuts on
Barnsley."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dan Jarvis celebrates victory early today, flanked by the defeated Lib
Dem candidate. He is the first MP for Barnsley Central to be born outside
Yorkshire for more than 70 years

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GET BRITAIN OUT OF EU NOW;
Give us the vote on May 5th, we demand our country back DAILY EXPRESS CRUSADE
It's time the people had their say on quitting EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 576 words


DAVID Cameron was last night challenged to make May 5 the day that Britain
decides whether to quit the European Union.

The Daily Express stepped up its crusade for the UK to cut ties with Brussels by
calling for the planned referendum on electoral reform to be turned into a
historic vote on EU membership.

Leading MPs and campaigners backed the move. Tory MP Peter Bone, of the Better
Off Out group, said: "This is a splendid idea by the Daily Express. It makes
absolute sense.

"If we are going to have a referendum at all, it should be on the question that
everybody wants asked. It would be cost-effective and encourage a high turnout."

The move would transform the planned referendum on whether to replace the
current first-past-the-post system for Westminster elections with the
"alternative vote".

Voters are due to be given the choice on May 5, also the date of town hall
elections.

Critics have branded the referendum on the voting system - costing taxpayers an
estimated £250million - a waste of time and money that will inspire little
interest from the public.

Adding a question on Britain's EU membership. would, in contrast, spark
passionate debate, at no extra cost.

Labour MP Kate Hoey said: "Why not simply add a question on whether to stay in
or leave the EU?

"It would cost virtually nothing more and would guarantee a huge turnout for
something the British people fiercely care about. Surely it is time that the
public get to have their say."

Some want the electoral reform question to be dumped in favour of an EU poll.
Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Nobody asked
for a referendum on the minutiae of how we vote for those who govern us.
Millions wish to decide who governs us.

"A referendum on membership. of the EU will allow the people to decide who
really makes decisions on our behalf."

But Downing Street insisted that the issue of EU membership. was not on the
table. A spokesman said: "The Government believes that membership. of the EU is
in the national interest, and for this reason there will not be a referendum on
whether we remain a member state.

Tricked

"We do, however, believe that change and improvement are required from the EU,
and we are confident in the UK's ability to move the EU in the right direction.

"The UK will neither join, nor prepare to join, the euro during this time."

Bridget Rowe, of the EU Referendum Campaign, hit back, saying: "What [voters]
are interested in is having a say about Britain's membership. of the EU.

"The politicians have tricked and diddled us for too long. All three main
parties promised us referendums on constitutional change in the EU but never
delivered."

And Tory backbencher Philip Davies said: "Surely if we are going to have a
referendum, it should be on something we want to vote about.

"When we joined the EU nearly 50 years ago, we thought we were joining a
European free trade area, not agreeing to having our laws decided in Brussels."

Whitehall sources insisted it was "too late" to alter the referendum question
for the May 5 poll.

A spokesman for the Cabinet Office said: "The referendum is now set in stone."

The call for May 5 to become Britain's day of destiny comes after the Daily
Express delivered a 373,000-strong petition calling for Britain to quit the EU
to 10 Downing Street in January.

Last night Mr Cameron finally responded to the petition, one of the biggest in
newspaper history.

His statement, printed in full, is published above left.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GET BRITAIN OUT OF EU NOW

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 576  words


Give us the vote on May 5th, we demand our country back

DAVID Cameron was last night challenged to make May 5 the day that Britain
decides whether to quit the European Union.

The Daily Express stepped up its crusade for the UK to cut ties with Brussels b
y calling for the planned referendum on electoral reform to be turned into a
historic vote on EU membership.

Leading MPs and campaigners backed the move. Tory MP Peter Bone, of the Better
Off Out group, said: "This is a splendid idea by the Daily Express. It makes
absolute sense.

"If we are going to have a referendum at all, it should be on the question that
everybody wants asked. It would be cost-effective and encourage a high turnout."

The move would transform the planned referendum on whether to replace the
current first-past-the-post system for Westminster elections with the
"alternative vote".

Voters are due to be given the choice on May 5, also the date of town hall
elections.

Critics have branded the referendum on the voting system - costing taxpayers an
estimated GBP 250million - a waste of time and money that will inspire little
interest from the public.

Adding a question on Britain's EU membership would, in contrast, spar passionate
debate, at no extra cost.

Labour MP Kate Hoey said: "Why not simply add a question on whether to stay in
or leave the EU?

"It would cost virtually nothing more and would guarantee a huge turnout for
something the British people fiercely care about. Surely it is time that the
public get to have their say."

Some want the electoral reform question to be dumped in favour of an EU poll.

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Nobody asked
for a referendum on the minutiae of how we vote for those who govern us.
Millions wish to decide who governs us.

"A referendum on membership of the EU will allow the people to decide who really
makes decisions on our behalf."

But Downing Street insisted that the issue of EU membership was not on the
table. A spokesman said: "The Government believes that membership of the EU is
in the national interest, and for this reason there will not be a referendum on
whether we remain a member state.

"We do, however, believe that change and improvement are required from the EU,
and we are confident in the UK's ability to move the EU in the right direction.

"The UK will neither join, nor prepare to join, the euro during this time."

Bridget Rowe, of the EU Referendum Campaign, hit back, saying: "What [voters]
are interested in is having a say about Britain's membership of the EU.

"The politicians have tricked and diddled us for too long. All three main
parties promised us referendums on constitutional change in the EU but never
delivered."

And Tory backbencher Philip Davies said: "Surely if we are going to have we want
to vote about.

"When we joined the EU nearly 50 years ago, we thought we were joining a
European free trade area, not agreeing to having our laws decided in Brussels."

Whitehall sources insisted it was "too late" to alter the referendum question
for the May 5 poll.

A spokesman for the Cabinet Office said: "The referendum is now set in stone."

The call for May 5 to become Britain's day of destiny comes after the Daily
Express delivered a 373,000-strong petition calling for Britain to quit the EU
to 10 Downing Street in January.

Last night Mr Cameron finally responded to the petition, one of the biggest in
newspaper history.

His statement, printed in full, is published above left.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Cameron urged to hold referendum on Europe

BYLINE: By Kerry Gill

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 600  words


DAVID Cameron was last night challenged to make a referendum on the EU a
priority.

The Daily Express stepped up its historic campaign for the UK to cut ties with
Brussels by calling for a national poll on our EU membership.

Many MPs and campaigners south of the Border want the question put as soon as
May 5, the date of the referendum on AV, the alternative vote system, for
Westminster.

But this would mean a clash with the Scottish Parliamentary elections, clearly
unacceptable to Scots and those organising two completely separate votes
already.

It is also clear that if Scots want a referendum on anything, it is not on AV,
it is on our continued membership of the EU.

The principle of holding a referendum on the EU sooner rather than later has
been made all the more urgent by the huge surge of support for our campaign to
get Britain right out of Europe.

And the decision by the European Court that young women should pay as much for
car insurance as young men has only stiffened the public's contempt for the EU.

Tory MP Peter Bone, a member of the Better Off Out group in the House of
Commons, said: "If we are going to have a referendum at all, it should be on the
question that everybody wants asked."

The planned referendum on whether to replace the current first-pastthe-post
method for Westminster elections with the alternative vote system has come in
for huge criticism, particularly in Scotland.

Despite protests from the Scottish Government and many other MSPs, the UK
Government has insisted on going ahead with the AV vote.

Even in England, it is likely that voters will be confused being asked to go to
the polls over AV on the same day as council elections. During the 2007 Holyrood
election, there was huge confusion as it took place on the same day as our own
local authority elections and thousands of ballot papers were destroyed.

Critics have branded the AV referendum - estimated to cost GBP 250million - a
waste of time and money that will inspire little interest from the public.

Labour MP Kate Hoey said if the country could afford a vote on AV, it could
afford one on the EU, adding: "It would cost virtually nothing more and would
guarantee a huge turn-out for something the British people fiercely care about.
Surely it is time that the public get to have their say."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Nobody asked
for a referendum on the minutiae of how we vote for those who govern us.
Millions wish to decide who governs us.

"By having a referendum on our membership of the EU the people of Britain will
decide on who really makes decisions on our behalf."

The call for a referendum comes after the Daily Express delivered a
373,000-strong petition calling for Britain to quit the EU to 10 Downing Street.
A month after the sackloads of campaign coupons were handed over, Mr Cameron has
still not responded to the petition, one of the biggest in newspaper history.

Aides said Downing Street would publish a response today.

Critics urged the Prime Minister to end his silence. Douglas Carswell said:

"The Westminster establishment cannot afford to ignore the views of 373,000
Daily Express readers.

"For years, politicians have hoped that the issue would just go away, but this
petition has brought the voters' concerns to the Prime Minister's doorstep."

Last week, the Prime Minister made clear his opposition to Britain leaving the
EU.

He said: "We should be in the EU because Britain needs to be in that group, our
most important trading partners. We need a say on the rules of the EU and our
membership gives us that. But we want to change the EU."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

Labour parachutes combat-ready candidate into fight: Ex-Para Dan Jarvis isn't a
local, but a soft landing in South Yorkshire is assured

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 833 words


In a newsagent in Barnsley town centre, the communist Morning Star is more
prominently displayed than in most places nowadays. The last local pit closed 20
years ago, but local boy Arthur Scargill remains a working-class hero to some, a
generation after the doomed miners' strike.

Yet Labour's choice to fight the Barnsley Central byelection, Major Dan Jarvis,
recently on active service with the Parachute Regiment in Afghanistan, is not a
random act of postmodern eccentricity. Jarvis, 38, beat two strong women
candidates and a Unite-backed union lawyer from Leeds. Most of the shadow
cabinet, including the neighbouring Doncaster MP, Ed Miliband, have since joined
him on the doorstep.

The BNP and Ukip are forces to be reckoned with as vehicles for protest votes in
ex-mining communities such as this. The BNP doubled its share of the vote to
8.9% on 6 May last year, but Ukip hopes to overtake it this time.

Jarvis's selection has already squashed whatever hopes Nick Griffin entertained
of making the contest a BNP showcase. The BNP leader has left the field to Enis
Dalton to present herself as the BNP's "voice of women".

At a midweek session with ex-servicemen and the whole shadow defence team, it is
easy to see Jarvis's appeal. Ex-Para Tom Hicks, a spritely 92-year-old who
jumped on the "bridge too far" at Arnhem in 1944, is the star of the event. But
a younger colleague (he jumped at Suez in 1956) whispers: "Anyone who's been in
the regiment and risen to the rank of major must be all right."

A Labour member for 20 years, Jarvis comes from a political, not military
background, and sees this work as a continuation of his public service career:
Belfast to Basra, Kosovo to Kabul.

Recently widowed, with two young children, he is a counter-intuitive choice.
Nine candidates are standing, after ex-miner Eric Illsley vacatedthe seat days
before being sentenced to 12 months for expenses fraud in January. Businessman
and writer Dominic Carman (son of George, the QC), who aggressively took on the
BNP in Barking, is the genial Lib Dem challenger. Just six votes ahead of the
Conservatives last time (both on 17%), one weekend poll suggests the Lib Dems
are set to lose second place in Thursday's poll, both to James Hockney, a
Cambridgeshire Tory councillor (he increased his vote in Barnsley East on 6 May)
and to Ukip's Jane Collins. In reality, the weather may well determine the
pecking order by boosting the expected low turnout. It will take Noah's flood
for Labour to lose, even with a Nottingham-born candidate.

Despite Barnsley's close-knit, brass-band parochialism, none of the party
candidates is local, though Ukip's Collins is a miner's daughter from nearby
Penistone, who is trying to broaden the party's appeal to disaffected Labour
voters as well as to Tories.

Middle-class Ukip is doing well enough to worry bigger rivals. Several voters
told the Guardian they might back Collins, despite not knowing her name or much
beyond Ukip's anti-EU stance. "Definitely not BNP," an elderly and cross Tory
woman emphasises. A "life-long Labour man from mining stock" says he's had it
with politicians. "Blair and Brown blew it. They threw money around and now we
have to pay it back. I may vote Ukip."

Even before his money troubles, Illsley's majority had been eroded since he took
67% of the vote in 1997 (post-expenses it was 47% last time). Many people who
trusted their MP felt let down, but few voters mention him now in Barnsley. In
the angry, anti-politics grumpiness of 2011 there is so much else to complain
about: the coalition, the cuts and the (Labour) council, Europe, immigration
(Barnsley is 98% white) and bankers' bonuses.

The prime minister changed his mind about a visit. But Sheffield MP Nick Clegg,
who seems far more unpopular ("He's the one who sold out to the Tories. They're
in power because of you," one voter tells Dominic Carman) has also stayed away.

Carman has collected 4,000 signatures to save the ancient market (licensed in
1249) from a clumsy council redevelopment, has promised to expand private
business and takes every chance to promote his pet project - "re-educating BNP
voters about Nick Griffin".

Hockney focuses what voter disaffection he can on Labour's overspending. "People
who've worked hard all their lives . . . are angry," he reports. "The council is
cutting core services but still wasting money."

Rain may fall on polling day, albeit not enough to deny Dan Jarvis his next move
to rough terrain in Westminster. But clean-cut majors, fresh from commanding 1
Para in support of the SAS in Helmand, will not always be on hand to save
politics from the voters' wrath.

The candidates:

Dominic Carman Liberal Democrat

Jane Collins Ukip

Enis Dalton BNP

Tony Devoy Independent

James Hockney Conservative

Howling Laud Hope Official Monster Raving Loony

Dan Jarvis Labour

Kevin Riddiough English Democrats

Michael Val Davies Independent

Captions:

Ex-major Dan Jarvis and Labour leader Ed Miliband campaigning ahead of today's
Barnsley byelection Photograph: PA

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

Barnsley Central byelection - live updates

BYLINE: Martin Wainwrightguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 110 words

ABSTRACT

Martin Wainwright tweets from the Barnsley Central byelection where Labour is
defending a solid majority from the Lib Dems

FULL TEXT

Labour is defending a rock-solid seat vacated by Eric Illsley, the MP jailed for
expenses fraud.

Liberal Democrats are anxious about potentially slipping from a distant second
in May's general election to third place or even lower.

Back-tracking on student fees, and perceived hawkishness on budget cuts, has
raised the prospect of the Conservatives, Ukip or conceivably the BNP
overhauling the party.

is tweeting from the count, which has an expected declaration time of about
midnight. His tweets are below.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 2, 2011 Wednesday

Divided Britain: Are the BlackBerry class's jobs any safer?

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1084 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Divisions between the 'haves' and 'have-nots' are not new, but as
the economic boom of the past 20 years turns sour the contrast becomes more
noticeable

FULL TEXT

At the swish end of Cardiff's pedestrians-only shopping district the other
lunchtime, just outside John Lewis, I was robustly abused by passing stranger.
"You cunts, you're taking over everything," was his complaint, a man in his 50s
probably, poorly dressed.

What had I done, I wondered, a white-haired old fellow in a shabby raincoat
talking to a contact on a mobile phone while seated on a slab which now passes
for a park bench. Was it my BlackBerry? My leather shoes? Or the English accent?

Probably the latter. He wasn't to know my mother was born up the road in Newport
97 years ago this month and, incidentally, dropped dead in Cornwall 54 years ago
today. As always, it is on my mind in March.

But the heckler set me thinking too. After 20 or so years of makeover, plus
political devolution (), Cardiff nowadays looks a proper regional capital, more
like Birmingham, Manchester or Leeds than in the old days.

But, as in those cities, many of the old manual industries, skilled and
unskilled, have gone. Cardiff Bay's docks are now high, residential and
administrative, the bay's tidal flow tamed by the barrier which Rhodri Morgan MP
(what ever became of him?) used to warn would flood the city.

The old rugby stadium - Cardiff Arms Park - is now the brightly modern
Millennium Stadium, home to the corporates. Up the hill in the Valleys, coal has
gone and there are plenty of good stories, but also a lot of unemployment and
low skills.

So there are winners and losers. I'd caught a glimpse of that getting off the
Paddington train. "Take a taxi to the Novotel for the yes campaign's press
conference," advised the young professional. I'd a vague idea the hotel was
actually quite close and that the taxi driver who's waited patiently to be head
of the queue wouldn't want such a pathetic fare.

''It's a five minute walk," he said. I set off through the tall buildings, four
lane roads and roundabouts of modern Cardiff. But the kind of people on the
street at 10 o'clock on a Monday morning - the young professionals take taxis -
aren't the kind of people who use the Novotel and didn't know the way.
Eventually a student told me.

Trivial? Yes and no. The referendum, which I wrote about here, also symbolises
that divide. George Monbiot takes a distinctly dismissive view of the no camp
here, but both sides make valid points and should be heard respectfully.

Plenty of people think "what's government ever done for me? Why do we need more
of it in Cardiff Bay?" They may be wrong, especially the poor ones, but you can
understand their suspicions. "You cunts, you're taking over everything," so to
speak.

Taking the cross-country train towards the Barnsley byelection later that
evening I was again struck by the gap between the "haves" and "have-nots" on
board, though it's not a reliable guide to human wisdom or happiness. There was
a young couple in our compartment, not very well off I'd say, handling their
three children (all under eight?) with great skill and affection. A pleasure to
watch from the corner of one eye.

In Barnsley town centre the same divisions were visible. Lots of people about,
some using the cheap stalls on the market and the cheaper shops, a few of them
in wheelchairs, poverty etched on many faces. Others, the professionals in their
black suits - women as well as men - tapped away at their BlackBerrys as they
dashed from one appointment to the next.

I ate a 50p Cardiff-bought pork pie for lunch on a proper park bench, but
treated myself to a slice of chocolate cake in a smart café so I could use its
free wi-fi connection. The cafe was attached to a clothes shop, selling the kind
of good stuff some Barnsley customers can afford.

It's the same in London, where I live, the rich, the poor and middling all meet
on high streets, though not in the same shops, schools or - many of them -
hospitals. It was ever thus, but as the economic boom of the past 20 years has
turned sour the contrast becomes more noticeable.

It generates a lot of simmering anger and resentment, especially against the
politicians, always an easy target especially when they come asking for votes -
in Wales's referendum, in Labour-held Barnsley Central and last week (I've been
dashing around a bit)  .

Dublin city centre still buzzes with pubs, clubs and restaurants full of
students and those black-suited young professionals: where does the money come
from, visiting EU dignitaries must wonder?

"On tick from you", is the answer and it's better than letting it all go bust
overnight. But there's a dark side. My friends in the city told me there are
clubs where the lights in the loos are all ultra-violet so that junkies can't
see their veins to shoot up in. Some use the sleek new trams (they look like
Eurostar trains) on the way home instead. The trams aren't paid for either.

No wonder some people don't vote or vote for protest parties, which express
their anger but have few real answers beyond easy rhetoric. The United Left
Alliance, assorted independents or Sinn Féin in Ireland - all did well, though
Labour did too - the BNP, Ukip, the (much more respectable) Greens or assorted
socialists.

In a weak where that Searchlight poll suggested many people would be tempted to
vote for far-right, immigrant bashing parties it's a bleak prospect. Yesterday's
Guardian contained a , author of Estates, who argues that we can all rub along
if we try but that mainstream parties must not ignore the concerns of their
voters. Class, not race, is the issue.

The paper also carried one of the most ominous predictions I have read lately,
written by that amiable old curmudgeon, Peter Wilby, ex-New Statesman and Sindy
editor, whose raincoat is always far shabbier than mine. .

Wilby argues that many of Britain's white collar jobs will soon follow
industrial jobs offshore. What's more, the "education, education, education"
mantra - still passionately promoted in all the cities I have mentioned, all of
them full of students - cannot save us.

Plenty of journalists can make a decent living preaching gloom and doom. Wilby
has it down to a fine art. But if he's even half right some of those scurrying
young professionals will be taking the bus soon enough. If there is a bus.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 2, 2011 Wednesday

Barnsley Central byelection: major headache for Labour's opponents

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1083 words

ABSTRACT

Labour's choice to field a former Parachute Regiment major in the Barnsley
byelection is not a random act of postmodern eccentricity

FULL TEXT

In a newsagent's in Barnsley town centre, the communist Morning Star is more
prominently displayed than in most places nowadays. The last local pit closed 20
years ago, but local boy Arthur Scargill remains a working class hero to some, a
generation after the doomed miners' strike.

Yet Labour's choice to fight the Barnsley Central byelection, Major Dan Jarvis,
recently on active service with the Parachute Regiment in Afghanistan, is not a
random act of postmodern eccentricity.

Jarvis, 38, beat two strong women candidates and a Unite-backed union lawyer
from Leeds. Most of the shadow cabinet, including neighbouring Doncaster MP Ed
Miliband, has since joined him on the doorstep.

The BNP and Ukip are increasingly forces to be reckoned with as vehicles for
protest votes in ex-mining communities like Barnsley. The BNP doubled its share
of the vote to 8.9% on 6 May last year, but Ukip, whose posters are plentiful in
pubs, hopes to overtake it this time.

Jarvis's selection has already had the effect of squashing whatever hopes Nick
Griffin entertained of making the contest a BNP showcase. He has left the field
to Enis Dalton to present herself as the BNP's "voice of women".

At a midweek session with grizzled ex-servicemen and the entire shadow defence
team, it is not hard to see Jarvis's clean-cut appeal. At 92, fellow-ex-Para
spritely Tom Hicks, who jumped on the bridge-too-far at Arnhem in 1944, is the
star of the event. But a younger colleague (he jumped at Suez in 1956) whispers:
"Anyone who's been in the regiment and risen to the rank of major must be all
right."

Newly ex-Major Jarvis listens attentively to complaints from the men - forces
families deserve a better deal, they say - and promises to do his best. "Very
good of you to come, I appreciate it."

The tough towns of south Yorkshire are fertile army recruitment territory and in
Lord Roy Mason, MP here for 34 years, Barnsley had a famously hardline defence
and Nothern Ireland secretary(1974-79): still alive at 86, still hated by
Scargillites and IRA alike.

A member of the Labour party for 20 years Jarvis comes from a political, not
military background, and regards becoming an MP as a continuation of his career
in public service, Belfast to Basra, Kosovo to Kabul. Recently widowed with two
young children (luckily "both fans of Ed Miliband"), he is a counterintuitive
choice. Nine candidates are contesting the seat which ex-miner Eric Illsley
vacated a few days before being sentenced to 12 months in prison for expenses
fraud in January.

Businessman-and-writer Dominic Carman (son of George, the legendary QC), who
aggressively took on the BNP in Barking, is the genial Lib Dem challenger.

Just six votes ahead of the Conservatives last time (both on 17%), one weekend
polls suggests the Lib Dems are set to lose 2nd place in Thursday's poll, both
to James Hockney, a Cambridgeshire Tory councillor (he increased his vote in
Barnsley East on 6 May) and to Ukip's Jane Collins. In reality, the weather may
well determine the pecking order by boosting - depressing - the expected low
turnout. It will take Noah's flood for Labour to lose, even with a
Nottingham-born candidate.

Despite Barnsley's closely-knit, brass band parochialism (that foreigners begin
at Leeds and Sheffield is no joke) none of the party candidates is local, though
Ukip's Collins ("Yorkshire born and bred") is a miner's daughter from nearby
Penistone, who is trying to broaden the party's appeal to disaffected Labour
voters as well as Tories.

Middle class Ukip, which outperformed the BNP at the Oldham East byelection, is
doing well enough to worry bigger rivals.

Several voters told the Guardian they might back Collins despite not knowing her
name or much beyond Ukip's anti-EU stance.

"Definitely not BNP," an elderly-and-cross Tory woman emphasises. A "life-long
Labour man from mining stock" says he's hadit with politicians. "Blair and Brown
blew it. They threw money around and now we have to pay it back. I may vote Ukip
."

Even before his money troubles Eric Illsley's hefty majority had been eroded
since he took 67% of the vote in 1997 (post-expenses it was 47% last time). Many
people who trusted their MP felt let down, but few voters mention him now in
Barnsley.

In the angry, anti-politics grumpiness of 2011 there is so much else to complain
about: the coalition, the cuts and the (Labour) council, Europe, immigration
(Barnsley is 98% white) and those bankers' bonuses. The top man in Barnsley's
own handsome, art deco town hall earns more than David Cameron.

The prime minister changed his mind about a visit. But Sheffield MP Nick Clegg,
who seems far more unpopular ("he's the one who sold out to the Tories, they're
in power because of you" one voter tells Dominic Carman) has also stayed away.
"He's lost his map of South Yorkshire," as rivals put it. "No politician likes
to cause pain, but the cuts are for the country's good," insists the urbane
Carman.

Jarvis's novice status makes him cling to Labour's critique of coalition
betrayals but he does not yet sound like a politician: a bonus. Carman practices
Lib Dem pavement politics. He has collected 4,000 signatures to save the ancient
market (licensed in 1249) from a clumsy council redevelopment, has promised to
expand private business and takes every chance to promote his pet project -
"re-educating BNP voters about Nick Griffin", on which he is an expert. "Look at
my interview with Griffin on YouTube," Carman tells them.

Hockney focuses what voter disaffection he can on Labour's local and national
overspending. " I've been pleasantly surprised by the good reception I've been
getting. People who've worked hard all their lives and paid into the system are
angry," he reports. " The council is cutting core services but still wasting
money."

Rain may fall on south Yorkshire on polling day, albeit not enough to deny Dan
Jarvis his next career move to rough terrain in Westminster. But clean-cut
majors, fresh from commanding First Para in support of the SAS in Helmand, will
not always be on hand to save mainstream party politics from the voters wrath.

Full list of candidates

Dominic Carman, Liberal Democrat

Jane Collins, Ukip

Enis Dalton, BNP

Tony Devoy, Independent

James Hockney, Conservative

Howling Laud Hope, Monster Raving Loony

Dan Jarvis, Labour

Kevin Riddiough, English Democrats

Michael Val Davies, Independent

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Whoever gives us a say on Europe will have my vote;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 131 words


Whoever gives us a say on Europe will have my vote I AM a Conservative by nature
but my vote at the next election may go to whichever party promises to give us a
referendum on getting out of the EU.

Conservatives, Lib Dems, Labour, UKIP or any of the barking mad parties is in
line for my support as yet again another preposterous EU ruling, this time on
pensions, threatens to damage this great nation of ours.

Getting out of this organisation must take precedence over other matters. We are
damaged by the EU on a weekly basis and need to take more decisions for
ourselves.

If the British Government cannot see that fact staring it in the face then what
hope is there? I give notice to all parties that I put the needs of the nation
above my normal voting patterns.

Philip Codd, Manchester

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 158 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Whoever gives us a say on Europe will have my vote;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 26

LENGTH: 122  words


I AM a Conservative by nature but my vote at the next election may go to
whichever party promises to give us a referendum on getting out of the EU.

Conservatives, Lib Dems, Labour, UKIP or any of the barking mad parties is in
line for my support as y et again another preposterous EU ruling, this time on
pensions, threatens to damage this great nation of ours.

Getting out of this organisation must take precedence over other matters. We are
damaged by the EU on a weekly basis and need to take more decisions for
ourselves.

If the British Government cannot see that fact staring it in the face then what
hope is there?

I give notice to all parties that I put the needs of the nation above my normal
voting patterns.

Philip Codd, Manchester

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday

Comment: The anti-state right takes the Welsh for idiots who mustn't be left
alone: Backing big government against the people is not so strange when what you
really hate is state spending on the poor

BYLINE: George Monbiot

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1098 words


Elsewhere in the world, people are mobilising to demand more power. Here in the
UK inventive campaigns are mobilising to demand less. Those who would have us
vote no in two referendums this spring - on changing the system for Westminster
elections, and transferring powers to the Welsh assembly - have so far failed to
muster a single persuasive argument. Instead they've relied on underhand
tactics.

The No to AV campaign has exploited what appears to be a vacuum in the rules
governing political campaigning. Its advertisements make the blatantly
misleading claim that electing MPs through the alternative voting system would
cost £250m. This breaks down as follows: £82m for the referendum, £130m for
electronic voting machines, £35m for voter education and £3m to make the figure
look better.

They take us for idiots. The £82m will be spent whatever the outcome of the
referendum: a no vote doesn't make the money reappear. There are currently no
plans to introduce electronic voting machines and no need: very few are used in
AV elections in Australia. The voter education figures are based on the cost of
informing people about a different electoral system (the single transferable
vote), a bigger and more complex change than the one proposed.

As Sunny Hundal reports, it looks as if the no campaign will get away with this
crude deception. Neither the Advertising Standards Authority nor the Electoral
Commission will take responsibility for ensuring that campaign adverts are true.
People will vote in May on the basis of false information.

The True Wales campaign, which is trying to prevent members of the Welsh
assembly from legislating without permission from Westminster, has pulled off a
cannier trick. It has refused to register with the Electoral Commission as the
lead campaign against the proposal - which will be put before the people of
Wales on Thursday. This means that it isn't eligible for free delivery of its
leaflets or for airtime on the TV and radio. It also means that the yes campaign
doesn't get this exposure either: the rules say that everyone dances or no one
dances.

The result is that, with two days to go, hardly anyone here seems to be aware
that a referendum is happening, or to understand what it's about and why it's
important. The polls suggest that the no campaign hasn't a hope of winning: the
best it can do is to declare the vote unrepresentative because very few people
turn out. It has engineered a situation that makes this more likely.

So far so unsurprising. But the question that occurs to me is this: isn't the
right supposed to be against big government?

Not all those who urge a no vote belong to the right, but this is where most of
the opposition to both reforms is coming from. The No to AV group has yet to
reveal who its financial backers are. But we know that the campaign director is
the founder of the TaxPayers' Alliance, and that its cause is supported by the
prime minister and most Conservative MPs. Among the few supporters of the no
vote in Wales are prominent members of Ukip, the leadership of the BNP and a
group called Christian Doctrine, which maintains that Jews have been persecuted
because they are opposed to God's will and that "homosexuality is an
abomination, deserving only of death". Most of these groups rail against the
state and claim that they want us to be free from its intrusions. Yet in both
these cases they are supporting big government against the people.

The first-past-the-post system places inordinate power in the hands of the
executive. It minimises MPs' accountability to the electorate and maximises
their accountability to party machines and spin doctors. It stifles smaller
parties, delivers unrepresentative governments and facilitates monarchical
politics of the kind Tony Blair perfected, in which the electorate, parliament
and even cabinet were excluded from decisions taken by the king and his
courtiers.

It ensures that the great majority of votes are wasted, and that the only
electors who count are swing voters in marginal constituencies, who can often be
bought with a nifty tax bribe. The Institute for Public Policy Research
calculates that in the last general election 460,000 decisive votes were cast.
Cameron wreaks his havoc as a result of decisions made by 1.6% of the
electorate. While the alternative vote is a feeble reform, it goes a small way
towards redressing the balance of power between government and people.

In Wales the choice is starker. In principle the national assembly has powers
over 20 different aspects of public life, but it remains in the ridiculous
position of having to beg the Palace of Westminster for permission to legislate.
English, Scottish and Irish MPs, lords and Whitehall civil servants - over none
of whom the people of Wales have power - can delay and frustrate the decisions
of their elected representatives.

Meddling by Westminster and Whitehall has held back laws - in some cases for
three years - that would have given thousands of people in Wales affordable
homes, organ transplants and access to mental healthcare. The control London
exercises over such decisions is both illegitimate and unique: no other
legislature has to ask permission from another government to discharge its
powers. It creates the impression that Wales still requires the tutelage of a
colonial master.

This view was made explicit by a spokesman for the no campaign, a businessman
called Paul Matthews. He maintained that not enough people in Wales "have the
abilities" required to legislate. Rational decision-making, by implication,
resides exclusively in the hallowed precincts of Westminster - as has been
abundantly demonstrated in recent years.

The message in both cases seems to be: "Trust central government - what could
possibly go wrong?" This, coming from people who rage against the state, looks
odd. But the authoritarian right has confused us with its choice of language.
Many of those who claim to oppose big government relish centralised power. The
less accountable it is, the better they like it.

What they hate is state spending, for the obvious reason that this is the means
by which money is distributed from the rich to the poor. They want governments
that both control the lower orders and ensure that they receive as little money
as possible from richer taxpayers. There is no inconsistency in these positions
- but there are few votes to be gained from spelling them out. The two
referendums have forced these phoney radicals to show their hands. That's a
result for democracy, even before the votes have been cast.

guardian.co.uk/georgemonbiot

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 158 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday

Welsh fail to engage in vote on more powers: Voter disinterest and poor party
funding is marring this week's referendum on extending law-making in the Cardiff
assembly

BYLINE: Michael White Cardiff

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 611 words


Stop busy shoppers in post-industrial Cardiff on the eve of St David's Day to
ask what they know about this week's Welsh referendum and you soon learn that
some voters are as indifferent as their English counterparts in Colchester or
Crewe.

"I haven't a clue," says one man. "I know nothing," says another.

But a smartly dressed woman says "I'll be voting yes", shortly after an elderly
couple say they will vote no to a strengthening of Wales's regional tier of
government.

Lack of sufficient information that would allow Wales's 2.2 million voters to
make an informed choice on Thursday is a complaint made by both sides in this
low-key contest where last night's ITV poll confirmed a 2-1 lead for the yes
camp, but where no campaigners were hoping a low turnout - below 30% instead of
40% - would deliver victory for them.

Neither side has much money for campaigning, and the "Yes to Wales" camp
dismisses the "True Wales" no camp as a mere coalition of the angry, a ragbag of
old and cranky Tory, Labour and Ukip activists who were never reconciled to
devolution in 1997.

At stake is a modest extension of the limited devolution model for which Wales
voted by the narrowest of margins - 0.6% in 1997. It would allow the Welsh
assembly to legislate in 20 more defined policy areas without first getting the
consent of Westminster and Whitehall.

Scotland and Northern Ireland, where political separatism was much more
powerful, already have such powers.

"We're in the slow lane in a fast lane world," said Roger Lewis, chief executive
of the Wales Rugby Union, who is fronting the yes campaign.

Pro-reformers in all four main parties - the Tory and Lib Dem opposition in the
Welsh assembly as well as Labour and Plaid Cymru coalition partners - say the
assembly on Cardiff Bay has grown up. So it is silly and embarrassing to have to
waste years seeking permission to change the law on garden sprinklers or ban
smoking in public places, as Wales wanted to do in 2003 but found itself forced
instead to follow first Scotland then England.

Carwyn Jones, a Welsh-speaking lawyer, who succeeded the popular Rhodri Morgan
as Labour's first minister in 2009, told the Guardian yesterday: "The present
system is ineffective and expensive. Why should Wales pay more to be slower?"

Rachel Banner, a 40-year-old Pontypool teacher, has emerged as the most
effective spokesman in TV and town hall debates in all 22 Welsh counties for
True Wales, the campaign group rejecting more direct law-making powers for the
assembly. "I believe this is the wrong direction for Wales," she said. "We want
real devolution down to the people, not more centralisation in Cardiff Bay. The
Welsh radical tradition wants a more people-centred approach, not Whitehall on
the Bay."

True Wales refused to register as the official opposition (to save taxpayer
money, not to sabotage the yes camp, insisted Banner), and so prevented either
side getting broadcasts or free mailing. But up to 250 people have attended
meetings.

At a strategy meeting in Cardiff yesterday, yes campaigners, who had raised
£50,000, warned against complacency as they organised last-minute rallies,
social media, photo ops and even a very late-arriving consignment of placards.
The eccentric no camp was not even publishing a phone number, they said.

The awkward truth is that devolution has failed to deliver the 90% of UK average
income it promised in 1997; instead Wales has slipped from 80% to 74%, its
skills and literacy base declining.

One hopeful sign is that the split between cultural Wales and Anglicised Wales,
which saw the counties divide 11-11 in 1997, is less visible now. "We should aim
to win them all," thought Lewis.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
