
                               1 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 8.5m to be spent on consultants to promote Europe

BYLINE: By Dan Townend

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 194  words


EU FOREIGN policy chief Baroness Ashton faced new criticism yesterday after it
emerged that her department is to spend up to GBP 8.5million on outside public
relations consultants.

A tender has been issued by her office for agencies to provide media handling,
press trips, dinners and "social media" networking to communicate its messages.

The European External Action Service was created by the Lisbon Treaty to give
the EU a "single voice" on the world stage.

Under Britain's Lady Ashton it has become highly controversial, amid constant
criticism of her suitability and the cost. UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen said no
amount of spending on outside PR expertise could transform the body's image.

"The European institutions already have hundreds of press officers, TV and radio
stations and websites, " she said.

"They already spend millions of pounds of taxpayers' money on propaganda but now
their tactics have changed.

"By going for external agencies and putting things at arm's length they will no
longer be directly responsible for the actions of their press team.'' The
European Commission, of which Lady Ashton is also vice-president, employs 1,400
communications staff.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 28, 2011 Monday

If you believe PR is the answer, don't go to Ireland

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1750 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: We only have to look at Ireland to understand that proportional
representation is no panacea for all our political ills

FULL TEXT

When I wrote recently that I still haven't made up my mind which way to vote in
the AV referendum on 5 May I meant it. Having spent the weekend closely
observing Ireland's version of proportional representation (PR) in action I
remain in a dither. Here's why.

Yes, I know. The single transferable vote (STV) version of PR that the republic
uses is not the same as the alternative vote (AV) model which the coalition is
offering. It's a compromise between Tories who remain loyal to traditional
first-past-the-post (FPTP) ways of electing Westminster MPs and Lib Dems who
prefer STV, but will settle for less.

I have to say right away (I suspect it's obvious anyway) that my heart remains
with the FPTP crowd for several reasons I still think compelling, not least my
distaste for political quick fixes. If you want to believe that PR voting will
make politicians work harder, be more honest and responsible, fine. But don't go
to Ireland.

On the other hand my head recognises that a significant chunk of the electorate
is no longer content simply to vote Labour or Tory as over 90% happily did in
the early 1950s. It was the high point of a voting duopoly that had ebbed and
flowed for 100 years with a third party - Labour before it overtook the Liberals
- there to grease the cogs.

That's a powerful argument for change that would allow those who want to back
the Greens, socialists, nationalists, including the BNP variety, Euro-bashers
like Ukip and assorted independents to cast more than one vote and have it
"transferred" to their second choice when their candidate falls - as they
usually do.

It's a way of addressing the "wasted vote" argument which I happen to think is
morally offensive - surely no hard-won vote is "wasted"? But the Liberal
Democrats have earnestly promoted it as a means of justifying "fair" votes. By
that, of course, they mean fairer to them.

They may not be right in assuming that AV or even STV will work to their
advantage. That's the joy of electoral reform. The politicians think they've
done something clever which will help them and hurt the other side, but no, the
voters think they'll use the new rules for their own agenda. Ha, ha, ha. What
agenda? We'll find out.

For example, the notion that AV or STV would end "tactical voting" (what's wrong
with tactical voting, by the way?) as used under FPTP is a joke. When the new
taoiseach, Enda Kenny, managed to get three more Fine Gael TDs (MPs) elected on
his coat-tails in his five-seat constituency of Mayo in the far west (next stop
New York!) it was both a record - 4 TDs out of 5 - and a triumph for what
activists called "disciplined vote management".

I'll come back to that.

I spent Saturday in Dublin's cavernous exhibition centre, the Royal Dublin
Society, watching the city's six multi-member seats being counted - from 9 am to
6am the next morning in one hard-fought case. You can  .

The bar in the corner does good business and there is time to chat and to watch
Six Nations rugby on the big screen. Political anoraks from all the parties know
each other - as they would in most of Britain's towns and cities - and
co-operate in checking the accuracy of the count - even as they compete like
crazy to squeeze party advantage, fair and foul, out of the system.

It is obviously great fun and they all fiercely defend their system - PR as they
call it. Are there other versions? Yes, but they're not our version. On papers
with as many as 18 names (remember this was an angry, protest election in which
leftwing candidates - is Sinn Féin leftwing? - and independents did well) and
photos were on the ballot paper.

Voters rarely express their preferences as 1 to 18. Having joined the tally folk
examining 100 of ballots myself - you can't touch - most seem to opt for four or
six, sometimes putting a hostile "X" against a hated enemy. You have to be
careful though. Using X or a tick carelessly (or writing rude words!) can
invalidate votes unless "the voting intention is clear" to all.

Inevitably there is a higher wastage rate than in the UK, but that's the voter's
own fault. And voters like the system. Outside the polling stations they say
things like "I voted against all the main parties, they were all responsible for
the banking crisis" (which triggered the election).

Or: "We've always been Fianna Fáil, but not this time." Middle class FF
supporters might switch to Fine Gael (FG) - the old civil war enemy - or Labour
if they are public employees. Working class FF supporters, working class Tories
in a sense, might go the "other republican party," Sinn Féin - which had a good
election - or to the United Left Alliance (ULA). Or to a network of
independents, either single and local - or with names like People Before Profit.

With FF hammered in Friday's election - down from 70-plus to fewer than 20 TDs
the last time I looked - everyone else (except the poor Greens, FF's coalition
patsies) had a record result: FG, Labour, Sinn Féin - which more tripled its TDs
- and the Indies. Among those elected was Mike Wallace, a long-haired, leftwing
(sic) builder from Wicklow, and Shane Ross, an ex-stockbroker (that's another
unpopular trade in Ireland's bank bust) and the pro-pot mayor of Roscommon.

What fun, eh? But there's a downside. Micheál Martin, the new FF leader who
hopes to rebuild his ruined party, offered the campaign's most radical reform
platform (cheeky after 14 years in office!) in which a curb on ministers and
TDs' constituency work - so they can do better at their day jobs running the
country - was a major feature.

This point becomes more striking when you watch the system in action. Rival
candidates within the same party can fight each other in the chase for the same
votes harder than they do rival parties.  . Voters love to pick the local man or
woman.

"Oh no, they won't back the second Fianna Fáil candidate from the other town in
the constituency if they don't know them," I was told more than once.

So voters behave more as they do ( I do) in British local elections, only more
so and with greater impact. They vote for candidates they approve of -
hardworking, affable, musical, a cousin, whatever - as well as for parties they
approve of. So there's a tussle for 2nd or 3rd preference votes, for what are
called "transfers".

"I can't promise you my first preference, but perhaps my third," voters say on
the doorstep. Where disciplined vote management - see above - comes in is when
party bosses decide to ask loyalists in two or three wards to put the party's No
2 candidate first on the ballot instead of the No 1 - probably Edna Kenny in
Mayo - so they can maximise their chances of electing more TDs.

It's a gamble. The parties have to decide how many candidates to field. FF and
FG both decided to risk running more than was prudent. For FG on a roll it
worked on Friday. Mary Mitchell O'Connor, with whom I went canvassing in
high-profile Dun Laoghaire, won the second FG seat. But both Cyprian Brady and
Mary Fitzpatrick - whose supporters were shouting at each other for splitting
their shrinking vote in Dublin Central both lost in the FF collapse.

In terms of "fairness" Brady is an interesting case. In the 2007 election,
Bertie Ahern, then the taioseach presiding over unprecedented prosperity, could
do no wrong. In Dublin Central he got a huge personal vote, well over the
"quota" which elects a TD under STV (a quota is the number of votes divided by
the number of seats, plus one) and had organised that his supporters second
preference "transfers" be directed towards his protege, the otherwise unpopular
Brady.

It duly came to pass that nine other candidates, including the now disgraced
Bertie, got more first preference votes than Brady - Ahern had over 13,000 to
Brady's 900 or so - but Bertie "carried him over the line". He got the last seat
in the constituency. Bertie was still touting for him last week, but his writ no
longer runs. He just stuffed Fitzpatrick in the process.

I can't get excited by such behaviour. If it's allowed in the rules it's allowed
in the rules. In that sense it's like the offside trap or intimidating the
batsman on a fast wicket. I only make the point that it doesn't sound especially
"fair" in the wholesome way we are sometimes invited to applaud. But it
certainly gives voters at least the illusion of power.

Is it real power? That's the rub. An Irish politician who spends a lot of time -
and taxpayers' money - bringing home the bacon, jobs and projects (some of those
housing estates now rotting and empty perhaps?) to the constituency may make him
or herself popular and win their "quota" on the first ballot without need of
"transfers".

But are they doing their constituency job well, let alone their day job at the
Dail? I suppose you could argue that own our Michael (no relation) Martin, the
ex-Speaker, was a good Irish kind of politician, kind and attentive to young MPs
in all parties at Westminster, good at courting voters in Glasgow Springburn
too.

I thought him unfairly scapegoated when sacked in 2009 for doing what many MPs
wanted in covering up the expenses scandal. But was he demonstrating leadership
or vision?

No. You could say that in failing to control the bankers, the property
speculators and other financial engineers in the boom-to-bust years, the Irish
political establishment showed similar failings - with the added stigma that it
was corrupt and crony-ist.

Ah, you may say, but the British political establishment made a hash of it too.
Nowhere near as seriously, I would counter, but it's irrelevant.

What I am suggesting here is that we can vote for AV on 5 May - I'm not sure
which way the result will go - but we only have to look at Ireland (other PR
states too) to know that it's no panacea for our political ills.

The rules will be different and will produce different results, some beneficial,
others less so. Political horse-trading behind closed doors - what Enda Kenny is
doing to from his coalition today in Dublin - will be more fun. Life and
politics will still present tough choices to voters eager to duck them.

I'd love to talk about the Irish political dynasties, four generations in some
cases, which have thrived - or finally bitten the dust - this weekend. The
papers print family trees as if they were William and Kate. Fascinating! Another
time.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Charlotte finds love in the office;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uk telegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 86 words


SPIRIT Nick Claydon, 44, the senior partner at the PR firm Brunswick, is dating
Charlotte Wheeler, left, the daughter of the tycoon Stuart Wheeler.

He won't comment about his colleague, who is a former model, but he has
doubtless discovered she is nothing if not free-spirited. At school, she wrote
essays about why wealthy individuals should not be allowed to make donations to
political parties - even though her father, who later transferred his
allegiances to Ukip, once pledged a record £5 million to the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday

Scandal of £1m EU rail fare bill

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 239 words


HARD-pressed British taxpayers are shelling out £1million a year so grasping
Brussels bureaucrats can get half-price fares to work.

In yet another scandalous example of the European gravy train, civil servants
earning up to £185,000 a year are raking in the publicly funded subsidies for
travelling on public transport around the Belgian city.

European Parliament staff, who already gain from low tax rates, high salaries,
pensions and a job for life, can claim £203 off the annual cost of a season
ticket.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen said last night: "It is outrageous
that Eurocrats have subsidised travel. It is not as if they are not paid
enough."

About 5,000 civil servants in and around Brussels are entitled to the subsidy
which is part of the Parliament's "mobility plan" to tempt workers to use buses,
trams, trains and the metro. The scheme, which will be indirectly funded by
British taxpayers, adds weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out
of the EU.

Critics yesterday blasted the perk as an "outrageous" waste of public money,
especially for UK taxpayers who are expected to hand a net contribution of
£6.4billion to Brussels.

The European Parliament was yesterday unable to confirm how many people had
signed up to the scheme.

The revelation comes as European Commission president José Manuel Barroso hit
out against "false information" about pay and conditions for EU civil servants.

OPINION: PAGE 16

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEP Marta Andreasen condemns the cost to British taxpayers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Taxpayers foot bill in GBP 1million EU grav y train

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 360  words


HARD-pressed British taxpayers are shelling out GBP 1million a year so grasping
Brussels bureaucrats can get half-price fares to work.

In yet another scandalous example of the European gravy train, civil servants
earning up to GBP 185,000 a year are raking in the publicly funded subsidies for
travelling on public transport around the Belgian city.

European Parliament staff, who already gain from low tax rates, high salaries,
pensions and a job for life, can claim GBP 203 off the annual cost of a season
ticket.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen said last night: "It is outrageous
that Eurocrats have subsidised travel. It is not as if they are not paid
enough."

An internal document outlining how to claim the reduced fares says: "Good news
for colleagues in Brussels who come to work by bus, tram or tube. The Parliament
wants to encourage its staff to use public transport and will contribute 50 per
cent of the cost of individual season tickets."

About 5,000 civil servants in and around Brussels are entitled to the subsidy
which is part of the Parliament's "mobility plan" to tempt workers to use buses,
trams, trains and the metro.

The scheme, which will be indirectly funded by British taxpayers, adds weight to
the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the EU.

Critics yesterday blasted the perk as an "outrageous" waste of public money,
especially for UK taxpayers who are expected to hand a net contribution of GBP
6.4billion to Brussels.

Charlotte Linacre, campaign manager at the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "It is
inexcusable that the EU gravy train is gaining momentum while UK taxpayers are
struggling with rising costs and higher taxes.

"Euro pen-pushers have lost touch with the real world. Their perks are costing
taxpayers a fortune."

The European Parliament was yesterday unable to confirm how many people had
signed up to the scheme.

The revelation comes as European Commission president José Manuel Barroso hit
out against "false information" about pay and conditions for EU civil servants.

"The European civil service is often attacked for its apparent 'privileges' when
this is not the case and I am always defending this, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEP Marta Andreasen condemns the cost to British taxpayers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Scandal of GBP 1m EU rail fare bill

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 238  words


HARD-pressed British taxpayers are shelling out GBP 1million a year so grasping
Brussels bureaucrats can get half-price fares to work.

In yet another scandalous example of the European gravy train, civil servants
earning up to GBP 185,000 a year are raking in the publicly funded subsidies for
travelling on public transport around the Belgian city.

European Parliament staff, who already gain from low tax rates, high salaries,
pensions and a job for life, can claim GBP 203 off the annual cost of a season
ticket.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen said last night: "It is outrageous
that Eurocrats have subsidised travel. It is not as if they are not paid
enough."

About 5,000 civil servants in and around Brussels are entitled to the subsidy
which is part of the Parliament's "mobility plan" to tempt workers to use buses,
trams, trains and the metro.

The scheme, which will be indirectly funded by British taxpayers, adds weight to
the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the EU.

Critics yesterday blasted the perk as an "outrageous" waste of public money,
especially for UK taxpayers who are expected to hand a net contribution of GBP
6.4billion to Brussels.

The European Parliament was yesterday unable to confirm how many people had
signed up to the scheme.

The revelation comes as European Commission president José Manuel Barroso hit
out against "false information" about pay and conditions for EU civil servants.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEP Marta Andreasen condemns the cost to British taxpayers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Week News Quiz

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 96,89

LENGTH: 421 words


1 How has Colonel Gaddafi justified his crackdown on opposition?

a The Chinese acted similarly in Tiananmen Square

b The North Koreans do it all the time

c The Iranians do it to keep their revolution on track

2 According to Jacqui Smith, "Porn sort of falls between ..."

a "... the Home Office and the Department of Culture Media and Sport"

b "... the cracks in the sofa"

c "... duck ponds and moat cleaning"

3 To whom has F1 boss Bernie Ecclestone given a cheque for tens of millions of
pounds?

a The Auschwitz museum

b The Bahraini royal family

c UKIP

4 1,600 donors have raised $50,000 to build what in Detroit?

a A searchlight that projects a shadow of a bat on to the clouds

b A replica Model T Ford

c A statue of Robocop, based in the city

5 Which of the following stories of elusive reptiles is not true?

a A boa constrictor hid on the Boston subway for a month, after escaping from
its owner

b A 5ft alligator was discovered hiding behind a sofa in Peru, by the family's
three-year-old son who was patting it on the head

c A giant 16-stone tortoise was found roaming a Boeing aircraft hanger in the US

6 The Olympic velodrome opened this week, with what innovation recommended by
the gold medallist Sir Chris Hoy?

a Hardwood flooring at the corners

b An in-field lavatory

c An artificial rabbit

7 How is the Home Office preparing for a prison officers' strike?

a 5,000 low-risk inmates are having parole hearings brought forward

b It is ordering army ration packs to give to prisoners

c Prisoners are to be given "jail craft" classes

8 How has the US Government described the job of a former Special Forces embassy
employee who shot two Pakistanis in Lahore?

a CIA operative

b Secretary

c Administrative staff

9 Whom has Colonel Gaddafi not blamed for the Libyan revolution?

a Teenagers with hallucinogenic pills slipped into their coffee

b Ruthless African mercenaries backed by oil money

c Foreign imperialists allied with al-Qaeda

10 Match the faces to the quotes

1 I eat a lot! I love salt on toast a

2 I had just gotten sick of it. It was in my eyes. I didn't want it in my face b

3 c We will need to raise our standards, because we were like a bunch of
schoolboys

4 I am like Queen Elizabeth II d

Answers

1 a - Chinese in Tiananmen Square 2 a - between Home Office and DCMS 3 b -
Bahraini royal family 4 c - statue of Robocop 5 c - a tortoise in an aircraft
hanger 6 b - in-field lavatory 7 c - "jail craft" classes 8 c - administrative
staff 9 b - African mercenaries 10 1 Justin Bieber, b; 2 Graeme Swann, c; 3
Colonel Gaddafi, d; 4 Victoria Beckham, a

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOHN STILLWELL / PA WIRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday

Leeds set for voting reform debate

BYLINE: John Baronguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 887 words

ABSTRACT

Deputy prime minister Nick Clegg was in Leeds to promote the 'alternative vote'
system. Here, Leeds Labour blogger Darrell Goodliffe previews a public meeting
and highlights why he opposes Clegg's campaign for a 'yes' vote

FULL TEXT

Tomorrow at Leeds Town Hall there will be a chance to of whether we move from
the first past the post (FPTP) system of electing our members of parliament to
the 'alternative vote' system.

Alternative vote (AV) has infamously been described by deputy prime minister as
a 'miserable little compromise'. This was before he suddenly discovered the
grown-up nature of making exactly this kind-of compromise in the national
interest.

Now Clegg wants us to believe that AV is the best electoral system since sliced
bread. Apparently, it will make 'MPs work harder' and make it 'easier to get rid
of them'.

He never explains how this is the case because it simply isn't true. AV is made
out to be so many things it's not by people like Nick Clegg. It isn't, for
example, a proportional system of electing our MPs. So, it won't increase the
representation of smaller political parties. In fact, given that it requires a
winning candidate to achieve at least 50% of the vote it makes victories like
those that Caroline Lucas achieved in Brighton Pavilion (elected on 32% of the
vote) less, not more, likely.

What it does do is give those people who vote for smaller parties as their first
preference a 'second bite of the cherry' in its system of elimination and
redistribution.

If the leading candidate fails to achieve the 50% required the lowest placed
party is knocked out and their preferences are redistributed. This continues
until a candidate crosses the winning line. No doubt smaller parties, whose
voters will suddenly become tasty tactical targets, will use this to their
advantage. This, to me, breaks a clear chain of accountability.

Accountable for politics

is accountable for her politics and policies directly at the ballot box.
However, the weapon of preferencing and its use has no way to be made
transparently accountable; influence is therefore taken away from democratic
scrutiny. Rather than make MPs work harder, AV makes our MPs and political
parties more prone than they already are to making wild promises to small groups
of people in exchange for electoral success.

This also scotches another of the 'great AV myths'; it does not eliminate
tactical voting. It merely shifts the site of the tactical battle for the
ultimate prize to the preferences of lower party voters.

Anybody who was involved in the Labour leadership contest will attest to the
fact that vigorous tactical battles were waged between the supporters of the two
leading candidates for the preferences of those lower down the pecking order. It
is often argued that FPTP leaves decisive power in most contests with a handful
of 'swing voters'.

I am not disputing this but given the above can the proponents of AV really say
AV is substantially any different? I don't know the numbers but would guess,
with a degree of fairness, they are not that wildly different.

Also, you should note that voters who vote for a larger party will not get any
further cherry-bites. With the possible occasional exception of the Liberal
Democrats, Labour and Conservative voters will cast their second preference in
vain since they are never likely to be eliminated. Again, this can be
practically proved. The lower preferences of the two Milibands were never
counted therefore they were very much wasted.

Increased freedom to vote?

AV does not therefore increase your freedom to vote for who you want to. You
cannot, for example, vote for Labour and Greens or the Conservatives and UKIP in
the vast majority of seats because your first choice won't be eliminated.

Similarly, supporters of smaller parties will end up voting for and electing
representatives of the major parties - not their own first choice. It strikes me
that the pro-AV camp is so lacking in belief in its own system (most want a
different kind of electoral system altogether) that they have to borrow bits
from other systems to sell their own. Even the Liberal Democrat's don't really
support AV; well, that is if you still believe what is written in Liberal
Democrat manifestos - their last manifesto called for a switch to single
transferable vote.

A lot has been written about the cost of AV. I have to be honest - this is not
something that personally bothers me as much as it possibly should. Democracy,
to me is priceless, and therefore carping about the price tag is a little
unseemly. Similarly, I am unimpressed by arguments over which party AV will
benefit the most. Personally, I am a member of the Labour Party but would never
recommend something like this sorely to advantage that Party.

If we are to have electoral reform then it should be to something that benefits
our entire democracy and enhances and enriches it; AV falls spectacularly short
if we judge it by those criteria. AV really is as, William Hague rightly said,
the 'worst of all worlds...'

- on behalf of the No Campaign - will be held tomorrow - Thursday 24 February -
Thursday, the 24th, at Leeds Town Hall and starts at 6.30pm.
http://www.avdebates.com/

Guest blogger Darrell Goodliffe is a Labour activist and

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            February 21, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MONSTERS BAWL

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 346 words


Britain's most evil demand vote and cash handouts

KILLERS and rapists in psychiatric hospitals have launched a legal bid for
benefits under human rights laws.

Taxpayers will have to fork out GBP 2million a year in weekly handouts to
monsters like Moors Murderer Ian Brady and Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe if
lawyers win their case.

They are using the European Court of Human Rights to claim patients in secure
units such as Broadmoor are entitled to benefits, and they want them backdated
to 2006.

Victory would see Brady, 73, and Sutcliffe, 64, drawing up to GBP 132 a week in
pensions, while younger detainees would get GBP 65 Income Support. MPs are
already outraged over the Strasbourg court's ruling that the 1870 ban on
prisoners voting is illegal.

And there are fears that the flood gates could be opened for prisoners like
Soham killer Ian Huntley, 37, to claim. Tory MP Priti Patel, who fought against
inmates taking part in elections, said: "If you are found culpable, as these men
were, you forfeit all rights to welfare benefits or compensation."

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said: "It would be an outrage if any
prisoner received a penny of social security payments.

It is disgusting that people like Ian Brady could get a back-dated pension,
stripped from the pockets of law abiding taxpayers on the wishes of foreign
judges."

The test case has been lodged by five patients, two of them at Broadmoor, Berks,
who cannot be named. Two are killers, one is a rapist and the other detained for
violence. The fifth has since been released, but wants damages for being denied
benefits while inside. Their barrister Paul Bowen said: "What does it say about
our society that we punish people when we send them to a psychiatric hospital?"

SHOULD PRISONERS BE GIVEN BENEFITS?

YES: 0901 030 8358 NO: 0901 030 8359

If you want to use sms text:

Yes text DSMONYES to 80088 No text DSMONNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Texts cost 25p plus network rate. Lines close
at midnight. 99% of Daily Star readers think that immigrants should be required
to speak English.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOCKED UP: Brady
NEXT TO CLAIM? Soham killer Ian Huntley
RIPPER: Sutcliffe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 21, 2011
                                 First Edition

Must we regard our ancestors as cannibals?

BYLINE: Start the week Charles Nevin

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 382 words


Happy Monday. Do you ever think we're a touch tough on ourselves as a species?
Unthinking bullies, selfish despoilers, that sort of thing? Our ancestors get an
especially hard time. Give an archaeologist a bone, and it's human sacrifice
before you can say cannibal.

This hollowed-out skull found at Cheddar, too, I see, is right in the frame as a
vessel for drinking the blood of fellow members of the then Big Society. But
couldn't there be a slightly more benign explanation? A flower bowl, for
example, or a useful receptacle for those little bits without a proper home in
the cave, or a souvenir from Stonehenge? Exactly.

Men, apparently, are unimaginative when paying compliments to their partners. A
quarter of them are said to involve "nice", a word difficult to imagine
appearing in concert with "We'll always have Paris", "Oh, Jerry, don't let's ask
for the moon. We have the stars," or "An hundred years should go to praise thine
eyes, and on thy forehead gaze". I would counsel sparing use, and never with
"that's", "dear", "is it new?", "nearly as good as" and "my mother's".

You will have noticed there are some things impossible to take seriously. The
sausage, for example. So much so that a prosecution involving a house party
guest being hit in the face by a flying one has been judged beneath the dignity
of a Crown Court. In Essex, another undeserving fun object. Come on: we're all
in the BS together now. This week, can we try, please, to be, yes, nicer, and
not snigger at bananas, pigs, pouffes, Ukip, custard, bow ties, crumpets,
poodles, 4x4s, plug-in air fresheners, hats, urgent Government direction of
travel manoeuvres, and jelly? Excellent news about President Obama's visit. I
trust he will find time to return to his roots, which are, of course, firmly
fixed in Lancashire. Indeed: his great (times 11) grandmother was one of five
sisters sent to America from Sutton, now part of St Helens, to find a husband
after the Civil War here (they were firmly of the Royalist persuasion, Ma'am).
Mr and Mrs Platt, who live in the old family home, have assured me it would be
fine for the Obamas to pop in. Interestingly, too, the President is known to be
very fond of that local delicacy, the pie. This week is National Chip Week, by
the way. Happy Monday. i@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 21, 2011 Monday 9:15 AM GMT

Is David Cameron reinventing himself as a Thatcherite?

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 292 words


Just as many Tories were becoming fed up with Cameron, our PM has done three
things that should put smiles on their faces.

First, he gave the green light to backbenchers to vote down a ruling of the
European Court of Human Rights, by allowing a free vote. This, I can tell you,
threw Ukip off-balance, as that party had been trying to argue to that it was
impossible for Britain to reject the court's rulings without leaving the EU.
Ukip's message failed to resonate and, whatever the legal ramifications of the
vote, the vote has made the Conservatives seem genuinely Eurosceptic for the
first time in years.

Then, Downing Street imposed its will on the Department for International
Development, which announced that it was going to stop giving aid to 20
countries. A senior DFID source moaned to me that Steve Hilton (the Downing
Street adviser) was "interfering" in the department. But DFID was becoming an
embarrassment, squandering ever-increasing quantities of cash while other
departments were being cut. The Government's policy to increase the aid budget
is still wrong, but cutting the most wasteful spending will help to appease the
Right.

And now, in a move that seems to have been cut and pasted from the Adam Smith
Institute, he's announced plans to allow free-market reforms of public services.
In future, there will be an automatic right for the private sector to bid for
public work. This is truly magnificent. Thatcher forced councils to put bin
services out to tender, but even she was never able to impose competition on
such a scale.

Assuming this policy is not watered down, Cameron won't - as is widely predicted
- go down in history as a wet. He'll be the man who advanced the Thatcher
revolution. Quite a turnaround, don't you think?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               February 20, 2011
                                 First Edition

A pincer movement on No 10;
The PM is caught between Kenneth Clarke, Nick Clegg, and the legal establishment
on one hand, and the Tory party on the other

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 996 words


'I am appalled by the Supreme Court ruling," David Cameron said during Prime
Minister's Questions on Wednesday. "It is about time we started to make sure
that decisions are made in this parliament rather than in the courts."

It is the lot of prime ministers to chafe at the constraints of the rule of law.
Tony Blair once sounded like a Ukip-voting taxi driver at one of his monthly
news conferences as he railed against what lawyers (of whom he is one) would
call due process: "By the time you have filled out the forms, done the
statements, got them to court, three hearings, they have got defence lawyers and
all the rest of it - forget it."

At other times he and his home secretaries talked of "revisiting" or even
"repealing" the Chahal judgment of the European Court of Human Rights that would
not allow the UK to deport a suspected terrorist. Which, needless to say, could
not be done.

But that was towards the end of Blair's 10 years. Twice already in his first
nine months Cameron has proclaimed his frustrating powerlessness at the dispatch
box. His appalledness at the ruling on the right to appeal against being put on
the sex offenders' register last week followed his confession in November that
the European Court of Human Rights ruling, that some prisoners should have the
vote, made him "physically ill".

What makes this more combustible is the repressed Euroscepticism of the modern
Conservative Party. Yes, we all know that the European Convention on Human
Rights, drafted by British lawyers, signed by the Attlee government in 1950, and
incorporated into UK law by the Human Rights Act 1998, is separate from the
European Union. But it is a supranational legal constraint ultimately decided on
the Continent, and so it taps into the same emotional responses. Emotions that
run strongly among Tory MPs, who voted by 165 to one (Peter Bottomley) against
votes for criminals, with ministers abstaining.

The way in which Cameron has dealt with the constraint and the pressure typifies
an emerging pattern. On votes for criminals, first he said he didn't like it but
had to do it. As Kenneth Clarke, the Justice Secretary, drew up plans to give
the vote to prisoners serving sentences shorter than four years, Sadiq Khan, his
Labour shadow, made his move. In the first attempt by the Opposition under Ed
Miliband to attack Cameron from the populist right, Khan suggested cutting this
to sentences under 12 months. Miliband took fright and dropped the subject, but
by then the Tory revolt was in full flood.

Cameron went with the flow. He allowed his MPs a free vote, and started to look
at the options for telling the judges that he'd love to help but his MPs
wouldn't let him. The Government sought legal advice on what would happen if it
failed to comply with the ruling. The Times, which obtained the document last
week, a top-quality, 22-carat, gold-plated leak, highlighted the bit that said
the court couldn't force a country to comply: "It seems highly unlikely that the
UK would face anything more than criticism at a political level if it tried to
implement the judgment and failed (due to inability to get legislation through
Parliament)."

The problem is that the Government still has to try, and cannot get out of this
case even by the drastic step of repudiating the Convention, because that could
not be retrospective. All that the Government can do about past cases is delay,
but it has to pretend it is doing something about them, which is difficult when
the Prime Minister has said he doesn't want to.

Nor does that stop new cases getting on to the conveyor belt. That's why last
week's ruling on the sex offenders' register matters. It means that Cameron is
being pushed, quite quickly, to the point where he has to decide whether to
reject parts or all of the European Convention. Some Tories thought, when
Cameron said the commission to draw up a new British Bill of Rights would be set
up "imminently", that he had "crossed the Rubicon". I am not so sure.

Tony Blair talked about it but never did it. His home secretaries, including
Jack Straw (barrister, former home secretary and co-author with David Davis of
the rebel amendment on votes for criminals) looked at the same sort of legal
advice as was leaked last week. Charles Clarke even legislated to opt out of a
part of the Convention. Clarke drafted the law on control orders for terrorist
suspects, some categories of which would have required the UK to "derogate" from
the Convention, but the provision was never needed.

Blair's complaints about judges extending the Convention beyond the intentions
of its drafters came to nothing. The reason being that it is impossible in
practice to limit the scope of the Convention without junking it altogether
(there is no provision for "derogating" from the bit on the right to vote, for
example).

Yet Blair's second thoughts about the Human Rights Act, which he brought in,
changes the balance of forces. A chunk of the liberal elite has changed sides.
Straw mused about rewriting the Act, just as Cameron does now. Earlier this
month Lord Hoffmann, the retired Law Lord who had been critical of Blair on
civil liberty, renewed his attack on the European Convention and the way it has
been interpreted. "The very concept of human rights is being trivialised by
silly interpretations of grand ideas," he wrote. Some decisions "would have
astonished those who agreed to our accession to the Convention in 1950".

Therefore, just nine months in, Cameron is between a rock and a hard place. The
rock is Kenneth Clarke, Nick Clegg, most of the legal establishment, and the
diplomatic embarrassment of appearing to repudiate "human rights". The hard
place is the Conservative Party, including Cameron's own instincts, and public
opinion, including previously supportive elite opinion typified by Blair, his
home secretaries and Lord Hoffmann.

So who do you put your money on: immovable object or irresistible force?

twitter.com/JohnRentoul

independent.co.uk/jrentoul

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               February 20, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Polling switch gets my vote

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 884 words


WE USED to joke that tourists went to Buckingham Palace to watch changing the
guard ceremonies, while at Rome's Quirinale Palace they went to watch the
changing of the Government.

Italy had 50 governments in the 50 years after 1945. due to proportional
representation, no party ever got 50 per cent of the vote and parliament
contained a liquorice allsorts collection of small political parties. What sort
of government Italy got depended on who was prepared to deal with whom after an
election.

Backstairs deals in smokefilled rooms produced a corrupt political culture
affecting all the main parties. Governments were also inherently unstable. By
the Nineties, voters were fed up with political paralysis, huge debt, extensive
corruption and the Mafia influence. They demanded political, economic and
ethical reforms.

The constitution was changed and 75 per cent of Italian MPs have since been
elected by a "first past the post" system similar to Britain's. Consequently,
governments have become more stable and the Prime Minister for most of the past
15 years has been silvio Berlusconi. Well, no system is perfect!

Paradoxically, Britain may now be going in the opposite direction. Although a
rarity under the current voting system, our last election produced a hung
Parliament. The Lib dems demanded a referendum on proportional representation as
the price of joining the Coalition. so, in effect, we will be asked to decide
whether we want to make this state of affairs permanent.

As an MP I was strongly against PR, even though it would not have affected me
personally as I polled more than 50 per cent in each successful election. My
main objection was that it would lead to weak governments and porkbarrel
politics.

THESE objections are still valid but I shall be voting "yes" in the referendum
because the current system is far from perfect, too. All the big three parties
are out of touch with the voters on all sorts of issues. The Common sense party
has no seats at all.

The public never voted to be taken over by Brussels lock, stock and barrel yet
it now passes 75 per cent of our laws which Parliament is powerless to veto or
change. We never voted for mass immigration and multiculturalism, which have
produced grave social problems and changed the character of our country. For
decades, Parliament also ignored public opinion and refused to bring back
capital punishment for murder or mete out really tough sentences for criminals.

Nor did we vote for foreign human Rights judges in strasbourg to decide it was
illegal for us to deport terrorists to their home countries or that prisoners
should have the vote. david Cameron affects to be "appalled" by and "physically
sick" at these decisions but he and Parliament are powerless to overrule them
because the big three parties are all signed up irrevocably to the european
Convention on human Rights and the eu, which requires all its members to belong.

We never voted for the ludicrous political correctness which traps us all in its
entangling net. Nor did we vote for the massive expansion of Nanny state
regulations which successive governments have presided over. From the closure of
rural post offices, through the phasing out of incandescent light bulbs to
expensive and pointless home Information Packs, we are trammeled at every turn
by unnecessary laws and regulations.

There has been no public demand for any of this. Quite the opposite but the
political elite ignores the public. On most of these big issues, the old gang of
political parties have been as indistinguishable as Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
In recent years, most MPs seemed to have more in common with each other than
with their constituents. The uncomprehending attitude of many towards the
expenses scandal is but one litmus test of this. The public are not fools.
Millions have become alienated from the system and don't bother to vote. Turnout
in 2010 was only 65 per cent although it was even worse, at 61 per cent, four
years earlier. In the Fifties it always exceeded 80 per cent. Millions of voters
now sit on their hands or vote for smaller parties. For example, nearly one
million voted uKIP last time - virtually double its vote in the 2005 election.

DESPITE this, apart from a single Green MP in Brighton, the LibLabCon parties
grabbed all the seats. After the election, it was business as usual with uturns
in all directions. PR might stir things up and provide a voice for millions of
disaffected voters ignored by the big three.

In the 2009 european Parliament elections, uKIP beat both Labour and the Lib
dems. It scored 16.5 per cent of the vote and elected 13 MePs. It was so
successful because the result was determined by a form of PR.

Imagine the electrifying impact of a similar proportion of uKIP MPs. If the
Westminster voting system gave uKIP a chance to elect 100 MPs, the Tories might
be forced to reconnect with their traditional supporters and ditch the Notting
hill nonsense imposed on the party by the rich, liberal, metropolitan elite
which now controls it.

For once, we will have a vote which matters. We can put the old gang of party
leaders on notice that the era of The People vs The Politicians is over. We will
no longer be patronised and ignored.

'The change to PR would have an electrifying effect and put the old gang of
leaders on notice'

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESSURE: Smaller parties such as UKIP would benefit from a shake-up in
voting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Polling switch gets my vote;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 36

LENGTH: 870  words


WE USED to joke that tourists went to Buckingham Palace to watch changing the
guard ceremonies, while at Rome's Quirinale Palace they went to watch the
changing of the Government.

Italy had 50 governments in the 50 years after 1945. Due to proportional
representation, no party ever got 50 per cent of the vote and parliament
contained a liquorice allsorts collection of small political parties.

What sort of government Italy got depended on who was prepared to deal with whom
after an election.

Backstairs deals in smoke-filled rooms produced a corrupt political culture
affecting all the main parties. Governments were also inherently unstable. By
the Nineties, voters were fed up with political paralysis, huge debt, extensive
corruption and the Mafia influence. They demanded political, economic and
ethical reforms.

The constitution was changed and 75 per cent of Italian MPs have since been
elected by a "first past the post" system similar to Britain's. Consequently,
governments have become more stable and the Prime Minister for most of the past
15 years has been Silvio Berlusconi. Well, no system is perfect!

Paradoxically, Britain may now be going in the opposite direction. Although a
rarity under the current voting system, our last election produced a hung
Parliament. The Lib Dems demanded a referendum on proportional representation as
the price of joining the Coalition. So, in effect, we will be asked to decide
whether we want to make this state of affairs permanent.

As an MP I was strongly against PR, even though it would not have affected me
personally as I polled more than 50 per cent in each successful election. My
main objection was that it would lead to weak governments and pork-barrel
politics.

THESE objections are still valid but I shall be voting "yes" in the referendum
because the current system is far from perfect, too. All the big three parties
are out of touch with the voters on all sorts of issues. The Common Sense party
has no seats at all.

The public never voted to be taken over by Brussels lock, stock and barrel yet
it now passes 75 per cent of our laws which Parliament is powerless to veto or
change.

We never voted for mass immigration and multi-culturalism, which have produced
grave social problems and changed the character of our country. For decades,
Parliament also ignored public opinion and refused to bring back capital
punishment for murder or mete out really tough sentences for criminals.

Nor did we vote for foreign Human Rights judges in Strasbourg to decide it was
illegal for us to deport terrorists to their home countries or that prisoners
should have the vote. David Cameron affects to be "appalled" by and "physically
sick" at these decisions but he and Parliament are powerless to over-rule them
because the big three parties are all signed up irrevocably to the European
Convention on Human Rights and the EU, which requires all its members to belong.

We never voted for the ludicrous political correctness which traps us all in its
entangling net. Nor did we vote for the massive expansion of Nanny State
regulations which successive governments have presided over. From the closure of
rural post offices, through the phasing out of ncandescent light bulbs to
expensive and pointless Home Information Packs, we are trammeled at every turn
by unnecessary laws and regulations.

There has been no public demand for any of this. Quite the opposite but the
political elite ignores the public. On most of these big issues, the old gang of
political parties have been as indistinguishable as Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
In recent years, most MPs seemed to have more in common with each other than
with their constituents. The uncomprehending attitude of many towards the
expenses scandal is but one litmus test of this. The public are not fools.
Millions have become alienated from the system and don't bother to vote. Turnout
in 2010 was only 65 per cent although it was even worse, at 61 per cent, four
years earlier. In the Fifties it always exceeded 80 per cent. Millions of voters
now sit on their hands or vote for smalle r parties. For example, nearly one
million voted UKIP last time - virtually double its vote in the 2005 election.

DESPITE this, apart from a ingle Green MP in Brighton, the Lib-Lab-Con parties
grabbed all the seats. After the election, it was business as usual with U-turns
in all directions. PR might stir things up and provide a voice for millions of
disaffected voters ignored by the big three.

In the 2009 European Parliament elections, UKIP beat both Labour and the Lib
Dems. It scored 16.5 per cent of the vote and elected 13 MEPs. It was so
successful because the result was determined by a form of PR.

Imagine the electrifying impact of a similar proportion of UKIP MPs. If the
Westminster voting system gave UKIP a chance to elect 100 MPs, the Tories might
be forced to reconnect with their traditional supporters and ditch the Notting
Hill nonsense imposed on the party by the rich, liberal, metropolitan elite
which no w controls it.

For once, we will have a vote which matters. We can put the old gang of part y
leaders on notice that the era of The People vs The Politicians is over. We will
no longe r be patronised and ignored.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESSURE: Smaller parties such as UKIP would benefit from a shake-up in
voting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'One of the students called me posh. I said I'm from a working-class Liverpool
family'

BYLINE: Cherie Blair

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 942 words


Iwanted to get involved with the Dream School partly because I was intrigued by
the idea and also because I like and respect Jamie Oliver. I like young people,
too. My youngest son is 10 and I've brought up three who are in their twenties.
I meet a lot of teenagers for my work, including young offenders, so I'm not
easily shocked. I wasn't particularly worried about anything that the students
might say to me in class. If I wasn't thick-skinned before my husband became
Prime Minister, I certainly was by the end! My main concern was whether or not I
had the skills for the job. Teaching is very hard and I didn't want to let Jamie
or my class down. I didn't expect Dream School to work for all the children, but
at least they had chosen to be there, which showed some willingness.

Before my lessons, I spoke to teachers I knew and drew up lesson plans.

For the first lesson, on the legal system, I decided to look at it through the
case of Jimmy Mizen, the teenager who was murdered in southeast London three
years ago, and I arranged for one group to visit the Mizen family to hear their
views about the trial of the man accused of his murder. I wanted the students to
think about the structure of the trial, not only from the lawyer's point of
view, but from everyone's - including family, friends and witnesses. Another
group was to start on our second topic, human rights, which was around the right
to wear religious symbols. I arranged for them to visit a hairdresser who had
sacked a young Muslim woman for wearing a headscarf, and a Christian teacher who
had been disciplined for wearing a crucifix.

I could see immediately that there were definitely some "alpha males" competing
for the limelight. There was the whole girl/boy thing going on too, with couples
pairing off. One of the girls, who was gay, I think, was very vocal and able to
express herself.

One student called me "posh", so I explained that I came from a working-class
background in Liverpool. That led to questions about why I didn't have a
Liverpudlian accent. I didn't deliberately lose my accent but my mother was an
actress and liked me to talk "properly". I've also lived in London for 30 years.
I'm not sure the students believed me, though. They probably thought that anyone
who is a QC or was married to the Prime Minister was "born posh".

The students had been given cameras and encouraged to take photos of their
experiences, including during classes. They had also been given permission to
bring mobile phones into class, neither of which I would have allowed. So there
was a fair amount of distracting activity, including running in and out of class
to take phone calls. So I made a rule that anyone needing to leave had to take a
particular route through the middle of the class, in front of everyone. One of
the boys - who had been contributing well up to that point - simply walked out
using the banned route, saying it was a "stupid rule". The other students then
made the point that he had to be punished, but before we could discuss what that
punishment should be, he left the class. He was a bright young man, but I felt
he needed to learn that you have to obey rules that have been agreed, even when
they are arbitrary. You have to pick your fights. And I would have given him a
second chance, to show that you can have discretion in punishment. That was
probably the lowest point.

By the second lesson, the class seemed much more settled. My plan was to show
them how a debate works, and how there have to be rules about participation so
they didn't all just talk over each other. I brought in my barrister's wig and
gown as props and ruled that anyone wanting to speak had to put on the wig
first. Some did put it on; others just held it up. They seemed to find that
mildly interesting!

The debate was to be on the right to wear religious symbols, but the producer of
the programme asked me to focus on the issue of the right of prisoners to vote.
The class then heard from John Hirst, a former prisoner, who argued the case in
favour, and from the Chairman of the UKIP Youth Wing, who argued the case
against. The students were divided on the issue, some making their points
forcefully and rather well. This went on so long that we ran out of time to
discuss much else.

The experience was tough and has left me with huge admiration for teachers. Few
are "inspirational" but the majority do a good job. As an eight-year-old girl I
went through my own pivotal educational crisis when my father left my mother
very publicly, then announced the birth of my half-sister in the local
newspaper. We lived in a strongly Roman Catholic community at a time when
separation and divorce was a scandal, and I was subjected to unpleasant teasing
and name-calling at school. I got into fights, became angry and rebellious and
could easily have become disaffected. One of the teachers decided that I might
be diverted from this self-destructive path by a challenge, so she arranged for
me to skip what would be Year Five and go straight into Year Six and take the
11-plus early. It channelled my energies into schoolwork and gave me the belief
that I could make something of myself. I was lucky to be helped in this way.
Many of the students I was teaching I know come from far more challenging
backgrounds and were not as fortunate.

One of my girls in my Dream School class has since come to visit me in my
chambers, because she wanted to explore becoming a lawyer. If she goes back into
education and then gets to university, she'll be the first in her family to have
done so - as I was. If I can help and support her through that, I will.

Cherie Blair was talking to Anna Moore

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cherie Blair: "I could see there were some 'alpha males' competing for
the limelight"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 18, 2011 Friday

THIS WILL PUT THE PEOPLE BACK IN CHARGE

BYLINE: BY NICK CLEGG

LENGTH: 723 words


DID a candidate knock on your door during last year s General Election campaign?
If they did, you re one of a select few. The vast majority of you won t have had
any contact from the peopl e who wanted to represent you in Parliament.

That means no chance to have a conversation, no chance to tell politicians what
matters to you and no chance for them to explain why they should have the
privilege of representing you.

Last year more than two-thirds of MPs were elected without a majority of their
constituents voting for them.

Many got in without even a third of voters backing them.

That means most of us are represented by someone most of us didn t vote for.

People have been complaining for years about feeling disillusioned and apathetic
with politics.

Remember how angry you felt about the expenses scandal.

There was a direct link between how safe an MP s seat was and how likely they
were to abuse their expenses.

Too many, knowing they had jobs for life, got lazy and complacent in their safe
seats and took their constituents for granted. And that s why no one knocked at
your door.

That won t happen with the Alternative Vote.

Under the Alternative Vote, candidates will need to try to get the support of
half their constituents.

That means working harder to reach out to people that are ignored under the
current system.

That means listening to and respecting the views and concerns of a wider range
of people.

Research has found that just 500,000 voters decided the result last year out of
nearly 40million eligible voters.

Under First Past the Post, too many people feel it is not worth voting at all.
At the election before last more people chose not to vote than voted for the
winning party.

In 21st century Britain, that is not something we can be proud of.

FIRsT Past the Post was the perfect system for a time when everyone voted for
one of two parties. In 1951, 97 per cent of voters chose Labour or the
Conservatives. But times have changed. At the last election, fewer than two
thirds of voters backed the two old parties.

That s not just because of the Liberal Democrats, but the sNP in scotland, Plaid
Cymru in Wales and parties like the Greens and Ukip.

That s a good thing. Politics is now more representative of the broad range of
views in Britain.

But that is undermined by First Past the Post, which forces many of us to vote
tactically rather than for the person or party we support.

Under the Alternative Vote there is no more need for tactical voting.

You can vote positively for the person you support and give your second
preference to your next choice.

That way if the person you support doesn t get enough support your vote isn t
wasted, it passes on to your second choice.

Critics say the Alternative Vote is too complicated, that it somehow goes
against our traditions, that it is too expensive and will allow supporters of
extremist parties such as the BNP more sway. None of these arguments stands up
to scrutiny. It s not too complicated, it s as easy as 1-2-3. You just rank the
candidates in order of preference. And if you only want to back one candidate,
then you can.

It goes with the grain of our traditions. It not only maintains the crucial link
etween n P nd heir onstituents, it strengthens it.

And it works against the interests of extremist parties by ensuring that whoever
is elected must have the broad support of their constituents. Why do you think
the BNP is backing the No campaign?

The No campaign claim millions will be spent on new electronic counting
machines. Rubbish. They ve had AV in Australia for decades and do not need
special equipment.

As you can see in the Daily Mail today, the Prime Minister and I come at this
from different directions.

What we do agree on is that the people know best. We both want as many people as
possible to get involved and make their feelings known at the ballot box.

And what we are clear about is that this referendum is not about the Coalition
Government.

Whatever the result, we will continue to work together in the national interest.

I hope people will agree with the Yes campaign that First Past the Post is out
of date and leaves too many voices unheard.

I believe the Alternative Vote is better and fairer.

It means more voices being heard and MPs working harder for the people they
represent. It puts people back in charge.

That can only be good for our democracy.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 18, 2011 Friday

Alternative vote: 'On this one, I don't agree with Nick'

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1192 words

ABSTRACT

David Cameron's task in speaking against AV was easier than Nick Clegg's in
promoting it, says Michael White

FULL TEXT

So David Cameron and Nick Clegg have finally crossed, if not swords then at
least feather dusters, in public over electoral reform. Both made speeches on
Britain's now-certain alternative vote (AV) referendum on 5 May.

"It's no secret that the prime minister and I come at this from different
directions," Clegg earnestly explained. "On this one, I don't agree with Nick,"
said Cameron, crisper, more demotic and wittier than his deputy. Typical Dave.

But who is listening at this stage of their 11-week campaign, other than
activists and the converted in both camps? And, if the open-minded were
listening, what should they make of the speeches?

Cameron's was the easier task. It may be hard to defend the status quo when
politics enjoys a low public esteem that long pre-dates the scandal over MPs'
expenses and hangs over most elective western democracies, whichever voting
system and scandals they sustain.

But in AV, the No campaign has a target many in the Yes camp have derided in the
past as unsuitable and - Clegg's own much-quoted words - "a miserable little
compromise". Cameron cited them again, along with the dismissive comments of
Lord Roy Jenkins (AV might increase, not reduce, distortions) and a leading Yes
campaigner, Labour's Ben Bradshaw.

The prime minister did not defend the status quo. He knows voters are angry with
the political class. His remedy - "real reform", he called it - is fixed
five-year parliaments, more equal-sized constituencies, stronger powers for
backbench MPs, a right of recall for voters, fewer MPs (but not ministers),
lower pay, harder work.

Oh yes, and "real empowerment" for communities, councillors and individuals via
the Eric Pickles localism bill. Will voters buy it? Not if the reaction to
Pickles's cuts programme or Caroline Spelman's plans to sell off the nation's
forests is any guide.

So Clegg has a chance to persuade voters that AV, though not perfect, will give
them more control over politics by making sure "every vote counts" as it does
not, reformers argue, in safe seats under first past the post (FPTP) voting.

By requiring candidates to appeal beyond their tribal party interest and to win
50% of the local vote, once second and subsequent preferences have been counted,
it will also make MPs work harder for their electorate, he said again.

It is the sort of thing Lib Dem MPs, famous for "pavement politics" on their
patch, passionately believe. MPs with safe seats - Tory and Labour - often
neglect their voters and there was a strong correlation between such seats and
expenses fraud, he argued.

Such arguments explain why so many MPs in both larger parties dislike Liberal
Democrats more than they do each other. "How dare they claim that, the
self-righteous prigs," they murmur. Yet this is not meant to be a party
political referendum. "I am not a politician," the fertilisation pioneer, Lord
Robert Winston, said at the No campaign's launch this week - though he actually
takes the Labour whip.

In reality, the AV issue splits all parties as fundamental controversies, Europe
being the most familiar, often do. But most Tories seem hostile, and Ed Miliband
has nailed his colours to the Yes camp's mast, hoping to persuade Lib Dem voters
of his own non-tribal credentials against the hope that, after the 2015
election, they may prefer to get under the duvet with him instead.

They would be much happier, most Lib Dem MPs admit.

That argument plays both ways. The Labour Yes campaign  to show why Cameron is
"so desperate" to defeat the Yes vote - because in every election bar one since
1983, the Tories would have had fewer seats under the AV system.

Indeed. The exception is 1987, when Margaret Thatcher's huge 397-seat haul in
the Falklands election of 1983 slipped to 375 under first past the post (FPTP),
but would have been 381 under AV modelling.

Unstated by the Labour Yes camp, though Cameron's speech drew attention to it,
is that Labour's great majorities under Tony Blair might have been bigger, too.

Is that a reason for backing AV, because it may prove to be an anti-Tory
mechanism? Voters will have to decide. In truth, no one can be certain how
voters would behave, except to be confident that they will not do what parties
want them to do.

Thus Cameron conjures up a picture of "how to vote" fliers being handed out at
polling stations, telling people precisely what order in which to cast their
votes for maximum effect - not so much voting in droves as drones, he quipped.
Most Australians (along with Fiji and Papua New Guinea, it uses AV) want to go
back to FPTP, he claimed.

There will be plenty more such mind-numbing claims and counter-claims as 5 May
looms. Others argue that tactical voting barely exists in Australia, unlike
Britain. A letter-writer to the Independent says Lib Dem candidates may gain in
weak areas - no longer a "wasted vote" - but suffer in areas where they are
currently strong as voters spread their wings and vote for other parties.

Clegg said FPTP was fine for the long years when up to 97% of voters (1951)
backed either Labour or Tory and the old Liberals had just six seats, five of
them courtesy of a local pact with the Tories (he did not admit).

In 2010, that share was barely two-thirds. Lib Dems, nationalist parties (his
list omitted the DUP, Sinn Féin and the BNP), the Greens and Ukip have all
benefited.

Cameron countered that Caroline Lucas (31%) might not have won the four-way
marginal of Brighton Pavilion for the Greens under AV - one of several try-ons
in his own speech, which included the improbable claim that Gordon Brown might
still be PM if AV had been in place last year.

He made a stronger point in saying that AV does not give "equal "votes because
the second preferences of minor parties - BNP or Monster Raving Loony - can end
up counting for more than those of major party backers, and be used to elect
bland, second-rate compromise candidates over controversial ones, too.

That happens under any system. Indeed, Cameron's strongest point was that FPTP
usually delivers a clear result - Thatcher in 1979, Blair in 1997 - when voters
feel a tired government needs to be voted out. That does not happen under even
slightly proportional systems like AV, he said.

Pro-reformers and those bored voters who enjoy the excitement of a change will
brush such talk aside. "Under AV, there need never be another wasted vote. It
means you can feel confident voting for the person or party you want to win and
not have to think tactically about who can win," Clegg claimed.

To which Cameron's private response will probably be: "Duh?" Clegg says: "It's
evolution, not revolution." Cameron says: "AV will make politics less
accountable." And so on.

Both made valid points, both made some that reflected naked self-interest.
Neither can be sure how change would really affect their prospects. They will
struggle to keep up voter interest as the rival attractions of the royal wedding
and the Champions League loom larger.

But, for political anoraks, Christmas is coming early this year.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 18, 2011 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

UKIP WILL FIELD EIGHT IN ELECTION;
ASSEMBLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 98 words


THE UK Independence Party is to field eight candidates in the Northern Ireland
Assembly elections in May.

Leader Nigel Farage opened an office in Bangor, North Down, yesterday.

Among those standing are former Upper Bann Ulster Unionist Barbara Trotter.

Mr Farage said Ukip was a unionist non-sectarian party, ading: "We are the only
national political party fielding candidates.

"We come with a nonsectarian approach. "Over the last four years there has been
little opposition voice within the Assembly and we intend to provide that."

Ukip advocates withdrawal from the EU and curbs on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday

DOCTORS TRAINED ABROAD PUT PATIENTS MORE AT RISK

BYLINE: BY DANIEL MARTIN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 450 words


FOREIGN doctors are far more likely to be banned for putting patients in danger
than those trained in the UK, a study has found.

A GP is three times as likely to be suspended if they are trained in Europe
rather than the UK Z and six times more likely if they are trained outside
Europe.

The authoritative study also reveals that GPs and hospital doctors who qualify
outside Britain are twice as likely to be referred for investigation than those
who graduated here. And, in a conclusion which is certain to generate
controversy, some of the highest referral rates for hospital doctors are for
non-whites who gained their medical qualifications overseas.

Among UK graduates, there is no difference between a white and a non-white
doctor's chance of being referred for investigation.

Experts from the NHS-funded National Clinical Assessment Service (NCAS), which
carried out the study, said it was not possible to say whether the problems were
down to lower-quality training or poor English skills.

There are 35,000 overseas-trained doctors in the UK. Among UK-qualified doctors,
one in 270 is referred every year, compared with one in 135 for those trained
elsewhere.

The findings follow the tragic case of David Gray, a pensioner who was killed
when Daniel Ubani, an out-of-hours German GP with poor English skills, gave him
ten times the normal dose of diamorphine.

EU rules mean the Government is not allowed to test the language skills of
European doctors. However, France gets around this by inviting foreign doctors
to interviews to check their language skills.

Professor Alastair Scotland, director of NCAS, said: 'Most doctors from outside
the UK do excellent work for the NHS and the service depends a great deal on
them.

But these statistics show clearly that there is a greater likelihood of concerns
being raised in some groups than others.'

The report concluded: 'This new finding reinforces the case for stronger
induction and support for doctors working for the NHS after qualifying outside
the UK.'

NCAS also consistently found higher levels of concern about older doctors,
'which might be telling us something about the educational needs of doctors at
the later stages of their careers'.

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: 'We welcome this report and will
consider its findings carefully.

'Given the size of the workforce and our need for skilled professionals, it is
necessary to bring in skills and expertise from other countries.'

Paul Nuttall, the deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: 'The EU and
its rules are bad for our health.

'The UK cannot demand greater care on EU doctors but these figures highlight
that that is where the problem most lies.'

d.martin@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Need for Alternative Vote;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 132 words


SIR - Under first past the post voting, we don't live in a proper democracy
(Leading article, February 15) but in a system in which the lobby fodder of
"strong" government is wheeled out to nod through legislation that often flies
in the face of manifesto commitments.

Tactical voting insults voters' intelligence. Its impact may be judged from the
disparity between the last European election, where Ukip came second only to the
Conservatives, and the parliamentary election, where they failed to win a single
seat.

Given that we get to vote only every five years or so, it is essential that the
true intentions of each and every voter are discovered with as fine a
granularity as possible. For our voting system, that should be the only
criterion that counts.

Roger Smith

Meppershall, Bedfordshire

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 15, 2011 Tuesday

Voting reform: If it ain't broke, don't fix it

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1097 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Reform of the system is only one of the instant panaceas offered
up by the usual mixture of idealists, rascals, innocents and opportunists

FULL TEXT

To cheer myself up this morning, I attended the launch of the No to AV campaign,
which hopes - as its organiser, Matthew Elliott, put it - to defeat "Nick
Clegg's referendum" on 5 May.

Much as I expected, it was an enjoyable shambles, with a big wheel (the alleged
£250m cost of switching to AV) falling off the No wagon almost immediately.
Patrick Wintour and Allegra Stratton usefully .

Today's event was staged at County Hall, just opposite the Houses of Parliament
and, by my calculation, the scene of Mrs Speaker Bercow's recent photoshoot in a
sheet.

The event starred Lord Robert ("I'm not a politician") Winston, the former
Labour MP Jane Kennedy and Elliott, the founder of the mouthy Taxpayers'
Alliance, who derided the Yes camp's claims to represent the "anti-politics
vote". That's my role, he seemed to be saying.

I have not finally made up my mind about my vote on 5 May. My prejudice tends to
favour the "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" school of constitutional reform,
and I sometimes despair of the muddle-headed panic that has gripped the
political classes, especially since the debacle over MPs' expenses.

Reform of the voting system is only one of the instant panaceas offered up by
the usual mixture of idealists, rascals, innocents and opportunists.

Always beware of panaceas. There's no system that can't be made worse by a
little well-meaning stupidity combined with high-minded opportunism.

I'm pretty sure that cutting 50 MPs out of the system and imposing perpetual
boundary reform is not going to serve the country well. Having just come back
from Ireland, where a major complaint of reformers is that TDs (MPs) spend too
much time on campaigning for votes and favours in their constituencies, I am
reinforced in that suspicion.

That should push me in the No camp's direction - not least since the AV deal
cooked up between Clegg and David Cameron when negotiating the coalition (a
classic form of closed doors political haggling, by the way) is a "miserable
little compromise" (Clegg's own words a year ago) which pleases almost no one,
especially not the diehard Electoral Reform Society (ERS) types who are
nonetheless co-funding the Yes campaign.

The Yes camp expect the No to try to wrap the coalition's deepening unpopularity
around their necks - correctly so, as Elliott's opening "Nick Clegg's
referendum" remark confirms. Listening to a Yes campaigner the other day, I
heard him concede that they, too, will have to go negative at some stage - but
much closer to the day.

That shouldn't be difficult, since the No campaign seems to be run and funded -
Wintour established that they won't have to declare their sources until months
after the event - by a gaggle of familiar Eurosceptics like Elliott and George
Eustace, now a Tory MP. In Rodney Leach, they have a man who is a twofer, both a
Euroscep and a climate change scep. Bonus point!

Today, the No camp complained that neither coalition partner put an AV
referendum into their manifesto (although Labour did) and that it will produce
what Professor Vernon ("Bogbrush") Bogdanor warns is a windowless House of
Commons where parties stitch up deals after the election.

This is exactly what happens in Dublin, so Irish reporters told me last week. No
one takes manifestos very literally.

"Costly, unfair and a politicians' fix," was how Kennedy put it - and so do the
No camp's fliers. They are planning rallies all over Britain. Alas, their own
£250m costings, notably the back of an envelope claim that Britain would have to
spend £130m on voting machines, soon came unstuck.

Ministers have been coy about the costs of the referendum and of AV, if it wins,
but the Yes camp quickly hit back. There are no plans to introduce US-style
voting machines, and Australia - which has used the system for decades - does
not use machines.

"Desperate No campaign claims unravel," cried the instant press release. I agree
with Lord Winston who said this is all a bit rushed and that we need better
public education on the pros and cons.

Where I currently think the Yes camp has a case is in acknowledging that voters
don't want to vote Labour or Tory in the 95% proportions they once did. They
want to vote Lib Dem, Green, Ukip, SNP, BNP, etc, in larger numbers.

Might AV give more space for smaller parties to expand? I asked the No panel.
Actually, it might give them less, but Kennedy told me no one had ever asked her
for AV and that people can vote how they like.

Elliott said the Lib Dems have 11% of Commons seats but, currently, only 8% of
some opinion polls. I call that a shabby answer, but I am sure he will do better
next time.

Two niggles currently trouble me on the Yes campaign's central claim that AV
will be fairer, though not perfect. Everyone admits that the system whereby
second choices of defeated candidates are transferred until someone has more
than 50% can lead to less "fair" results.

In Ireland last week, I was reminded that, even under the PRE lobby's Holy Grail
system, the single transferable vote, odd things can happen.

Thus in 2002, Fianna Fáil won re-election with 41.5% of the vote - roughly what
a Blair or Thatcher needed to get a majority - yet won 49% of the seats, the
winner's bonus, as it is known. You could say that's still better that a
landslide, but it's not strictly fair either. With two TDs short of a majority -
83 seats in a 166-seat Dail (remember, the Speaker is neutral) - FF ruled on
with the help of micro-parties.

A different sort of wrinkle emerged in the then Taoiseach Bertie Ahern's four-TD
seat of Dublin Centralin the 2007 election. So popular was Ahern then (he
couldn't win a raffle now, thanks to the crash) that his surplus votes - those
above the quota number he needed to win - were, when transferred, enough to
elect his FF running mate, Cyprian Brady, as the fourth TD.

And how many first preference votes did Brady get? He got 939 against popular
Bertie's 12,734. Seven other candidates got more, but only two got elected.
Bertie carried his man across the line.

Well, those are the rules, and people elected by the rules are properly elected.
But it does serve to remind open-minded voters that "fair" is a flexible word.

Fair to whom? By changing the rules, Clegg expects it to be fairer to centrists
like himself. Voters may want that, and he may win the reform he seeks. There
again, by 5 May they may want to vote against anything he wants. It's too soon
to say.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 14, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bridge

BYLINE: Andrew Robson

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 457 words


Some years ago a club was opened by the late and great Irving Rose, whose flair
for the game was almost unrivalled in recent times. The Great Rose - shortened
to TGRs - was that Club. At its bright new premises near Marble Arch, I recently
took part in the fantastic 2nd TGR's Auction Pairs.

The field was a mix of the experienced world tournament bridge traveller -
including several world champions - and the Portland Club rubber player. Did
those latter pairs get trounced? Not a bit of it - top barrister Patrick
Lawrence and UKIP Treasurer Stuart Wheeler led the field in the early stages,
finishing in the top half; Charlie and Hugo Eddis finished in the middle and had
plenty to gloat about (not that they would - two more modest players would be
hard to find). Take this glory deal for the Eddis brothers.

West led the king of clubs v the 1NT redoubled. Declarer ducked and won the
second club. Forlornly hoping that the missing clubs were 6-5, he led the queen
of hearts. West naturally grabbed the ace and you can guess the next six tricks.
All clubs. Down two and E-W +600.

At most other tables N-S declared 4.. One or two were pushed to 5. - although
doubling the vulnerable West in his 5. would net 500 points: more than the value
of the non-vulnerable game.

To make 5. declarer needs to guess the queen of diamonds - this he will likely
do given West's long clubs. He also needs to lose just one spade. Trumps are
drawn, both minors eliminated and now comes a low spade towards the jack. If
West rises with the king, declarer's problems are over - West must now lead the
ten (covered by the jack promoting the nine) or give ruff-and-discard. Best is
for West to play a smooth ten. Now after East beats dummy's jack with the queen
and leads back a spade, declarer must guess where the king is. Did your tall
columnist play the ten v talented young entrants Brass-Roberts? Did I hell. My
(feeble) excuse: I was defending 6..

andrew.robson@thetimes.co.uk

Dealer: South, Vulnerability: East-West Pairs .J 9 7 5 .K 8 6 5 2 .K J 9 6 .-.K
10 .A 9 .3 .KQ J 10 9 6 4 3 N W E S .Q 6 3 2 .10 4 .Q 8 7 5 .8 7 5 .A 8 4 .Q J 7
3 .A 10 4 2 .A 2 S W(Charlie) N E(Hugo) 1NT(1) Dbl(2) Redbl(3) Pass(4) Pass
Pass(5) (1) 15-17.  (2) Very sensible. West has a fabulous defence - with a
certain side entry once .A has been forced out and a likely spade stopper
preventing declarer running that suit. (3) Was this wise? Yes - his partnership
have between 23 and 25 high-card points - but the void club suggests that West's
double is based on a solid or near-solid club suit. (4) Nervously, as Hugo put
it later, but the onus is now on the doubler to remove matters should he have a
flattish 16...  (5) ...not here though.  Contract: 1NT redbled, Opening Lead: .K

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               February 13, 2011
                                 First Edition

Battle of the Big Society;
Tories go on the offensive It's been a bad week for the PM's pet idea. Now he
has to prove it's more than just motherhood and apple pie. By Matt Chorley

BYLINE: Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1829 words


The gloves are off. David Cameron is to come out fighting in defence of his Big
Society dream, launching a week-long drive to persuade the public that the
policy is not a sepia-tinted vision of British life used as a cover for
devastating spending cuts.

A series of high-profile announcements have been scheduled across the Downing
Street media grid after senior figures were spooked by a run of headlines
attacking the idea as little more than motherhood and apple pie. Even a photo-op
with the PM's wife and the surprise support of Baywatch star David Hasselhoff
last week failed to lift the policy from the quagmire.

In an attempt to reinvigorate its fortunes, at least £200m will be promised for
the Big Society bank, including raiding bank accounts where as much as £400m has
lain dormant for more than 15 years. People will be able to give money to good
causes through cash machines, after ministers entered advanced talks with the
Link chain. Charities will be offered "lifeline" funding totalling £110m to plug
shortfalls caused by deep local authority cuts. Thousands of school leavers will
be recruited into the National Citizen Service, while an army of 5,000 community
organisers will become the face of the Big Society across the UK.

Francis Maude (pictured along with David Cameron, left), is the cabinet minister
in charge of delivering much of the Big Society agenda. He admitted that the
coalition has "a lot still to get across" about the policy, and must counter the
perception that it is about volunteers staffing public services starved of
funds. "There isn't anything negative about it. It is universally positive," he
told The IoS.

But with councils losing millions from central government funding, the
Government faces claims that cuts are undermining its good intentions.

The Prime Minister will tomorrow speak at an event hosted by the Big Society
Network, which has called in international headhunters Egon Zehnder - where Mr
Cameron's best friend Dom Loehnis is a consultant - to find an "evangelist" for
the struggling concept as a new managing director.

But Ed Miliband today rounds on the Big Society concept, claiming the speed and
depth of the cuts speaks to the "ideological heart" of the traditional Tory
right. In an article in The IoS, the Labour leader says the plans reverse the
attempts to rebrand Mr Cameron's party, and show its true colours. "As for 'Red
Toryism', 'compassionate Conservatism', that funny tree logo, the huskies and
'going green', these were the cloaks they wore to confuse the voters. What we
are witnessing now is the recontamination of the Tory party. Recontaminated. In
deep blue."

An IoS/ComRes opinion poll shows that half of those surveyed think the Big
Society is a "gimmick", and 41 per cent see it as "merely a cover for spending
cuts". A quarter say they have never heard of it. Barely one in six people think
it will redistribute power from central government to ordinary citizens or that
it will foster a culture of volunteerism.

"It's absolutely not just about volunteering," Mr Maude said. It is probably
just as well. The Government faced acute embarrassment when its Big Society
champion, Lord Wei, reduced his working hours. "We have a lot still to get
across," Mr Maude added. "We are talking about the end of the era of the big
state and big government - which both ran out of money and failed to solve a lot
of deep-seated social problems, and in many cases made them worse and increased
dependency - and replacing it with the Big Society. There is such a thing as
society, it's just not the same thing as the state."

For charities struggling now - it has been estimated that council cuts to the
sector could total £3bn - a transition fund will help them to stay afloat before
being able to bid for lucrative state contracts; for example in getting people
back to work, which will be highlighted on Wednesday. "It's worth remembering
that 75 per cent of voluntary and taxpayer organisations are getting no taxpayer
funding at all. Zilch. So they are not going to be affected by the cuts," Mr
Maude said.

More than 10,000 16-year-olds will be invited to sign up to the National Citizen
Service - a four-week combination of physical challenge, community work and
team-working which Mr Maude said will help foster "a more cohesive national
society".

Charmaine Adeyemi, a 16-year-old from Lewisham, south London, who took part in a
pilot run by the Challenge Network charity last year, said the experience of
mixing with people from other backgrounds and helping out at an elderly people's
day centre had changed her life. "I was very stereotypical, saying the elderly
are just boring. But they are like us ... they still have young hearts." Ms
Adeyemi, who is studying for AS levels in science, drama and sociology, said the
course also helped her conquer a fear of heights.

The Big Society fightback comes after a bruising week. Dame Elisabeth Hoodless,
the outgoing chief executive of the volunteering charity CSV, said cuts risked
"destroying" the country's army of volunteers, while Liverpool City Council,
handpicked to lead the charge on how power could be handed down to communities,
quit the Big Society programme, claiming it had been offered little help. Paul
Brant, deputy council leader, said the policy was revealed as "the emperor's new
clothes". He added: "There is only so far you can walk down the road before
saying this is a naked policy." Liverpool insists it has slashed back-office
costs by £30m, but Whitehall spending cuts amount to £90m. "We have no interest
in playing politics, we only want to continue the city regeneration," Mr Brant
said.

Mr Maude insisted the cuts to councils are "measured", and urged town halls to
embark on the unglamorous work of squeezing suppliers, cutting costs, selling
unwanted property and abandoning costly IT schemes instead of "doing the easy
thing, which is to turn off the tap to voluntary and charitable organisations".
A similar approach in central government had saved £3.5bn this year alone.

A White Paper later this month will also clear the way for more staff-owned
mutuals to take over the running of public services, which Mr Maude said he
found "inspiring".

Reinvigorating the public sector remains a bold ambition at a time when spending
is being cut. But Mr Maude admitted that traditional Tories have misunderstood
those working on the frontline. "What Conservatives haven't always got in the
past is that most people in public service are highly motivated in the
public-service ethos. They have a vocation to do what they do. If you are a
therapist, you are not doing it predominately for the money, you are doing it
because you want to."

Whether the rest of the country can be similarly inspired remains to be seen.

ED MILIBAND COMMENT, PAGE 41

Q&A

What you need to know about the PM's big idea

The Big Society. I've heard of it ...

That's a start. More than a quarter of people haven't.

Whose idea was it first?

Officially David Cameron's, but guru Steve Hilton pulls the strings. Strategic
genius or political liability depending on who you talk to, Hilton pads around
No 10 in his socks, extolling the virtues of shifting power from Whitehall to
communities, making volunteering easier and making public services more
competitive, involving private firms and charities.

After the cuts, will there be any charities left?

Only a quarter of charities get state funding, ministers say, and funding will
be offered until big-money public-sector contracts are released. Before that,
expect heart-rending headlines and pleas for donations/volunteers.

I haven't got time to volunteer - I have to put tea on the table and look after
my elderly parents.

Officials stress volunteering is the least critical "pillar" holding Big Society
aloft - anyway, volunteer numbers are up.

What's happening in my area?

It depends. Gone is everything dictated uniformly from Whitehall, so your
experience will vary enormously depending on where you live.

Ah, so it's a return to 1990s-style postcode lotteries?

Sort of. Ministers admit it will be messy, but say it means "going with the
grain of human nature, not against it".

So it's not really one BIG Society?

No. You could say it's "lots of smalls", but that sounds like a discount
lingerie store. The brilliance and folly of the "Big Society" are that it stands
for everything and yet nothing. Most policy ideas sent to No 10 claim to "fit
the Big Society agenda". Even when pulling power to the centre.

So do I agree with it?

Yes. Basically everyone does. The debate is more about practicality than
philosophy. How can charities run services if cuts wipe them out? Why give
councils more power but less money? Easy hits, but few dispute that central
statist control went too far under successive governments.

Isn't it just evil old Tories demolishing the state?

Liverpool's clash with a Conservative PM has some nostalgia - and Ed Miliband
says the Tories are stepping aside as they slash and burn. But the real argument
is about the need to eradicate the deficit over four years, and that will never
be done by councils ditching the choccie biscuits.

Matt Chorley

WHAT DOES THE BIG SOCIETY MEAN TO YOU?

'It is about all the things we currently pay people to do. It's an insult to the
thousands of volunteers who work in their communities.'

PAUL KENNY

General secretary, GMB

'It should be about communities coming together, people volunteering and
democratic engagement. The Government has ... used it to make cuts.'

AARON PORTER

President, National Union of Students

'What we lack is any articulate definition. Is it simply volunteering? Or is it
devolving decision-making to the people whose lives are affected by such
decisions?'

SIR MENZIES CAMPBELL Former Lib Dem leader

'I think it's a good idea to give power to people. It's always a good thing for
the community to run services. For me, anything that helps creativity is good.'

YOLANDA BROWN Musician

'It's a catchphrase that sums up what we should be doing already. It is a
reminder that we should care about the people who live around us.'

SARAH BEENEY Presenter, Property Ladder

'Cuts. The Big Society has become a brand that is synonymous with cuts, rather
than the empowering vision the propaganda promised.'

PETER HAIN Labour spokesman for Wales

'I recently discovered I'm a "Red Tory" .... Hopefully, Cameron's Big Society
won't degenerate into a cop-out of ultimate central accountability.'

MIKE BATT Songwriter and composer

'It is a fictional bit of bullshit created by a politician who doesn't know what
he's talking about. What does it mean? That we should all join a hiking club?'

MICHAEL WINNER Film director

'It's a vague notion dreamt up by rich boys from Oxford and Cambridge. England's
voluntary sector is working well. Big Society is just an abstract concept.'

NIGEL FARAGE Leader, Ukip

'It reminds us caring can come from charities, families and the private sector
as well as from the state. It seeks to ... look after those who need help.'

JOHN REDWOOD Conservative MP

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 13, 2011

Seven days: THE OBSERVER PANEL: Royal wedding or the referendum on AV?: Which of
these two events of national significance are you looking forward to more?

BYLINE: Sunder Katwala

SECTION: OBSERVER THE WEEK PAGES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 111 words


I will be more involved in the referendum, supporting a yes vote for AV. I like
the idea that under AV everybody can vote for their favourite candidate without
agonising about tactical votes. That's better for Scottish Tories and Labour
voters in the shires, Ukip and Green supporters.

We still won't get to vote on the monarchy, but that's how most people want to
keep it, so the royal wedding will get more attention. If I do watch it with my
five-year-old daughter, Zarina, I will be worrying about how best to answer lots
more questions about real-life princesses and how you get to become one when you
grow up.

Sunder Katwala is general secretary of the Fabian Society


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               February 13, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP is EU antidote;
Your letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 151 words


IT has become increasingly obvious that all three major political parties have
ignored or are ignoring the electorate's repeated demands for an EU referendum.

I think mass immigration will become the most important issue of our time and
that it is inextricably linked to our continued membership of the EU. At a time
when population in the western world was static or was reaching sustainable
levels the previous Labour government, aided by EU laws, opened the floodgates,
resulting in an unsustainable boom in the population.

The only way to avert catastrophe is reduce all immigration to only that which
is essential, and the only way to do that is to leave the EU. Therefore at the
next election I will be voting UKIP rather than for the Conservatives regardless
of any promises they make because I have found the political elite of this
country cannot be trusted to deliver.

Harry Townsend, Dorchester, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron to appoint new £1m-a-year MEP

BYLINE: Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 443 words


THE government is to install an extra Tory MEP at a cost of more than £1m a
year, in a move that has been condemned as undemocratic and a waste of
taxpayers' money.

Foreign Office ministers are pushing through a law that will create a new seat
for an MEP in the West Midlands constituency. The move follows a reconfiguring
of seats in the European parliament that has given Britain the right to an
additional MEP.

The government has decided the seat will go to a Conservative, based on the
results of the last European election in the region, without holding a fresh
election.

Opposition MEPs say the seat should only be created at the next European
election in 2014. They argue this would be more democratic and would save money.
An MEP costs about £1.2m a year in salary, office and staff costs, travel
expenses, pensions and other allowances. The money will come out of the European
parliament budget, which is partly funded by British taxpayers.

Nikki Sinclaire, an independent MEP for the West Midlands, called for the plan
to appoint the MEP before 2014 to be scrapped. She said the money should be used
to save services facing cuts.

"It is unbelievable when essential public services such as libraries and school
maintenance are being cut to the bone that the government is legislating to
appoint another politician," she said.

Critics say that if a by-election had been held, the Tories would have risked
losing in a region that also has significant Labour and UK Independence party
support.

The new Tory MEP will take up his or her seat when all EU states have ratified
the protocol.

Britain is ratifying the change via the European Union Bill, now passing through
parliament. The MEP is expected to take up the seat by early next year.

Yesterday, the Foreign Office said: "Like all member states, we agreed in June
to ratify this protocol as soon as possible, to enable the additional MEPs to be
returned to the European parliament.

"It is in no way a question of the government 'appointing' an additional MEP.

"The European Council outlined a number of ways that the 12 EU member states
concerned could elect their additional MEPs. Like most other states who gain an
additional MEP, the UK will do this by referring to the results of the last
European parliamentary elections in 2009."

The Electoral Commission said it had calculated where an extra MEP could be
located, but the government had decided how the seat would be filled.

It said: "We recommended that the extra seat be allocated to the West Midlands
region. That is where our remit ends."

The commission chose the West Midlands because it has the highest number of
voters per MEP of anywhere in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Tories to get an extra MEP

BYLINE: Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 234 words


THE government is to install an extra Tory MEP at a cost of more than £1m a
year, in a move that has been condemned as undemocratic and a waste of
taxpayers' money.

Foreign Office ministers are pushing through a law that will create a new seat
for an MEP in the West Midlands.

The move follows a reconfiguring of seats in the European parliament that has
given Britain the right to an additional MEP.

The government has decided the seat will go to a Conservative, based on the
results of the last European election in the region.

Opposition MEPs say the seat should only be created at the next European
election in 2014. They argue this would be more democratic and would save money.

An MEP costs about £1.2m a year in salary, office and staff costs, travel
expenses, pensions and other allowances.

The money will come from the European parliament budget, partly funded by UK
taxpayers.

Critics say if a by-election had been held, the Tories would have risked losing
in a region that also has significant Labour and UK Independence party support.
The Electoral Commission said it had calculated where an extra MEP could be
located, but the government had decided how the seat would be filled: "We
recommended that the extra seat be allocated to the West Midlands region. That
is where our remit ends."

The commission chose the West Midlands because it has the highest number of
voters per MEP of anywhere in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 13, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP is EU antidote;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 63

LENGTH: 152  words


IT has become increasingly obvious that all three major political parties have
ignored or are ignoring the electorate's repeated demands for an EU referendum.

I think mass immigration will become the most important issue of our time and
that it is inextricably linked to our continued membership of the EU. At a time
when population in the western world was static or w as reaching sustainable
levels the previous Labour government, aided by EU laws, opened the floodgates,
resulting in an unsustainable boom in the population.

The only way to avert catastrophe is reduce all immigration to only that w hich
is essential, and the only way to do that is to leave the EU. Therefore at the
next election I will be voting UKIP rather than for the Conservatives regardless
of any promises they make because I have found the political elite of this
country cannot be trusted to deliver.

Harry Townsend, Dorchester, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 11, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Axe spare EU parliament to save £170m'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 426 words


SCRAPPING one of the two European parliament buildings would save more than
£170million a year, a study has found.

Once a month, 750 MEPs, thousands of staff and fleets of lorries carrying
millions of pages of documents shift from Brussels to Strasbourg for just four
days' work.

But according to a recent survey, 91 per cent of the Euro politicians now agree
they should only meet in Brussels.

Ending the mass trek from Belgium to France would save the UK an estimated
£28million a year, slash 317 jobs and cut the needless emission of 19,000 tonnes
of CO2.

But a change is being blocked by France which is refusing to give up a
concession it won from the EU in 1992, granting it 12 sessions a year in
Strasbourg, close to its German border.

Yesterday, former Labour MP, Lord Stodart of Swindon, a staunch critic of the
EU, said: "Moving between Belgium and France is an enormous waste of money and
it is not good for the environment. The parliament has to sit in one place.

"It is only because of France that there are two seats. It is an outrage and
absurd. The time has come for France to be reasonable."

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said getting to and from Strasbourg was made more
difficult because there are no direct flights from the UK and few from other
major cities. He said he knew of one Swedish MEP who spends 18 hours getting
there.

"It is a travelling circus that suits no-one but the French." But he warned:
"France will never give this up because the city's economy will collapse without
us." Mr Batten's 11n05mpsgraph comments were echoed in a 40-page EU report A
Tale of Two Cities by Michiel van Hulten, a Dutch former MEP. He found
Strasbourg had poor transport links, cramped conditions, scarce accommodation
and evidence of profiteering by local businessmen.

The report said: "It is clear that given a free choice most MEPs today would
choose Brussels. Most MEPs believe the cost of maintaining two seats cannot be
justified. They resent the additional stress and the loss of productivity caused
by the monthly trek to Strasbourg."

EU member states are due to start negotiating the bloc's seven-year budget soon
and a number, including Britain, are pushing for severe spending limitations to
match austerity at home.

Last night a Foreign Office spokesman said: "The report not only makes clear
what a huge and unnecessary waste of time and resource it is for the European
Parliament to have a seat both in Brussels and in Strasbourg but also shows a
dramatic change in sentiment amongst MEPs towards one seat for the European
Parliament in Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Parliament building in Strasbourg
The main EU parliament in Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Prince accuses sceptics of playing 'roulette' by denying climate change

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 575 words


CLIMATE change sceptics are "playing a reckless game of roulette" with the
future of their grandchildren, the Prince of Wales told a European Union
conference on global warming yesterday.

Sharing a platform with the most senior officials in Brussels, the Prince
attacked those who "corrode" the EU's environmental policies by denying "the
vast body of scientific evidence" that climate change was caused by industrial
activity.

"I would ask how these people are going to face their grandchildren and admit to
them that they failed their future; that they ignored all the warning signs," he
said. "Will such people be held accountable for the absolute refusal to
countenance a precautionary approach, for this plays a most reckless game of
roulette with the future inheritance of those who come after us?"

The Prince accused critics of using conspiracy theories to undermine the
authority of experts and environmental campaigners, such as himself.

"Their suggestion that hundreds of scientists and those who accept their
dispassionate evidence, including myself, are somehow unconsciously biased,
creates the implication that many of us are, somehow, secretly conspiring to
undermine and deliberately destroy the entire capitalist system," he said.

Earning the audience's applause, the Prince called on the EU to "make it cool to
have less stuff" by winning over consumers to their policies.

"Can I ask if you will be courageous enough to seize the moment, set Europe on a
course for survival and economic prosperity and so earn the endless gratitude of
our descendants?" he said.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, claimed the Prince was
"scaremongering" for green energy policies that could earn the Royal family
£38million a year from wind farms on land owned by the Crown Estate.

"It is not certain that CO2 is leading to global warming. It is certain that the
measures we are taking against it are expensive and flawed, especially wind
turbines. The Royal family will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of wind
farms," he said.

Roger Helmer, a Conservative MEP and climate change sceptic, said: "Even if
global warming is man-made, the actions we are taking will achieve a result too
small to measure. We might as well sacri-fice a golden calf to the sky gods. It
would be equally ineffective, but much cheaper."

Curtain rises on farce about the royal love life

On the same day the Prince of Wales visited Brussels, a bedroom farce based on
his previously turbulent love life opened in Belgium's biggest theatre. By
coincidence, the curtain will rise on Lady Camilla, or The Prince's Choice, as
its protagonist leaves the city on Eurostar.

The play at the Théâtre Royal des Galeries in Brussels mixes fact with fiction
to make a comedy out of the Queen's struggle to save the Prince's disintegrating
marriage to Diana, Princess of Wales, after he had fallen for the future Duchess
of Cornwall. "The Queen is desperate. The kingdom staggers under the blow of the
intrigues and escapades. Passion, duty and innocence feed a Shakespearean
farce," said the programme.

Fabrice Gardin, the director, will also use the "pitfalls, twists, imbroglio" of
one of the worst crises to hit the British monarchy to mount a serious critique
of the aristocracy.

"It's a fascinating world of secrets, things unsaid and taboos. It is also a
critique of the way high society conducts human relations, considering itself
above the law," he said.

Bruno Waterfield

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

SHE'LL NOT BE BACK HERE FOR A VERY LONG TIME;
MICHAELA INSULT TEEN FORCED TO FLEE IRELAND

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 438 words


THE teenager behind a Facebook rant against murdered Michaela McAreavey has been
forced to quit Ireland over online death threats.

Susanne Morrison has fled to England and is living in hiding after contributors
to internet forums said she should be burned out of her home.

The 19-year-old was axed from her job as a photographer for a Co Down newspaper
after making comments on her Facebook page including saying she was "sick of
hearing" about the killing of Mickey Harte's daughter on Mauritius.

Yesterday Henry Reilly, a Newry and Mourne councillor who knows Susanne,
confirmed she has had to move to England, adding: "I can't see her coming home
for a long time."

The UKIP representative said: "It's just ridiculous it has come to this. All
along I've said the girl was wrong to say what she said, the way the whole thing
was treated was way over-the-top.

"How many 19-year-olds have said something they later regret? The comments were
deleted from her page and she said if she had offended anyone she was sorry.

"Her mother and father are really quiet people. They are trying to rebuild their
lives.

"But she has had to head for England after there were threats to bomb her and
beat her with hurley sticks.

"I've talked to her once and she's concerned for her family and the way her name
has been blackened.

has "She's happy some people have stuck up for her on the internet.

"The thing is I have said all along that I feel so sorry for the Harte and
McAreavey families, but to see a 19-yearold go through what she has gone through
for these stupid comments is wrong."

Cllr Reilly, from the Kilkeel area, said Catholic friends of Susanne had
contacted him to say they too were surprised at the level of vitriol directed at
her after the Facebook comments.

He added that they say they still consider her a friend and had often engaged in
"banter" about religion and politics.

The UKIP member said that comments made on Susanne's site about the Twelfth of
July could be found on any number of young Protestants' Facebook sites.

Last month Susanne caused a storm when she wrote on her Facebook page that she
could not see "what makes her [Michaela] so special".

She added: "What is it they say about what goes around comes around or karma or
what ever you want to call it. As my mum would say your sins will always find
you out hehe."

She described one of her activities as being Protestant and listed among her
interests, "Waking up on July 12th and realising you are God's chosen race".

Michaela, a 27-year-old Irish language teacher from Ballygawley, Co Tyrone, was
strangled during a burglary at her hotel room while on honeymoon last month.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAFETY FEAR Susanne Morrison is in hiding TRAGIC Michaela was killed in
Mauritius

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£1.2m bill as Euro MPs go on jolly to ...Uruguay

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 271 words


A PLAnnED "jolly" for mEPs said to be costing taxpayers up to £1.2million was
condemned as "outrageous" yesterday.

The three-day jaunt to montevideo in Uruguay is being run by the EuroLat
Assembly which aims to strengthen links between European Parliamentarians and
their Latin American counterparts.

There are 75 mEPs from across the EU who are full members of the European
Parliament's half of the Assembly, including one British Conservative, Emma
mcClarkin.

A list of "substitutes" able to take the place of colleagues who cannot attend
such events includes three Britons - two Lib Dems and one Conservative, the
Peruvian-born euro-sceptic Daniel Hannan.

If the mEP delegation were to be the full 75, it is claimed that the trip would
cost European taxpayers £1.2million.

The Euro mPs will each have a personal travel budget of £2,625 for business
class flights and five star hotels for the trip in may, which will also include
Brussels officials.

UKIP leader nigel Farage condemned the "jolly" as an "outrageous" waste of
taxpayers' money.

He added: "Just what good is a trip to montevideo doing for the average British
citizen? Absolutely none. If mEPs want to learn a bit of tango, they can do it
in Brussels." A European Parliament spokesman defended the trip, saying that it
expected 50 mEPs to travel to Uruguay.

The Parliament had a £10million fund for overseas visits involving groups such
as Euro-Lat.

The spokesman also insisted that the estimated total cost of the meeting would
be much lower than claimed.

A European Parliament official said: "It's important for mEPs to know what their
counterparts' concerns and views are."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sunshine and palm trees for MEPs on the three-day trip to Montevideo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

GBP 1.2m jaunt for MEPs 'just a waste of money'

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 241  words


A PLANNED "jolly" for MEPs said to be costing taxpayers up to GBP 1.2million was
condemned as "outrageous" yesterday.

The three-day jaunt to Montevideo in Uruguay is being run by the EuroLat
Assembly which aims to strengthen links between European Parliamentarians and
Latin American counterparts.

There are 75 MEPs from across the EU who are full members of the European
Parliament's half of the Assembly, including one British Tory, Emma McClarkin.

A list of "substitutes" able to take the place of colleagues who cannot attend
includes three Britons - two Lib Dems and one Conservative, the Peruvian-born
euro-sceptic Daniel Hannan.

If the MEP delegation were to be the full 75, it is claimed that the trip would
cost European taxpayers GBP 1.2million. The Parliamentarians will each have a
personal travel budget of GBP 2,625 for business class flights and five star
hotels for the trip in May.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage condemned the "jolly" as an "outrageous" waste of
money.

He added: "Just what good is a trip to Montevideo doing for the average British
citizen? Absolutely none. If MEPs want to learn a bit of tango, they can do it
in Brussels."

A European Parliament spokesman said that it expected 50 MEPs to make the trip.

The Parliament has a GBP 10million fund for overseas visits by every such group,
including EuroLat. The GBP 1.2million figure, he said, was the cost of all the
EuroLat meetings taking place this year, not just in Uruguay.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sunshine and palm trees for MEPs in Montevideo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 1.2m bill as Euro MPs go on jolly to . . .Uruguay

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 273  words


A PLANNED "jolly" for MEPs said to be costing taxpayers up to GBP 1.2million was
condemned as "outrageous" yesterday.

The three-day jaunt to Montevideo in Uruguay is being run by the EuroLat
Assembly which aims to strengthen links between European Parliamentarians and
their Latin American counterparts.

There are 75 MEPs from across the EU who are full members of the European
Parliament's half of the Assembly, including one British Conservative, Emma
McClarkin.

A list of "substitutes" able to take the place of colleagues who cannot attend
such events includes three Britons - two Lib Dems and one Conservative, the
Peruvian-born euro-sceptic Daniel Hannan.

If the MEP delegation were to be the full 75, it is claimed that the trip would
cost European taxpayers GBP 1.2million.

The Euro MPs will each have a personal travel budget of GBP 2,625 for business
class flights and five star hotels for the trip in May, which will also include
Brussels officials.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage condemned the "jolly" as an "outrageous" waste of
taxpayers' money.

He added: "Just what good is a trip to Montevideo doing for the average British
citizen? Absolutely none. If MEPs want to learn a bit of tango, they can do it
in Brussels." A European Parliament spokesman defended the trip, saying that it
expected 50 MEPs to travel to Uruguay.

The Parliament had a GBP 10million fund for overseas visits involving groups
such as EuroLat.

The spokesman also insisted that the estimated total cost o f the meeting would
be much lower than claimed.

A European Parliament official said: "It's important for MEPs to know what their
counterparts' concerns and views are."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sunshine and palm trees for MEPs on the three-day trip to Montevideo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday

It's a cracker for Ukip as Frank Carson pledges support

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 458 words

ABSTRACT

Comedian says he will provide financial backing and 'knock on a few doors' for
Eurosceptic party

FULL TEXT

For the Eurosceptics of the UK Independence party, "it's a "cracker" in terms of
fund-raising - the Belfast-born comedian Frank Carson has pledged his support.

Carson said he was prepared to give Ukip financial support after it decided to
field candidates in May's Northern Ireland Assembly and local government
elections.

The Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, will be travelling to Northern Ireland to open a
new headquarters in Bangor and introduce several candidates next week. Farage
also claims he will unveil a "high-profile defector" from another party.

The party's policy in Northern Ireland includes reducing the number of Members
of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) at Stormont.

Speaking from his home in Blackpool, Carson told the Belfast Telegraph that he
intended "knocking on a few doors" for the party, which he sees as providing an
alternative to sectarian politics.

"People in Northern Ireland vote for their church, they don't vote with their
heads - it is ridiculous," he said.

"I will be making a financial contribution. That is what I think they need most
from me, so I will fund them handsomely."

The entertainer has been a generous benefactor to many causes including the
integrated education movement, to which he and his son, Tony, gave £150,000, and
a hospice in Jarrow which is named after him.

A papal Knight of St Gregory in recognition of his support for Catholic church
causes, he believes religion should be kept out of politics.

It is the first time Carson has given his support to a political movement in
Northern Ireland since the days of Gerry Fitt, the veteran Labour and
nationalist politician who held a seat in the Lords until his death in 2005.

He described Fitt as a personal friend, who came from the same dockland area of
Belfast he grew up in.

"I'd like to cut the number of MLAs" Carson said. "America has only 100 senators
for 309 million people, but Stormont has 108 members for 1.7 million."

He also believes £70m could be saved by leaving the EU, and would be better
spent on providing students with grants.

Ukip wants to shut the Scottish and Welsh Assemblies and send the members to
Westminster, where they would spend one week a month on Scottish or Welsh
affairs.

The party's manifesto proposes scrapping the Barnett formula, which funds the
other regional assemblies, on the grounds that it "disadvantages English
residents".

Farage added, however, that he would adopt a more cautious approach to Stormont
because of the Belfast Agreement.

"We will spell out how this can happen next week, but ultimately our view is
that, in all parts of the UK, we have too many layers and too many politicians,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 7, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Taxpayers to fund a £1.2m flying visit to South America for MEPs

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 323 words


A THREE-DAY "junket" by 75 MEPs to Montevideo in Uruguay will cost the taxpayer
£1.2million, or £16,000 per representative, at a time of wide austerity cuts in
national budgets.

The European Parliament delegation, including eight senior officials, will meet
Latin American MPs at the EuroLat assembly where they will discuss trade
relations between the continents.

MEPs will each have a personal travel budget of £2,625 for business class
flights and five star hotels for the trip, from 18 to 20 May.

This year alone the EuroLat budget is set at £4.2million, much of which will be
spent on hotels and premium travel for MEPs. It forms part of the EU assembly's
£10million fund for overseas visits.

Jose Ignacio Salafranca, the Spanish centre-Right MEP leading the delegation,
declined to comment on the trip.

The EuroLat assembly is an annual event which alternates between Europe and
Latin America. This year the EU is expected to sign a multi-billion pound trade
agreement with the Mercosur freetrade bloc of Latin American countries, which
includes Uruguay. While the EU parliament is not involved in the trade
negotiations, MEPs will be consulted before the agreement comes into force.

A European Parliament official said: "It's an important part of EU-Latin America
relations, and deals with issues which really matter to both sides, such as
migration and trade. It's important for MEPs to know what their counterparts'
concerns and views are."

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, attacked the "jolly" as
an unnecessary trip at a time when MEPs are under fire for maintaining their
"gravy train" perks amid deep cuts to national spending.

"It is outrageous that taxpayers' money should be wasted on junkets for
freeloading MEPs and Brussels bureaucrats," he said. "Just what good is a trip
to Montevideo doing for the average British citizen? Absolutely none. If MEPs
want to learn a bit of tango, they can do it in Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                February 6, 2011

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 309 words


6.00 The Treacle People (R) 2714367 6.10 The Hoobs (R) 4545893 & 8463164 7.00
Freesports on 4 7416980 7.55 The Morning Line 6946560 8.50 T4: Friends (R)
7382980 9.15 Olly Murs: Stars and Strikes 862034 10.15 Glee 853386 11.15 Friends
(R) 5279763 11.50 Just Go with It: T4 Movie Special 4977831 12.20 Friends (R)
2984763 12.55 The Big Bang Theory (R) 3171367 & 74978541 1.50 Racing. Live
coverage of six races. From Newbury, races at 2.00, 2.30, 3.05 and 3.40; from
Warwick, the 2.15 and 3.20. Alastair Down and Alice Plunkett host. 60809251 3.55
The Secret Supper Club 9472562 4.25 Come Dine with Me (R) 2934706, 4014928,
9588725 & 568102

6.25 The Political Slot (T) With UKIP leader Nigel Farage. 994164

6.30 News (T) 904541

6.55 4thought.tv (T) Is it acceptable to smack children? 965812

7.00   The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen (Stephen Norrington, 2003) (T)
Fantasy adventure starring Sean Connery. Fearless hunter Allan Quatermain teams
up with characters from Victorian literature - including the Invisible Man and
Dr Jekyll - to put a stop to the Fantom's evil plot to bring about a war. 54657

9.00 The Million Pound Drop Live (T) Quiz show where contestants can win £ 1
million - all they have to do is hold on to it to

the end of the show. 8074473

10.20   AVP: Alien vs Predator (Paul WS Anderson, 2004) (T) Sci-fi thriller
starring Sanaa Lathan. Scientists investigate a mysterious pyramid beneath the
Antarctic ice that is inhabited by a deadly alien race. Meanwhile, a second
species

is on its way. 225096

12.10 The Furred Man 4086351 12.20   Rocky Horror Picture Show (Jim Sharman,
1975) 170145 2.15 My Friend Michael Sniff (R) 3781665 2.20 Guide to Taking

a Photo (R) 3879874 2.25 This Is J03 (R) 3878145 2.30 Dirty Sexy Money (R)
5341868 & 5561329 4.00 Wogan's Perfect Recall (R) 82023 4.30 Beauty and the Geek
(R) 3799067

5.15 Countdown (R) 4117416


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                February 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEPs Batten down hatches;
CROSS BENCHER IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 161 words


DOES UKIP's Nigel Farage have a party rival for winding up fellow MEPs? In the
Brussels parliament on Wednesday, EU foreign affairs chief Catherine Ashton
called on London's Gerard Batten to air his views on the Egypt crisis. He
started off seriously enough, worrying about the possible rise of Islamic
fundamentalism in Egypt.

However, he said there was a "certain satisfaction to be derived from oppressed
peoples overthrowing their undemocratic government". Uh oh. At this point
Baroness Ashton could see what was coming and started scratching her head.

"All governments, even tyrannies, derive their power from the people. There's a
parallel here with Britain," he added. "Successive governments betrayed our
people and surrendered rights to the EU. Under Magna Carta, the English have the
right of lawful rebellion. I wonder just how far they will have to be pushed
before they are also driven on to the streets, just like the Egyptians."

Cue groans... and laughter.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 6, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MEPs Batten down hatches;
Cross Bencher

BYLINE: TED JEORY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 37

LENGTH: 160  words


DOES UKIP's Nigel Farage have a party rival for winding up fellow MEPs?

In the Brussels parliament on Wednesday, EU foreign affairs chief Catherine
Ashton called on London's Gerard Batten to air his views on the Egypt crisis. He
started off seriously enough, worrying about the possible rise of Islamic
fundamentalism in Egypt.

However, he said there was a "certain satisfaction to be derived from oppressed
peoples overthrowing their undemocratic government".

Uh oh. At this point Baroness Ashton could see what was coming and started
scratching her head.

"All governments, even tyrannies, derive their power from the people. There's a
parallel here with Britain, " he added. "Successive governments betrayed our
people and surrendered rights to the EU. Under Magna Carta, the English have the
right of lawful rebellion. I wonder just how far they will have to be pushed
before they are also driven on to the streets, just like the Egyptians."

Cue groans? and laughter.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

ALL YOU NEED IS LOVE ... AND A HUG, ARCHIBISHOP

LENGTH: 934 words


QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

JOHN SENTAMU, Archbishop of York, is supposedly one of our more sensible
bishops, but he emerges poorly from a new book by a leading Church
traditionalist.

The Rev Peter Mullen, chaplain to six livery companies, describes Sentamu's
behaviour at a Church conference on September 11, 2001 , the day of America's Al
Qaeda attacks.

Delegates were herded into a chapel for a communion service which was led by 'an
out-of-tune piano, a violin that sounded like a cat which had spilt hot water on
its nether regions, and a grinning modern clergyman wielding a guitar'.

After a couple of what Mullen calls 'Jesus goes to ToyTown' hymns, Sentamu, then
Bishop of Stepney, gave a 'horrific' sermon.

'He told us that doctrine did not matter and that all you need is love,
reminding us of The Beatles. Next he said we would offer one another a sign of
the peace. "I don't want to see handshakes. I want to see you hugging one
another.'' '

Mr Mullen was set upon by a vast, enthusiastic deaconess. When she tried to
engulf him in her 'furnace' embrace, he replied: 'No thank you madam, I'm
English.'

Mr Sentamu's happy-clappiness was not sated. He told congregants: 'I want you to
turn to the person next to you and put your hands on his or her shoulders and
say three times: "You are everlastingly loved." ' Mr Mullen's neighbour was
Father Alan Griffin, Rector of St James, Garlickhythe, a stalwart of the Prayer
Book Society.

When Mr Mullen placed a hand on his shoulder and said 'you are everlastingly
loved', Mr Griffin murmured: 'I know that, Peter. I'll buy you a pint once this
lot is over.'

In his book A Partial Vision, which examines the abandonment of much Anglican
heritage, Mr Mullen concludes: 'This diminished sort of spirituality, this
bankrupt, dumbed-down, blasphemous style of worship could not do justice to the
terrible events that were unfolding in America.' THE Government has found a
fiendish way of exacting revenge on Labour peers who filibuster Bills. On
Tuesday, with time short, it did away with the usual hour's break for dinner.

Lord Campbell-Savours, one of Labour's filibuster gang, was hopping, hopping,
hopping mad. Screamed like a baby, he did. 'I object! If we are a civilised
House and are to debate matters in a civilised way, we are entitled to proper
mealtimes and I think an hour should be made available for dinner!'

Diddums. Were the House a civilised place, Labour stooges would not keep it up
all night trying to block an excellent Coalition proposal to reduce the size of
the Commons by 50 MPs, thus making the electoral system a great deal more equal
between the parties.

Campbell-Savours and his cronies should have thought of that.

CHARLES is off to Brussels on Wednesday, much to the dismay of UKIP. Its leader,
Nigel Farage MEP, wants the Prince to scrap the trip. Clarence House was acting
yesterday as though it had not heard of him.

Charles (travelling by public train) will attend a 'low-carbon summit' at the
European Parliament. Those on parade will include Herman Van Rompuy, Jerzy
Buzek, Lord Stern and some chap called Dr Ottmar Edenhofer. Great names. They
could all be something from a Tintin book.

Mr Farage and his UKIP bandidos have asked to attend the conference, but thus
far have not heard back from the organisers. Given the propensity of Mr Farage
for shouting naughty names at Monsieur Van Rumpy, I suspect he may be out of
luck.

Later in the day the Prince, lucky devil, will meet European Commissioners such
as Jose Manuel Barroso. He may even be ushered into the shimmering presence of
our great High Representative, Lady Ashton. The Duchess of Cornwall is not
travelling to Brussels. The coward! WITH Speaker John Bercow and his wife fast
losing friends, one of the Deputy Speakers may be starting to manoeuvre.
Labour's Lindsay Hoyle was seen behind the Speaker's Chair the other day
charming the pants off Tory backbencher Tracey Crouch and Labour's Gisela
Stuart.

Mr Hoyle is uncomplicated, respected and speaks English without affectation. Not
to be underestimated. LABOUR'S Keith Vaz reminisced in the Commons this week
about how, in 1999, he was made Minister for Europe by Tony Blair. 'I remember
my first conversation with the Prime Minister. I said "I know absolutely nothing
about the European Union", and he said: "You are the perfect Minister for
Europe." So I was appointed.'

WELSH writer Roger Lewis, the thinking woman's Victor Meldrew, was recently
elected to the publicly funded Welsh Academy.

He is not pleased. 'Because, in their bumf and correspondence, they keep calling
themselves "academi", I have told them I am resigning immediately,' says Brother
Lewis.

He boils at certain modern Welsh words , 'ambiwlans (pictured), snwcr, ffon,
ffacs, tacsi (for, as Kingsley Amis said, Welsh people who have never seen the
letter x)' , and describes the publicly funded Academy, or academi, as having
'the incompetent self-importance of an outfit that has never had to make its way
in the commercial world'.

He adds: 'Rowan Williams and Jan Morris are "Fellows" of it. It does things like
send "poets" into prisons and schools to recite. Jan Morris's son Twm (that's
Tom to you and me) organises that side of it.'

They were only trying to be friendly, Rog. MINOR intelligence on Lieutenant
General David Leakey, who this week became Black Rod. An acquaintance from his
schooldays at Sherborne recalls that he was such a goody-goody he was known as
'Squeaky Leakey'. He became more daring when he joined the Army, however. As a
subaltern in the Royal Tank Regiment he was notorious as a fast driver. From
Squeaky to Speedy Leakey.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Goose steps and mass graves? We're only trying to save the world

BYLINE: Robert Webb

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 889 words


When the Martians finally invade and make me Lord High Protector of the Earth, I
like to think that my first act will be to have myself arrested. It might be
useful if those who spend a lot of time banging on about how much they love
liberty ask themselves if they would do the same thing.

What would you do? A quick tweak here and there, and then hold elections? More
than a tweak? It's the whole Earth, so there's quite a bit to put right. And
you'll need people you trust to help: friends... maybe family! And what about
those Earthlings who don't appreciate your efforts? Well, protest is one thing,
but when they start to really interfere with your helpful plans for them, then
it might be time to be a bit firm - which is just your way of showing how much
you love them. So the Friendly Protectorship might go on slightly longer than we
first imagined. Best to give it a while: say 30 years? A lifetime?

Yes, you've guessed it: this week's column is about the leader of the Green
Party, Caroline Lucas MP. If you don't immediately understand the connection,
then that's because you are sane. To have made the mental leap, you would need
to belong to the head-banging libertarian/ Ukip fringe who seem to think that
all Lefties are born tyrants. You might be tempted to offer them the figure of
George Orwell - who spent a lifetime defending the values of the democratic Left
against the triple menace of communism, fascism and imperialism - but that
doesn't work on the head-bangers, because they think Orwell is one of them. This
indicates a psychological problem that experts have identified as "an inability
to read a book properly".

Anyway, Lucas - who this week made an attempt to make the House of Commons work
more efficiently, and was roundly patronised for her efforts - makes an almost
perfect hate figure for the head-bangers, not just because she shows worrying
signs of talking about wealth redistribution and actually meaning it, but
because of the inevitable scale of aspiration that is part of the Green agenda.
They look at her and think: "This woman doesn't just want to keep the 50p rate,
she wants to change the entire Earth! This can only mean jackboots."

I say she's an "almost" perfect hate figure because she doesn't have an
eye-patch or a hook or wear swastika earrings. In fact, it's a bit inconvenient
all round that, when interviewed, she sounds quite sensible. Still, that won't
matter. There's a YouTube video posted by "ukipmedia" where, to my ear, Lucas is
clearly winning a debate with Ukip spokesman David Campbell Bannerman. At the
point where she says, "People are dying from climate change, David", the video
then clunkily loops back so we can hear her say it again another three times.
The intended effect is presumably to highlight some kind of "gaffe" or standout
absurdity, but in fact it reveals far more about the mentality of the poster
than the subject. It's the use of repetition that is sinister here, not the
thing that's being repeated. "People are dying from climate change" is not a
remarkable statement; it is a scientific commonplace.

Given the bitter tone of the environmental debate, I imagine that this last
sentence will have made some of you really quite cross. The YouTube clip has
inspired seven pages of comments, characterised in the main by unhinged vitriol
and references to totalitarian mass graves.

Let me have a go at understanding these people: wish me luck. I suppose that if
you really think climate change is a sham; if you really think it's possible for
a global scientific community to get together to fabricate a mountainous
embarrassment of evidence in support of a particular theory and that,
furthermore, they are able to hoodwink successfully - or even secretly conspire
with - hundreds of governments and political parties, who are wildly opposed on
everything else, so that there is a consensus that something should be done,
then I suppose you're going to be quite annoyed when, as a result of this
mammoth fraud, someone asks you to turn the central heating down.

Because if what they're saying is true, then our only way out of it is through
unprecedented, long-term collective action. And human beings are really not very
good at unprecedented, long-term collective action. And, knowing our history, we
certainly don't like the look of that word "collective". Or, for that matter,
"action". So better to believe the whole thing is a lie: Jeremy Clarkson will
back us up, and he's a fun guy.

Believe me - I don't want to be on the un-fun side of the argument. I enjoy a
visit to ClarksonWorld along with the next man, but I can't live there. All the
rides are free because someone else is paying. And I sympathise with the
daunted. I'm pretty daunted. The crushing scale of the thing, the complexity of
getting agreements between countries at different stages of industrial and
political development, the technological challenges, the whole seeming futility
of it makes you want to club Caroline Lucas around the head with a patio heater
to shut her up.

But still, I don't "get" where coercion, goose steps and Room 101 are implied in
any of this. A failure of imagination on my part, no doubt. Maybe the Martians
should appoint David Campbell Bannerman instead. What would he do?

"l enjoyavisitto ChrksonWorld aongwiththe next man, but I can't live there "

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Siege at heart of passport system

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 184  words


BRITAIN'S passport system is "under siege" from illegal immigrant fraudsters, a
judge said yesterday.

Judge Simon Pratt made his comments as he jailed a Nigerian cleaner who was
caught with two bogus passports.

He told Croydon Crown Court: "It is a prevalent offence, so prevalent it seems
the whole passport system is under some kind of siege."

The court heard how immigration officials found the passports and a forged
national insurance number during a raid on Dorothy Onwumere's home in south-east
London. She told officials she paid GBP 600 for the passports.

Onwumere, 42, who applied for leave to remain in the UK last May, was jailed for
six months after admitting three charges of possessing false documents.

Last night Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for Ukip, said: "The judge is
completely right. The UK passport system is in total chaos and it is awash with
fraudsters and criminals looking to make a quick buck at our expense. Anyone
caught with a fake passport should be automatically deported."

A Home Office spokesman said the woman would be sent back to Nigeria after
serving her sentence.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 44 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 4, 2011 Friday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 667 words


Offshore Fleet Street press lords, whose tax affairs make the average MP look
like Snow White, are lashing the political class again after the expenses
watchdog, Ipsa, revealed new frailties, like a 50p bottle of milk charged to
taxpayers. But all is not lost for Ipsa as David Cameron promises to clip its
priggish wings. Sharp-eyed readers of its latest bulletin detect collusion with
MPs who want to use their underspent staff allowances on staff bonuses. Bonuses
and "temporary" pay rises are illegal, says Ipsa. On the other hand,
"applications for any temporary increase in salary will need to be accompanied
by a declaration that it does not constitute a bonus payment . . . and is within
the rules". So that's OK. Ker-ching.

Nobody's perfect. The diligent Hendon Times spotted that Barnet's "easyJet"
council had redacted a £287,000 payment in its latest accounts. Why? Because in
trying to protect individual privacy it failed to recognise that May Gurney is
not a Barnet widow but a very large refuse contractor.

Oscar-winner and super-cool OAP Helen Mirren has taken a shine to uncool infant
comic Russell Brand, with whom she stars in the new remake of Dudley Moore's
1981 classic, Arthur. Mirren plays our hero's nanny, the butler role that won
John Gielgud his own Oscar, while Brand tries to be Dud. Why the shine? Because
they both come from Essex - Brand from Tilbury ("Russell just loves to hear the
sound of Essex English"), Mirren from Southend, she tells Time Out magazine.
"Sometimes the running away from it is what makes you who you are. I certainly
didn't want to live the rest of my life in Southend." And the coalition, Helen?
"I haven't really been around with the Cameron-Osborne thing. No, Osborne's the
chancellor, isn't he? Nick Thingy. Clegg, yes." Exactly. Thingy, that's him.

Ukip MEPs like the preposterous Godfrey Bloom and Marta Andreasen are always
banging on about their "Defend the City" campaign to protect London's financial
services from Euro-luddite wreckers' plans to cripple them with red tape and
taxes. But when the European parliament split 21-21 this week on the EU's
proposed financial transaction tax, unloved by the City, the two MEPs were
nowhere to be seen.

Commons Speaker John Bercow has problems enough with Tory ex-colleagues, what
with being called a "stupid sanctimonious dwarf" (copyright Simon Burns MP) and
a leftie turncoat. On top of which he has his publicity addicted, Labour-wannabe
wife, Sally. What's she done now? Been photographed in a Big Ben photoshoot
wearing only a sheet and rabbiting on about how "incredibly sexy" Speaker's
House is in the moonlight. And to think ex-Speaker Boothroyd frets about John
not wearing his trad wig and tights.

All this angst about politics, BBC comedy and venture capital being too posh has
not fazed award-winning Hampshire gel Miranda Hart. If she and fellow
middle-class comics like David Mitchell, Alexander Armstrong and Sue Perkins are
forced on the dole by proletarian rivals, "we're going to set up a comedians
farmers' market. Sue's doing vegetables, I'm doing £15 pies, Alexander and David
are doing artisan wheelbarrows or something," she says. George Orwell would
understand.

London mayor, biker and Lothario Boris Johnson surprises aides during an
interview with the Docklands local paper by suggesting they build an airborne
cycle monorail on the Olympic site. "I call it The Fly." So do we all, Boris.

Australia is a wonderful country, mate. But were the original inhabitants who
arrived 50,000 years ago right to stick to hunter-gathering? Europeans turned up
in the early 17th century (after the Chinese?) and settled 200 years later -
reluctantly. The ancient continent is home to a range of lethal snakes, spiders,
saltwater crocs, jellyfish, sharks and spiders, not to mention 'roos, Shane
Warne, terrifying droughts and forest fires, midsummer snow and appalling floods
followed this week by cyclones. Lovely chardonnay, but is Oz a long-term bet for
humans?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 44 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A problem that won't go away

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 345  words


DAVID Cameron has a problem looming on the horizon, and he knows it.

For month after month the European Union has brought nothing but bad news for
the British people - and now they are rising up against it.

Our budget contributions are up sharply, we are contributing billions to bail
out the casualties of the single currency and we face a new wave of migrants as
the eurozone becomes an economic dead zone.

On top of that, the European Court of Human Rights is demanding that prisoners
are given the vote while making it impossible to deport hundreds of foreign
criminals each year.

As Mr Cameron said in a major speech at the weekend, the EU keeps pumping out
job-destroying rules, putting it firmly in the slow lane of the world economy.
"While economies like India, Brazil and China are steaming ahead, in Europe the
drag on growth has persisted, " he confessed.

Mr Cameron said the EU was in many ways its own worst enemy - to which one can
only reply: Not while readers of the Daily Express are free to voice their
opinions, it's not.

The Prime Minister, under pressure from his Lib Dem allies, has abandoned any
idea of repatriating powers from Brussels and appears to be after a quiet life.
But there is no chance of that.

As anti-EU sentiment grows across the country, Tory MPs will come under growing
pressure to support a referendum on leaving it.

The Conservative high command is already anxious about the prospect of millions
of voters defecting to UKIP in the 2014 Euro Parliament elections - a disaster
so close to the general election of 2015.

So Mr Cameron will need to devise an attractive offer for Eurosceptic voters by
the mid-point of this Parliament, or face being seen as a new Edward Heath
figure.

Yesterday the Daily Express reminded him that for hundreds of thousands of
voters, securing a referendum on the EU is a vital cause that will decide how
they vote in 2015.

For all those who are convinced Britain would be better off out of the EU the
message is that, while it may be a long haul, their pressure will eventually
tell - so long as they keep it up.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
