
                               1 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     August 31, 2011 Wednesday 6:14 PM GMT

Judge rejects travellers' legal bid

BYLINE: By Jan Colley and Ben Kendall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 622 words


Lawyers today failed in a last-ditch attempt to prevent the eviction of
families from the UK's largest unauthorised traveller site.

They had applied for a temporary injunction to stop Basildon Borough Council
evicting the families from Dale Farm in Essex from midnight.

The case hinged on the circumstances of 72-year-old Mary Flynn who suffers
breathing problems and uses an electric nebuliser.

The High Court in London has now dismissed the application.

But Basildon Borough Council gave a legal undertaking to review fresh medical
evidence relating to Mrs Flynn before proceeding against her.

Mr Justice Kenneth Parker said that 2009 proceedings in the Court of Appeal
relating to Dale Farm were of "crucial significance".

That court had concluded that the council's decision to enforce was entirely
lawful in that the Article 8 rights had been considered a number of times   and
the proper procedure followed.

He rejected the claim that a further step had to be taken enabling specific
individuals facing enforcement to have access to an independent tribunal.

He said: "It is in the public interest that there should be finality to
litigation and only exceptionally can decisions and judgments which have   been
determined by the courts reopened."

Refusing the injunction he said the only aspect which gave him some concern
was medical evidence received yesterday of significant deterioration in Mrs
Flynn's condition since the Court of Appeal decision.

The judge was told by lawyers for the council that this fresh material would
be considered before proceeding against her.

The judge refused permission to appeal although lawyers for the travellers can
apply directly to the Court of Appeal.

Stuart Agnew, the UK Independence Party MEP for the East of England, welcomed
the decision.

He said: "I am increasingly astonished to hear religious leaders, politicians
and now, even an actress, calling for the laws of the land to be set aside   to
accommodate the travellers who have illegally taken over the site at Dale
Farm. We cannot have laws that are only enforced on parts of the community.
The law should be for everybody.

"Do we really want to set the precedent that if people occupy land without
planning permission and stay there long enough, they will be given
retrospective permission to remain, in contravention of the law? I am sure
that most residents in the Crays Hill area would support the enforcement of
the law.

"I have had to follow strict planning regulations in putting buildings on my
farm and I expect travellers to be subject to the same regulations. In my
view, the rule of law must be respected. The alternative is anarchy."

Dale Farm resident Kathleen McCarthy, 48, said outside court: "What I
understood by it is that we've got seven days to hand in all the reports   about
all the sick people, and they're going to take another seven days   reading it
and looking at it.

"Well that's still 14 days for us. It's really a lot for us. For us that's a
big deal because we have nowhere to go with these sick people."

The mother of four, who said there are 40 members of her extended family
living at Dale Farm, added: "If they weren't building on Green Belt land
already, I'd think, 'Yes, they're so precious about Green Belt land.'

"But they're building there.

"We're going to believe that this is good and that something good is going to
come of this.

"Somewhere along the line, the Government is going to have to realise what
they're doing.

"They are really coming into where we are and 'cleaning up', as they call it.

"When you're cleaning up something you're cleaning up rubbish, so they're
trying to say that we're rubbish.

"We are definitely being victimised."

PA

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory plot to unseat Speaker Bercow

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 220 words


SENIOR Conservatives are discussing plans to prevent John Bercow, the
controversial Commons Speaker, gaining a second term in office.

MPs, including ministers, are considering trying to use a change in
parliamentary boundaries to deprive Mr Bercow of his Commons seat.

Parliamentary tradition dictates that a Speaker is not challenged in his
constituency at a general election.

That would mean that the Conservatives and other major parties would not stand
in Mr Bercow's Buckingham seat at the next election.

However, senior Tories are considering using a change in parliamentary
boundaries to question that convention.

Many boundaries will be changed before the next election.

Initial Boundary Commission plans for changes will be published next month. If
Mr Bercow's seat is redrawn to take in parts of a seat now held by a sitting
Conservative MP, many Tories believe the party should be able to contest the new
constituency.

A senior Conservative said it would be "quite unfair" if Mr Bercow was allowed
to stand for a redrawn constituency while another MP was not. Mr Bercow, a
former Conservative who won the Speaker's chair thanks to Labour support, is
deeply unpopular among his former party colleagues.

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader, has said that he will challenge
Mr Bercow at the next general election.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Bercow is deeply unpopular among his former Conservative
colleagues

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IMMIGRATION SOARS 20% IN A YEAR;
Cameron's promise to crack down is in tatters

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 583 words


THE number of foreigners coming into Britain surged by a massive 21 per cent
last year, shattering the Government's pledge to bring immigration down.

Official figures yesterday showed the number of immigrants soared to 239,000 -
up from 198,000 in 2009.

A legacy of Labour's open-door policy, it was the second highest annual figure
since 1991. A total of 575,000 people moved to this country in 2010 - the
equivalent of one every minute - with only 336,000 departing for overseas.

The Office for National Statistics also said that the number of people granted
settlement - the first step to full citizenship - in the UK also reached a
record 241,000 last year. A total 000 were granted British citizenship, down
from the record high of 204,000 in 2009, but more than double the level of a
decade ago.

The number of people applying for asylum also fell last year but has started to
rise again, with 4,800 applications between April and June, mainly from Pakistan
and war-torn Libya.

The majority of immigrants arriving in Britain - 300,000 - were from outside the
EU. But net migration - the difference between those arriving and leaving - from
eastern European countries rocketed to 39,000.   Britain's total Polish
population is now to 532,000, which is the same as the fi fth largest city in
Poland, Poznan.   Campaigners last night warned the Government will struggle to
fulfi l its pledge to slash net migration to tens of thousands by 2015.

Demand

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of the campaign group Migration Watch UK, said:
"These fi gures lay bare the legacy of the Labour government. The Coalition will
have to face down some vested interests if they are to get anywhere near their
target."

Gerard Batten, Ukip's home affairs spokesman, accused the Government of "losing
the plot".

"The rise of 21 per cent tears a gaping hole in any pretence that this
Government has the faintest idea of how to deal with runaway migration," he
said.

"This gives a lie to all those silky promises made by David Cameron at the
General Election. They have lost the plot."

But Immigration Minister Damian Green defended the fi gures, saying that the
rise in net migration covered a period before the Government's immigration
reforms were brought in.

"The figures stabilised in the last quarter," he said. "The Government radically
changed immigration policy, from our fi rst months in offi ce, to drive the
numbers down with a limit on economic migration and changes to student visas."

Study remained the most common reason for coming to the UK, with three in four
of the 228,000 student immigrants from outside the EU.

Dr Carlos Vargas-Silva, a senior researcher at Oxford University's Migration
Observatory, said the rise in immigration from eastern Europe "raises the
question of whether Government policies to cut net migration from outside the EU
may be stimulating a demand for more EU workers".

The fi gures came as an audit by MigrationWatch showed that Labour spent
£2million every day on a shambolic asylum system.

The audit showed how up to £10billion was spent on processing applications as
offi cials struggled to cope with  a surge in numbers.

But only one in four of the 660,000 decisions made on asylum claims between 1997
and 2010 led to the applicant being removed.

OPINION: PAGE 18

Q Should we halt all immigration now?

YES: 0901 030 8346

NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

IMMIGRATION SOARS 20% IN A YEAR

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 587  words


Cameron's promise to crack down is in tatters

THE number of foreigners coming into Britain surged by a massive 21 per cent
last year, shattering the Government's pledge to bring immigration down.

Official figures yesterday showed the number of immigrants soared to 239,000 -
up from 198,000 in 2009.

A legacy of Labour's open-door policy, it was the second highest annual figure
since 1991. A total of 575,000 people moved to this country in 2010 - the
equivalent of one every minute - with only 336,000 departing for overseas.

The Office for National Statistics also said that the number of people granted
settlement - the first step to full citizenship - in the UK also reached a
record 241,000 last year. A total of 195,000 were granted British citizenship,
down from the record high of 204,000 in 2009, but more than double the level of
a decade ago.

The number of people applying for asylum also fell last year but has started to
rise again, with 4,800 applications between April and June, mainly from Pakistan
and war-torn Libya.

The majority of immigrants arriving in Britain - 300,000 - were from outside the
EU. But net migration - the difference between those arriving and leaving - from
eastern European countries rocketed to 39,000.

Britain's total Polish population is now to 532,000, which is the same as the
fifth largest city in Poland, Poznan.

Campaigners last night warned the Government will struggle to fulfil its pledge
to slash net migration to tens of thousands by 2015.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of the campaign group Migration Watch UK, said:
"These figures lay bare the legacy of the Labour government. The Coalition will
have to face down some vested interests if they are to get anywhere near their
target."

Gerard Batten, Ukip's home affairs spokesman, accused the Government of "losing
the plot".

"The rise of 21 per cent tears a gaping hole in any pretence that this
Government has the faintest idea of how to deal with runaway migration, " he
said.

"This gives a lie to all those silky promises made by David Cameron at the
General Election. They have lost the plot."

But Immigration Minister Damian Green defended the figures, saying that the rise
in net migration covered a period before the Government's immigration reforms
were brought in.

"The figures stabilised in the last quarter, " he said. "The Government
radically changed immigration policy, from our first months in office, to drive
the numbers down with a limit on economic migration and changes to student
visas."

Study remained the most common reason for coming to the UK, with three in four
of the 228,000 student immigrants from outside the EU.

Dr Carlos Vargas-Silva, a senior researcher at Oxford University's Migration
Observatory, said the rise in immigration from eastern Europe "raises the
question of whether Government policies to cut net migration from outside the EU
may be stimulating a demand for more EU workers".

The figures came as an audit by MigrationWatch showed that Labour spent GBP
2million every day on a shambolic asylum system.

The audit showed how up to GBP 10billion was spent on processing applications as
officials struggled to cope with a surge in numbers.

But only one in four of the 660,000 decisions made on asylum claims between 1997
and 2010 led to the applicant being removed.

Should we halt all immigration now?

YES: 0901 030 8346 NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

IMMIGRATION SOARS 20% IN A YEAR

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 541  words


Cameron's promise to crack down is in tatters

THE number of foreigners coming into Britain surged by a massive 21 per cent
last year, shattering the Government's pledge to bring immigration down.

Official figures yesterday showed the number of immigrants soared to 239,000 -
up from 198,000 in 2009.

A legacy of Labour's open-door policy, it was the second highest annual figure
since 1991. A total of 575,000 people moved to this country in 2010 - the
equivalent of one every minute - with only 336,000 departing for overseas.

The Office for National Statistics also said that the number of people granted
settlement - the first step to full citizenship - in the UK also reached a
record 241,000 last year. A total of 195,000 were granted British citizenship,
down from the record high of 204,000 in 2009 but more than double the level of a
decade earlier.

The number of people applying for asylum also fell last year but has started to
rise again, with 4,800 applications between April and June, mainly from Pakistan
and Libya.

The majority of immigrants arriving in Britain - 300,000 - were from outside the
EU. But net migration - the difference between those arriving and leaving - from
eastern European countries rocketed to 39,000.

Britain's total Polish population is now 532,000, which is the same as the fifth
largest city in Poland, Poznan.

Campaigners warned the Government will struggle to fulfil its pledge to slash
net migration by 2015.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of the campaign group Migration Watch UK, said:
"These figures lay bare the legacy of the Labour government."

Gerard Batten, Ukip's home affairs spokesman, said: "This gives a lie to all
those silky promises made by David Cameron at the General Election. They have
lost the plot."

But Immigration Minister Damian Green defended the figures, saying that the rise
in net migration covered a period before the Government's immigration reforms
were brought in.

"The figures stabilised in the last quarter, " he said.

"The Government radically changed immigration policy, from our first months in
office, to drive the numbers down with a limit on economic migration and changes
to student visas."

Study remains the most common reason for those coming to the UK, with three in
four of the 228,000 student immigrants from outside the EU. But fewer than one
in five people arriving in the UK had a definite job.

Dr Carlos Vargas-Silva, of Oxford University's Migration Observatory, said the
steep rise in net migration from eastern Europe "raises the question of whether
Government policies to cut net migration from outside the EU may be stimulating
a demand for more EU workers".

The figures came as an audit by MigrationWatch showed Labour spent GBP 2million
every day on a shambolic asylum system. The audit showed how officials spent up
to GBP 10billion processing applications as they struggled to cope with a surge
in numbers. But only one in four of the 660,000 decisions made on asylum claims
between 1997 and 2010 led to the applicant being removed.

Should we halt all immigration now?

YES: 0901 030 8346 NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             August 26, 2011 Friday

Review: Edinburgh Comedy: Andrew Maxwell Assembly, George Square 3/5

BYLINE: Brian Logan

SECTION: GUARDIAN REVIEW PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 318 words


There are more topical jokes in Andrew Maxwell's set than practically every
other fringe show I've seen, combined. And it's not the facetious twittering
that often passes for satire. The Irishman's state-of-the-nation comedy is
bolstered by real opinions, forcibly expressed. I don't agree with all of them,
and he often seems off-puttingly pleased with himself. But Maxwell deserves
credit for making grown-up standup. Who else on the fringe is cracking gags
about Laurent Gbagbo?

His opening remarks, about the recent riots, are a declaration of intent:
Maxwell won't be dodging the big issues. To a Ukip politician who approvingly
cited Belfast as a precedent for turning the British army against British
citizens, Maxwell tartly replies: "That's exactly what we need right now - a
black IRA." To Tony Blair, whose response to the Arab spring was to worry for
Israel, he retorts: "Israel wouldn't feel safe if it was being spooned by the
Hulk." This is characteristic: extrapolating mainstream idiocies to reach
dramatic punchlines.

It's not all this smart. To play down the significance of the phone-hacking
scandal seems wilfully contrary - which would be fine, but this routine is all
assertion and no jokes. And there's an overdependence on stereotypes: grumpy
Scots feature prominently, and there's a terrible sequence on "the all-African
biggest dick contest". There's also a slightly unpleasant section on Edinburgh's
junkies.

It's delivered, meanwhile, with a self-satisfied swagger that sometimes grates.
There's too much certainty, not enough curiosity. But this is indisputably an
effective set, in which Catholics and Irish nationalists, global power-brokers
and self-regulating bankers are mocked for their breaches of consistency and
their affronts to justice. Although I struggle with his superior air, at least
Maxwell has something to feel superior about.

Until Monday. Box office: 0131-623 3030.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 26, 2011 Friday 2:10 PM GMT

John Bercow faces Commons boundary 'plot';
Senior Conservatives are discussing new plans to prevent John Bercow, the
controversial Commons Speaker, getting a second term in office.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 347 words


MPs including ministers are considering trying to use a change in parliamentary
boundaries to deprive Mr Bercow of his Commons seat.

Parliamentary tradition dictates that a Speaker is not challenged in his
constituency at a general election.

That would mean that the Conservatives and other major parties would not stand
in Mr Bercow's Buckingham seat at the next election.

However, senior Conservatives are considering using a change in parliamentary
boundaries to question that convention and launch a Tory challenge to Mr Bercow.

Many parliamentary boundaries will be changed before the next election as the
number of MPs is reduced from 646. Initial Boundary Commission plans for changes
will be published next month.

If Mr Bercow's seat is redrawn to take in parts of a seat now held by a sitting
Conservative MP, they believe, the party should be able to contest the new
constituency.

A senior Conservative said it would be "quite unfair" if Mr Bercow was allowed
to stand for a redrawn constituency while another MP was not.

The source said "If the constituency vanishes or is virtually unrecognisable
then the local party may feel free to select their own candidate [against Mr
Bercow] because the tradition would not apply.

"The best thing is that it would ultimately be a matter for them -- nobody

could point the finger at us in Westminster."

Mr Bercow, a former Conservative who won the Speaker's chair thanks to Labour
support, is deeply unpopular among his former party colleagues.

Many Conservatives feel he treats Tory ministers and MPs unfairly in Commons
debates

Mr Bercow has also faced speculation over future because of his wife, Sally, and
her decision to take part in a reality television show.

Mrs Bercow, a former Labour council candidate, has a history of self-promotion
and public spats with Conservative MPs.

It has been reported that Mr Bercow opposed his wife's decision to take part in
Celebrity Big Brother. The Speaker's office has refused to comment.

Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party leader, challenged Mr Bercow at the last
general election.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

THIS MOAN BY JOAN'S A FOUL RANT

BYLINE: BRAIN READE

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 172 words


JOAN Collins has written a book - The World According To Joan - in which she
attempts to put our PC-Gone-Mad country to rights.

She's wants to fix Broken Britain and she's been telling us how to do it from
the comfort of her South of France home.

Here's a summary of the ex-UKIP pin-up granny's views: She hates having to call
people from Asia "Asians" and giving aid to African "despots". She wants to
scrap the 50p tax rate for the rich because they "use restaurants and hire
chauffeurs".

She believes we've turned into a nation of ugly people, sweary women and
illiterate school-leavers.

She hates the EU so much she wants to leave (but obviously not her French villa)
and believes that all young women should dress like the Duchess of Cambridge.

And her loathing for fat people knows no bounds: "They are digging their graves
with their own teeth."

Unlike Joan, who is digging hers by biting off a publishing cheque that shows
her as the bitter, old, right-wing ranter she truly is. National Treasure my
ugly, sweary, fat, illiterate a***.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTER Joan Collins

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEWS that Milord Mandelson is [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 63 words


NEWS that Milord Mandelson is set to splash out a whopping £8million on a new
central London home predictably has some colleagues green with envy.

While the debate surrounding quite how the Prince of Darkness can afford such a
luxury remains, UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, pictured, remarks on
Twitter: "Mandelson is buying an £8million house? What am I doing wrong?"

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 64  words


NEWS that Milord Mandelson is set to splash out a whopping GBP 8million on a new
central London home predictably has some colleagues green with envy.

While the debate surrounding quite how the Prince of Darkness can afford such a
luxury remains, UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, pictured, remarks on
Twitter: "Mandelson is buying an GBP 8million house? What am I doing wrong?"

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

All in this together, apart from fat cat council chiefs;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 162 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage talks such common sense ("The coalition is fiddling
while our economy suffers", August 20).

This is borne out by the fact that Patrick O'Flynn, in his own excellent column,
seems to agree with a great deal of what was said ("Government by crisis is not
a viable way to go on", August 20).

The British public understands that cuts have to be made and would accept them
more readily if councils cut the pay of their higher management staff rather
than by closing essential services and sacking frontline workers. The same goes
for the NHS.

The problem lies in the fact that top managers decide where the cuts are made
and they are not going to cut their own hefty salaries and perks, are they?
There is the other problem of Labour councils deliberately cutting frontline
services to make the coalition look bad in an attempt to gain votes in future
elections, hoping the public will forget who created the mess in the first
place.

J Hill, Spalding, Lincs

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

All in this together, apart from fat cat council chiefs;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 26

LENGTH: 162  words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage talks such common sense ("The coalition is fiddling
while our economy suffers", August 20).

This is borne out by the fact that Patrick O'Flynn, in his own excellent column,
seems to agree with a great deal of what was said ("Government by crisis is not
a viable way to go on", August 20).

The British public understands that cuts have to be made and would accept them
more readily if councils cut the pay of their higher management staff rather
than by closing essential services and sacking frontline workers. The same goes
for the NHS.

The problem lies in the fact that top managers decide where the cuts are made
and they are not going to cut their own hefty salaries and perks, are they?

There is the other problem of Labour councils deliberately cutting frontline
services to make the coalition look bad in an attempt to gain votes in future
elections, hoping the public will forget who created the mess in the first
place.

J Hill, Spalding, Lincs

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 22, 2011
                                 First Edition

blogo sphere

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 207 words


What makes a breakfast of champions? Is it Michael Phelps's famed 4,000 calorie
monster or a slice of toast? The Atlantic Wire's Elspeth Reeve revealed Hunter S
Thompson's ideal breakfast. Highlights include four Bloody Marys, two
grapefruits, a pot of coffee, Rangoon crêpes, a half-pound of either sausage,
bacon, or corned-beef hash with diced chilies, a Spanish omelette... and six
lines of the best cocaine for dessert."

Elsewhere, UKIP activist Michael Heaver took to Dale & Co to call for party
political advertising to be allowed on British television: "It is time for
British politics to go digital with a democracy that plays out arguments in
front of mass audiences. It would increase turnout, awareness and in my mind
enthusiasm for the world of politics and what is going on.

It is the 21st century."

Finally, Carles, the blogger who made his name with Hipster Runoff has started
writing for Grantland. One of his first pieces asked: "Does the cover of Rolling
Stonemean anything any more?" Writing after the mag ran a competition for a band
to appear on its cover, pictured, Carles wrote: "Ultimately, they have always
existed to make money, so it''s not really even a big deal that Rolling Stone
sold their 'most sacred' real estate."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 21, 2011 Sunday 9:26 AM GMT

So, Boris, rioters make you angry. What about your Bullingdon pal?;
Johnson called on to identify friend who smashed restaurant window

BYLINE: By Jonathan Owen

SECTION: HEI-FI-NEWS

LENGTH: 670 words


When a member of Oxford's notorious Bullingdon Club hurled a pot plant through a
restaurant window, he was maintaining a tradition going back generations. It was
what Evelyn Waugh called "the sound of the English county families baying for
broken glass".

The Prime Minister, David Cameron, the Chancellor, George Osborne, and the Mayor
of London, Boris Johnson, were some of the best-known members of the club - an
elite dining society notorious for its drunken excesses. It has a tradition of
"omerta", a code of silence, among its members.

Perhaps unsurprisingly then, mystery continues to surround the identity of the
undergraduate responsible for that act of vandalism in June 1987. However it
seems that The Independent on Sunday is a tiny bit closer to eliminating
possible culprits. It has always been known that Mr Johnson was among the party
of Bullingdon members on the night of the incident, as was Mr Cameron.

But last week an eyewitness came forward with a tale of how he recalled
witnessing a man "with a shock of white blond hair" lob the pot plant. Happily,
we are assured it was not the Mayor of London but one who may also have had
blond locks.

Paul Wiffen, a fellow Oxford alumnus, felt compelled to speak out after hearing
Mr Johnson  speak of his "blinding anger at the callousness and selfishness of
the rioters".

But last night, Mr Johnson's spokesman, Guto Harri, admitted that the Mayor
remembers the name of the Bullingdon hooligan responsible for an act of
vandalism similar to those he condemned. Why then, we asked, did Boris not
reveal who it was at the time, considering police had interviewed members of the
drinking club in an attempt to discover the culprit?

"That's neither here nor there," said Mr Harri. "It is not my job to hand over a
witness to the police to something that happened 25 years ago." But, we asked,
was that not a conspiracy of silence? He refused to discuss the matter further.
But back to the witness.

Mr Wiffen, who was not in the Bullingdon Club but is a graduate of Keble College
from a slightly earlier time, recalls visiting college friends in June 1987.
"Everybody was celebrating the end of their finals, and we saw the Bullingdon
crowd several times that evening, staggering around town completely wrecked out
of their heads," he said.

"What I saw quite late on in the evening from a distance was this guy throwing a
pot plant through a restaurant window. There were a whole bunch of them, and
then the rest of them all ran off, leaving him on his own, and he legged it."

The 52-year-old filmmaker, who is standing as a candidate for the UK
Independence Party in the London Assembly elections next year, added: "I don't
agree with any of these rioters at all. I don't think there's any excuse for it,
but if there is any excuse it's being in a dead-end situation.

"But the Bullingdon crowd had all the privilege in the world. They were at the
best university in the world and then behaved like complete thugs, like football
hooligans in period costume."

The events of that night have been much dissected since Mr Cameron and Mr
Johnson assumed office. Mr Cameron is known to have retired to bed early. Mr
Johnson has recounted that he and several others were chased by police through
the Botanic Gardens and spent a night in the cells, though others have said that
Mr Johnson actually peeled off home too.

There is no suggestion that Mr Johnson was responsible for breaking the window,
as his spokesman was only too keen to echo yesterday: "He knows very clearly
that he did not do it." Mr Harri dismissed Mr Wiffen's account as being
"politically motivated".

Yet whoever did throw the plant pot has evaded justice thanks to Bullingdon
members' loyalty. Now it is a matter for the London Mayor as to whether he will
name the guilty party.

Sonia Purnell, author of a biography of Mr Johnson, due out this autumn, said:
"I've been told he wasn't one to lose control, but he liked to play up to the
idea that he did. He wasn't one of the worst behaved - far from it."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                August 21, 2011
                                 First Edition

So, Boris, rioters make you angry. What about your Bullingdon pal?;
Johnson called on to identify friend who smashed restaurant window

BYLINE: Jonathan Owen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words


When a member of Oxford's notorious Bullingdon Club hurled a pot plant through a
restaurant window, he was maintaining a tradition going back generations. It was
what Evelyn Waugh called "the sound of the English county families baying for
broken glass".

The Prime Minister, David Cameron, the Chancellor, George Osborne, and the Mayor
of London, Boris Johnson, were some of the best-known members of the club - an
elite dining society notorious for its drunken excesses. It has a tradition of
"omerta", a code of silence, among its members.

Perhaps unsurprisingly then, mystery continues to surround the identity of the
undergraduate responsible for that act of vandalism in June 1987. However it
seems that The Independent on Sunday is a tiny bit closer to eliminating
possible culprits. It has always been known that Mr Johnson was among the party
of Bullingdon members on the night of the incident, as was Mr Cameron.

But last week an eyewitness came forward with a tale of how he recalled
witnessing a man "with a shock of white blond hair" lob the pot plant. Happily,
we are assured it was not the Mayor of London but one who may also have had
blond locks.

Paul Wiffen, a fellow Oxford alumnus, felt compelled to speak out after hearing
Mr Johnson speak of his "blinding anger at the callousness and selfishness of
the rioters".

But last night, Mr Johnson's spokesman, Guto Harri, admitted that the Mayor
remembers the name of the Bullingdon hooligan responsible for an act of
vandalism similar to those he condemned. Why then, we asked, did Boris not
reveal who it was at the time, considering police had interviewed members of the
drinking club in an attempt to discover the culprit?

"That's neither here nor there," said Mr Harri. "It is not my job to hand over a
witness to the police to something that happened 25 years ago." But, we asked,
was that not a conspiracy of silence? He refused to discuss the matter further.
But back to the witness.

Mr Wiffen, who was not in the Bullingdon Club but is a graduate of Keble College
from a slightly earlier time, recalls visiting college friends in June 1987.
"Everybody was celebrating the end of their finals, and we saw the Bullingdon
crowd several times that evening, staggering around town completely wrecked out
of their heads," he said.

"What I saw quite late on in the evening from a distance was this guy throwing a
pot plant through a restaurant window. There were a whole bunch of them, and
then the rest of them all ran off, leaving him on his own, and he legged it."

The 52-year-old filmmaker, who is standing as a candidate for the UK
Independence Party in the London Assembly elections next year, added: "I don't
agree with any of these rioters at all. I don't think there's any excuse for it,
but if there is any excuse it's being in a dead-end situation.

"But the Bullingdon crowd had all the privilege in the world. They were at the
best university in the world and then behaved like complete thugs, like football
hooligans in period costume."

The events of that night have been much dissected since Mr Cameron and Mr
Johnson assumed office. Mr Cameron is known to have retired to bed early. Mr
Johnson has recounted that he and several others were chased by police through
the Botanic Gardens and spent a night in the cells, though others have said that
Mr Johnson actually peeled off home too.

There is no suggestion that Mr Johnson was responsible for breaking the window,
as his spokesman was only too keen to echo yesterday: "He knows very clearly
that he did not do it." Mr Harri dismissed Mr Wiffen's account as being
"politically motivated".

Yet whoever did throw the plant pot has evaded justice thanks to Bullingdon
members' loyalty. Now it is a matter for the London Mayor as to whether he will
name the guilty party.

Sonia Purnell, author of a biography of Mr Johnson, due out this autumn, said:
"I've been told he wasn't one to lose control, but he liked to play up to the
idea that he did. He wasn't one of the worst behaved - far from it."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 21, 2011
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

New Tory Eurosceptics threaten to rock the boat

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY; Arthur Verdin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1450 words


UP TO 70 Conservative MPs are to join a group dedicated to reversing the process
of closer European Union integration in a move likely to place strain on the
Coalition.

Dozens will attend a meeting next month to discuss the formation of the
Eurosceptic group, which aims to provide advice to the Government.

The move carries echoes of the formation more than 20 years ago of the Bruges
Group, which took its name from one of Margaret Thatcher's speeches in which she
attacked the formation of a European superstate and which became a focus for
Eurosceptic Tories.

The new grouping is being put together by three MPs who were all elected for the
first time at last year's general election: George Eustice, who was David
Cameron's former media chief, Chris Heaton-Harris and Andrea Leadsom.

The trio wrote to fellow Tory MPs last month to invite them to a meeting in the
Thatcher Room at the Commons on Sept 12. Mr Eustice last night said the letter
had so far attracted 71 positive replies - around a quarter of the party's MPs.
The letter states: "Events in the European Union are going to dominate British
politics in the coming years across a range of policies.

"We think it might be helpful if we set up an informal group of like-minded MPs
who could come together to talk, receive regular quality topical briefings,
exchange ideas and, indeed, provide support and helpful advice to the
Government.

"The objective of the group would be to reverse the process of ever-closer
union." The move risks incurring the wrath, however, of the Tories' Liberal
Democrat coalition partners, whose party continues to maintain broad support for
Brussels.

Mr Eustice said: "There is a lot of interest in such a group. It aims to be
constructive and to ensure we make the most of the opportunity presented by a
Eurosceptic PM and a changing context in Europe."

The new breed of younger Eurosceptic MPs takes a much more pragmatic view of the
EU than the veterans of the old ideological battles over the Maastricht Treaty
who hamstrung John Major's government in the 1990s, some of whom, such as Bill
Cash, are still in Parliament. Nevertheless it is estimated that up to half of
the 148 Conservatives elected for the first time in 2010 think Britain should
quit the EU altogether, with scores more believing the UK's relationship with
the EU is ripe for a fundamental overhaul.

As well as the financial crisis gripping the eurozone and the lead-up to the
future funding of the EU from 2014, several flashpoints are mentioned by MPs,
including moves due to take effect in 2014 that would see the Luxembourgbased
European Court of Justice have greater say over policing policy in Britain.

"As the fundamental nature of our relationship with the EU changes over the next
couple of years, there will be greater pressure for referendums on key issues,"
one Tory MP predicted.

Plans to do away with all or part of the Human Rights Act will also carry on
being a major issue. "David [Cameron] promised a British Bill of Rights before
the election," a Tory MP said. "But he can't deliver it - the Lib Dems won't let
him. In extremis that could be a coalition-breaker and the PM won't risk it."

Away from Europe, taxation is a thorny issue. Many of the new intake support
moves to scrap the 50p top rate of tax on incomes above £150,000 in a bid to
boost business - as Eric Pickles, the Communities Secretary, advocated this
weekend.

Like Mr Pickles, and unlike among Lib Dems, there is little or no appetite for
replacing it with another form of imposition on the wealthiest. "I don't want to
scrap the 50p tax band and bring in a mansion tax," one Conservative elected
last year said.

"Our main efforts should be focused on helping business and promoting growth."

Even moves to repeal the ban on hunting with dogs, brought in under Labour, and
a touchstone for many rural Tory supporters, is likely to be a problem for Mr
Cameron.

Some new Tory MPs, many of them women with urban or suburban seats, favour
keeping the ban in place - as do the overwhelming majority of Lib Dem and Labour
MPs.

One backbencher confidently predicts there is no way the ban will be overturned.

"The numbers don't exist. The PM should just get on with it - lose the vote and
move on."

An indication of the strength of feeling about the direction of travel the party
should take can be seen from the fact that no fewer than three books are
scheduled for publication around the time of the forthcoming party conference
season in which Conservative MPs will attempt to seize the agenda.

One of them, provisionally entitled After the Coalition, features contributions
from Kwasi Kwarteng, Dominic Raab, Elizabeth Truss, Priti Patel and Chris
Skidmore, all members of the 2010 intake.

David Davis, Mr Cameron's main opponent in 2005 for the party's leadership and
the former shadow home secretary, is also overseeing a book with contributions
from mainly Right-leaning MPs - including new members Steve Baker, Therese
Coffey and Richard Drax.

A third tome, snappily-titled Masters of Nothing: The Crash and How It Will
Happen Again Unless We Understand Human Nature, is being written by another pair
of up-and-coming MPs, Matthew Hancock and Nadhim Zahawi.

Younger MPs are careful to couch their desire for change in terms of support for
Mr Cameron and the Coalition. Mr Raab, a former business lawyer who is MP for
Esher and Walton, said: "The mood is positive because the Coalition is
delivering - whether it's deficit reduction, welfare reform or raising teaching
standards.

"The riots inevitably feel like a vindication of David Cameron's diagnosis of
the broken society and the importance of family, while the eurozone crisis has
created a crossroads for the EU."

Tracey Crouch, a former head of public affairs for the insurance company Aviva
who is now MP for Chatham and Aylesford, said: "Constituents understand we've
had to prioritise reducing the deficit in our first year of government, but now
they want to see us deliver on our manifesto promises.

"Every time there is a story in the paper about some ridiculous human rights
claim, or outrageous EU spending commitment, I get reminded by constituents of
not only what was on my leaflets but what was in the Coalition agreement too."

Additional reporting by Arthur Verdin

TEN FROM 2010: YOUNG TORIES MAKING WAVES

DOMINIC RAAB, 37, MP for Esher & Walton (right). Former business lawyer and
exaide to David Davis. Campaigner against abuses of the Human Rights Act. Has
demanded a ban on taxpayers subsidising union activity in government
departments.

PRITI PATEL, 39, Witham (main picture). Used to work at Conservative HQ when
Michael Howard was leader, but previously worked for James Goldsmith's
Referendum Party. Supports calls for a debate on restoring the death penalty in
Britain.

ANDREA LEADSOM, 48, South Northamptonshire. Former district councillor and head
of corporate governance at Invesco Perpetual. Has warned over threat posed to
the countryside by the Government's proposed National Planning Policy Framework.

CHRIS HEATON-HARRIS, 43, Daventry (right). Worked in family fruit and veg
business before becoming a Euro MP and Tory chief whip in the European
Parliament. A Eurosceptic. Keen footballer and grade 5 referee.

MATTHEW HANCOCK, 32, West Suffolk.

Ambitious former aide to George Osborne who has also worked for the Bank of
England. Carving out a reputation as a Tory backbench attack dog, with frequent
pops at Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor.

CLAIRE PERRY, 47, Devizes.

fina Had a career in banking and finance - and has also worked for George
Osborne. Supports a child-protecting system which would see all 18+ material
removed from internet services unless users specifically requested it.

KWASI KWARTENG, 36, Spelthorne.

Old Etonian former analyst for a hedge fund manager who is tipped to become the
party's first black Cabinet minister. Parents migrated to Britain from Ghana as
students in the 1960s. Member of winning University Challenge team in 1995.

TRACEY CROUCH, 36, Chatham & Aylesford (below). Another former aide to Michael
Howard and Davis. Was head of public affairs at Aviva. Was one of only two
Conservative MPs to abstain in the vote on raising university tuition fees.
Plays and coaches football.

GEORGE EUSTICE, 39, Camborne & Redruth (left). A former member of UKIP, he was
head of press at Tory HQ under Michael Howard and one of the first party
staffers to back David Cameron for leader. Played a key role in the referendum
campaign against the Alternative Vote system.

CHRIS SKIDMORE, 30, Kingswood. Historian who has written books about Edward VI
and Elizabeth I. Was one of a group of historians who wrote a landmark letter
warning against a move to the Alternative Vote system.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 21, 2011 Sunday 9:15 AM GMT

Ayes right: the new pragamatic, Eurosceptic Tory MPs;
A new breed of younger, newly elected Conservative MP is in the forefront of
moves to look beyond the coalition and anchor the party to the right of centre.

BYLINE: By Patrick Hennessy Political Editor

LENGTH: 472 words


Mostly Eurosceptic, the Tory class of 2010 also has concerns about the Human
Rights Act, taxation and public service reform - but is much less likely to
share traditional Conservative concerns such as repealing the hunting ban.

Here we identify 10 prominent Conservatives first elected last year:

Dominic Raab, 37, MP for Esher & Walton. Former business lawyer and ex-aide to
David Davis. Campaigner against abuses of the Human Rights Act. Has demanded a
ban on taxpayers subsidising union activity in government departments and other
public bodies.

Priti Patel, 39, Witham. Used to work at Conservative HQ when Michael Howard was
leader but previously worked for James Goldsmith's Referendum Party. Supports
calls for a debate on restoring the death penalty in Britain.

Tracey Crouch, 36, Chatham & Aylesford. Another former aide to Michael Howard
and Davis. Was head of public affairs at Aviva. Was one of only two Conservative
MPs to abstain in the vote on raising university tuition fees. Plays and coaches
football.

Chris Heaton-Harris, 43, Daventry. Worked in family fruit and veg business
before becoming a Euro MP and Tory chief whip in the European Parliament. A
Eurosceptic. Keen footballer and grade 5 referee.

George Eustice, 39, Camborne and Redruth. A former member of UKIP, he was head
of press at Tory HQ under Michael Howard and one of the first party staffers to
back David Cameron for leader. Played key role in referendum campaign against
the Alternative Vote.

Andrea Leadsom, 48, South Northamptonshire. Former district councillor and head
of corporate governance at Invesco Perpetual. Has warned over threat posed to
the countryside by the government's proposed National Planning Policy Framework.

Kwasi Karteng, 36, Spelthorne. Old Etonian former analyst for a hedge fund
manager who is tipped to become the party's first black cabinet minister.
Parents migrated to Britain from Ghana as students in the 1960s. Member of
winning University Challenge team in 1995.

Matthew Hancock, 32, West Suffolk. Ambitious former aide to George Osborne who
has also worked for the Bank of England. Carving out reputation as Tory
backbench attack dog, with frequent pops at Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor.

Clare Perry, 47, Devizes. Had career in banking and finance - and has also
worked for George Osborne. Supports a child-protecting system which would see
18+ material removed from internet services unless user specifically requested
it.Chris Skidmore, 30, Kingswood. Historian who has written books about Edward
VI and Elizabeth I. Was one of group of historians who wrote landmark letter
warning against a move to the Alternative Vote system.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday

THE DAY HE WAS DATE-RAPED, WHY FAT PEOPLE DIG THEIR OWN GRAVES WITH HEIR TEETH -
AND THE JOY OF SEX AT78.

LENGTH: 2096 words


AS WE SERIALISE HER BLISTERINGLY OPINIONATED NEW BOOK . . .

JOAN LETS RIP!

BY JAN MOIR

JOAN Collins is not best pleased. It's the weather! Just look at it. In the
hills behind St Tropez, rain pours down on the maritime pines and patters on the
tiled roofs of the village.

Down in the bay, grey clouds roll over the Pampelonne sands, home to the
lunch-time decadence of the famous beach clubs. Yesterday, Collins ate salad
Nicoise and drank rosŽ at Club 55. A few days earlier she danced in her
turquoise kaftan at Le Voile Rouge as the hot sun beat down. Not today, though.

'Not again,' she says as she considers the dark skies. This is the worst summer
in the South of France Joan has ever known. 'It is like November,' she growls,
fishing out her iPhone from an appliquŽd leather handbag. She tap-taps the
screen with her burgundy nails, calling up the weather report.

'It is supposed to be sunny,' she says, 'but as you can see, it is anything
but.' Defying Joan. How does the weather even dare?

Collins lives down here for at least two months every summer, far away from the
crowds in her secluded pink villa with its infinity pool, house rules (shoes to
be worn in grassy areas, food only to be consumed in dining areas) and fabulous
views.

At the moment she has a house full of children, grandchildren and, of course,
beloved husband Percy. 'Thank goodness he is there. He is the only one who will
remember to take the pool furniture in,' she says.

We meet in a local hotel, where she orders coffee, then sends it back because it
is served in the wrong size cup. 'Fantastique, merci,' she purrs, when she
finally gets what she wants. Her French, she says, is appalling. 'I get so
frustrated. I can't express myself properly. And the older you get, the harder
it is to learn.'

Nevertheless, that voice! It is so unmistakeable and instantly familiar; the
crisp, English intonation of the Rank charm school alumna, garnished with a
California twang.

In her straw cowboy hat and pretty summer clothes, her manner is one of guarded
amusement and she is certainly grand but not imperious. It is like having an
audience with the dowager Duchess Alexis of Carrington, which, in a way, is
exactly what it is.

After six decades as a star, the oft-married Collins suspects that what people
will first want to know about her is how she looks, has she had plastic surgery,
is she wearing a wig , and she is right. The answers are , in order , really
amazing, no and no.

At the age of 78, the scaffolding remains intact, the listed building within a
testament to the benefits of regular exercise, vitamin supplements and good
living. She still has that kitten face, the sparkle of a cherished woman and a
sexpot's curves.

'No, I am not a stick thing. I have bosoms. And not all designers like that,'
she says.

Back in 1985, when Valentino was appointed to make her costumes for the
television mini-series, Sins (Collins played a woman who escaped the
concentration camps to become a fashion hot-shot), the first thing he said to
her was: 'Joan, what are we going to do with ze boom-booms?'

Today, she designs many of her own outfits and knows what suits her and what
doesn't. She may occasionally, like this morning, run around the markets in St
Tropez in a baseball cap and no make-up, but that's as casual as she gets.

'I don't do grunge,' she says. 'Any woman over a certain age should not be
grungy. You must make yourself look the way you would like the world to think
about you.'

Anything else? 'All women look awful in shift dresses, even Nicole Kidman.
You've gotta be totally titless for them to work.'

We meet because Joan has written a new book, a kind of manifesto for modern
living in which she gives her thoughts on everything from parenting to bad
manners to politics.

Included in it is the fact that her first husband, the film star Maxwell Reed,
raped her on their first date when she was an 18-year-old ingŽnue.

'I only married him because I was so embarrassed that he had taken my
virginity,' she says today.

The World According To Joan, which is serialised in the Mail next week, is
outspoken, outrageous and liable to get her into a lot of trouble. 'Oh, golly.
Do you think I will be lynched in the streets?' she wonders aloud.

Yet she wanted to write it because she increasingly feels out of step with the
mores of the modern world. Yesterday, for example, she was castigated by her
children for calling someone a Chinaman. 'Apparently that is rude and I am
supposed to say Asian. Gah. Since when?' she asks.

'Look. I know that people will blame me for pontificating about things that an
actress shouldn't, but I have something to say, something that I think a lot of
people will agree with. Things that they might be frightened to say because it
is politically incorrect to do so.'

The book was written over 18 months and has chapters on topics such as fame,
glamour, ageing and travel , but these do not adequately convey the seething
anger on everything from politics to relationships that lies beneath.

It is hard to say whether the book will increase or decrease her chances of
getting a Damehood. 'I don't care!' she cries. Throughout the nine chapters,
Collins writes well with great humour, hitting targets both big and small.

They include actresses who use Botox ('pillow lips and eyes like tiny pits in a
marshmallow cloud'), and fat people ('the Orca-sized oafs from Planet Girth').

In fact, overweight is one of her betes noires in the book. 'Loathe fat people?
Did that come across?' she asks. 'I certainly don't admire them. They are
digging their graves with their own teeth. I think to be terribly overweight is
incredibly unhealthy. And how do they get into a tiny lavatory on a plane? I
feel sorry for them, I do.'

Also in Joan's firing-line are rich men ('mean and controlling') and the general
uselessness and poor calibre of modern men everywhere ('I despair for my
daughters' futures as regards to men and lasting relationships').

She may despair, but she still tries to help. 'It is hard to give your children
advice, but I tell my girls what my mother told me. Treat 'em mean, keep 'em
keen. Start as you mean to go on. Don't give them a slice of the cake before
teatime, if you know what I mean.'

Oddly enough, it wasn't exactly advice she followed herself, as we shall see.
Collins has three children, son Sacha and daughter Tara from husband number two,
Anthony Newley, and daughter Katie from third husband Ron Kass.

She has been married five times, latterly to theatrical company manager Percy
Gibson, who is 32 years her junior. 'If he dies, he dies,' she famously quipped
when asked about their age difference.

In The World According To Joan, she may bemoan her daughters' man-less state and
worry about the stress for Tara bringing up her two children as a single mother,
but she is full of exultant praise for her own Percy and the continuing
importance of sex in their relationship.

'Of course we have sex. We have a very good life in all respects. We are
friends, we are lovers, we are compatriots, partners in crime. Yes, there is a
diminution in sexual desire as you get older.

'In your 30s your hormones are raging a lot more than they are in your 70s. But
I think it's over-rated, doing it 18 times a week anyway, don't you? I think
that is a male fantasy, not a female one.'

Someone once asked of her infamous 18-month fling with Warren Beatty in the
1960s if it was true they had sex seven times a day.

She replied: 'Maybe he did, but I just lay there.'

Today she says: 'Sex does get better as you get older, and obviously, one is not
living a celibate life when one is married to a gorgeous 45-year-old South
American.'

However, as she reveals in her book, her introduction to sex was a violent and
unhappy one.

Collins was a virgin when she met her first husband, the Hollywood heart-throb
Maxwell Reed, who was then 32. Along with James Mason and Stewart Granger, Reed
was one of her heroes, and young Joan had his picture on her bedroom wall.

As an aspiring starlet herself, she was thrilled when Reed asked her out , but
her joy would quickly turn to horror when he raped her on their first date. 'I
was 18 going on 13, that is how young people werein the Fiftiess,' she tells me.
'Maxwell picked me up at Hyde Park Corner Tube station in a powder-blue Buick.

'It was amazing for me. He was my favourite movie-star. I remember I was wearing
a black skirt and a polo neck, with a yellow jacket.

'He took me to a place called the Country Club in Hanover Square. We walked up
lots of stairs to a small, candle-lit apartment where he asked me what I wanted
to drink and gave me a rum and Coke. It was a Mickey Finn. I was drugged. You
must think I am a moron. Oh, this is such a horrible story.

'He said: "I am going to have a bath," which I thought was very strange. He then
said: "Take a look at this book, I think you will find it interesting."

'Of course, it was full of disgusting, pornographic photographs. Now, any smart
girl today would have got out of there and run down those stairs faster than a
speeding bullet, but not little innocent, stupid Joan Collins, who stayed there
and looked at the book.

'The next thing I knew, I was on the sofa and that was it. Then I was throwing
up into a bucket.'

They were married for less than four years.

'It was a fiasco,' she says, 'but I never ended up being a man-hater.' We
gathered that.

'If I do hate or dislike anyone,' she adds, 'it is politicians and lawyers, big
businessmen and hedge fund managers. I lump them all together because I blame
them for bringing this country to its knees.'

The manifesto according to Joan would go something like this. More money put
into the NHS and less sent to 'African despots'. Less rudery on television. More
good manners. The 50 per cent tax rate lowered to free up big-spenders who use
restaurants and hire chauffeurs. Nicer clothes for all women. 'The Duchess of
Cambridge is wonderful, she dresses brilliantly for a young girl,' she says.

Joan also wants Britain to pull out of the European Union. 'I despise it. It is
sucking the life-blood out of this country. Brussels is totally corrupt,' she
says. Collins has always paid British taxes. 'I have paid millions in tax. I
shudder to think how much.'

She watched the London riots from her St Tropez home, aghast at what was
happening to her country. She is still appalled, and feels that the judicial and
political response has not been up to scratch. 'Not by a long shot,' she says.

'I feel very pessimistic about the world, I really do. Where are the leaders?
Where is our Franklin Roosevelt, or our Winston Churchill? Maggie Thatcher and
Ronald Reagan were fantastic, particularly Maggie. We haven't got anyone like
that.'

She feels that Cameron is doing a good job but is 'being held back by Clegg',
and she despairs of the Lib Dems. 'More to the Left than Labour!' Of her own
dalliance with UKIP, which I suspect she now regrets, she will only say this:
'We drifted apart.'

Well, it wouldn't be the first time in her life that Joan Collins had formed an
impromptu alliance with an unsuitable party, but surely, as she approaches her
eighth decade, it must be the last?

And while Collins , born to wear leopard print, the woman who put the sex in
Alexis , is easy to mock, quiet consideration of her life reveals a far steelier
character.

For amid all the glitz and glamour of her glory days, through the glare of the
Dynasty era, the towering inferno of her wigs and her age-defying looks, Joan
Collins has never been given enough credit for what she really is: a survivor.

At heart, she has always been a hard-working woman, a matriarch who has kept her
family together through catastrophic marriages, the occasional traumas of a long
life well spent, through good times and bad.

Through it all, she has kept herself both viable and vibrant , no mean feat ,
and she has done so with a sense of humour. Yes, sometimes she made films that
embarrassed her children , Sacha was in boarding school when The Stud and its
famous nude scenes was released , but the family have loved each other through
it all.

'I just told them, this is what your mother has to do. My children have had a
good life, and a lot of it has to do with the fact that I have always worked.
And I worked to give them some of the better things in life,' she says.

Finally, our time is up. Outside, in the French afternoon, the temperature is
starting to warm up. Peeping timidly over the Ramatuelle hills, the sun even
starts to shine.

Joan approves. 'At last,' she says, jamming her straw hat on at a jaunty angle
and striding off in her espadrilles to meet Percy.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NAUGHTY BUT NICE

BYLINE: By Julie Carpenter

SECTION: FEATURES; 18

LENGTH: 1218  words


She's the mischievous minx of politics, married to the Speaker and destined to
be a star of Big Brother. But what's Sally Bercow REALLY like?

HAS ever a spouse of the House of Commons Speaker agreed to go on Big Brother
before?

The answer, of course, is no but then Sally Bercow is hardly the run-of-the-mill
politician's wife, something she proves on almost a daily basis much to the
consternation (and knife-sharpening glee) of her critics. And there have been
many, something that even she acknowledged as she stepped, resplendent in a
deep-blue and crystal cocktail dress, into the reality show's house on Thursday
night.

"I'm kind of going in, " she explained, "because I want to stick two fingers up
to the Establishment."

Criticisms that have been levelled at the 41-year-old mother of three include
the suggestion that she is attention-seeking and lacking in dignity (Sheet gate
will be mentioned later) and so displays behaviour which is not appropriate for
the wife of someone who holds so hallowed a role. Her husband - Mr B as she
calls him - is John Bercow whose job she reminded us on Big Brother is to keep
order in Parliament.

"But I don't like it when he tries to get me in order, " added Sally. "The very
fact I'm here shows he hasn't succeeded."

Her publicist Max Clifford warned Sally she would get criticism for going on the
show, "but she said she didn't mind that at all". Now, let's just pause for a
moment. There is something rather refreshing in not caring what other people
think of you, especially when you consider the hordes of needy celebrities who
seem to desperately want everyone to love them.

In fact Long Tally Sally, who is almost coltishly leggy and possibly just as
frisky, is being hailed the most interesting contestant. One member of the crowd
who had gathered for the launch show even held aloft a placard saying "Sally B
for PM". Indeed, Big Brother might just bag her a whole new admiring public.

Political commentator Iain Dale, who has conducted many TV paper reviews with
Sally, says: "Before I met her I didn't think I would like Sally at all. I
thought she was a Labour Party propagandist but actually I defy anyone who meets
her not to get along with her. She's a very bubbly character, has a great sense
of humour and you can have a good gossip with her."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who again is not likely to concur with Sally on
politics, says:

"She's vivacious, she's sexy and a fun person to be with. She says what she
thinks and she knows what she wants."

It's not all good news, however. "The problem is she's got no brake mechanism,
that bit of the brain that tells you to stop saying something, " says Dale. "I
rather fear if she stays in the Big Brother house for the full three weeks, and
I rather suspect she will, then at some point she's going to really put her foot
in it. You saw that in her first interview on the show. It was all about how she
has disobeyed her husband by going on. Why say that in public in the way she
did?"

Sally did, in fact, mention that her husband had come round, adding:

"He wasn't pleased at the time but we've been married nine years and he does
know what I'm like. He respects the fact I do my own thing."

Sally is certainly a woman who believes she shouldn't have to subjugate her
career for that of her husband's or play the meek, opinion less politician's
wife. And why, many of us might cry, should she? Louise Mensch, Conservative MP
for Corby, has defended her. "Sally Bercow is her own woman and it's about time
people stopped seeing wives as adjuncts of their husbands."

This is precisely Sally's opinion.

"There is still a view, " she said earlier this year, "that political wives
should make cucumber sandwiches and wear Boden tea dresses. It's as if everyone
lives on Planet Sexism. I don't see what's so wrong with having my own opinions
and wanting a political career in my own right. When your spouse becomes a Tory
MP you're supposed to join the local Conservative Women's Association but thank
goodness they didn't ask me."

Actually, Sally was once a Thatcherite and met her husband at a Conservative
Association party before she switched to Labour in 1997, the year her husband
became a Tory MP.

Educated at the exclusive Marlborough College in Wiltshire (Samantha Cameron was
in the year above her) she moved on to Oxford University but dropped out after
two years, something she apparently didn't make too clear on her CV and this
omission caused her to be sacked from a leading public relations firm in 2004.

But Sally has never been too worried about covering up her past.

When in 2009 she announced her intention to stand as a Labour MP (she didn't get
enough votes), she simultaneously revealed that in her youth she used to have a
drink problem and slept with men she had only just met. After a bottle or two of
wine "I'd think, 'why not?'" she confessed.

As regards her drinking she added: "I had no stop button" but she has since
kicked the habit and is now a teetotaller.

THE more recent hullabaloo erupted when she posed for a magazine shoot earlier
this year, her naked body wrapped only in a bed heet. At the same time she
rhapsodised about how her "sexy" new living quarters - overlooking Big Ben - had
helped her to spice up her love life with her Speaker husband.

"There are limits, " spluttered one Conservative minister, "but this goes too
far."

Sally, who is a prolific Tweeter on the social network Twitter, has said she
"didn't expect the media furore" and that she was "done up like a kipper" by
magazine staff who only asked her to pose in a sheet after she turned up for the
photo shoot.

Dale concurs. "That was the interesting thing, " he says. "She didn't understand
it would become such a big story. She was led into it without seeing she was led
into it. There's a certain innocence and naivety about her which is very
endearing. She says she's her own woman which of course she is but she would not
be on Big Brother were she not the wife of the Speaker."

Whether Sally's appearance in the Big Brother house could harm her husband's
career is a much discussed point but what of Sally's own career? Many believe
that appearing on Big Brother could harm her if she still wants a serious role
in politics.

"Sally Bercow's decision to go on Big Brother is a huge gamble, " says her
husband's biographer Bobby Friedman. "There's an outside possibility that she
might win. She's probably the most intelligent of the housemates and she's an
open and genuine person. With her history of alcoholism she could even become a
sort of mother figure to Kerry Katona or Tara Reid. But in all likelihood it
will end her hopes of being taken seriously as a politician."

But what if that is no longer Sally's intention? Max Clifford has already
revealed that she "wants to speak to Simon Cowell about potential TV projects".

"Maybe she has decided that Parliament is not for her and that she wants to be a
media celebrity. If so, then Big Brother can only help her, " says Nigel Farage.

"She would have been the Edwina Currie of her day without the discretion, " says
Dale, "But if she has decided she wants a career as a minor celebrity then good
luck to her. She is an intrinsically nice person and incredibly camera friendly
so that may work for her very well indeed."

¬ Big Brother is on Channel 5, 9.15pm, tonight

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPOTLIGHT: Sally poses in her bedsheet; with husband John Bercow, top;
and being welcomed to the BB house by host Brian Dowling, inset left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

France and Germany in 'monstrous power grab'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 247 words


FRANCE and Germany were accused of masterminding a "monstrous" grab for power
last night. The two governments came under fire after calling for a "collective
economic government" for the eurozone over the debt crisis.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy urged much
closer economic and fiscal policy. The two leaders said they wanted twice-yearly
meetings of the 17 heads of eurozone governments, chaired by Herman van Rompuy,
president of the European Council. They also backed a tax on financial
transactions.

But Ukip leader Nigel Farage hit out at the proposals. He said: "This is simply
a monstrous constitutional power grab that will do nothing to solve the real
economic crisis.

"Bit by bit, eurozone members are losing their sovereignty as the European
superstate is created. Nothing in these proposals will calm the markets. I am
also prepared to bet that the European political elite will not ask the
permission of their peoples via a referendum to make this happen."

Merkel wants closer ties Yesterday's crunch talks came as the Daily Express
petition calling for a referendum on EU membership smashed through the 17,000
barrier.

More than 1,000 people a day are signing up on the Government's new e-petitions
website and we are well on track to meet our target.

The Government has pledged that any e-petition attracting 100,000 signatures
will be debated in the Commons. Go to: express.co.uk/referendum which will
direct you to the Government site.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Merkel wants closer ties

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

France and Germany in 'monstrous power grab'

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 243  words


FRANCE and Germany were accused of masterminding a "monstrous" grab for power
last night.

The two governments came under fire after calling for a "collective economic
government" for the eurozone over the debt crisis.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy urged much
closer economic and fiscal policy. The two leaders said they wanted twice-yearly
meetings of the 17 heads of eurozone governments, chaired by Herman van Rompuy,
president of the European Council. They also backed a tax on financial
transactions.

But Ukip leader Nigel Farage hit out at the proposals. He said:

"This is simply a monstrous constitutional power grab that will do nothing to
solve the real economic crisis.

"Bit by bit, eurozone members are losing their sovereignty as the European
superstate is created. Nothing in these proposals will calm the markets.

I am also prepared to bet that the European political elite will not ask the
permission of their peoples via a referendum to make this happen."

Yesterday's crunch talks came as the Daily Express petition calling for a
referendum on EU membership smashed through the 17,000 barrier.

More than 1,000 people a day are signing up on the Government's new e-petitions
website and we are well on track to meet our target.

The Government has pledged that any e-petition attracting 100,000 signatures
will be debated in the Commons. Go to: express.co.uk/referendum which will
direct you to the Government site.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Merkel wants closer ties

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Thanks to the NOTW;
Country diary

BYLINE: Robin Page

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 253 words


All my life I have tilted at windmills. Nearly all have been much bigger than
me, and they have usually won - the Civil Service, my teacher training college,
Ukip, the BBC.

However, many years ago when I tilted at the Ministry of Social Security, my
then employers, they sacked me for breaking the Official Secrets Acts.

All I had done was publicise the outrage of social security abuse, because the
politicians were organising a cover-up and telling "whoppers" and "porkies" - no
change there, then.

Aged 26, in the late Sixties, I was an innocent country boy in a hostile world.
The farm was too small for me to join my father and brother so I had to make my
way elsewhere.

I wrote an exposé in The Spectator, and before I knew it, I was heading for the
dole queue and prosecution. Who came riding to the rescue? Why, the News of the
World. Suddenly there I was on the front page: "Sacked for Telling the Truth".

There it is. I am sorry to see the News of the World bite the dust - although in
the intervening 42 years, they do seem to have had some difficulty with the
words "truth" and "integrity".

They paid me the equivalent of a year's salary, which gave me the start I needed
as a writer.

And, many thousands of words and 30-odd books down the road, here I am, still
doing it.

Without the News of the World, I would not have been writing this article and
almost certainly would not have had the freedom to take on the family farm and
start the Countryside Restoration Trust. So, dare I say it: thank you, News of
the World.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gypsy invaders demand a toilet

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 287 words


GYPSIES camping illegally on a nature reserve have accused council officials of
ignoring their human rights - by not providing toilets.

The 100 travellers have lit bonfires, spread rubbish and intimidated homeowners,
say locals.

They have also been accused of using woodlands near the Ladies Mile conservation
area in Brighton as a toilet, prompting residents to complain to the council.

But a spokesman for the group said: "If we were from a different culture toilets
would have been provided. We pay tax and insurance on our cars and we have a
right to be recognised. Our basic human rights are being ignored."

The group, who arrived in a fleet of 4WD vehicles, BMWs, Volvos and Mercedes,
before pitching up 35 caravans, also lambasted the council for giving them only
five waste bins.

The site, near the new South Downs National Park, is listed as an important
amenity for its attractive woodland, chalk grassland and scrubs. Residents claim
it is the second time this year gypsies have taken over the reserve, leaving
people too frightened to enjoy the area. They also complained that Brighton's
new Green council is too tolerant of illegal camping.

One resident, 60, said: "There has been criminal damage, fires started and
rubbish thrown all over the area. Their luxury caravans all have chemical
toilets anyway."

Nigel Farage, UKIP leader and Brighton MEP, said: "People bang on about their
rights, yet seem unwilling or unable to take responsibility for their own
actions."

A council spokeswoman said the travellers would be evicted tomorrow if an order
could be obtained from the county court.

"It is clear there is an urgent need for a permanent site in Brighton for
travellers. We are looking at a number of sites," she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The illegal travellers' camp near the South Downs National Park in
Sussex. They complain that not providing toilets is a breach of their human
rights
Picture: DAVID McHUGH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Gypsy invaders demand a toilet

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 287  words


GYPSIES camping illegally on a nature reserve have accused council officials of
ignoring their human rights - by not providing toilets.

The 100 travellers have lit bonfires, spread rubbish and intimidated homeowners,
say locals.

They have also been accused of using woodlands near the Ladies Mile conservation
area in Brighton as a toilet, prompting residents to complain to the council.

But a spokesman for the group said: "If we were from a different culture toilets
would have been provided. We pay tax and insurance on our cars and we have a
right to be recognised. Our basic human rights are being ignored."

The group, who arrived in a fleet of 4WD vehicles, BMWs, Volvos and Mercedes,
before pitching up 35 caravans, also lambasted the council for giving them only
five waste bins.

The site, near the new South Downs National Park, is listed as an important
amenity for its attractive woodland, chalk grassland and scrubs.

Residents claim it is the second time this year gypsies have taken over the
reserve, leaving people too frightened to enjoy the area. They also complained
that Brighton's new Green council is too tolerant of illegal camping.

One resident, 60, said: "There has been criminal damage, fires started and
rubbish thrown all over the area.

Their luxury caravans all have chemical toilets anyway."

Nigel Farage, UKIP leader and Brighton MEP, said: "People bang on about their
rights, yet seem unwilling or unable to take responsibility for their own
actions."

A council spokeswoman said the travellers would be evicted tomorrow if an order
could be obtained from the county court.

"It is clear there is an urgent need for a permanent site in Brighton for
travellers. We are looking at a number of sites, " she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The illegal travellers' camp near the South Downs National Park in
Sussex. They complain that not providing toilets is a breach of their human
rights

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;

BURN, LOOT AND WE WILL SHOOT;
Anarchy in the UK

BYLINE: MARC WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1186 words


POLICE are threatening to shoot rioters with plastic bullets in  a crackdown on
the anarchy engulfing Britain. They would get  tough with yobs after days of
violence, destruction and  looting, they said.

Officers were accused of playing it safe as louts ran  riot unchallenged, but
Premier David Cameron called for action  as he returned from his holidays.

He recalled MPs to Westminster and after discussing  police tactics at a meeting
of the Government's Cobra  emergency committee pledged to do "everything
necessary to  restore order".

But there were fears that the news that slain  "gangster" Mark Duggan, 29, did
NOT shoot at police  before he was gunned down last week in Tottenham, north
London,  was likely to inflame tensions further His death sparked the  riots,
although the Independent Police Complaints Commission  confirmed yesterday he
was carrying a gun when police shot him.

As the uproar claimed its first life yesterday, some  politicians said the Army
should be called in to bring peace.

A 26-year-old man died after being shot in a car during a  riot in Croydon,
south London. And a man in his 40s was  "critically ill" in hospital after
confronting yobs  in Ealing, west London, on Monday night.

Tory MEP Roger Helmer tweeted: "Memo to Cobra: Time  to get tough. Bring in the
Army. Shoot looters and arsonists on  sight."

Fellow MEP and UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage,  47, said: "The
population deserves protection."

Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner  Stephen Kavanagh said using
plastic bullets was "one of  the tactics" being considered.

His boss, acting commissioner Tim Godwin, called for a  voluntary curfew.

The comments came as the Metropolitan Police reached  breaking point, with
officers from 30 forces from as far away  as Scotland drafted in.

Last night London saw no repeat of Monday night's  violence after police
promised 16,000 offi-cers would be on the  streets. Mr Cameron, now back from
his Italian holiday, said:  "This is criminality pure and simple and it has to
be  confronted and defeated. People should be in no doubt that we  will do
everything necessary to restore order to Britain's  streets."

London Mayor Boris Johnson, 47, was heckled when he  appeared in Clapham,
south-west London.

Last night the most serious incidents were in Manchester  where hundreds of
yobs, some in ski masks, rampaged through the  city centre.

Children as young as 11 fought running battles with  police, smashing windows,
looting shops and torching cars and  shops.

A Miss Selfridge shop went up in flames while others  nearby including Tesco
Express, Foot Asylum, Diesel and Bang  &amp; Olufsen were either damaged or
looted.

Former Oasis frontman Liam Gallagher's recently  opened fashion boutique in King
Street, Manchester, also fell  victim.

The mobs scattered after police with dogs began  patrolling the area, but the
city was tense as darkness fell.

In Salford Shopping City, a Bargain Booze off-licence was  targeted and windows
of a branch of the Money Shop smashed.

Garry Shewan, Assistant Chief Constable of Greater  Manchester Police, said
Rioting and looting has brought  "shame on the streets of Salford and
Manchester"

In Birmingham West Bromwich and Wolverhampton, gangs torched  vehicles and
looted shops. Police made 80 arrests.

More than 100 Sikh men armed themselves with sticks and  metal bars to protect
their temple on George Street, West  Bromwich, after earlier trouble in the
town.

Harvinder Jutla, 22, said: "We don't want trouble but  if they try to attack us
we will fight back.

In Nottingham, at least eight yobs were held after the  city's Canning Circus
Police Station was  "firebombed" by a 40-strong gang.

Yesterday an inquest into Mr Duggan's death heard he  died from a single gunshot
wound to the chest. The hearing in  High Barnet, north London, was adjourned but
outside court his  family,s lawyer Marcia Willis-Stewart said: "The family  want
everyone to know that the disorder going on has nothing to  do with finding out
what happened to Mark."

Nearly 600 arrests were made in London and 100 of those  people were charged.
Dozens more were held in cities including  Liverpool and Bristol.

marc.walker@dailystar.co.uk

Where trouble flared...

LONDON

Deptford

Looters forced people to strip so they could steal clothes.

Notting Hill Posh diners at The Ledbury had rings ripped from  fingers.

Ealing People pulled from vehicles which were then torched.

Hackney Masked raiders stormed a bus after pelting it with  stolen champagne
bottles. Crowds on Pembury estate torched cars  and hurled petrol bombs. Scores
of businesses looted and three  officers injured by flying missiles.

Clapham Junction Mob of 200 targeted stores including a  fancy dress shop where
they stole face masks. Female  firefighter pulled off her motorbike and
threatened with gun.  Police armoured cars push back 150 louts.

Peckham Major fire started next to a Greggs bakery, injuring a  woman and child
in flat.

Enfield Sony CD distribution centre looted and burned down.

Camden Lock-down as rioters trashed a Sainsbury's.  Theatre-goers trapped inside
Roundhouse.

Croydon Thugs raided shops and set fires amid clashes  with police. Inferno
destroyed furniture store House Of Reeves.  A 26-year-old man died after
suffering gunshot wounds.

BIRMINGHAM Hundreds targeted Bullring shopping centre and  smashed up Jamie
Oliver restaurant. Around 140 arrested and  press photographer Harry Smith, 20,
beaten up.

NOTTINGHAM Police station petrol-bombed, shops and homes  wrecked.

KENT Thirteen arrests in Chatham, Gillingham and Rainham.

BRISTOL More than 150 rioters broke into Cabot Circus shops.

LIVERPOOL Around 300 youths target Toxteth after Facebook  invite. Two police
hurt by bricks.

LEEDS A 34-year-old local man seriously hurt in a shooting.

WOLVERHAMPTON Looters broke into several stores last night  before police
intervened. Cars torched in nearby West Bromwich.

MANCHESTER Mob on rampage looting city centre shops.

SHOULD WE SHOOT THE LOOTERS?

YES: 0901 030 8384

NO: 0901 030 8385

If you want to use sms text:

Yes text DSWEDYES to 80088

No text DSWEDNO to 80088

Calls 26p from BT Landlines. Texts 25p plus your standard  network charges.
Lines close midnight tonight. 95% readers  reckon the police lost control in the
riots.

says

IT'S time to reclaim the streets.

The sickening rioting of the past few nights has shamed  the nation.

Feral youths hell-bent on violent chaos have ruined  communities all across
Britain.

Innocents have been battered, homes gutted and  livelihoods destroyed.

This isn't about political grievances, it's  sheer mindless yobbery.

But proud Britons are fighting back. They are doing it  peacefully by clearing
up the mess, helping the injured and  giving those who have lost homes a roof
over their heads.

They are true heroes. It proves this country will not be  beaten down by
thuggery and abuse - it's not the British  way.

We must continue to show that famous Blitz spirit, and  defy the violence and
intimidation.

The authorities will restore order and peace.

And then the streets of Britain will be ours again.

FIGHTBACK BEGINSoP4-5

BIRMINGHAM CROYDON BRISTOL PECKHAM LIVERPOOL

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AGONY: Duggan's lover Semone Wilson
CRISIS TALKS: PM Cameron chats to police and fire chiefs in Croydon yesterday.
Below right, acting Met commissioner Tim Godwin at Downing Street
Daily Star picture team: TIM MERRY, WAYNE STARR and JIM BENNETT
RING OF STEEL: Police armoured cars ready for action
PAYBACK: Police take down a rioter in Clapham Junction
STANDING FIRM: Riot officers clash with flarethrowing thugs in Peckham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BURN, LOOT AND WE WILL SHOOT;
+ Anarchy in the UK + Anarchy in the UK + Anarchy in the UK +

BYLINE: MARC WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1174 words


POLICE are threatening to shoot rioters with plastic bullets in a crackdown on
the anarchy engulfing Britain.

The boys in blue said they would get tough with yobs after three days of
violence, destruction and looting.

Officers were accused of playing it safe as louts ran riot unchallenged but
Premier David Cameron called for action as he returned from his holidays.

He recalled MPs to Westminster and, after discussing police tactics at a meeting
of the Government's Cobra emergency committee, pledged to do "everything
necessary to restore order".

But news that slain "gangster" Mark Duggan, 29, did not fire at police before he
was shot was likely to inflame tensions further.

His death sparked the riots, although it was revealed by the Independent Police
Complaints Commission yesterday that he was carrying a gun when shot by officers
in Tottenham last week.

And as the uproar claimed its first life yesterday, some politicians said the
Army should be called in to bring peace.

A 26-year-old man died after being shot in a car during disturbances in Croydon,
south London. And a man in his 40s was "critical" in hospital after confronting
yobs in Ealing, west London, on Monday night.

Tory MEP Roger Helmer Tweeted: "Memo to Cobra: Time to get tough. Bring in the
Army. Shoot looters and arsonists on sight."

Fellow MEP and UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, 47, said: "The
population deserves protection."

But Mr Helmer was later criticised by Tories, with a Conservative party
spokesman saying: "We totally disassociate ourselves from these comments."

Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner Stephen Kavanagh said using
plastic bullets was "one of the tactics" being considered.

His boss, acting commissioner Tim Godwin, called for a voluntary curfew.

Their comments came as the Metropolitan Police reached breaking point, with
officers from 30 forces from as far away as Scotland drafted in.

Police chiefs promised 16,000 officers would be on London's streets last night.

Mr Cameron, who arrived back from Italy in the early hours of yesterday, said:
"This is criminality pure and simple and it has to be confronted and defeated.

People should be in no doubt that we will do everything necessary to restore
order to Britain's streets."

But London Mayor Boris Johnson, 47, who also cut short his summer break because
of the crisis, was heckled when he appeared in Clapham, south-west London.

He promised "robust policing" to residents whose homes and shops were attacked
but locals responded with calls of "resign" and "three days too late".

Meanwhile, the UK suffered further embarrassment yesterday as Britain joined the
likes of war-torn Afghanistan and Libya on a list of international trouble
hotspots.

Latvia, Sweden, Denmark and Finland are all advising their citizens to avoid
London, Birmingham and a string of other UK cities.

In Manchester last night, hundreds of yobs rampaged through the city centre
smashing windows, looting and torching cafés and shops including Miss Selfridge,
Tesco Express, Foot Asylum, Diesel and Bang & Olufsen. After police with dogs
began patrolling the area, the mob scattered.

In the West Midlands town of West Bromwich, gangs torched vehicles and looted
shops. Police closed a number of roads in a bid to halt the chaos.

Yesterday an inquest into Mr Duggan's death heard he died from a single gunshot
wound to the chest. The hearing in High Barnet, north London, was adjourned but
outside court his family's lawyer Marcia Willis-Stewart said: "The family want
everyone to know that the disorder going on has nothing to do with finding out
what happened to Mark." More than 500 arrests were made in London and 100 of
those people were charged. Dozens of other suspects were arrested in cities
including Liverpool and Bristol.

Some courts were open around the clock to process the charges, said Prisons
Minister Crispin Blunt.

The estimated cost of the clear-up and damage to the economy is set to top
£100million.

Last night workers around the UK were told go home early and businesses were
boarded up in anticipation of further violence.

Garages were even banning people from filling up cans in a bid to stop fuel
being used in petrol bombs.

marc.walker@dailystar.co.uk

Where trouble flared...

LONDON

Deptford

Looters forced people to strip so they could steal clothes.

Notting Hill

Posh diners at The Ledbury had rings ripped from fingers. Ealing People pulled
from vehicles which were then torched.

Hackney

Masked raiders stormed a bus after pelting it with stolen champagne bottles.
Crowds on Pembury estate torched cars and hurled petrol bombs. Scores of
businesses looted and three officers injured by flying missiles.

Clapham Junction

Mob of 200 targeted stores including a fancy dress shop where they stole face
masks. Female firefighter pulled off her motorbike and threatened with gun.
Police armoured cars push back 150 louts.

Peckham

Major fire started next to a Greggs bakery, injuring a woman and child in flat.

Enfield

Sony CD distribution centre looted and burned down.

Camden

Lock-down as rioters trashed a Sainsbury's. Theatre-goers trapped inside
Roundhouse.

Croydon

Thugs raided shops and set fires amid clashes with police. Inferno destroyed
furniture store House Of Reeves. A 26-year-old man died after suffering gunshot
wounds.

BIRMINGHAM

Hundreds targeted Bullring shopping centre and smashed up Jamie Oliver
restaurant. Around 140 arrested and press photographer Harry Smith, 20, beaten
up.

NOTTINGHAM

Police station petrol-bombed, shops and homes wrecked.

KENT

Thirteen arrests in Chatham, Gillingham and Rainham.

BRISTOL

More than 150 rioters broke into Cabot Circus shops.

LIVERPOOL

Around 300 youths target Toxteth after Facebook invite. Two police hurt by
bricks.

LEEDS

A 34-year-old local man seriously hurt in a shooting.

WOLVERHAMPTON

Looters broke into several stores last night before police intervened. Cars
torched in nearby West Bromwich.

MANCHESTER Mob on rampage looting city centre shops.

SHOULD WE SHOOT THE LOOTERS?

YES: 0901 030 8384

NO: 0901 030 8385

If you want to use sms text:

Yes text DSWEDYES to 80088

No text DSWEDNO to 80088

Calls 26p from BT Landlines. Texts 25p plus your standard network charges. Lines
close midnight tonight. 95% readers reckon the police lost control in the riots.

daily star says

IT'S time to reclaim the streets.

The sickening rioting of the past few nights has shamed the nation.

Feral youths hell-bent on violent chaos have ruined communities all across
Britain.

Innocents have been battered, homes gutted and livelihoods destroyed.

This isn't about political grievances, it's sheer mindless yobbery.

But proud Britons are fighting back. They are doing it peacefully by clearing up
the mess, helping the injured and giving those who have lost homes a roof over
their heads.

They are true heroes. It proves this country will not be beaten down by thuggery
and abuse - it's not the British way.

We must continue to show that famous Blitz spirit, and defy the violence and
intimidation.

The authorities will restore order and peace.

And then the streets of Britain will be ours again.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AGONY: Duggan's lover Semone Wilson
CRISIS TALKS: PM Cameron chats to police and fire chiefs in Croydon yesterday.
Below right, acting Met commissioner Tim Godwin at Downing Street
Daily Star picture team: TIM MERRY, WAYNE STARR and JIM BENNETT
RING OF STEEL: Police armoured cars ready for action
PAYBACK: Police take down a rioter in Clapham Junction
STANDING FIRM: Riot officers clash with flarethrowing thugs in Peckham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

573 foreign killers in UK jails cost us £23m a year

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 390 words


THE number of foreign murderers being held in British jails has almost doubled
in the past 10 years.

There are currently 573 overseas nationals serving sentences for murder - an 86
percent increase on the 308 who were behind bars in 2002.

In the last year alone 50 non-British killers have been given life terms for
murder.

Yesterday campaigners expressed alarm at the growing numbers.

Gerard Batten, UK Independence Party MEP and its home affairs spokesman, said:
"This growth is quite disturbing.

"It is another symptom of our uncontrolled immigration policy.

"It is quite probable that these murderers committed other offences before they
killed.

"It proves we are not looking at who comes into the country and it is the
taxpayer who ends up paying the price.

"Public money is used to keep them in prison and our society pays the price of
suffering more crime. We are a country that has lost all sense of
selfpreservation."

The taxpayer-funded bill for keeping the 573 murderers locked up is running at
£23million a year.

The new figures have been revealed at a time when public finances are under
extreme pressure and Ken Clarke's Ministry of Justice is being forced to cut its
£9billion budget by 25 per cent.

Yet in June, European judges added to Britain's problems by ruling that
immigrant convicts cannot be deported after serving their sentences unless their
safety can be guaranteed in their home countries.

By law, any non-British national jailed for more than a year must be considered
for deportation.

However the European Court of Human Rights banned the Government from ejecting
rapists, murderers and paedophiles if there was any risk of them facing "inhuman
or degrading treatment" abroad.

Last year, seven murderers from overseas were released from their life sentences
in the UK, but only four were deported. Two are still living in the community
and the third has been recalled to prison.

The Home Office also admitted this week that at least eight violent or sex
criminals from abroad had been wrongly freed and not deported.

Shadow Home Office Minister Shabana Mahmood called for the Home Secretary to
"come clean" on those not deported, saying: "If Theresa May is unwilling to
admit there is a problem how can anyone have confi-dence in her ability to put
it right?" There are currently 11,500 foreign convicts in the country's prisons.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Worried MEP Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

573 foreign killers in UK jails cost us GBP 23m a year

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 29

LENGTH: 391  words


THE number of foreign murderers being held in British jails has almost doubled
in the past 10 years.

There are currently 573 overseas nationals serving sentences for murder - an 86
percent increase on the 308 who were behind bars in 2002.

In the last year alone 50 non-British killers have been given life terms for
murder.

Yesterday campaigners expressed alarm at the growing numbers.

Gerard Batten, UK Independence Party MEP and its home affairs spokesman, said:
"This growth is quite disturbing.

"It is another symptom of our uncontrolled immigration policy.

"It is quite probable that these murderers committed other offences before they
killed.

"It proves we are not looking at who comes into the country and it is the
taxpayer who ends up paying the price.

"Public money is used to keep them in prison and our society pays the price of
suffering more crime. We are a country that has lost all sense of
selfpreservation."

The taxpayer-funded bill for keeping the 573 murderers locked up is running at
GBP 23million a year.

The new figures have been revealed at a time when public finances are under
extreme pressure and Ken Clarke's Ministry of Justice is being forced to cut its
GBP 9billion budget by 25 per cent.

Yet in June, European judges added to Britain's problems by ruling that
immigrant convicts cannot be deported after serving their sentences unless their
safety can be guaranteed in their home countries.

By law, any non-British national jailed for more than a year must be considered
for deportation.

However the European Court of Human Rights banned the Government from ejecting
rapists, murderers and paedophiles if there was any risk of them facing "inhuman
or degrading treatment" abroad.

Last year, seven murderers from overseas were released from their life sentences
in the UK, but only four were deported. Two are still living in the community
and the third has been recalled to prison.

The Home Office also admitted this week that at least eight violent or sex
criminals from abroad had been wrongly freed and not deported.

Shadow Home Office Minister Shabana Mahmood called for the Home Secretary to
"come clean" on those not deported, saying: "If Theresa May is unwilling to
admit there is a problem how can anyone have confidence in her ability to put it
right?"

There are currently 11,500 foreign convicts in the country's prisons.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Worried MEP Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

We should take the ECB's cue on inflation;
Letters to the Head of Business

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 140 words


SIR - I do not think the Conservatives care about inflation. I expect it will
rise to 5pc or 6pc. George Osborne has various tools to deal with this, such as
raising the interest rate and increasing free trade. He could intervene to
ensure good balance between supply and demand for labour and commercial property
via the price mechanism.

The European Central Bank takes inflation seriously and I would like it to set
our interest rate. We could therefore abolish our Monetary Policy Committee but
not join the euro.

I think Europe should consider trade protectionism, particularly towards Asia,
but Britain should pursue more free trade. When the British people were
consulted on Europe at the last European election, the UK Independence Party
came second, so there should be a limit to how much we are a part of Europe.

Peter Mennie, Lymington

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU farce means we can't even vote on hanging;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 153 words


THE Downing Street petition on the return of the death penalty and the possible
debate in Parliament on the subject is entirely irrelevant ("New calls to bring
back death penalty", August 5).

The fact of the matter is that no member of the European Union is allowed to
have the death penalty, as a condition of membership.

Indeed one sticking point to Turkish entry is that country's need to repeal the
death penalty before it can be allowed to join.

Whatever side of the argument you may be on, the reality is that Parliament has
surrendered its right to decide on this matter, along with so much else that is
now the legislative prerogative of the European Union.

Even if the British people and our parliament decided on the return of capital
punishment they would be powerless to enact it while we are still a member of
the EU. Yet another good reason for Britain to leave the EU.

Gerard Batten, MEP, UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIFTIES JUSTICE: An execution notice is posted

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU farce means we can't even vote on hanging;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 18

LENGTH: 153  words


THE Downing Street petition on the return of the death penalty and the possible
debate in Parliament on the subject is entirely irrelevant ("New calls to bring
back death penalty", August 5).

The fact of the matter is that no member of the European Union is allowed to
have the death penalty, as a condition of membership.

Indeed one sticking point to Turkish entry is that country's need to repeal the
death penalty before it can be allowed to join.

Whatever side of the argument you may be on, the reality is that Parliament has
surrendered its right to decide on this matter, along with so much else that is
now the legislative prerogative of the European Union.

Even if the British people and our parliament decided on the return of capital
punishment they would be powerless to enact it while we are still a member of
the EU. Yet another good reason for Britain to leave the EU.

Gerard Batten, MEP, UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIFTIES JUSTICE: An execution notice is posted

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Bridge

BYLINE: Andrew Robson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 407 words


Terence Reese's dry turn of phrase has amused and inspired many a player. Some
examples...

"Partner thinks awhile, consults the ceiling, and eventually gives me Three
Spades."

Or, "It might have been worse, I begin to tell my partner. For example, if I
finesse the queen of spades all I make is my three aces and... But he isn't
listening."

Or, "With murder in my heart I congratulate West on his good defence." I would
strongly urge you to check out one of Reese's classics, perhaps Reese on Play or
The Expert Game. They remain classics - and very relevant to the modern game -
15 years after Reese died.

On today's 4? deal from a high stake rubber at his Chilham Castle, we see host
Stuart Wheeler, treasurer of UKIP, quote Reese with tongue in cheek as he made
the key play. West led the ten of clubs to East's king.

"As a matter of ordinary technique", said Wheeler, a typically Reese-esque gem
of drollery, as he let East's king of clubs win the first trick (key play),
playing the jack. He won East's club continuation and drew trumps without loss
by crossing to dummy's king (to preserve his ?AJ finesse position, necessary on
this occasion) and leading back to (East's ten and) his jack, cashing the ace
felling East's queen.

If West held the ace of diamonds, declarer's game was secure. Should East hold
the card, declarer had two chances in spades. He tested the first by leading the
jack, hoping West held the king. The jack lost to East's king and East Contract:
4?, Opening Lead: ?10 returned his third club.

Ruffing the club, declarer now tested his second chance in spades, crossing to
the ace-queen and hoping the ten dropped. It duly did, so he could discard two
diamonds from hand on the third high spade and the promoted nine of spades. He
lost just one diamond and so made his vulnerable game.

Do you see the necessity of ducking the first trick? If declarer had won, East,
on winning his king of spades, would be able to reach his partner via a second
club for a diamond lead through dummy's king. Declarer would lose two diamond
tricks before he could take advantage of the ten of spades dropping for a second
diamond discard from hand. Down one.

andrew.robson@thetimes.co.uk (1) Wheeler appreciates that chances of success
required to bid a vulnerable game are pretty low, less than 40%, to render the
bid a long-term winner. Wheeler created the IG Index spread betting company from
nothing and few have a greater grasp of odds.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bridge

BYLINE: Andrew Robson

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 439 words


Terence Reese's dry turn of phrase has amused and inspired many a player. Some
examples...

"Partner thinks awhile, consults the ceiling, and eventually gives me Three
Spades."

Or, "It might have been worse, I begin to tell my partner. For example, if I
finesse the queen of spades all I make is my three aces and... But he isn''t
listening."

Or, "With murder in my heart I congratulate West on his good defence."

I would strongly urge you to check out one of Reese's classics, perhaps Reese on
Play or The Expert Game. They remain classics - and very relevant to the modern
game - 15 years after Reese died.

On today's 4 deal from a high stake rubber at his Chilham Castle, we see host
Stuart Wheeler, treasurer of UKIP, quote Reese with tongue in cheek as he made
the key play. West led the ten of clubs to East's king.

"As a matter of ordinary technique", said Wheeler, a typically Reese-esque gem
of drollery, as he let East's king of clubs win the first trick (key play),
playing the jack. He won East's club continuation and drew trumps without loss
by crossing to dummy's king (to preserve his AJ finesse position, necessary on
this occasion) and leading back to (East's ten and) his jack, cashing the ace
felling East's queen.

If West held the ace of diamonds, declarer's game was secure. Should East hold
the card, declarer had two chances in spades. He tested the first by leading the
jack, hoping West held the king. The jack lost to East's king and East returned
his third club.

Ruffing the club, declarer now tested his second chance in spades, crossing to
the ace-queen and hoping the ten dropped. It duly did, so he could discard two
diamonds from hand on the third high spade and the promoted nine of spades. He
lost just one diamond and so made his vulnerable game.

Do you see the necessity of ducking the first trick? If declarer had won, East,
on winning his king of spades, would be able to reach his partner via a second
club for a diamond lead through dummy's king. Declarer would lose two diamond
tricks before he could take advantage of the ten of spades dropping for a second
diamond discard from hand. Down one.

andrew.robson@thetimes.co.uk

Dealer: North, Vulnerability: Both Rubber ?AQ94 ?K 64 3 ?K 9 ?7 6 2 .8 7 5 3 ??Q
6 32 ?Q10983 N WE S ? K 10 6 ?Q109 ?A J 7 5 ?K 5 4 ?J2 ?AJ8752 ?10 8 4 ?A J
S(Wheeler) W N E 1NT Pass 4?(1) End (1) Wheeler appreciates that chances of
success required to bid a vulnerable game are pretty low, less than 40%, to
render the bid a long-term winner. Wheeler created the IG Index spread betting
company from nothing and few have a greater grasp of odds.   Contract: 4?,
Opening Lead: ?10

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             August 7, 2011 Sunday

LETHAL INJECTION IS FAVOURED 'ULTIMATE SANCTION' TO CUT CRIME

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 562 words


A MAJORITY of British people support the return of the death penalty, a Mail on
Sunday poll has found.

As MPs prepare for a likely Commons debate on capital punishment later this
year, the first since 1998, the survey shows that 53 per cent of voters back its
reintroduction. Just 34 per cent are opposed to the move.

The last hangings in Britain were in 1964, but the issue has risen up the
political agenda again as a result of the e-petitions scheme, an initiative that
allows the public to help set the Government agenda and means anyone can set up
an internet petition on any subject.

If it attracts more than 100,000 signatures, MPs must consider debating it in
the Commons, and the return of the death penalty heads the list of demands, with
more than 40 of the first 200 petitions calling for it.

The Survation poll reveals a striking gender divide over the issue: while 63 per
cent of men back the move, just 44 per cent of women are in favour.

And preferences for the manner of execution have clearly changed in the
half-century since the last judicially sanctioned deaths.

When asked which method they preferred Z regardless of their views on the ethics
of the issue Z an overwhelming 66 per cent opted for lethal injection, which is
widely assumed to be the most humane technique. Only 12 per cent still think
that hanging should be used.

Nearly half, 48 per cent, of those asked believe that murders and other serious
offences would go down if it were reintroduced, while 32 per cent think the
level would stay the same. Mass murder, child murder, terrorism and war crimes
are the main offences deemed deserving of the 'ultimate sanction'.

The poll also reveals other clear trends: the death penalty is more popular
among older people than the young; and is least popular in the south of the UK.
Only 41 per cent of Lib Dem voters are in favour, compared with 45 per cent of
Labour backers, 67 per cent of Conservatives and 72 per cent of UKIP supporters.

But an overwhelming majority of all voters, 82 per cent, believe that the
current justice system is too lenient.

Although MPs are unlikely to vote through the restoration of the penalty Z in
1998 it was rejected by 158 votes Z Commons leader Sir George Young said last
week that Westminster could not afford to ignore the issue. Priti Patel, the
Tory MP for Witham in Essex, is leading calls from within the Commons for a
debate.

Prime Minister David Cameron is opposed to the move on the grounds that there
have been too many miscarriages of justice, and it is an inappropriate sanction
to be levelled by a 'civilised society'.

Damian Lyons Lowe, from Survation, said: 'These results clearly show that while
it is an emotive and divisive issue with differences along gender and party
lines, the public clearly remains in favour of capital punishment for serious
crime.'

Last night Tory MP Brian Binley said that the Commons should bow to public
pressure and debate the issue.

'I have no doubt that this should be given an airing. The British people are
sick and tired of politicians who do not think it is their job to respond to the
public's concerns.'

It is not known how many MPs are in favour of the measure, but Mr Binley said he
personally supported the restoration of the death penalty for the murder of a
policeman in pursuit of a crime, and for terrorists.

Survation interviewed 1,000 people on August 5 and 6.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;

Support floods in for Express fight to vote on Europe

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 519 words


THE Daily Express bid to force a debate on leaving the EU got a signifi cant
boost yesterday with thousands backing our campaign to make it one of the most
popular on the Government's website.

In the fi rst full day of the new e-petition, we gained 5,000 signatures. Cross
party MPs also give their backing to our crusade.

Tory MP Peter Bone, who is on the committee which will decide which issues are
debated in Parliament, said:

"It's a very good idea that Parliament will debate issues that the people want
to be debated. It would seem to me a referendum on Europe ticks all the boxes
that we are looking for. It's something the people want debated.

"It's also an issue that different political parties want debated and on which
there are different views in different political parties and it's a debate that
neither the front nor backbenches in Government wants.

"It's clearly something that Parliament should discuss. Millions of people want
it debated. I think the Daily Express should be congratulated for leading the
drive to get this issue debated and I would encourage everybody to sign the
petition." Fellow Tory MP Priti Patel, who has called on the UK to stand up
against Europe in the past, added: "I welcome the Daily Express campaign."

Anti-Brussels party Ukip's Nigel Farage praised us for "taking up the fi ght" to
give Britain a referendum on membership.

He declared our crusade to be in tune with the views of hundreds of thousands of
ordinary people across the country who simply want a chance to have their say on
the EU.

Before the offi cial launch of the site, the Daily Express had already gathered
75,000 signatures backing the call for a referendum which we established on our
own website. Any demands on the new e-petition site that get 100,000 signatures
will have to be considered for a debate in Parliament.

We are pressing the Government to add those names to its site. But already
thousands of people have registered on the e-petition we opened. The support we
have received means we are well on course to hit the 100,000 target.

Our loyal readers have a history of backing our crusade to get Britain out of
the EU. Earlier this year we delivered petition coupons signed by 373,000 of you
to Number 10 Downing Street.

You can sign the offi cial "Britain wants a referendum to leave EU" petition by
going to www.express.co.uk/referendum which will direct you straight to the
Government e-petition site.

Readers who cannot access the internet are also invited to send us a letter
supporting the crusade.

We will not be able to add the names to the e-petition as email addresses are
required for it but we are storing them up for future use as part of our wider
crusade. Send your letters with your name and address to: "Britain wants a
referendum to leave EU",

Newsdesk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street, London EC3R 6EN.

CRUSADE  GET US OUT OF THE EU

Q Is the Government stalling on an EU referendum?

NO: 0901 030 8349

No text DXSATNO to 80088

YES: 0901 030 8348

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

COMMENTARY

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 360 words


UKIP is proud to throw its weight behind the Daily Express e-petition to call
for a referendum on leaving the EU. Our members and supporters are also asking
their friends, family and work colleagues to add their names to the campaign.

Initial feedback has been outstanding. I have already received countless e-mails
from Ukip members who are not only spreading the word about the e-petition, but
are grateful that a national newspaper is taking up the fight to get the people
of this country a referendum on EU membership.

This crusade by the Daily Express echoes the sentiments of hundreds of thousands
of people across the UK. We are talking about real people here, not the
political or media elite, but the silent majority who want the right to have
their say on the EU.

Talk to any cabbie, the bloke in the pub or the lady you are sitting next to on
a delayed train, and the issue of the EU is never far away from the
conversation. The almost daily headlines featuring the eye-watering amounts of
money being spent to bail out failed eurozone countries and the never-ending
stories of how the EU interferes in every area of our lives has led people to
become suspicious, cynical and angry about our continued EU membership.

They have had enough. Britain's Amsterdam Brussels Signed: liability for shoring
up the collapsing euro now stands at £12.5billion and this can only get worse
when you look at the damaged economies of Spain, Italy and Cyprus.

People cannot understand how this Government can find the money to support the
failing eurozone, yet expect them to put up with scaledback services and
facilities because of reduced funding to local councils.

The time has come to give the people of the UK a say on what really matters to
them. The Government has said it will consider any issue for Parliamentary
debate if 100,000 people put their names to an e-petition. This is achievable
and will send a clear message to politicians that would be impossible to ignore.

Please sign the e-petition and ask your family and friends to do the same. Ukip
is fully supportive of this campaign and if you care about this country, I ask
you to show your support as well.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip chief backs Express fight for a vote on Europe

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 535 words


THE Daily Express bid to force a Parliamentary debate on leaving the EU wins a
significant boost today with backing from anti-Brussels party Ukip.

Leader Nigel Farage praises us for "taking up the fight'' to give Britain a
referendum on membership.

He declares our crusade to be in tune with the views of hundreds of thousands of
ordinary people across the country who simply want a chance to have their say on
the EU.

North Central with showers possibly heavy Feeling cool South Central Ireland: An
unsettled day with mostly cloudy skies and showers, some heavy and slow moving.
A gentle southwesterly breeze. High 15C (59F).

"The almost daily headlines featuring the eye-watering amounts of money being
spent to bail out failed eurozone countries and the never-ending stories of how
the EU interferes in every area of our lives has led people to become
suspicious, cynical and angry about our continued EU membership," writes Mr
Farage in an exclusive article for today's Daily Express.

"They have had enough. The time has come to give the people of the UK a say on
what really matters to them."

Mr Farage urges as many people as possible to sign up to the Daily Express
petition on a new Government website which went live on Thursday.

Any demands on the new e-petition site that get 100,000 signatures will have to
be considered for a debate in Parliament.

Before the official launch of the site, the Daily Express had already gathered
75,000 signatures backing the call for a referendum which we established on our
own website.

We are pressing the Government to add those names to the petition on its site.
But already thousands of people have registered their names on the e-petition we
registered on the Government site.

In its first full day of operation we gained 5,000 signatures, making it one of
the most popular on the Government site.

The interest and support we have received means we are well on course to hit the
100,000 target.

Our loyal readers have a history of giving fantastic support to our crusade to
get Britain out of the EU. Earlier this year we delivered petition coupons
signed by 373,000 of you to Number 10 Downing Street.

Now we are calling on every supporter to make the most of the Government's own
new e-petition mechanism for ensuring the people have infl uence over what our
politicians talk about in Parliament.

You can sign the offi cial "Britain wants a referendum to leave EU" petition by
going to www.express.co.uk/referendum which will direct you straight to the
Government e-petition site.

Readers who cannot access the internet are also invited to send us a letter
supporting the crusade.

We will not be able to add the names to the e-petition as email addresses are
required for it but we are storing them up for future use as part of our wider
crusade. Send your letters with your name and address to: "Britain wants a
referendum to leave EU", Newsdesk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street, London
EC3R 6EN.

CRUSADE

GET US OUT OF THE EU

Is the Government stalling on an EU referendum?

Q YES: 0901 030 8348

Yes text DXSATYES to  80088

NO: 0901 030 8349

No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Mounting panic as UK shares plunge by another £38bn

BYLINE: Alison Little; Andrew Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 569 words


PRESSURE on eurozone leaders to get a grip on their spiralling debt problem
intensified yesterday as another £38billion was wiped off UK shares.

The FTSE 100 Index endured another dismal day's trading as the crisis continued
to cause havoc with Britain's economy. The total knocked off the value of top UK
companies is nearly £150billion this week - a fall of almost 10 per cent - and
worldwide markets have lost £1.5trillion.

A brief rally followed yesterday's news that a higher than expected number of
jobs were created in the US last month, but it lasted less than an hour.

Markets worldwide went on the slide again, unconvinced by the EU's desperate bid
to reassure traders it would not let more countries go under, and terrified that
America's woes will help push the world back into recession.

Decisive A lack of decisive leadership was blamed for the markets crashing. Even
Romano Prodi, former EU Commission president, said Europe had a "problem" with
power. "We don't know who's in charge," he added.

Olli Rehn, EU commissioner for monetary affairs, took to the airwaves with a
call for calm. It followed criticism of commission president Jose Manuel Barroso
for spooking markets by voicing his concern about the financial markets'
treatment of Italy and Spain.

Mr Rehn insisted those two countries did not deserve the lack of confidence
markets were showing.

He urged the markets to accept that by next month the eurozone countries would
have put in place details of the package they agreed on July 21 on new help for
Greece.

However, in an apparent admission that more bailouts could come, he said: "The
political will to defend the euro should not be underestimated. Since the onset
of the crisis, leaders have proven they could take the necessary decisions." UK
economists voiced their frustrations with analyst Louise Cooper, of BGC
Partners, warning that traders were "starting to feel the fear".

She added: "The banking industry is yet again facing a crisis. The horrible
reality is that those leaders in charge of our economy have no answers."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said markets were in "freefall", mainly due to the
financial crisis caused by the euro. "Spain and Italy are too big to bail," he
added.

Downing Street and the Treasury said David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne
had no plans to return from holiday but were in touch with events.

President Obama insisted the US economy would improve.

OPINION: PAGE 18 CITY: PAGE 78 but PROPERtY PRICES RISE RISING property prices
offered homeowners a dose of good news yesterday amid the economic turmoil.
Values rose 0.3 per cent last month and 0.5 per cent in the three months to July
- the first quarter-to-quarter hike in 14 months, according to Britain's biggest
mortgage lender.

With little change in the level of house sales or the number of properties on
the market since late 2010, Halifax said the steady market conditions have
helped to stabilise house prices. And in a further boost the number of mortgages
approved to finance house purchases increased by four per cent between May and
June to 48,421, the highest monthly total since May 2010.

Stuart Law, of property finance firm Assetz, said: "There is increasing
confidence in the UK property market, with robust buyer demand and strengthening
house prices. Lending reached a 13-month high in June which is great news for
buyers and points to continued growth in the second half of this year."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A trader at Germany's stock exchange yesterday
... and another, in Tokyo, shows his despair
Pictures: MARTIN OESER/AP and SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip chief backs Express fight for a vote on Europe

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 455  words


THE Daily Express bid to force a Parliamentary debate on leaving the EU wins a
significant boost today with backing from anti-Brussels party Ukip.

Leader Nigel Farage praises us for "taking up the fight'' to give Britain a
referendum on membership.

He declares our crusade to be in tune with the views of hundreds of thousands of
ordinary people across the country who simply want a chance to have their say on
the EU.

"The almost daily headlines featuring the eye-watering amounts of money being
spent to bail out failed eurozone countries and the never-ending stories of how
the EU interferes in every area of our lives has led people to become
suspicious, cynical and angry about our continued EU membership, " writes Mr
Farage in an exclusive article for today's Daily Express.

"They have had enough. The time has come to give the people of the UK a say on
what really matters to them."

Mr Farage urges as many people as possible to sign up to the Daily Express
petition on a new Government website which went live on Thursday.

Any demands on the new e-petition site that get 100,000 signatures will have to
be considered for a debate in Parliament.

Before the official launch of the site, the Daily Express had already gathered
75,000 signatures backing the call for a referendum which we established on our
own website.

We are pressing the Government to add those names to the petition on its site.
But already thousands of people have registered their names on the e-petition we
registered on the Government site.

In its first full day of operation we gained 5,000 signatures, making it one of
the most popular on the Government site.

The interest and support we have received means we are well on course to hit the
100,000 target.

Our loyal readers have a history o f giving fantastic support to our crusade to
get Britain out of the EU. Earlier this year we delivered petition coupons
signed by 373,000 of you to Number 10 Downing Street.

Now we are calling on every supporter to make the most of the Government's own
new e-petition mechanism for ensuring the people have influence over what our
politicians talk about in Parliament.

You can sign the official "Britain wants a referendum to leave EU" petition by
going to www.express.co.uk/referendum which will direct you straight to the
Government e-petition site.

Readers who cannot access the internet are also invited to send us a letter
supporting the crusade.

We will not be able to add the names to the e-petition as email addresses are
required for it but we are storing them up for future use as part of our wider
crusade. Send your letters with your name and address to: "Britain wants a
referendum to leave EU", Newsdesk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street, London
EC3R 6EN.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

COMMENTARY

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 356  words


UKIP is proud to throw its weight behind the Daily Express e-petition to call
for a referendum on leaving the EU. Our members and supporters are also asking
their friends, family and work colleagues to add their names to the campaign.

Initial feedback has been outstanding. I have already received countless e-mails
from Ukip members who are not only spreading the word about the e-petition, but
are grateful that a national newspaper is taking up the fight to get the people
of this country a referendum on EU membership.

This crusade by the Daily Express echoes the sentiments of hundreds of thousands
of people across the UK. We are talking about real people here, not the
political or media elite, but the silent majority who want the right to have
their say on the EU.

Talk to any cabbie, the bloke in the pub or the lady you are sitting next to on
a delayed train, and the issue of the EU is never far away from the
conversation. The almost daily headlines featuring the eye-watering amounts of
money being spent to bail out failed eurozone countries and the never-ending
stories of how the EU interferes in every area of our lives has led people to
become suspicious, cynical and angry about our continued EU membership.

They have had enough. Britain's liability for shoring up the collapsing euro now
stands at GBP 12.5billion and this can only get worse when you look at the
damaged economies of Spain, Italy and Cyprus.

People cannot understand how this Government can find the money to support the
failing eurozone, yet expect them to put up with scaledback services and
facilities because of reduced funding to local councils.

The time has come to give the people of the UK a say on what really matters to
them. The Government has said it will consider any issue for Parliamentary
debate if 100,000 people put their names to an e-petition. This is achievable
and will send a clear message to politicians that would be impossible to ignore.

Please sign the e-petition and ask your family and friends to do the same. Ukip
is fully supportive of this campaign and if you care about this country, I ask
you to show your support as well.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Support floods in for Express fight to vote on Europe

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 473  words


THE Daily Express bid to force a debate on leaving the EU got a significant
boost yesterday with thousands backing our campaign to make it one of the most
popular on the Government's website.

In the first full day of the new e-petition, we gained 5,000 signatures. Cross
party MPs also give their backing to our crusade.

Tory MP Peter Bone, who is on the committee which will decide which issues are
debated in Parliament, said:

"It's a very good idea that Parliament will debate issues that the people want
to be debated. It would seem to me a referendum on Europe ticks all the boxes
that we are looking for. It's something the people want debated.

"It's also an issue that different political parties want debated and on which
there are different views in different political parties and it's a debate that
neither the front nor backbenches in Government wants.

"It's clearly something that Parliament should discuss. Millions of people want
it debated. I think the Daily Express should be congratulated for leading the
drive to get this issue debated and I would encourage everybody to sign the
petition." Fellow Tory MP Priti Patel, who has called on the UK to stand up
against Europe in the past, added: "I welcome the Daily Express campaign."

Anti-Brussels party Ukip's Nigel Farage praised us for "taking up the fight" to
give Britain a referendum on membership.

He declared our crusade to be in tune with the views of hundreds of thousands of
ordinary people across the country who simply want a chance to have their say on
the EU.

Before the official launch of the site, the Daily Express had already gathered
75,000 signatures backing the call for a referendum which we established on our
own website. Any demands on the new e-petition site that get 100,000 signatures
will have to be considered for a debate in Parliament.

We are pressing the Government to add those names to its site. But already
thousands of people have registered on the e-petition we opened. The support we
have received means we are well on course to hit the 100,000 target.

Our loyal readers have a history o f backing our crusade to get Britain out of
the EU. Earlier this year we delivered petition coupons signed by 373,000 o f
you to Number 10 Downing Street.

You can sign the official "Britain wants a referendum to leave EU" petition by
going to www.express.co.uk/referendum which will direct you straight to the
Government e-petition site.

Readers who cannot access the internet are also invited to send us a letter
supporting the crusade.

We will not be able to add the names to the e-petition as email addresses are
required for it but we are storing them up for future use as part of our wider
crusade. Send your letters with your name and address to: "Britain wants a
referendum to leave EU", Newsdesk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street, London
EC3R 6EN.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Mounting panic as UK shares plunge by another GBP 38bn

BYLINE: By Alison Little and Andrew Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 402  words


PRESSURE on eurozone leaders to get a grip on their spiralling debt problem
intensified yesterday as another GBP 38billion was wiped off UK shares.

The FTSE 100 Index endured another dismal day's trading as the crisis continued
to cause havoc with Britain's economy. The total knocked off the value of top UK
companies is nearly GBP 150billion this week - a fall of almost 10 per cent -
and worldwide markets have lost GBP 1.5trillion.

A brief rally followed yesterday's news that a higher than expected number of
jobs were created in the US last month, but it lasted less than an hour.

Markets worldwide went on the slide again, unconvinced by the EU's desperate bid
to reassure traders it would not let more countries go under, and terrified that
America's woes will help push the world back into recession.

A lack of decisive leadership was blamed for the markets crashing.

Even Romano Prodi, former EU Commission president, said Europe had a "problem"
with power. "We don't know who's in charge, " he added.

Olli Rehn, EU commissioner for monetary affairs, took to the airwaves with a
call for calm. It followed criticism of commission president Jose Manuel Barroso
for spooking markets by voicing his concern about the financial markets'
treatment of Italy and Spain.

Mr Rehn insisted those two countries did not deserve the lack of confidence
markets were showing. He urged the markets to accept that by next month the
eurozone countries would have put in place details of the package they agreed on
July 21 on new help for Greece.

However, in an apparent admission that more bailouts could come, he said: "The
political will to defend the euro should not be underestimated. Since the onset
of the crisis, leaders have proven they could take the necessary decisions." UK
economists voiced their frustrations with analyst Louise Cooper, of BGC
Partners, warning that traders were "starting to feel the fear".

She added: "The banking industry is yet again facing a crisis. The horrible
reality is that those leaders in charge of our economy have no answers."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said markets were in "freefall", mainly due to the
financial crisis caused by the euro. "Spain and Italy are too big to bail, " he
added.

Downing Street and the Treasury said David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne
had no plans to return from holiday but were in touch with events.

President Obama insisted the US economy would improve.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A trader at Germany's stock exchange yesterday . . . and another, in
Tokyo, shows his despair

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Express wins praise for EU vote demand

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 323  words


THE Daily Express bid to force a Parliamentary debate on leaving the EU wins a
significant boost today with backing from anti-Brussels party UKIP.

Leader Nigel Farage praised us for "taking up the fight'' to give Britain a
referendum on membership.

He declared our battle to be in tune with the views of hundreds of thousands of
ordinary people across the country who simply want a chance to have their say on
the EU.

"The almost daily headlines featuring the eye-watering amounts of money being
spent to bail out failed eurozone countries and the never-ending stories of how
the EU interferes in every area of our lives has led people to become
suspicious, cynical and angry about our continued EU membership, " said Mr
Farage.

"They have had enough. The time has come to give the people of the UK a say on
what really matters to them."

Mr Farage urged as many people as possible to sign up to the Daily Express
petition on a new Government website which went live on Thursday. Any demands on
the new e-petition site that get 100,000 signatures will have to be considered
for a debate in Parliament.

Before the official launch of the site, the Daily Express had already gathered
75,000 signatures backing the call for a referendum which we established on our
own website. We are pressing the Government to add those names to the petition
on its site.

But already thousands of people have registered their names on the e-petition we
registered on the Government site.

In its first full day of operation we gained 5,000 signatures, making it one of
the most popular on the Government site.

Our loyal readers have a history of giving fantastic support to our campaign.
Earlier this year we delivered petition coupons signed by 373,000 of you to
Number 10 Downing Street.

You can sign the official "Britain wants a referendum to leave EU" petition by
going to www.express.co.uk/referendum which will direct you straight to the
Government e-petition site.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 6, 2011 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

EU faces crisis of legitimacy, warns former Europe minister;
'Remote' institutions are in urgent need of radical reform, claims Denis
MacShane

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 827 words


The European Union is squandering its remaining legitimacy, and must be urgently
overhauled to safeguard its future, a former Europe minister warned last night.

Click here   to upload graphic: The Commission in Crisis (147.69kB)

In a provocative call for sweeping reforms, the MP Denis MacShane warned that
without action the European Parliament would lose authority, as ever-smaller
numbers of voters take part in elections to choose their representatives in
Strasbourg.

He also called for a reduction in the number of commissioners responsible for
the EU's administration, from 27 to seven. The commissioners each earn a   basic
salary of (EURO)216,000 (£188,000), with the president earning (EURO)264,960.

His intervention is significant because Mr MacShane, who served for three
years as Europe minister in Tony Blair's government, is among the most
pro-European MPs. His comments also crystallise concerns among Europhiles
across the continent that the EU is becoming increasingly remote from voters
and is being bypassed by national governments.

Mr MacShane pointed to the steadily falling turnout in elections to the
European Parliament which has dropped at every contest. It stood at 43 per
cent across the EU in 2009 and less than 35 per cent in Britain. "The
declining turnout means that, after a few more elections, with ever smaller
participation, the Strasbourg Assembly will lose all representative
authority," he said. He warned that the 9,751 parliamentarians in the   27
member states were "alienated" from European decisions.

Mr MacShane suggested that one-third of the Parliament's members should be
elected every two or three years to make them more representative of the
political balance of their home nations.

He protested that MEPs are chosen "in one fell swoop and often in   response to
national political feelings about the government of the day",   pointing to the
election of 13 MEPs from the UK Independence Party and two   from the British
National Party two years ago. "This means that MEPs do   not reflect the
electoral politics that sustains their governments back home."

Mr MacShane suggested the creation of a Senate in the Parliament, consisting
of representatives of the national parliaments, to act as a link with member
states. He is also arguing for a reduction to the 27-member European
Commission containing a representative from each country, suggesting it   should
have seven members appointed on rotation.

"No organisation in the world can be run with 27 executive chiefs,"   he said.
"They sit producing laws and regulation which drive ordinary   European citizens
insane and do the EU great harm as it is seen a factory   for petty regulation
instead of a strategic body building a stronger Europe."

Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Liberal Democrat leader, said the EU had
failed to alter its structure to reflect its rapid growth over the last two
decades. "One of the things the people in Brussels haven't recognised   is that
enlargement has created a very different kind of Europe. You don't   just
recognise that by putting more people round the table," he said. "I   don't
think any British political party has seriously thought that through."

Sir Menzies said there should be a fresh drive to ensure that the principles
of subsidiarity - that decisions are taken at the lowest possible levels -   and
proportionality - that the EU does not exceed its powers - were at the   core of
its operation. Sir Menzies agreed there was a growing sense of   distance
between European citizens and the EU: "If the economic   advantages of the EU
were more radically spelt out, or the disadvantage of   being outside
highlighted more, that might well have an effect on countering   that," he said.

Simon Tilford, the chief economist at the Centre for European Reform
think-tank, warned the EU was suffering a backlash from citizens and
politicians worried about issues for which it stands, such as economic
liberalism and movement across borders.

"The EU can only work if the national governments let it work," he   said. He
said he had "pressing concerns" over the Commission's   effectiveness as more
member states entered into deals with individual   governments rather than
operating through the Commission.

"It hasn't exactly been sidelined, but it is having to fight harder now   than
it has done in the last 30 years," Mr Tilford said.

He accepted that the Parliament faced a "legitimacy problem" and was   losing
credibility because "people who get elected to the European   Parliament are
often on the fringe and out of kilter with the consensus in   their national
parliaments".

Agreeing that the EU faced tough problems and sceptical citizens, he said:
"People   take much of what they enjoy about the EU for granted, but they are
susceptible to messages about the bad things. Governments across Europe are
blaming the EU for things for which it has limited responsibility."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Free me, says illegal locked up for 5 years

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


AN illegal immigrant who has languished in custody for more than five years -
because the Home Office doesn't know where to send him - has launched a High
Court bid for freedom.

Convicted thief Mounir Raki claims his "human right to liberty" is breached by
his detention at the hands of the Home Office.

Raki was kept behind bars after serving a jail sentence when he refused to tell
investigators his true nationality. Officials were forced to detain him - at a
cost of £250,000 to the taxpayer - while they tried to establish his country of
origin.

Condemned

Last night the case was condemned as the latest example of foreign criminals
using human rights legislation to abuse UK immigration laws. It follows that of
convicted sex attacker Sarafa Salami who is being kept by the taxpayer eight
years after he should have been deported to his native Togo.

Salami has cost Britain at least £235,000 in rent, food and detention costs, and
should have left after his four-year sentence. He fathered two children while
avoiding deportation,  and now claims that sending him back would breach his
human right to a family life.

Alp Mehmet, vice-chairman of watchdog Migrationwatch UK, said of the Raki case
that illegals arrive in Britain and destroy their identity papers so the
authorities do not know where to deport them.

"This is a device that has been used by those who know the system well enough to
see that without the right papers, we cannot send them back," he said.

"You cannot really slag off the Home Office, because they cannot return him to a
country which does not own up to him. It is all down to him - he came here
without the necessary documents."

Gerard Batten, UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman, said: "This is just
another one of the mounting number of cases where individuals are using the
Human Rights Act to extract the Michael.

"We as a country are losing any sense of self-preservation. If people come here
and don't play by the rules then we can't be restrained by the Human Rights
Act."

The High Court heard that Raki, in his 30s, came to Britain illegally nine years
ago, but only claimed asylum in July 2006 when he was arrested for theft.

He initially claimed he was Moroccan, but changed his story three months later,
saying he was Palestinian.

At the end of his jail term he was not deported because officials could not find
his records despite extensive inquiries with both countries.

While he has been in custody - at a cost of around £120 a day - he has become
depressed and committed several acts of self-harm, the court heard.

Raki's barrister Alex Goodman claimed he is desperate to be deported, and a
psychiatrist has said his longterm incarceration is having an "adverse effect"
on his mental health.

He told the court that during an assessment last year Raki said: "Honestly, I
have come to an end now. Please send me home or release me.

Frustrated

"I really don't care any more, I just want to get out. Mentally and physically,
I am finished."

Mr Goodman claimed there is "no realistic prospect" of Raki's nationality being
established or him being deported "within a reasonable period of time".

But lawyers for Home Secretary Theresa May argued that he had deliberately
frustrated efforts to deport him by changing the story about his nationality.

Judge Birtles reserved giving his decision until an unspecified later date.

'Another case of using the HumanRights Act to extract the Michael'

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Convicted thief Mounir Raki
Ukip member Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Too many migrants say 71% of Britons

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 434 words


A HUGE majority of Britons believe the country has too many immigrants.

And they think the Government should slash newcomer numbers immediately, a poll
showed yesterday.

David Cameron was given fresh warning to honour his pledge to cut immigration
after research revealed that 71 per cent - nearly three-quarters of the public -
said numbers were too high.

In a further blow, a similar number said public services were suffering under
the weight of so many incomers - as Britons struggled to find work as a result
of lax immigration policies.

The Conservatives have said they aim to cut net migration to of thousands a
year, down from the current 242,000.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of MigrationWatch UK, called the poll "a timely
reminder that the Government must keep its pledge or pay a very heavy price with
public opinion".

The authoritative Global @dvisor global survey of 17,000 people worldwide,
conducted by Ipsos Mori, revealed only a quarter of the 1,000 Britons taking
part thought immigration had been good for the country. It also showed that only
Russians and Belgians were more likely to say their nation had too many
migrants.

People in Japan, where immigration is historically low, had the least concern
about numbers.

Brazilians had the most positive view of immigration. Almost half - 49 per cent
- said it made their country a more interesting place to live in, compared with
33 per cent of Britons.

Pressure A similar proportion of Brazilians thought it good for their country's
economy.

Some 71 per cent of the 1,000 Britons questioned agreed there were too many
foreigners here, while 76 per cent - the highest proportion in 23 countries
surveyed - believed immigration had placed too much pressure on public services.

After Russia and South Africa, Great Britain had the next-highest proportion of
people, 62 per cent, agreeing that immigrants made it harder for people to get
jobs.

Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip - which advocates a five-year freeze on
immigration, then a 50,000-a-year cap - said: "These findings show what real
people care about and immigration has long been the elephant in the room for
both this Government and the last."

Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "For too long immigration was allowed to
get out of control and we are taking action to reduce net migration back to the
tens of thousands.

In the past year we have introduced an annual limit on non-European workers able
to come to the UK and overhauled student visas.

"We are currently consulting on restricting settlement rights and the family
route."

OPINION: PAGE 12 'Immigration a big strain on our services'

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Free me, says illegal locked up for 5 years

BYLINE: By Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 556  words


AN illegal immigrant who has languished in custody for more than five years -
because the Home Office doesn't know where to send him - has launched a High
Court bid for freedom.

Convicted thief Mounir Raki claims his "human right to liberty" is breached by
his detention at the hands of the Home Office.

Raki was kept behind bars after serving a jail sentence when he refused to tell
investigators his true nationality.

Officials were forced to detain him - at a cost of GBP 250,000 to the taxpayer -
while they tried to establish his country of origin.

Last night the case was condemned as the latest example of foreign criminals
using human rights legislation to abuse UK immigration laws.

It follows that of convicted sex attacker Sarafa Salami who is being kept by the
taxpayer eight years after he should have been deported to his native Togo.

Salami has cost Britain at least GBP 235,000 in rent, food and detention costs,
and should have left after his four-year sentence.

He fathered two children while avoiding deportation, and now claims that sending
him back would breach his human right to a family life.

Alp Mehmet, vice-chairman of watchdog Migrationwatch UK, said of the Raki case
that illegals arrive in Britain and destroy their identity papers so the
authorities do not know where to deport them.

"This is a device that has been used by those who know the system well enough to
see that without the right papers, we cannot send them back, " he said.

"You cannot really slag off the Home Office, because they cannot return him to a
country which does not own up to him. It is all down to him - he came here
without the necessary documents."

Gerard Batten, UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman, said: "This is just
another one of the mounting number of cases where individuals are using the
Human Rights Act to extract the Michael.

"We as a country are losing any sense of self-preservation. If people come here
and don't play by the rules then we can't be restrained by the Human Rights
Act."

The High Court heard that Raki, in his 30s, came to Britain illegally nine years
ago, but only claimed asylum in July 2006 when he was arrested for theft.

He initially claimed he was Moroccan, but changed his story three months later,
saying he was Palestinian.

At the end of his jail term he was not deported because officials could not find
his records despite extensive inquiries with both countries.

While he has been in custody - at a cost of around GBP 120 a day - he has become
depressed and committed several acts of self-harm, the court heard.

Raki's barrister Alex Goodman claimed he is desperate to be deported, and a
psychiatrist has said his longterm incarceration is having an "adverse effect"
on his mental health.

He told the court that during an assessment last year Raki said: "Honestly, I
have come to an end now. Please send me home or release me.

"I really don't care any more, I just want to get out.

Mentally and physically, I am finished."

Mr Goodman claimed there is "no realistic prospect" of Raki's nationality being
established or him being deported "within a reasonable period of time".

But lawyers for Home Secretary Theresa May argued that he had deliberately
frustrated efforts to deport him by changing the story about his nationality.

Judge Birtles reserved giving his decision until an unspecified later date.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Convicted thief Mounir Raki
Ukip member Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Pie in the sky We pay for flying cars

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 220  words


AN EU-funded project for science fiction-style personal flying cars was branded
a "crazy'' use of taxpayers' money yesterday.

Brussels has ploughed GBP 3.6million of EU taxpayers' cash into the myCopter
scheme that would see people whizzing above the streets to beat urban
congestion.

It's hoped the funding will lead to Personal Air Transportation Systems (PATS),
with the public riding in helicopter-style Personal Aerial Vehicles (PAVs) for
the daily commute or shopping trip.

But UKIP deputy leader Paul Nuttall said: "You really couldn't make it up.

This idea is so crazy, it's out of this world, particularly in these times when
hard-working people are losing their jobs because of financial cut-backs."

Researchers across Europe, including those at Liverpool University, are working
on the project, seen as a possible answer to city gridlock in 30 years time.

A European Commission spokesman said:

"This, like many EU-funded projects, is about investigating future technologies
that bring benefits to society and create future employment opportunities.

"It is not about everyone flying about in their own individual helicopters but
rather investigating technologies that could decrease traffic congestion and
allow increased urban air travel." It was being taken seriously by NASA and
other renowned institutions, he added.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU's flying car concept has cost taxpayers GBP 3.6m so far

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britons' deep concerns over immigration revealed;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER COLUMN; 12

LENGTH: 231  words


ANEW survey on global attitudes to immigration should give the political class
some food for thought. The percentage of Britons who think that there are too
many foreigners in their country and that immigration makes it harder for people
to get jobs is much higher than in most other countries. And a massive 76 per
cent of Britons - the highest proportion out of the 23 countries in the survey -
think immigration has placed too much pressure on public services.

How timely that this emerges on the day we report on a school where just one per
cent of pupils speaks English.

These comparative figures show just how deeply affected the British are by the
issue and how shameful it is that these fundamental concerns were avoided,
denied and dismissed as racism under the previous Labour government.

Sir Andrew Green, of MigrationWatch UK, says: "This poll is a timely reminder
that the Government must keep its pledge to get immigration down to tens of
thousands or pay a very high price with public opinion".

Yet however proactive the Government is in limiting immigration from non-EU
countries it can do nothing to stem the tide of arrivals from the EU. What's
more this tide will increase if Turkey is admitted into the EU, as UKIP's Nigel
Farage has noted.

UKIP itself advocates a five-year freeze on immigration rather than a cap.

Judging from this survey so do the majority of the voters.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 5, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Too many migrants say 71% of Britons

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 423  words


A HUGE majority of Britons believe the country has too many immigrants.

And they think the Government should slash newcomer numbers immediately, a poll
showed yesterday.

David Cameron was given fresh warning to honour his pledge to cut immigration
after research revealed that 71 per cent - nearly three-quarters of the public -
said numbers were too high.

In a further blow, a similar number said public services were suffering under
the weight of so many incomers - as Britons struggled to find work as a result
of lax immigration policies.

The Conservatives have said they aim to cut net migration to tens of thousands a
year, down from the current 242,000.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of MigrationWatch UK, called the poll "a timely
reminder that the Government must keep its pledge or pay a very heavy price with
public opinion".

The authoritative Global @dvisor global survey of 17,000 people worldwide,
conducted by Ipsos Mori, revealed only a quarter of the 1,000 Britons taking
part thought immigration had been good for the country.

It also showed that only Russians and Belgians were more likely to say their
nation had too many migrants.

People in Japan, where immigration is historically low, had the least concern
about numbers.

Brazilians had the most positive view of immigration. Almost half - 49 per cent
- said it made their country a more interesting place to live in, compared with
33 per cent of Britons.

A similar proportion of Brazilians thought it good for their country's economy.

Some 71 per cent of the 1,000 Britons questioned agreed there were too many
foreigners here, while 76 per cent - the highest proportion in 23 countries
surveyed - believed immigration had placed too much pressure on public services.

After Russia and South Africa, Great Britain had the next-highest proportion of
people, 62 per cent, agreeing that immigrants made it harder for people to get
jobs.

Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip - which advocates a five-year freeze on
immigration, then a 50,000-a-year cap - said: "These findings show what real
people care about and immigration has long been the elephant in the room for
both this Government and the last."

Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "For too long immigration was allowed to
get out of control and we are taking action to reduce net migration back to the
tens of thousands. In the past year we have introduced an annual limit on
non-European workers able to come to the UK and overhauled student visas.

"We are currently consulting on restricting settlement rights and the family
route."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

Tories lose council seat to Lib Dems

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 107 words


Candidate Michael Maxwell won Somerset County Council's South Petherton division
on a big swing. It is covered by the Yeovil constituency of the party's
disgraced former Cabinet minister David Laws. The result comes after it defied
Labour at Warrington last week by winning in a marginal ward where it had lost
another seat in May's main contests. Lib Dems could be benefiting from their
lack of high-level links to the Rupert Murdoch media empire. By-election results
Somerset County - South Petherton Lib Dem 1,333 (June 2009: 1,247) Con 943
(1,341) Green 108 (222) Ukip 104 Lib Dem gain from Conservatives. Swing 9.3 per
cent Con to Lib Dem.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shares plunge in euro debts crisis

BYLINE: David Shand; Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 540 words


SHARE prices plunged to their lowest since last November yesterday amid fears
that the eurozone debt crisis will overwhelm some of Europe's major economies.

Brussels leaders were accused of "pressing the panic button" after they voiced
concern over the plight of Italy and Spain.

The cost of borrowing in both countries soared as investors took fright -
believing they were teetering on the edge of disaster.

Renewed fears about America's prospects, just days after a deal in Congress to
allow the US government to pay its bills, helped spook markets and drive stock
prices down.

In London, the FTSE 100 Index dropped 134 points - nearly 2.5 per cent - to its
lowest level this year, losing £35billion during the day. It closed at 5,585,
but just weeks ago it was above 6,000. Similar falls were seen in France and
Germany.

The bloodbath in the markets has seen the blue-chip index fall six per cent
since the start of last week wiping about £90billion from the value of Britain's
leading companies.

The crisis came amid emergency talks to try to prevent Italy being sucked into
the sovereign debt crisis.

A bid by EU Commission yesterday Moon, sun and tides MOON rises: 12.21pm, sets:
10.35pm SUN rises Dublin: 5.45am, sets: 9.14pm Manchester rises: 5.29am, sets:
8.59pm to calm the turmoil, by insisting Italy and Spain's economic situations
did not merit the battering they were taking from the financial markets,
appeared only to fuel speculation that drastic new action was on the way.

Rescue deals for Italy and Spain would dwarf the packages already agreed for
debtridden Greece, Portugal and Ireland and have the potential to destroy the
euro itself.

David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index, said: "It is the now familiar
double-whammy of sovereign debt and a stumbling recovery that has smashed
sentiment once again today.

"Italian and Spanish yields have jumped in recent days and for too many traders
this looks like a replay of last year's Greece and Ireland troubles."

Peter Dixon, economist at Commerzbank, branded the situation "dreadful". He
said: "We've got the eurozone crisis, the debt problems in the US and now the
growth outlook itself, it's a toxic combination.Investors are fleeing for safe
havens."

The problems come less than a fortnight after eurozone leaders agreed a second
bailout for Greece, partly to stop debt problems infecting more countries.
Yesterday's upheavals suggested that the markets were far from convinced it had
worked.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage maintained EU leaders had "pressed the panic button".

He said: "They are blaming everybody and everything but themselves and their
illthought vanity project that is the euro. Today they have tried to shout
'stop' in front of the market storm. Their words are futile.

"It is tragic that they will throw billions of taxpayers' money down the drain,
before they finally realise two simple things - one, that the financial markets
always win, and two, that the euro as designed was a doomed project from the
start."

Would joining the euro have been disastrous for UK?

YES: 0901 030 8344

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8345

No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Shares plunge in euro debts crisis

BYLINE: By David Shand and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 481  words


SHARE prices plunged to their lowest since last November yesterday amid fears
that the eurozone debt crisis will overwhelm some of Europe's major economies.

Brussels leaders were accused of "pressing the panic button" after they voiced
concern over the plight of Italy and Spain.

The cost of borrowing in both countries soared as investors took fright -
believing they were teetering on the edge of disaster.

Renewed fears about America's prospects, just days after a deal in Congress to
allow the US government to pay its bills, helped spook markets and drive stock
prices down.

In London, the FTSE 100 Index dropped 134 points - nearly 2.5 per cent - to its
lowest level this year, losing GBP 35billion during the day. It closed at 5,585,
but just weeks ago it was above 6,000.

Similar falls were seen in France and Germany.

The bloodbath in the markets has seen the blue-chip index fall six per cent
since the start of last week wiping about GBP 90billion from the value of
Britain's leading companies.

The crisis came amid emergency talks to try to prevent Italy being sucked into
the sovereign debt crisis.

A bid by EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso to calm the turmoil, by
insisting Italy and Spain's economic situations did not merit the battering they
were taking from the financial markets, appeared only to fuel speculation that
drastic new action was on the way.

Rescue deals for Italy and Spain would dwarf the packages already agreed for
debtridden Greece, Portugal and Ireland and have the potential to destroy the
euro itself.

David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index, said:

"It is the now familiar double-whammy of sovereign debt and a stumbling recovery
that has smashed sentiment once again today.

"Italian and Spanish yields have jumped in recent days and for too many traders
this looks like a replay of last year's Greece and Ireland troubles."

Peter Dixon, economist at Commerzbank, branded the situation "dreadful". He
said:

"We've got the eurozone crisis, the debt problems in the US and now the growth
outlook itself, it's a toxic combination. Investors are fleein g for safe
havens."

The problems come less than a fortnight after eurozone leaders agreed a second
bailout for Greece, partly to stop debt problems infectin g more countries.
Yesterday's upheavals suggested that the markets were far from convinced it had
worked.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage maintained EU leaders had "pressed the panic button".

He said: "They are blamin g everybody and everythin g but themselves and their
illthought vanity project that is the euro. Today they have tried to shout
'stop' in front of the market storm. Their words are futile.

"It is tragic that they will throw billions of taxpayers' money down the drain,
before they finally realise two simple things - one, that the financial markets
always win, and two, that the euro as designed was a doomed project from the
start."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

It is good to fight back but not by killing white people;
INVESTIGATION: BNP'S HITLER SALUTE -BIN OFFICIAL CHRIS HURTS

BYLINE: BRIAN FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 869 words


A BNP chief who gave Hitler salutes at a Nazi rally had a chilling verdict on
the massacre committed by Norwegian madman Anders Breivik.

Chris Hurst, the far-right party's London Regional Secretary, said: "It's good
to fight back - but not by killing young white people." The warped 22-year-old
reckoned the victims were needed to "breed" to increase the white population.

And blaming immigration for Breivik's shocking slaughter, he added: "Isolated
incidents like that are going to happen more and more as the problem gets
worse."

Hurst was talking to an undercover Sun team before a concert by far-right
Swedish singer Saga, whose horrific racist lyrics inspired Breivik.

During the two-hour gig - billed as a highlight of a fascist rally in Hungary -
he repeatedly gave the Nazi stiff-arm salute and shouted, "Sieg heil."

And he sang along with Saga, who urges followers to rise up in the name of Aryan
supremacy, as she signed off with a cover of neo-Nazi English band Skrewdriver's
version of Cabaret's Tomorrow Belongs To Me. It ends: "Oh Fatherland,
Fatherland, show us the sign your children have waited to see. The morning will
come when the world is mine. Tomorrow belongs to me."

Saga performed brazenly even though Breivik's 77 victims in a bomb and shooting
atrocity are still being buried.

And Hurst's attendance at the rally, along with his racist rants and shameful
behaviour, give the lie to the BNP's attempts to present itself as a mainstream,
respectable political party.

The very nature of the fiveday gathering of extremists from across Europe, which
ends tomorrow, was also deeply disturbing.

The remote site in Veroce, 25 miles north of Hungarian capital Budapest, was
packed with stalls selling Nazi memorabilia, copies of Mein Kampf and T-shirts
bearing images of Hitler, his deputy Rudolf Hess, swastikas and the gates of
Auschwitz extermination camp.

Many among the thousands of "delegates" displayed tattoos of stormtroopers or
slogans such as White Power.

There were meetings, debates and showings of films, including one about the
Hitler Youth. And the rally was held behind a wall of private security guards
and a cordon of police.

Hurst, of Whitton, South West London, is rising through the ranks of the BNP.

The politics graduate is close to party leader Nick Griffin and stood against
Business Secretary Vince Cable in Twickenham at last year's general election,
winning 654 votes.

He was hand-picked to help organise BNP campaigns for the next local London and
mayoral elections, and will vet candidates.

Talking about the party, he said: "I've met Nick Griffin many times. He is a
sound bloke. He is onside. He's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination
but who of us are?" And turning quickly to the subject of immigration, he added:
"Why do we want hundreds of thousands of foreigners coming into our country
every year?" Hurst has been carefully crafting himself as the leader of a new
generation of BNP bigots by setting up a youth wing called Resistance, which
"fights to secure a future for British children".

But he struggled when asked to define the core issue steering the BNP.

He said the party had been "outflanked" by the English Defence League on Islam
and by the UK Independence Party on Europe - and was losing recruits to both.

Hurst was at the rally with a Hungarian-born BNP pal known simply as "Z" as his
full name is difficult to pronounce.

Boozing at a beer stall before the Saga gig, he introduced Z as the treasurer
for the party's East End of London branch.

He tried to recruit the Sun team into the party and said of the rally: "This is
just like the BNP's red, white and blue festival - exactly the same thing."
Saga's concert was the headline event of Tuesday evening, taking place inside a
converted circus tent in the heart of the festival site.

Breivik devoted three pages of his sick "manifesto for murder" to the poisonous
blonde singer's lyrics.

He quoted 12 songs in their entirety and told how he listened to her music as he
prepared his atrocity.

He urged others who want to follow his lead as a "conservative martyr" to
motivate themselves by studying her words. Hurst stood close to the stage,
bouncing around with his cronies as he gave Nazi salutes.

He confided to our undercover team that he had been ordered to never give the
salute publicly in case it was caught on camera and damaged the BNP's
carefullycrafted image.

But confident he was among friends, he went ahead with abandon.

The Sun team listened as Saga opened her set with a hate-filled rock song called
Hypocrite.

It includes the lyrics: "You complain about the immigration.

You really make me sick.

It was your vote that opened the border you filthy hypocrite."

She went on to perform her ballad Ode To A Dying People, which says of Aryans:
"The greatest race to ever walk the earth, dying a slow death with insane mirth.
The tomb has been prepared, our race betrayed, white man fight the flight
towards the grave."

Hurst grinned: "I saw Saga play in London two years ago.

"I was proper p***ed up. I got on the stage and took the microphone from her and
started singing.

"So I want to see if she remembers me."

b.flynn@the-sun.co.uk

See video of sickening Nazi rally at thesun.co.uk

Shameful

Organise

Sick

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Candidate ... Hurst's election photo and online contact details
Rabble rouser ... Saga sings and salutes, top
Inspired ... Breivik
Shocking ... Sun man Flynn with 'Auschwitz gates' T-shirt
Caught on camera ... Hurst gives Nazi salute to far-right idol Saga
Echoes of Holocaust ... T-shirts, mugs and badges emblazoned with slogans
including White Power
Fists of fury ... crowd hails Saga's performance at Nazi festival

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

Thousands join Daily Express anti-EU crusade

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 387 words

ABSTRACT

Paper says 25,000 are demanding Commons debate to quit the European Union

FULL TEXT

It may have escaped your notice, but the Daily Express is running a campaign to
take Britain out of the European Union.

The paper launched its "historic crusade" on Saturday with a splash headlined :

"The great British public is today given a new chance to join a bid to force a
key vote on Britain leaving the European Union.

We are calling on readers to grasp this unique opportunity to thrust the
argument right to the heart of UK democracy - by signing up to our new online
petition demanding a referendum on EU membership."

The Express is taking advantage of , which renders petitions attracting 100,000
signatures eligible for debate a Commons debate.

"Joining our petition", said the paper, "will force the country's politicians
openly to discuss an issue that is gathering momentum as Britain bails out
failing eurozone states and our laws are increasingly adversely affected by EU
human rights restraints."

A couple of back-bench Tory MPs immediately signed up along with the UKIP leader
Nigel Farage (well, he would, wouldn't he?)

Anyway, today's front page lays claim to a "huge show of support", headlined .
It says that 25,000 people have signed the petition.

The use of the old Express logo of the little crusader is a direct link to the
paper's past. It was created by Lord Beaverbrook in 1929 when launching his
absurd "imperial crusade".

There are absurdities to the current campaign too. For example, the final
paragraph of today's article states that "opponents of the EU... complain that
our law and order system - and basic common sense - are being undermined by the
European convention on human rights."

Memo to Richard Desmond, the Express publisher, and Hugh Whittow, the editor:
inform your readers, don't confuse them still further. To aid you in that task,
note these facts...

The European Union has nothing to do with the European convention of human
rights.

The convention dates from 1953 and established the European court of human
rights. The drafting of the convention was overseen by a British Conservative
politician.

The EU is not a party to the convention and has no role in the administration of
the court of human rights.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved
