
                               1 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday

OFCOM BOSS STONEWALLS OVER PAY

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1128 words


OFCOM chief Ed Richards has, for the second year running, refused to reveal how
much he is paid , even though the figure is widely known.

Richards, 45, who in the last published annual report received total pay of
6381,713, is due to take a 10 per cent cut on his basic salary when the latest
figures are revealed soon.

But yesterday, looking at times uncomfortable and embarrassed, he declined to
say what his salary was when he appeared at a broadcasting conference in London.

This was a virtual repeat performance of last year, when at the same conference
he bizarrely claimed he did not know how much he was paid. His behaviour is all
the more baffling as his pay level is made public each year.

Last year's basic salary of almost 6300,000 is to drop to about 6270,000 , still
nearly double Prime Minister David Cameron's 6142,500.

Richards, a former adviser to Gordon Brown, also received a 660,000 pension
entitlement/allowance and a 620,000 'flexible benefits allowance' as well as
almost 62,000 in 'benefits in kind' in 2010

.

But industry insiders at the Future of Broadcasting conference in London were
surprised at the Ofcom boss's reticence about his pay. He was being interviewed
by veteran media figure Ray Snoddy, who asked him: 'A year ago almost to the
day, I asked you what your salary was and there was a hushed silence in the room
as you said you didn't know.

'Perhaps you have got a better handle on the finances that you can tell us about
it now?'

The regulator testily replied: 'Well, not to the panel, no.' He then went into a
long speech about how the regulator had been so conscientious about saving money
it had begun making cuts before the last election and that it had 'anticipated
the spending review'.

He said: 'We had no particular get-out case. We are not nurses or doctors or a
special case and we knew we had to do it.'

When he eventually addressed the question, he cryptically said: 'So the answer
to that is whatever the answer is.'

Pressed by Snoddy, who quoted reported pay figures, Richards again declined to
reveal what he got.

GETTING IN A STATE ABOUT KATE

WHILE all America is agog at next week's visit to California by the Duke and
Duchess of Cambridge, William and Kate's neighbours in Los Angeles are taking
their excitement to another level.

Emily Harrison, 33, and her mother Bunny, 65, who live next door to the British
consul-general where the royal couple will be billeted, are getting spray tans
and having their teeth whitened on the off-chance they bump into them. The
couple will be staying with Dame Barbara Hay, 58, formerly our Governor General
in Istanbul, and an excited Emily says: 'Our balcony overlooks Dame Barbara's
pool so we're hoping to be able to see them taking a dip.

'This is so exciting. I can't believe we're going to be living next door to
royalty. We were surprised because we thought they would be staying with the
Beckhams in Beverly Hills. We're going to get spray tans and have our teeth
whitened in case we get to talk with her.'

Cosy by royal standards, Dame Barbara's residence boasts seven bedrooms and
seven bathrooms. 'We've been to some great parties. There's a Filipina
housekeeper called Gloria who will be taking care of Kate and William.'

Emily adds: 'The cops were here yesterday. They went to all the houses near Dame
Barbara's place to get people to sign a privacy agreement.' Too late!

NORFOLK NIECE WEDS HER DJANGO

Following her uncle the Duke of Norfolk's split from his wife Georgina after 24
years together and the collapse of her cousin Lady Kinvara Balfour's marriage
earlier this year, there is happier news for Britain's premier Catholic family.

Jemima Ryecart, the Duke's niece, and her fiance Django Davidson have just
married.

The daughter of actor Patrick Ryecart, Jemima, 26, studied Classics at Oxford
and now works at hedge fund GAM. She met fellow financial whizz Django, 30, five
years ago through mutual friends.

The wedding ceremony, described by friends as 'beautiful and uplifting', took
place in a church near the Henley-on-Thames home of Jemima's mother, Lady
Marcia, better known as the actress Marsha Fitzalan.

Jemima's aunt, Georgina, was notably absent from the celebrations.

Millionaire gambling tycoon and ex-Tory Stuart Wheeler tells me he is furious
his old party has escaped punishment for accepting 658,000 from illegal donors.

The party received the cash between 2007 and 2009 from four people not on the
electoral roll, among them Zac Goldsmith. But the Electoral Commission has let
them keep most of the loot because all donors were 'theoretically eligible' to
feature on the register.

Old Etonian Wheeler, 76, now treasurer of Ukip, says: 'Ukip was in an identical
situation last year, yet the Commission forced us to go to the Supreme Court and
almost bankrupted us. It's one rule for the Tories and another for the rest.'

NINE months after I revealed that Martin Amis was planning to quit the country
and start a new life in America, the famously thin-skinned author is holding a
farewell party in London tomorrow.

Naturally, there is a literary twist to the bash, which is being held at Charles
Saatchi's Chelsea gallery and is organised by Saatchi's wife, Nigella Lawson.
For the invitations carry a quotation from one of England's most cherished
poets, William Blake , 'farewell green fields and happy groves. . .'. Such
sentimentality suggests his need to get away must be great indeed.

However, I understand that it is 60-year-old Amis's wife, fellow writer Isabel
Fonseca, who is behind the move, as she wishes to be close to her elderly mother
in New York. The couple will swap their 64.5 million Regent's Park home for a
townhouse in edgy Brooklyn, fast becoming New York's writers' ghetto.

Hats off to Anna Wintour, the British editor of American Vogue, who is to be
awarded France's highest prize, the Legion d'Honneur, next week in Paris. In a
rare move, French President Nicolas Sarkozy will bestow the honour at his
official residence, the Elysee Palace. But the biggest surprise for polite Paris
society is that Wintour, who received an OBE as a loyal British subject in 2008,
risks the charge of being unpatriotic by choosing to hold the after-party not at
the British embassy but at the American embassy.

PS

The remarkable friendship between Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan will be
marked on Monday with the unveiling of a statue of the former president in front
of the U.S. embassy to mark the centenary of his birth. But Baroness Thatcher,
85, who has been in frail health, has decided to withdraw from the event. A
friend of the baroness insisted she was in good spirits. 'She decided
reluctantly that it will be too much for her.' She will be there in spirit. The
plinth carries her tribute: 'Ronald Reagan won the Cold War without firing a
shot.'

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now Cabinet ministers want UK to quit the EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words


SENIOR members of the Prime Minister's inner circle are convinced that Britain
should quit the European Union, it emerged last night. Two Cabinet ministers are
reported to have been persuaded that the UK would be better off by cutting its
links with Brussels.

And Cabinet Office Minister Oliver Letwin, the PM's policy guru, is also said to
have swung behind growing Tory support for withdrawal.

The surge in anti-Brussels feeling within the Government follows the Daily
Express's hugely popular crusade for Britain to quit the EU. Last week it was
reported that Mr Cameron's strategy chief Steve Hilton also wants the UK to pull
out. The latest reports of Government unease are revealed in today's edition of
the Spectator magazine.

An article by political editor James Forsyth said: "An increasing number of
people in government are being driven to distraction by these EU obstacles. Even
the Liberal Democrats in the coalition have taken to moaning about how much
extra work Brussels imposes on them.

"But it is the Tory radicals who are most infuriated. Both Oliver Letwin, the
Prime Minister's policy point man, and Steve Hilton, Cameron's longest-standing
political ally, have been known to end meetings by saying 'Well, the only
solution is to leave the EU.' At least two Cabinet ministers share their view."
The article added: "It's not just the Tories on the Treasury bench who are
becoming more Eurosceptic.

One senior backbencher tells me that he expects a sizeable number of his fellow
Tory MPs to vote for Ukip (the UK Independence Party) at the European elections
in 2012.

"Among the new intake of Tory MPs, who make up nearly half the parliamentary
party, it is accepted that anyone who wants to be elected Tory leader will have
to promise to renegotiate Britain's membership of the European Union and put the
result to a referendum."

Yesterday Downing Street officials attempted to play down the report, insisting
that all ministers remained committed to the official Government policy of
working for reform within the EU. The PM's spokesman insisted quitting the EU
was "not the Government's policy".

But Eurosceptics believe the case for Britain's exit is gaining ground among
figures close to Cameron. The shift is said to reflect widespread anger at
Brussels regulation and red tape.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "The Daily Express has been saying what many
people around this country have been thinking."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday

Now Cabinet ministers want UK to quit the EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 402 words


SENIOR members of the Prime Minister's inner circle are convinced that Britain
should quit the European Union, it emerged last night. Two Cabinet ministers are
reported to have been persuaded that the UK would be better off by cutting its
links with Brussels.

And Cabinet Office Minister Oliver Letwin, the PM's policy guru, is also said to
have swung behind growing Tory support for withdrawal.

The surge in anti-Brussels feeling within the Government follows the Daily
Express's hugely popular crusade for Britain to quit the EU. Last week it was
reported that Mr Cameron's strategy chief Steve Hilton also wants the UK to pull
out. The shift is said to reflect widespread anger at Brussels regulations and
red tape.

The latest reports of Government unease are revealed in today's edition of the
Spectator magazine.

An article by political editor James Forsyth said: "An increasing number of
people in government are being driven to distraction by these EU obstacles. Even
the Liberal Democrats in the coalition have taken to moaning about how much
extra work Brussels imposes on them.

"But it is the Tory radicals who are most infuriated. Both Oliver Letwin, the
Prime Minister's policy point man, and Steve Hilton, Cameron's longest-standing
political ally, have been known to end meetings by saying 'Well, the only
solution is to leave the EU.' At least two Cabinet ministers share their view."
The article added: "It's not just the Tories on the Treasury bench who are
becoming more Eurosceptic.

One senior backbencher tells me that he expects a sizeable number of his fellow
Tory MPs to vote for Ukip (the UK Independence Party) at the European elections
in 2012.

"Among the new intake of Tory MPs, who make up nearly half the parliamentary
party, it is accepted that anyone who wants to be elected Tory leader will have
to promise to renegotiate Britain's membership of the European Union and put the
result to a referendum." Yesterday Downing Street said all ministers were
working for reform within the EU and quitting the EU was "not the Government's
policy".

?Downing Street last night attacked an inflation-busting rise in EU spending as
"unrealistic". The proposal from Brussels would raise the budget by over 10 per
cent and add £10billion to the UK's contribution.

A No10 spokesman said: "The EU has to take the same tough measures as national
Governments are taking across Europe to tackle public deficits."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Greece saves euro but sparks riots by voting for savage cuts

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 370  words


GREECE staved off looming bankruptcy last night after MPs voted to impose more
cuts as protesters took to the streets in another day of riots.

Opposition MPs heeded last-minute pleas by Prime Minister George Papandreou to
back the austerity plan. It will allow more bail-outs to be handed out by the EU
and the International Monetary Fund.

A "no" vote would have been catastrophic for the Greek economy and for the
crumbling credibility of the euro.

But the relief in Brussels and other eurozone capitals will be short-lived if
public outrage at more cuts prevents the new package taking effect.

The vote went through in Athens as police clashed with protesters opposed to tax
hikes, spending cuts and a privatisation sell-off demanded by international
creditors.

New IMF chief Christine Lagarde had called for national unity in Greece to get
to grips with the continuing crisis.

The decision was one of the toughest Greek MPs have had to take for years - but
another crucial vote comes today when the parliament must decide on how they
will implement the ?28billion (GBP 25billion) package.

That will be difficult if a rebellious public refuses to hand over more taxes or
absorb more cuts to pay for a crisis they say was not their fault.

Yesterday's 155-138 vote should be enough to ensure the handover of the latest
?12billion (GBP 10.7billion) instalment of an EU-IMF bail-out. A total of
?110billion (GBP 96.5 billion) to bail out the Greek economy was agreed a year
ago. Greece was warned the latest slice of cash would be withheld without a
"yes" vote. The payment should now be a formality when EU finance ministers meet
in Brussels on Sunday.

Greece needs the latest aid by July 15 to meet its immediate debts. But already
Europe is considering a second bail-out - probably worth more than the first -
because of the scale of the crisis and risk of "contagion" to other economies.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said:

"Greek democracy is dead.

Don't be surprised if increasing numbers of Greek people take matters into their
own hands."

London's leading shares surged as the vote allayed City fears that Greece will
default on its debts. The FTSE 100 was up 89 points and stocks rose on Wall
Street and in Europe too.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A riot police officer grapples with a protester in Athens yesterday
while, inset, a man lies bleeding

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Now Cabinet ministers want UK to quit the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 402  words


SENIOR members of the Prime Minister's inner circle are convinced that Britain
should quit the European Union, it emerged last night.

Two Cabinet ministers are reported to have been persuaded that the UK would be
better off by cutting its links with Brussels.

And Cabinet Office Minister Oliver Letwin, the PM's policy guru, is also said to
have swung behind growing Tory support for withdrawal.

The surge in anti-Brussels feeling within the Government follows the Daily
Express's hugely popular crusade for Britain to quit the EU.

Last week it was reported that Mr Cameron's strategy chief Steve Hilton also
wants the UK to pull out.

The shift is said to reflect widespread anger at Brussels regulations and red
tape.

The latest reports of Government unease are revealed in today's edition of the
Spectator magazine.

An article by political editor James Forsyth said: "An increasing number of
people in government are being driven to distraction by these EU obstacles. Even
the Liberal Democrats in the coalition have taken to moaning about how much
extra work Brussels imposes on them.

"But it is the Tory radicals who are most infuriated. Both Oliver Letwin, the
Prime Minister's policy point man, and Steve Hilton, Cameron's longest-standing
political ally, have been known to end meetings by saying 'Well, the only
solution is to leave the EU.' At least two Cabinet ministers share their view."

The article added: "It's not just the Tories on the Treasury bench who are
becoming more Eurosceptic. One senior backbencher tells me that he expects a
sizeable number of his fellow Tory MPs to vote for Ukip (the UK Independence
Party) at the European elections in 2012.

"Among the new intake of Tory MPs, who make up nearly half the parliamentary
party, it is accepted that anyone who wants to be elected Tory leader will have
to promise to renegotiate Britain's membership of the European Union and put the
result to a referendum." Yesterday Downing Street said all ministers were
working for reform within the EU and quitting the EU was "not the Government's
policy".

Downing Street last night attacked an inflation-busting rise in EU spending as
"unrealistic". The proposal from Brussels would raise the budget by over 10 per
cent and add GBP 10billion to the UK's contribution.

A No10 spokesman said: "The EU has to take the same tough measures as national
Governments are taking across Europe to tackle public deficits."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now Cabinet ministers want UK to quit the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 402  words


SENIOR members of the Prime Minister's inner circle are convinced that Britain
should quit the European Union, it emerged last night.

Two Cabinet ministers are reported to have been persuaded that the UK would be
better off by cutting its links with Brussels.

And Cabinet Office Minister Oliver Letwin, the PM's policy guru, is also said to
have swung behind growing Tory support for withdrawal.

The surge in anti-Brussels feeling within the Government follows the Daily
Express's hugely popular crusade for Britain to quit the EU.

Last week it was reported that Mr Cameron's strategy chief Steve Hilton also
wants the UK to pull out.

The latest reports of Government unease are revealed in today's edition of the
Spectator magazine.

An article by political editor James Forsyth said: "An increasing number of
people in government are being driven to distraction by these EU obstacles. Even
the Liberal Democrats in the coalition have taken to moaning about how much
extra work Brussels imposes on them.

"But it is the Tory radicals who are most infuriated. Both Oliver Letwin, the
Prime Minister's policy point man, and Steve Hilton, Cameron's longest-standing
political ally, have been known to end meetings by saying 'Well, the only
solution is to leave the EU.' At least two Cabinet ministers share their view."

The article added: "It's not just the Tories on the Treasury bench who are
becoming more Eurosceptic. One senior backbencher tells me that he expects a
sizeable number of his fellow Tory MPs to vote for Ukip (the UK Independence
Party) at the European elections in 2012.

"Among the new intake of Tory MPs, who make up nearly half the parliamentary
party, it is accepted that anyone who wants to be elected Tory leader will have
to promise to renegotiate Britain's membership of the European Union and put the
result to a referendum."

Yesterday Downing Street officials attempted to play down the report, insisting
that all ministers remained committed to the official Government policy of
working for reform within the EU. The PM's spokesman insisted quitting the EU
was "not the Government's policy".

But Eurosceptics believe the case for Britain's exit is gaining ground among
figures close to Cameron.

The shift is said to reflect widespread anger at Brussels regulation and red
tape.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said:

"The Daily Express has been saying what many people around this country have
been thinking."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday

Inverclyde byelection race goes to the wire

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 657 words

ABSTRACT

As voters go the polls, officials and senior figures in both the SNP and Labour
believe the gap between the parties is very small

FULL TEXT

Alex Salmond is close to landing another wounding blow on the Labour party as
voters head to the polling stations in the Inverclyde byelection.

Officials and senior figures in both the SNP and Labour believe that the battle
to win , a once rock-solid Labour constituency west of Glasgow, has gone to the
wire with the  of snatching the seat.

The byelection was called after the sudden death of its popular Labour MP and
shortly after the .

Despite holding the Westminster seat and its near equivalents for some 80 years,
Labour has been struggling to defend its 14,416 vote majority against the SNP,
which came within 500 votes of winning the equivalent Holyrood seat in May.

Labour admits the result could come down to a few hundred votes, with many
predicting a low turnout: the party has pressed its activists into another, late
surge of campaigning and drafted in Lord Prescott on the day before polling.

Salmond has visited the seat five times during the short campaign. "I think this
is earthquake proportions if we win this seat," he told BBC Scotland on
Wednesday. "I think that the political impact of a victory for the SNP in
Inverclyde would be absolutely huge."

SNP officials said on Thursday the difference between the two parties was "very
tight". One said: "We've closed the gap an awful long way, down to a thousand or
a couple of hundred, but it has been very hard to tell over the last couple of
days, incredibly difficult."

Anne McLaughlin, the SNP candidate hoping to become the party's seventh MP at
Westminster, accompanied her mother Betty to a polling station at a local
sailing club on Thursday morning. Raised in the area, she no longer lives in the
constituency.

In her election day address to voters, McLaughlin took inspiration from Winnie
Ewing's famous byelection victory for the SNP in Hamilton in 1967, claiming that
and other byelection upsets shocked the UK government into making concessions to
Scotland.

She said: "I promise you that if elected to serve as MP, I will defend
Inverclyde's interests and promote our future with every bone in my body.

"Labour can't and won't fight back and take on the Tories and their cuts at
Westminster. They stopped listening a long time ago."

Labour's candidate, Iain McKenzie, the local council leader, cast his vote at a
scout hall in Greenock. Stopping far short of predicting a victory, he said:
"This is a beautiful sunny day in Inverclyde and there's a great feeling in the
air."

He added: "I am proud to be the Labour candidate and I am proud to be the local
candidate and I will be working every minute of today until polls close to earn
the trust of my friends and neighbours in Inverclyde."

Sophie Bridger, for the Liberal Democrats, was out in the constituency urging
party supporters to vote. The Scottish Lib Dem leader, Willie Rennie, who won a
shock byelection victory in Dunfermline and West Fife byelection in 2006, a
Westminster seat in Gordon Brown's backyard, said turnout would be crucial.

"When I won Dunfermline and West Fife, I didn't know I would, so I think a lot
of these things are very fluid, especially with low turnouts - which I suspect,
so soon after the Holyrood election, this will be. It's quite difficult to
tell," he said.

General election 2010 result: Inverclyde

David Cairns (Labour) 20,933 votes (56.0%)

Innes Nelson (SNP) 6,577 votes (17.5%)

Simon Hutton (Liberal Democrat) 5,007 votes (13.3%)

David Wilson (Conservative) 4,502 votes (12%)

Peter Campbell (Ukip) 433 votes (1.2%)

Majority: 14,416 (38.4%)

Turnout: 37,512 (63.4%)

Inverclyde byelection candidates:

Labour: Iain McKenzie

SNP: Anne McLaughlin

Conservative: David Wilson

Liberal Democrats: Sophie Bridger

Ukip: Mitch Sorbie

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

SECURE BRITAIN...WHAT A JOKE

BYLINE: BY JACK DOYLE HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 1027 words


VILE MILITANT EXTREMIST STROLLS THROUGH HEATHROW IMMIGRATION DESPITE A
GOVERNMENT BAN

200 SOMALIAN CRIMINALS CAN'T BE KICKED OUT BECAUSE OF THEIR HUMAN RIGHTS

BRITAIN'S powerlessness to control who has the right to be in this country was
glaringly exposed last night by two extraordinary cases.

In the first, an anti-semitic preacher of hate whom the Home Secretary had
banned from entering Britain was able to stroll in through Heathrow.

Last night Raed Salah was giving a lecture organised by Islamist radicals to a
large crowd in Leicester, and today he was due to speak at Westminster at the
invitation of Left-wing Labour MPs.

In the second, a bombshell ruling by the European judges blocked the deportation
of some 200 Somali criminals back to their homeland.

The Strasbourg court said the men, including drug dealers and serial burglars,
might be persecuted in war-torn Somalia, and that they must be allowed to stay
to protect their human rights.

So, irrespective of how heinous their crimes or the danger they present to the
public, Britain has no power to expel them.

The ruling by the European Court of Human Rights stemmed from appeals against
deportation by two asylum seekers convicted of a string of serious offences
including burglary, making threats to kill and drug dealing.

But it will now also apply to 214 other similar cases which have been lodged
with the court using Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights.

Article 3, which protects against torture and inhuman or degrading treatment, is
an 'absolute' right, meaning that it applies regardless of the offences
committed.

The two men, who were both granted thousands in legal aid to fight their cases,
will now be released from immigration detention centres and will be free to walk
the streets.

They were jointly awarded more than 620,000 for costs and expenses.

Critics accused the Government of rolling over to the demands of the court, and
branded the Human Rights Act a 'criminals' charter'.

Backbench Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: 'The pathetic truth is that we do not
have control over our borders, and these cases quite clearly show that we do not
control not only who comes in to the country but who we choose to remove.

'My constituents do not want any more mealy-mouthed promises about getting a
grip on this Z they want to know what the Government is actually going to do.

'Successive governments have given all the promises on immigration you would
expect of a second-hand car salesman. Ministers now need to start actually
delivering on real promises and real control over our borders.'

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said: 'It is the absolute duty of the
British Government to protect the lives and property of British citizens.

'If foreign nationals prey on people here they should be sent home to where they
came from Z no ifs, no buts.'

He added: 'For the European Court of Human Rights to give Britain orders is bad
enough; knowing that the Government will roll over to their demands is worse.

'This decision confirms that the Human Rights Act is a criminals' charter.'

The case involves two Somalis whom ministers intended to return to the Somali
capital, Mogadishu, because of their serial offending.

Abdisamad Adow Sufi, 24, entered the country illegally in 2003 using a fake
passport. He claimed asylum on the grounds that he belonged to a minority clan
persecuted by the Somali militia.

His claim was rejected by officials and an appeal tribunal said his account was
'not credible'.

Since then he has amassed a string of convictions for offences including
burglary, fraud, making threats to kill, indecent exposure and theft.

The second Somali, drug addict Abdiaziz Ibrahim Elmi, 42, was granted asylum in
1988. Since then he has committed crimes including handling stolen goods, fraud,
robbery, carrying a replica gun, perverting the course of justice, theft and
dealing heroin and cocaine.

Attempts to deport him began in 2006 and his appeal was rejected by an
immigration judge. A deportation order was stayed in 2007 pending the outcome of
his Strasbourg case, and since then he has been convicted of possessing Class A
drugs and charged with drug dealing.

The panel of seven judges ruled that because the level of violence in Mogadishu
was so high there was a real risk of the men coming to harm.

In a unanimous judgment, the court also rejected the argument the men could
leave the capital and return to safer parts of the country.

The judges said Sufi could not join his relatives because they lived in an area
controlled by a strict Islamic group. If returned, he could face punishment
according to their code Z also a breach of his rights.

He would also be particularly vulnerable if forced to live in a refugee camp
because of his 'psychiatric illness', the court said.

Elmi claimed he would be at risk of persecution if he moved to an area
controlled by the same group, because he wore an earring, which might lead to
them thinking he was gay.

If they found out he was a drug addict and thief he could face amputation,
public flogging or execution, he said.

The court ruled he had no experience of living in a strict Islamic area because
he has been in this country for so long and would therefore be at risk of harm.

The ruling said: 'The court reiterated that the prohibition of torture and of
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment was absolute, irrespective of the
victims' conduct.

'Consequently, the applicants' behaviour, however undesirable or dangerous,
could not be taken into account.'

The case will seriously hamper further attempts by ministers to deport foreign
criminals, failed asylum seekers and illegal immigrants back to Somalia. Last
year just 35 were kicked out.

Around two thirds of the 214 other cases are thought to involve criminals.
Others are failed asylum seekers and illegal immigrants.

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: 'We are very disappointed with the European
Court's decision and are considering our legal position.

'This judgment does not stop us continuing to pursue the removal of foreign
criminals who commit a serious crime, nor does it find that all Somalis are in
need of international protection.'

j.slack@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 2011



CORRECTION: Our article of June 29 reported that a  ruling of the European Court
of Human  Rights had 'blocked the deportation of  some 200 Somali criminals'
from the  UK. The 200 figure was based on a  Home Office estimate that 2/3 of
the 214  Somalis taking cases to the Court had a  criminal background and that
the  remaining third included illegal immigrants,  who are by definition
criminals.  There was also a minority of failed asylum  seekers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Asylum crooks to stay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


¦ HUMAN rights judges sparked renewed fury yesterday when they ruled that
"dangerous" criminal asylum seekers cannot be deported.

Somali crooks Adow Sufi and Abdiaziz Ibrahim Elmi said they would be tortured in
Mogadishu.

¦ They had committed serious crimes in the UK including robbery and drug
offences.

The UK Border Agency will fight the ruling.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said: "This decision confirms that the
Human Rights Act is a criminals' charter."

? IMMIGRANTS appealing visa decisions cost taxpayers £20million in legal aid in
2010, up by 66%, according to the Ministry of Justice.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Euro judges stop UK kicking out foreign criminals

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words


IMMIGRANTS convicted of violent crimes cannot be deported unless their safety
can be guaranteed in their home countries, European judges ruled yesterday.

In a decision that triggered widespread disgust, the European Court of Human
Rights banned the Government from ejecting "dangerous" foreigners if there was
any risk of them facing "inhuman or degrading treatment".

Even rapists, murderers and paedophiles have an "absolute" right to protection,
it said.

The court's seven judges made the ruling as they upheld the claims of
Somali-born criminals Adow Sufi and Abdiaziz Ibrahim Elmi against their
deportation.

They said the men, whose crimes include burglary, robbery, threats to kill and
drug dealing, should be allowed to stay in Britain indefinitely because of
violence in Somalia. They also awarded the men a total of £20,000 for "costs and
expenses".

The ruling could bring havoc to the Coalition's attempts to free up space in
prisons by sending foreign criminals home - 214 similar actions against the UK
are understood to be pending at the Strasbourg court.

MPs condemned the court's meddling and said Britain should withdraw from its
jurisdiction.

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "The Government needs to get a grip on this. These
people did not think about the human rights of their victims when they committed
these crimes."

Fellow tory Dominic raab said: "What is the point in having a Supreme Court, if
it can be subordinated to a European tribunal with such weak judicial calibre?"

UK independence Party Euro-MP Gerard Batten said: "If foreign nationals prey on
people here they should be sent home to where they came from. No ifs, no buts."

Sufi, 24, claimed asylum in the UK in 2003 saying he belonged to a minority
persecuted by Somali militia. His account was rejected.

Elmi, 42, arrived in the UK in 1988 and was granted leave to stay as a refugee
in 1989.

After convictions for burglary and threats to kill in Sufi's case, and robbery
and supplying drugs in Elmi's, they were both issued with deportation orders and
are being held in detention centres.

But yesterday, the seven-judge European court ruled that deporting them would
breach the Human Rights Convention Article 3 which bans "inhuman or degrading
treatment."

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We are very disappointed with the European
court's decision and are considering our legal position. This judgment does not
stop us continuing to pursue the removal of foreign criminals who commit a
serious crime."

opinion: page

12 rights laws a farce?

YES: 0901 030 8342

NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWeDYes to 80088

no text DXWeDno to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP Priti Patel is furious at ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Euro court's ban on deporting criminals

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 392  words


IMMIGRANTS convicted of violent crimes cannot be deported unless their safety
can be guaranteed in their home countries, European judges ruled yesterday.

In a decision that triggered widespread disgust, the European Court of Human
Rights banned the Government from ejecting "dangerous" foreigners if there is
any risk of them facing "inhuman or degrading treatment".

Even rapists, murderers and paedophiles have an "absolute" right to protection,
it said. The court's seven judges made the ruling as they upheld the claims of
Somali-born criminals Adow Sufi and Abdiaziz Ibrahim Elmi against deportation.

They said the men, whose crimes include robbery, threats to kill and drug
dealing, should be allowed to stay in Britain indefinitely because of violence
in Somalia. They also awarded the men a total of GBP 20,000 for "costs and
expenses". And 214 similar legal actions are understood to be pending at the
Strasbourg court.

Last night, MPs condemned the court's meddling and said Britain should withdraw
from its jurisdiction.

Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham, said: "The Government needs to get a grip on
this. These people did not think about the human rights of their victims when
they committed these crimes."

Dominic Raab, Tory MP for Esher and Walton, said:

"What is the point in having a Supreme Court if it can be subordinated to a
European tribunal with such weak judicial calibre?"

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Gerard Batten said:

"If foreign nationals prey on people here they should be sent home to where they
came from. No ifs, no buts."

Sufi, 24, claimed asylum in the UK in 2003 saying he belonged to a minority
persecuted by Somali militia.

His account was rejected.

Elmi, 42, arrived in the UK in 1988 and was granted leave to stay as a refugee
in 1989.

After convictions for burglary and threats to kill in Sufi's case, and robbery
and supplying drugs in Elmi's, both were issued with deportation orders and are
bein g held in detention centres.

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We are very disappointed with the European
court's decision and are considering our legal position. This judgment does not
stop us continuing to pursue the removal of foreign criminals who commit a
serious crime."

Campaign group Human Rights Watch described the situation in the Somali capital,
Mogadishu, as "one o f the world's worst human rights catastrophes".

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP Priti Patel is angry at ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Euro judges stop UK kicking out foreign criminals

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 412  words


IMMIGRANTS convicted of violent crimes cannot be deported unless their safety
can be guaranteed in their home countries, European judges ruled yesterday.

In a decision that triggered widespread disgust, the European Court of Human
Rights banned the Government from ejecting "dangerous" foreigners if there was
any risk of them facing "inhuman or degrading treatment".

Even rapists, murderers and paedophiles have an "absolute" right to protection,
it said.

The court's seven judges made the ruling as they upheld the claims of
Somali-born criminals Adow Sufi and Abdiaziz Ibrahim Elmi against their
deportation.

They said the men, whose crimes include burglary, robbery, threats to kill and
drug dealing, should be allowed to stay in Britain indefinitely because of
violence in Somalia. They also awarded the men a total of GBP 20,000 for "costs
and expenses".

The ruling could bring havoc to the Coalition's attempts to free up space in
prisons by sending f oreign criminals home 214 similar actions against the UK
are understood to be pending at the Strasbourg court.

MPs condemned the court's meddling and said Britain should withdraw from its
jurisdiction.

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "The Government needs to get a grip on this. These
people did not think about the human rights of their victims when they committed
these crimes."

Fellow Tory Dominic Raab said:

"What is the point in having a Supreme Court, if it can be subordinated to a
European tribunal with such weak judicial calibre?"

UK Independence Party EuroMP Gerard Batten said: "If foreign nationals prey on
people here they should be sent home to where they came from. No ifs, no buts."

Sufi, 24, claimed asylum in the UK in 2003 saying he belonged to a minority
persecuted by Somali militia. His account was rejected.

Elmi, 42, arrived in the UK in 1988 and was granted leave to stay as a refugee
in 1989.

After convictions for burglary and threats to kill in Sufi's case, and robbery
and supplying drugs in Elmi's, they were both issued with deportation orders and
are being held in detention centres.

But yesterday, the seven-judge European court ruled that deporting them would
breach the Human Rights Convention Article 3 which bans "inhuman or degrading
treatment."

A UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We are very disappointed with the European
court's decision and are considering our legal position. This judgment does not
stop us continuing to pursue the removal of foreign criminals who commit a
serious crime."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP Priti Patel is furious at ruling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday

Inverclyde byelection: Why the SNP could be on the brink of another upset

BYLINE: Severin Carrellguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1060 words

ABSTRACT

Labour faces a deep cut in its 14,416 majority - and there is growing suspicion
that the seat could be snatched by the SNP with a 19% swing

FULL TEXT

If Sean McGarrity is a good guide to the mood in Inverclyde, the Scottish
National party may be about to pull off another byelection upset.

Sitting on the steps of Tesco, fiddling intently with his mobile, the early
education and childcare student is thinking of voting SNP. McGarrity is not an
obvious nationalist. He is a Geordie, not a Scot, and is studying in Greenock.

"In all fairness, it's just the way the parliament down south leaves Scotland as
a lower priority," the 23-year-old said.

"It's like a different country ... I think that they should have independent
rule. I think the way that the SNP are looking at things, trying to create more
jobs in the local area, is something that needs to be done."

The SNP has carefully avoided any mention of independence in this historically
Labour seat, but McGarrity's views identify the central theme of the byelection
and parallel the main trend in Scottish politics.

Creating meaningful jobs has dominated the campaign - producing, at times,
vicious rows between the Labour and SNP candidates about their records in power.

Labour's jumpiness is fuelled by a deep crisis for the party, which was
humiliated by Alex Salmond and the SNP in May's elections for the devolved
parliament in Edinburgh. Its leader, Iain Gray, has announced his resignation.

Demoralised, Labour faces a deep cut in its once impregnable 14,416 majority -
perhaps taking its margin down to under 1,000 votes. And with just two days
until the , there is growing suspicion that the seat could be snatched by the
SNP with a remarkable 19% swing.

Inverclyde, a constituency focused on the former shipyard town of Greenock, is a
Westminster seat that was held by the widely-admired former Labour minister
until his sudden death last month at the age of 44.

Inverclyde, and its predecessor constituencies, have been held by Labour for 80
years. The normal rule is that voters in the west of Scotland naturally back
Labour in Westminster contests, even if they vote SNP for the devolved
parliament.

But in May's landslide - when the SNP grabbed dozens of once safe Labour
Scottish parliament seats in this region - the nationalists came within 500
votes of winning the equivalent Holyrood seat of Greenock and Inverclyde and won
the neighbouring constituency, which makes up another 30% of Inverclyde.

This result rests on just two key factors: Labour's ability to retain the
loyalty of its voters and their willingness to vote. Party officials admit
apathy and a low turnout are their most significant challenges. It is only eight
weeks since the Holyrood elections, and Salmond has all the political momentum.

One lifelong Labour voter, a council worker in his 50s who was unable to give
his name because he is helping erect voting booths for the byelection, summed up
that neatly.

He knew his own mind, but hesitated about the outcome of the byelection. He
mentioned Salmond's role in the campaign. The SNP's charismatic trump card,
Salmond has visited Inverclyde four times, while Labour has thrown Ed and David
Miliband, Gordon Brown and Gray into the campaign, each for short visits.

"We've always been Labour, and that was through your parents. We still stand by
Labour. I think they're still holding on in Greenock overall ... hopefully," he
said. "The SNP are making a strong push for here. Alex Salmond was in T-Mobile
store [a large local employer] and was doing quite a lot of campaigning."

Labour's candidate, the local council leader, Iain McKenzie, has recently had to
defend himself against accusations by Anne McLaughlin, the SNP candidate and
former MSP for Glasgow, that he has a secret plan to make council workers
compulsorily redundant.

McKenzie has countered with evidence that McLaughlin voted for a Scottish
government budget that saw Inverclyde's regeneration budget cut by 60%, reducing
it by £5.5m, and accuses Salmond of spurning Inverclyde's bid to become a hub
for renewable energy engineering jobs.

Both McKenzie and the Liberal Democrat candidate, Sophie Bridger, attack
Salmond's government for ending car ferry services from the Inverclyde port of
Gourock across the Clyde to Dunoon, with the loss of 18 jobs.

"Looking at the results of the [Holyrood] election, yes we need to reconnect
with the voters but that's what I have been doing in this campaign, that's why I
have been hitting so many doors," McKenzie said.

He estimated that he had met 4,500 voters in the campaign. "Any turnout which
gives me 51% ... I would be happy with," he added.

David Mundell, the Scotland Office minister and Scotland's only Tory MP, said he
believed the SNP could be disappointed. He has found many voters who backed
Salmond in the May elections as a tactical vote against Labour are now so
alarmed at his majority that they have abandoned the SNP. "They're genuinely
shocked about there being a majority SNP administration [in Edinburgh]," Mundell
said.

But, even so, even he won't predict the result, saying: "Recent byelections have
shown the public can vote very differently in a byelection, so everything is to
play for because traditional loyalties aren't going to determine the outcome."

McLaughlin believes the SNP are engaging and mobilising voters in a way Labour
has failed to do. Overturning a 14,000 majority is another matter. Having said
that, McLaughlin was central to the SNP's last major upset, when it demolished a
13,000 Labour majority in the .

"I'm too tired to make it up, but the truth is that people are ranging from
interested to excited on the doorsteps and on the streets," she said.

"It's just the momentum from the last election carrying on. Instinct is telling
me we have an incredibly good chance, but we can't predict the outcome. It's a
huge challenge."

General election 2010 result: Inverclyde

David Cairns (Labour) 20,933 votes (56.0%)

Innes Nelson (SNP) 6,577 votes (17.5%)

Simon Hutton (Liberal Democrat) 5,007 votes (13.3%)

David Wilson (Conservative) 4,502 votes (12%)

Peter Campbell (Ukip) 433 votes (1.2%)

Majority: 14,416 (38.4%)

Turnout: 37,512 (63.4%)

Inverclyde byelection candidates:

Labour: Iain McKenzie

SNP: Anne McLaughlin

Conservative: David Wilson

Liberal Democrats: Sophie Bridger

Ukip: Mitch Sorbie

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

September

SECTION: THE AGENDA 2011;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 429 words


1 Politics Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority publishes MPs' expenses
claims processed in April and May 2011.

1 Crime Ministry of Justice publishes knife crime sentencing figures for April
to June 2011.

2 Leisure The Baby Show.

Manchester Central. To Sept 4.

5 Politics The House of Commons and House of Lords return from summer recess.

5 Education The academic year for state schools begins.

6 Literature The Man Booker Prize shortlist is announced. The winner is
announced on Oct 18.

8 Politics Plaid Cymru, the Welsh nationalist party, holds its annual
conference.

Llandudno, Conwy. To Sept 10.

8 Politics United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) annual conference.
Eastbourne. To Sept 10.

9 Politics Green Party autumn conference. Sheffield. To Sept 12.

9 Leisure Ludlow Food and Drink Festival. To Sept 11.

9 Prison Ministry of Justice publishes monthly prison population figures for
August.

10 Leisure Mayor of London's Thames Festival. Staged on the South Bank, it is
billed as London's largest, free, open-air arts festival. It ends with a
firework display.

11 Leisure Agatha Christie Festival. Plays, treasure hunts, tea dances and
murder mystery evenings celebrate the crime writer. Various venues on the
English Riviera from Torbay to Brixham. To Sept 18.

15 Royalty Prince Harry's 27th birthday.

16 Fashion London Fashion Week. The British fashion industry's showcase event.
To Sept 21.

17 Politics Liberal Democrats hold their annual conference. Birmingham. To Sept
21.

22 Demographics Office for National Statistics publishes its quarterly
population trends report, which includes statistical analysis of population
size, births, life expectancy, abortions, migration and marriages.

25 Politics Labour Party annual conference. It begins on the day that Ed
Miliband celebrates being leader for exactly one year. Liverpool. To Sept 29.

30 Charity Macmillan's annual coffee morning, supported by The Times. Two
million people are expected to take part in thousands of fundraising coffee
mornings hosted in homes, businesses and cafés.

Also in September Banks The Independent Commission on Banking report on
financial regulation.

Military In early September the Government will need to decide whether to reduce
Royal Navy and RAF duties elsewhere in the world to free up capacity for
operations in Libya if the action continues beyond six months.

Police Police Reform and Social Responsibility Bill is expected to get Royal
Assent, paving the way for detailed planning on directlyelected police
commissioners who will oversee local forces.

Education First Free Schools will open.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 27, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My life has been destroyed, says aide who claimed MP groped her

BYLINE: Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 418 words


THE woman who accused Andrew Bridgen, a Conservative MP, of sexual assault
waived her right to anonymity yesterday to declare that the incident had
"destroyed her life".

Annabelle Fuller, 29, insisted that she had never wanted to press charges and
that it was a security guard at Mr Bridgen's Westminster block of flats who had
called the police as she tried to flee.

The case was dropped, but it was the MP's "vicious" response, in which he vowed
to take legal action against those responsible for "making and publicising these
falsehoods", that had left her suicidal, she said.

Mr Bridgen, 46, who represents North West Leicestershire, was arrested in the
early hours of June 9. He had met Miss Fuller in a pub near the Houses of
Parliament the previous evening and the pair got chatting about her work as a
campaigner for military charities, she said. They were later joined by Edward
Green, a civil servant, and when the pub closed, Mr Bridgen, a married
father-of-two, invited them back to his flat.

Miss Fuller said that she began to feel confused and uncomfortable as she had no
idea where she was. She said that she did not realise he was an MP until she saw
a letter on the table.

She said that Mr Bridgen invited her to join him on the balcony but to get
there, she had to walk through his bedroom. As she did so, the MP pointed out
how "big and comfy" his bed was, she alleged. She said that he then reached up
her skirt and touched her bottom and her leg.

Miss Fuller then left the flat barefoot, grabbing the MP's Westminster pass and
BlackBerry and a letter to prove where she had been, she told a Sunday
newspaper.

She said that a guard called 999 and that when the officers arrived she was told
she had to give a statement. "I told the police, 'I just want this all to go
away'," she said. "But the police told me, 'Unfortunately that can't happen, Mr
Bridgen has been arrested'."

The case was dropped on June 16 after Miss Fuller said that her behaviour could
have been construed as flirting and withdrew her allegation. Mr Bridgen denied
the claims, and said that he had never been alone in his flat with Miss Fuller,
who works for Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party.

Mr Bridgen said in a statement: "Naturally, I remain hurt and angry that such a
ludicrous, false and unsubstantiated allegation should have been given the
attention it has.

"The allegation was unfair and hurtful not just to myself but to my wife and
children, who bore the brunt of huge and unwarranted media intrusion."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Annabelle Fuller, who had accused Andrew Bridgen, a Tory MP, of sexual
assault. Inset: Mr Bridgen with his wife, Jacqueline
TERI PENGILLEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 27, 2011 Monday

Cancel Lord Monckton's univeristy lecture, say academics

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1130 words

ABSTRACT

In an open letter to the University of Notre Dame, signatories say the climate
sceptic stands for 'ignorance and superstition'

FULL TEXT

Academics in Australia are calling for the  to cancel a lecture due to be given
by the prominent climate sceptic  on Thursday.

In a letter seen by the Guardian, which is currently being circulated among
academics, the undersigned say that Monckton "stands for the kind of ignorance
and superstition that universities have a duty to counter" and "Notre Dame has a
responsibility to avoid promoting discredited views on an issue of public risk".
Signatories already supporting the open letter include professors and lecturers
across Australia, but also academics in the UK and US.

The letter, which is addressed "from the Australian academic community" to Notre
Dame, a Catholic university in Western Australia, was originally drafted by , a
political science postgraduate student at the . The letter says Monckton's
lecture is particularly unwelcome in light of  made against Australian climate
scientists.

"Lord Monckton propounds widely discredited fictions about climate change and
misrepresents the research of countless scientists," says the letter. "With zero
peer-reviewed publications, he has declared that the scientific enterprise is
invalid and that climate science is fraudulent ... Over the last month there has
been a great deal of coverage in the Australian media of the death threats and
abusive emails that have targeted Australian scientists working on climate
change. These threats are fuelled by misinformation spread by figures like Lord
Monckton and the distorted coverage that they receive in the Australian media.
As academics, we expect our universities to support us against this kind of
abuse. We expect our universities to foster academic standards of conduct and
argument."

The letter continues: "We all support academic freedom and the freedom to
express our ideas and beliefs ... [However] Notre Dame's invitation to Lord
Monckton makes a mockery of academic standards and the pursuit of evidence-based
knowledge."

Monckton, the deputy leader of the , apologised over the weekend for remarks he
made this month during a  in which he likened , a climate change adviser to the
Australian government, to a Nazi, while showing a  next to one of Garnaut's
quotes. In  of the speech, Monckton can be heard saying in a mock German accent,
"Heil Hitler, on we go" when referring to Garnaut.

The comment drew criticism from across the Australian political spectrum last
week. Julia Gillard, the prime minister, condemned the comments as "". Tony
Abbott, the opposition leader who is fighting to stop the government's proposed
carbon tax and who is scheduled to attend the mining conference at Notre Dame at
which Monckton is due to speak, described the comments as "".

During a television interview on Sunday,  to Garnaut "for having made the point
I was trying to make in such a catastrophically stupid and offensive way". He
added: "I have written to him to withdraw that unreservedly."

It is not the first time Monckton has been criticised for making such remarks.
In 2009, at the , he described a group of young climate activists as "".

Monckton is scheduled to begin a three-week lecture tour of Australia at the
mining conference hosted by Notre Dame. The , the conference organisers, has
confirmed that Monckton is still scheduled to speak, despite the controversy
over his remarks.

Chris Doepel, the university's dean of business, has confirmed some invited
conference guests have also called for Monckton's speech to be cancelled, but he
insisted the event will go ahead. "The university will hold it because we have a
commitment to academic freedom," he  over the weekend. "I think Lord Monckton is
coming into this country with a clear understanding of the boundaries around
polite discussion." Doepel added that there is no plan to censor Monckton's
presentation and that the 200-strong audience will be free to ask questions.

Not all of Australia's academic community believes Monckton should be censored
or barred from speaking, however. , Australia's chief scientist, told the
Guardian: "I think that we have to put up with deplorable people if we value our
democracy. And we do. So I couldn't argue that action should be taken, though I
find his comments as outrageous as his abuse of science. I don't think making
him some sort of victim would serve any purpose, other than to add to the weight
of his wallet. There will always be people somewhere in the world who will pay
to hear people like him; and enhancing his celebrity through censorship will
encourage more of them to pay. He just needs to be exposed for what he is."

Anna-Maria Arabia, the CEO of , which recently organised the Respect the Science
event in Canberra in which 200 scientists marched to show solidarity for climate
scientists receiving death threats, also feels that Monckton should be free to
speak: "Everyone is entitled to their views, but it is important that personal
views are differentiated from the scientific evidence that has been through the
rigorous peer-review process. The challenge for Lord Monckton is to have his
ideas tested through the peer review process."

She added: "The misinformation campaign designed to create fear and uncertainty
will not intimidate climate scientists who dedicate their lives to the pursuit
of knowledge and know the importance of placing their results in the public
domain so that fair and democratic debate can ensue. Critical decisions about
making the world we live in a better and safer place must be informed by the
best possible information we have, not by fear. The best possible information we
have is the peer-reviewed science."

After visiting Fremantle, Monckton is scheduled to speak at venues across
Australia, including the German Club in Adelaide. Last week, , the club's
president said she was "looking into" the booking following Monckton's
"unfortunate" remarks about Garnaut. In April, a private school near Brisbane
cancelled a business event due to feature Monckton next month after the .

Monckton's lecture tour is being co-ordinated by the , a political party set up
in 2009 by an Australian farmer to "expose the fallacy of anthropogenic climate
change".

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 June 26, 2011
                                 First Edition

French lay blame on British seeds for E. coli outbreak;
Minister calls for products to be withdrawn from sale, but admits 'no definitive
link' to illness

BYLINE: Matt Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 472 words


Seeds from one of Britain's biggest mail order seed companies may have been
linked to an E. coli outbreak in France, according to claims by Frédéric
Lefebvre, the French secretary of state for consumer affairs.

He suggested that seed sprouts sold by the British company Thompson & Morgan
were linked to eight suspected cases of E. coli poisoning in Bordeaux,
south-western France. Thompson & Morgan said it sold "thousands of packets of
seeds and has had no reported problems".

While officials said tests showed two people were infected by the same strain of
E. coli as that found recently in Germany, they have not said whether there is a
link between the two outbreaks.

Mr Lefebvre called on Friday for the company's mustard and rocket seed sprouts
to be withdrawn from sale while an analysis was conducted. But he stressed that
"the link between the symptoms and eating of the sprouts ... has not been
definitively established."

The French move was criticised yesterday by Stuart Agnew MEP, Ukip's
agricultural spokesman, who said it was "irresponsible". "For the French
ministry to even float the idea without hard evidence is like blaming a motor
manufacturer for a drunk driver. It is obvious to me that they are trying to
divert attention and spread the blame," he said.

Radio France Internationale reported that the outbreak was at an early-learning
centre in Begles, a suburb of Bordeaux, where the children had grown the sprouts
to use as garnish for soup served at a school fete. Six women and two men, aged
between 31 and 78, were admitted to hospital. The mayor of Begles, Noël Mamere,
told a French newspaper: "The Ministry of Health has told us that fenugreek,
mustard and rocket seeds bought from [the garden centre chain] Jardiland and
grown at the early-learning centre were the source of the contamination that
resulted in the parents being hospitalised."

Meanwhile the UK Food Standards Agency (FSA) said yesterday it was "revising its
guidance on the consumption of sprouted seeds such as alfalfa, mung beans
(usually known as beansprouts) and fenugreek".

"To date, no cases of food poisoning have been reported in the UK linked to the
outbreak in France. We are in close contact with the Health Protection Agency
which is actively monitoring the situation," a spokesman said. The FSA has asked
the French authorities for more information.

Ipswich-based Thompson & Morgan which published its first seed catalogue in 1855
and distributes its products to 163 countries across the world, said: "It is
highly unlikely to be the seeds themselves but the way that they were used and
handled."

Paul Hansord, the company's managing director, said: "We make sure that
everything we do is to a high standard." He said the firm buys its seeds in bulk
from suppliers around the world and said the affected seeds may have come from
Italy.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 26, 2011 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

French lay blame on British seeds for E. coli outbreak;
Minister calls for products to be withdrawn from sale, but admits 'no definitive
link' to illness

BYLINE: By Matt Thomas

SECTION: HEALTH NEWS

LENGTH: 473 words


Seeds from one of Britain's biggest mail order seed companies may have been
linked to an E. coli outbreak in France, according to claims by Frédéric
Lefebvre, the French secretary of state for consumer affairs.

He suggested that seed sprouts sold by the British company Thompson & Morgan
were linked to eight suspected cases of E. coli poisoning in Bordeaux,
south-western France. Thompson & Morgan said it sold "thousands of packets of
seeds and has had no reported problems".

While officials said tests showed two people were infected by the same strain of
E. coli as that found recently in Germany, they have not said whether there is a
link between the two outbreaks.

Mr Lefebvre called on Friday for the company's mustard and rocket seed sprouts
to be withdrawn from sale while an analysis was conducted. But he stressed that
"the link between the symptoms and eating of the sprouts... has not been
definitively established."

The French move was criticised yesterday by Stuart Agnew MEP, Ukip's
agricultural spokesman, who said it was "irresponsible". "For the French
ministry to even float the idea without hard evidence is like blaming a motor
manufacturer for a drunk driver. It is obvious to me that they are trying to
divert attention and spread the blame," he said.

Radio France Internationale reported that the outbreak was at an early-learning
centre in Begles, a suburb of Bordeaux, where the children had grown the sprouts
to use as garnish for soup served at a school fete. Six women and two men, aged
between 31 and 78, were admitted to hospital. The mayor of Begles, Noël Mamere,
told a French newspaper: "The Ministry of Health has told us that fenugreek,
mustard and rocket seeds bought from [the garden centre chain] Jardiland and
grown at the early-learning centre were the source of the contamination that
resulted in the parents being hospitalised."

Meanwhile the UK Food Standards Agency (FSA) said yesterday it was "revising its
guidance on the consumption of sprouted seeds such as alfalfa, mung beans
(usually known as beansprouts) and fenugreek".

"To date, no cases of food poisoning have been reported in the UK linked to the
outbreak in France. We are in close contact with the Health Protection Agency
which is actively monitoring the situation," a spokesman said. The FSA has asked
the French authorities for more information.

Ipswich-based Thompson & Morgan which published its first seed catalogue in 1855
and distributes its products to 163 countries across the world, said: "It is
highly unlikely to be the seeds themselves but the way that they were used and
handled."

Paul Hansord, the company's managing director, said: "We make sure that
everything we do is to a high standard." He said the firm buys its seeds in bulk
from suppliers around the world and said the affected seeds may have come from
Italy.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 26, 2011 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

I AM PAINTED AS A FANTASIST, MY LIFE'S BEEN DESTROYED.. IT'S SO UNFAIR, I JUST
WANT THIS HELL TO END;
WOMAN A THE CENTRE OF SEX ASSAULT CLAIM AGAINST MP BREAKS HER SILENCE

BYLINE: NICK OWENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1512 words


THE woman who claims she was sexually assaulted by a Tory MP yesterday broke her
silence and said: "My life's been destroyed."

Annabelle Fuller, 29, spoke out to defend herself over the rumours that have
swirled since Andrew Bridgen was arrested over the allegation he groped her on
the balcony of his Westminster flat.

Parliamentary aide and former charity worker Annabelle, who has now fled abroad,
revealed she never wanted the case against the North-West Leicestershire MP to
go ahead. She said she didn't even phone police, claiming it was a security
guard working at the MP's block of flats who made the call.

The events that led to Mr Bridgen's arrest unfolded on June 8, when Annabelle
and the MP met at a pub near the Houses of Parliament and ended up back at his
Westminster flat.

He was arrested the next morning and, after a week-long police investigation,
the case was dropped due to lack of evidence. He then threatened to take legal
action over Annabelle's "ludicrous" and "false" allegations. Since then
Annabelle has been feeling suicidal, rarely sleeps, and has seen a therapist.

She is a popular socialite on the Westminster scene, widely known by many MPs,
researchers and journalists for her tireless campaigning for the Royal British
Legion and the Soldiers' Charity.

However, when she met the Sunday Mirror at a hotel close to her hideaway this
week, normally gregarious Annabelle appeared nervous and shaken.

A scar sustained while leaving the flat is still visible on her forehead as she
talks - her voice cracking with emotion - about the events of the last few
weeks, stopping regularly to draw on a cigarette.

"I've been painted as a fantasist, which is so unfair," she said. "I never
wanted things to get this far. I told the police I didn't want to take any
action. I just want this nightmare to end."

Waiving her right to anonymity, she frankly admitted she had been drinking that
afternoon, that her behaviour could have been seen as flirtatious and that she
was "naïve" to return to the MP's flat.

University-educated Annabelle, who now works as an assistant to UK Independence
Party leader Nigel Farage, readily admits she enjoys the social scene of
Westminster, where much of the day-to-day business revolves around pubs and
bars.

She said the day of June 8 started like many others in the world of Westminster
lobbying. She met a work contact for lunch at the Guinea Grill pub, off London's
Berkeley Square, then spent most of the afternoon socialising with friends.

She later arranged to meet a friend at the Marquis of Granby, a pub close to
Westminster which is popular with MPs.

As the evening drew to a close, she went outside to see if anybody had a spare
cigarette, and bumped into Mr Bridgen.

She didn't know who he was. But the pair were soon joined by Edward Green, a
civil servant Annabelle recognised.

Recalling their meeting, Annabelle said: "He (Mr Bridgen) never introduced
himself as an MP so I just thought he was a regular guy. I explained how I
worked in politics and had an interest in the military and working with
charities who support our troops.

"He said he was an ex-Marine and I mentioned a Freedom of Information request
I'd obtained uncovering the fact charities were paying for the limbs of amputee
soldiers. Mr Bridgen said, 'That is not right' - and listened to what I had to
say."

The discussion continued until closing time, then Mr Bridgen, a married father
of two, suggested they all return to his flat close to the Houses of Parliament.

Annabelle, 29, said: "He said, 'We can have a cigarette and carry on talking.' I
said, 'Yes, but I will be going home as I have an ill cat.' In my mind it was a
quick fag and then off home."

Annabelle says the trio took a taxi to a nearby petrol station to buy cigarettes
and arrived at his apartment after midnight.

"When we got there I was confused about where I was," Annabelle said. "I felt
uncomfortable. Something inside my head said I shouldn't be here. I thought
about just walking out. Mr Bridgen offered me a drink but I said, 'No, I'm not
drinking any more.'" Annabelle claims she then sent a text to friends and tried
to call her parents to relay how she was feeling.

After a friend replied advising she find out where she was, Annabelle says she
spotted a letter on the table with Mr Bridgen's name on it - which she claims
was the first point she realised he was an MP.

Annabelle said he then invited her to join him and Mr Green on the balcony. She
says they had to walk through his bedroom to get there and says Mr Bridgen, 46,
pointed at the bed saying how "big and comfy" it was. "I thought, 'I don't like
this situation,'" she said.

It was at this point, around 1.30am on June 9, that their accounts of what
happened diverge. Annabelle claims he reached up her skirt and touched her on
the bottom and leg. But Mr Bridgen says there was no inappropriate contact and
the police have decided there is no evidence to support the claims, which is why
the case has been dropped.

After they went on to the balcony, Annabelle said she needed the toilet and
dashed back into the lounge, grabbing Mr Bridgen's Westminster pass, his
Blackberry phone and a letter with his address on it to prove where she had
been. She claims she then fled bare-foot. As she dashed downstairs she ran into
a wall on the stairwell, gashing her head and cutting her lip.

A security guard asked if she wanted him to call the police and she replied: "I
just want to get the hell out of here."

Unbeknown to Annabelle, she says the security guard had dialled 999 and two
police officers arrived.

Annabelle said: "I told the police officers I was scared and I ran. I said to
them I just wanted to go home."

Instead Annabelle was taken to London's Charing Cross police station where she
was asked to give a statement.

"They took a DNA sample, urine sample and then a female officer came in to take
my clothes.

"I had no idea what was going on and what had been set in motion."

Later on June 9, Annabelle says she was called by an officer at a specialist
unit at the Met saying she needed to give a fuller statement. She says she told
police she did not want to take the matter further. She also signed a form
saying she didn't want to give evidence in court.

"I told the police, 'I just want this all to go away," she said. "But the police
told me, 'Unfortunately that can't happen - Mr Bridgen has been arrested.'" In
the aftermath of his arrest Annabelle says the police told her to take time to
decide what to do.

She says she has spent hours poring over the incident in her mind, sometimes
blaming herself. "I regretted being naïve enough to go back to the flat," she
admitted.

The case was dropped on June 16 following a fuller statement which Annabelle
gave to police. In it she conceded her behaviour could have been construed as
flirting and that she would withdraw her allegation.

Annabelle hoped that would be the end of the matter.

But within hours, Mr Bridgen appeared on TV news channels having released a
statement saying he would be taking legal advice about possible action "against
those responsible for making and publicising these falsehoods".

Annabelle says this "vicious" response has turned her world upside down.

"I read his comments savaging me and was shaking with anger. It was so vicious.
I don't believe his behaviour is appropriate for a man in his position."

To make matters worse, text messages from Adrian Yalland, who works for
London-based PR firm Chelgate, started to arrive on Annabelle's mobile.

The first at 10.15pm on June 16 said: "This is Adrian Yalland from Chelgate. I
wondered if you would like to meet for a discussion."

After replying "no" Mr Yalland responded, "Do you know who I am" and, "Do you
know who I represent?" A spokesman for Chelgate confirmed they represented Mr
Bridgen, and last night Adrian Yalland told the Sunday Mirror: "Yes, I did try
to arrange a meeting. But the reason why is none of your business." He said
Annabelle later contacted him.

Annabelle said: "I couldn't believe I received those text messages so soon after
the case had been dropped."

Everyone at Westminster knew who she was and she felt too traumatised to return
to work. She said Mr Bridgen's response has made it impossible for her to go
back. She said the furore surrounding the incident has turned her into a
"gibbering wreck" and left her suicidal.

"In the days after, I had to see my doctor and a therapist," she said. "I
couldn't walk down the street without holding my parents' hands. I am a
29-year-old for goodness sake."

Annabelle added: "The whole episode has been upsetting, but Mr Bridgen's actions
since the night have just added to my pain and distress."

Last night Mr Bridgen told the Sunday Mirror he continued to strenuously deny
the allegation of sexual assault.

He insisted he was never alone with Ms Fuller in his apartment. He admitted
pointing to his bed but said it was only to point out his Union Jack bedspread.

He said: "I repeat what I have said all along - I did nothing wrong. This has
been a trial by accusation. I just want to put this whole episode behind me."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pub popular with Westminster workers Annabelle with cut she got as she
fled Denial... Tory MP Andrew Bridgen In hiding... Annabelle has fled abroad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'You know who' on the doorstep for Inverclyde

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 791 words


On a gloomy afternoon when, as the locals have it, you can't see the rain for
the rain, David Miliband is pounding the streets of a housing estate in Greenock
reassuring voters that Labour is still their natural political home.

That the former Foreign Secretary, and now the man suffering under the tag of
Labour's "lost leader", is here at all - and unannounced at that - is the best
sign you could wish for of just how much Labour's nerves are beginning to shred
ahead of next week's Westminster by-election in Inverclyde.

Greenock is the main town in the constituency which hugs the Clyde estuary and
has been Labour for as long as anyone can remember. Indeed, with Labour holding
a 14,416 majority from the last general election, Mr Miliband's presence here
could be construed as an unnecessary luxury.

But, these days, there are no certainties left for Labour in Scotland and it's
all available hands to the pumps. The party is still in intensive care after its
drubbing at the hands of Alex Salmond and the Scottish National Party five weeks
ago in the Holyrood election. In the nearest equivalent Holyrood seat to
Inverclyde last month, Labour had a very narrow squeak, with its majority of
3,000 falling to just 511.

A similar Westminster by-election three years ago, when the SNP overturned a
13,000 Labour majority to take Glasgow East, casts a giant shadow across this
contest.

Mr Miliband's presence in Greenock is proof that Labour regards a loss here next
Thursday as unthinkable. As one Labour MP puts it: "In Inverclyde, any kind of
win will do."

Mr Miliband is introduced on voters' doorsteps by a party helper with the words:
"You'll know who this is." Most stare blankly back at him until more detail
about their visitor is forthcoming. David sidesteps questions about just how
vital a win in Inverclyde is to his brother's leadership of the party, saying
simply: "We are looking to win this seat. We are taking it very seriously."

But there is no doubt that if Labour loses in such a stronghold, Ed Miliband's
lacklustre leadership will become the subject of louder and more hostile
whispers than it already is.

The by-election has been called after the death last month of David Cairns, a
diligent and approachable MP who is remembered fondly wherever you go in the
constituency.

Labour's problem is not the Cairns legacy. Rather, it is that they are fighting
on two fronts. Their campaign is centred on galvanising their core vote to "send
a message" about jobs and spending cuts to the coalition at Westminster, yet
their main opponent in this two-horse race is the SNP. The Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats are fighting for a distant third place.

Ask voters at the town's main shopping mall which politician they most admire
and most answer: "Alex Salmond". Political attention in Scotland these days is
mainly focused on Holyrood.

Labour rely on the recent emerging trend of Scottish voters voting one way for
Holyrood and another in elections for Westminster. If predictions of a derisory
turnout of less than 35 per cent prove true, that could be decisive. The
question is whether the SNP momentum can overcome such a deficit. Certainly, the
assertive SNP candidate Anne McLaughlin, a former Glasgow MSP, thinks so. She
adds: "People see Labour is out of power in both Holyrood and Westminister and
cannot actually deliver on anything."

Labour has gone local for its candidate in the shape of the council leader Iain
McKenzie. He maintains that his central message of the need for jobs in a place
where 31 people chase every vacancy is hitting home. "Voters know this is a
by-election for Westminster and that there's no sense in sending an SNP MP to
Westminster," he said.

Labour may find itself grateful when the result is declared for the lasting good
reputation of David Cairns. It may make all the difference.

Built on ships and sugar Much of the Inverclyde constituency is rural, but the
bulk of the population is concentrated in Greenock and Port Glasgow. The seat
spread inwards from the once-thriving docklands of these towns to the more leafy
Kilmacolm in the east.

Harbourside developments, call centres, electronics and the service industry
have largely replaced shipbuilding and heavy industry, but the area still
suffers high levels of unemployment.

Greenock is perhaps most famous for its role as a centre of sugar refining,
which began in the town in 1765. At the end of the 19th century, hundreds of
ships were transporting sugar from the Caribbean for processing. Tate & Lyle
closed its Greenock refinery in 1997, bringing to an end the town's 150-year-old
connection with sugar.

Candidates Sophie Bridger (Liberal Democrats) Iain McKenzie (Labour) Anne
McLaughlin (SNP) Mitch Sorbie (UKIP) David Wilson (Conservative)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Miliband joined Labour candidate Iain McKenzie's campaign in
Greenock
KIERAN DODDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Adviser on warming is a fascist, says peer

BYLINE: Bonnie Malkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 476 words


LORD MONCKTON, the outspoken British politician, has caused outrage in Australia
after labelling the government's chief climate change adviser a fascist,
likening him to Hitler.

At a conference in Los Angeles, Lord Monckton, a climate change sceptic, said
"Heil Hitler" in reaction to Prof Ross Garnaut's views, which he said were
fascist. He stood in front of a projection of a swastika next to a quote from
Prof Garnaut that read: "The outsider to climate science has no rational choice
but to accept that, on the balance of probabilities, the mainstream science is
right in pointing to high risks from unmitigated climate change."

Lord Monckton told his audience: "That's a fascist point of view - that you
merely accept authority without question. Heil Hitler, on we go."

Lord Monckton, a one-time adviser to Baroness Thatcher and now the deputy leader
of Ukip, is renowned for his belief that humans are not damaging the climate.
His latest comments stunned Australians from both sides of politics.

Julia Gillard, the prime minister, whose Labour government is trying to bring in
a carbon tax on big polluters, said the remarks were "grossly inappropriate".

Greg Combet, the climate change minister, said Lord Monckton was an extremist
who believed climate change was a global communist conspiracy.

Labour MPs called on Tony Abbott, the opposition leader who once declared that
climate change was "absolute ----", to cancel a speech he is due to give at the
Association of Mining and Exploration Companies (AMEC) conference in Perth next
week, where Lord Monckton will also be appearing. Mr Abbott refused to pull out
of the conference, but agreed that Lord Monckton's comments were "offensive and
over the top".

Malcolm Turnbull, the shadow communications minister, went further, saying Lord
Monckton was a "professional vaudeville artist" who made inflammatory comments
to ensure coverage of his outlandish views in the press.

Prof Garnaut responded by saying that anyone who used the symbols of Nazism in
such a way put themselves "outside the boundaries of civilised discourse".

Lord Monckton has apologised for the remarks. He said: "I have written to Ross
Garnaut to withdraw unreservedly and to apologise humbly. What I said about his
opinions was unparliamentary and unstatesman-like."

A spokesman for AMEC said they were not comfortable with his views but have
declined to revoke his invitation to the conference, saying that a wide range of
stances on climate change would be represented.

But Australia's scientific agency, the CSIRO, has reportedly pulled its
sponsorship of the mining conference due to Lord Monckton's appearance.

Miss Gillard's carbon tax plan has prompted furious opposition from the
conservative Liberal-National Party and the mining industry, who claim the cost
will be passed on to consumers through higher grocery and petrol prices.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 24, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

97,000 'hidden' migrants who work in Britain

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 510 words


BRITAIN'S open-door immigra- tion policy is allowing tens of thousands of
foreign workers to take short-term jobs in the coun- try every year, statistics
have revealed.

Official figures showed that 97,000 migrants worked in the UK for less than 12
months in 2009.

The astonishing figure comes on top of the 215,000 long-term immigrants who
settled in the country that year.

It reveals how economic migra- tion to the UK is much greater than first thought
and casts doubt over the accuracy of offi- cial estimates for net migration.

Campaigners said these latest statistics showed that the true effect of the
country's immigra- tion policy was hidden by "smoke and mirrors".

Alp Mehmet, deputy chairman of MigrationWatch UK, said: "It is not simply the
case that people come here to pick strawberries in the summer then go home.

Highlight "They might say that is what they are going to do but there is some
evidence to suggest they don't leave.

"No one knows for sure they are leaving, we wish we knew more about this area
because it means that the true figure of migration to the UK is higher."

Paul Nutall, deputy leader of Ukip, said: "These figures high- light the lack of
clarity about Britain's open-door immigration policy.

"Short-term workers still use resources. You can't plan for the future without
the full facts.

"These workers will need hous- ing, water and seats on buses. The money they
earn doesn't stay in the country, they send it home, so it's hard to see the
full benefit for the UK.

"There should be one set of clear figures showing who is com- ing to the country
and why. The big picture of immigration in this country is being hidden by smoke
and mirrors. There are one set of statistics here, another there. It is not
helpful at all."

Office of National Statistics figures released yesterday showed that numbers of
people coming to work in the country for more than a month but less than a year
were falling because of the UK's economic decline.

An International Passenger Survey sample study given to the ONS indicates that
in the 12 months to mid-2009, 97,000 over- seas workers came into, and then
left, the UK.

That figure was 40 per cent down on the previous year's 162,000. Most of the
workers came from the so-called A8 east- ern European countries that joined the
EU in 2004, namely Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary,
Czech Republic and Latvia.

Many of them take seasonal agricultural jobs or work in the hospitality or
catering industry.

In 2004 the short-term migrant figure was 113,000. It peaked at 208,000 in 2006.

The Government has pledged to cut net migration to the tens of thousands by
2015.

But critics point out that most of the increase in non-UK workers in low-skill
jobs came from those born in the A8 coun- tries and who have the right to come
here as part of the EU.

Last month it emerged that the number of foreign workers in the UK had soared by
1.7 million over the past nine years.

One in five unskilled jobs went to non-British workers last year while the
number of UK-born unskilled workers fell by 223,000.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 24, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

97,000 'hidden' migrants who work in Britain

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 505  words


BRITAIN'S open-door immigration policy is allowing tens of thousands of foreign
workers to take short-term jobs in the country every year, statistics have
revealed.

Official figures showed that 97,000 migrants worked in the UK for less than 12
months in 2009.

The astonishing figure comes on top of the 215,000 long-term immigrants who
settled in the country that year.

It reveals how economic migration to the UK is much greater than first thought
and casts doubt over the accuracy of official estimates for net migration.

Campaigners said these latest statistics showed that the true effect of the
country's immigration policy was hidden by "smoke and mirrors".

Alp Mehmet, deputy chairman of MigrationWatch UK, said: "It is not simply the
case that people come here to pick strawberries in the summer then go home.

"They might say that is what they are going to do but there is some evidence to
suggest they don't leave.

"No one knows for sure they are leaving, we wish we knew more about this area
because it means that the true figure of migration to the UK is higher."

Paul Nutall, deputy leader of Ukip, said: "These figures highlight the lack of
clarity about Britain's open-door immigration policy.

"Short-term workers still use resources. You can't plan for the future without
the full facts.

"These workers will need housing, water and seats on buses.

The money they earn doesn't stay in the country, they send it home, so it's hard
to see the full benefit for the UK.

"There should be one set of clear figures showing who is coming to the country
and why. The big picture of immigration in this country is being hidden by smoke
and mirrors. There are one set of statistics here, another there. It is not
helpful at all."

Office of National Statistics figures released yesterday showed that numbers of
people coming to work in the country for more than a month but less than a year
were falling because of the UK's economic decline.

An International Passenger Survey sample study given to the ONS indicates that
in the 12 months to mid-2009, 97,000 overseas workers came into, and then left,
the UK.

That figure was 40 per cent down on the previous year's 162,000. Most of the
workers came from the so-called A8 eastern European countries that joined the EU
in 2004, namely Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Czech
Republic and Latvia.

Many of them take seasonal agricultural jobs or work in the hospitality or
catering industry.

In 2004 the short-term migrant figure was 113,000. It peaked at 208,000 in 2006.

The Government has pledged to cut net migration to the tens of thousands by
2015.

But critics point out that most of the increase in non-UK workers in low-skill
jobs came from those born in the A8 countries and who have the right to come
here as part of the EU.

Last month it emerged that the number of foreign workers in the UK had soared by
1.7 million over the past nine years.

One in five unskilled jobs went to non-British workers last year while the
number of UK-born unskilled workers fell by 223,000.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 23, 2011 Thursday 3:37 PM GMT

The Greek crisis brings us even closer to the long-planned European empire

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1213 words


A long time ago,when Ispent a lot of time at the Council of Ministers in
Brussels, my good friend Otto Graf Lambsdorff and I would wearily raise our
heads and mutter "Beware the Greeks when they come demanding gifts" when
confronted by yet another plea for a subsidy from our Greek colleague.It would
be very easy to think that current events in Greece are just a continuation of
that same problem.

That would be to misunderstand the grand strategy being pursued in Brussels. It
is designed toachieve, without recourse to war, the realization of adream
unfulfilled since the fall of Rome,the first pan-European Empire.Spain, France
andAustro Hungaryfailed in their attempts to build such an Empire and after yet
another destructive European war, the founding fathers of the EU swore toachieve
through politics what warfare had failedto deliver.

The creation of a common, or to be correct, sole currency, the euro, was not an
end in itself, but a weapon to achieve by economic means, a
Europeangovernment.It wasabout politics, not economics.

Had it been about economics, the Germans would never have closed their eyes and
held their noses as the Greek government met the requirement for admission to
the currency union only with blatantly falsified statistics. There could never
have been any serious doubt that sooner or later there would be a crisis
requiring a Greek bail out, default or exit from the eurozone.Nor can there be
any doubt that there will be bailout after bailout, with the sums at risk if
Greece were to default and exit the zone growing to the level at which it would
inflict huge damage to the wider European and world economy. Indeed, there are
already whispersthat it is our interest to do anything to avoid such a disaster,
for if Greece went downSpain might be next.

In short, gradually the Greek escape route out of the euro to reconstruct its
economy is being blocked.However, things cannot go on as they are, with
drip-feed bailouts whilethe desperate problems of the Greek people grow worse.

So it will not be long before the would-be collective Emperor in Brussels
announces that Tebbit was of course right all those long years ago when he told
Chancellor Clarke that no currency can have two, let alone a couple of dozen
chancellors and there must be One Euro, One Chancellor, One Finance Ministry,
One Tax Rate and One Europe or the whole European economy, including ours, will
be brought down.

Could that be a democratic state?Please do not ask awkward questions like
that.Just do asyou are told.If not, it will be all the worse for you. You must
be ready to pay the price for peace (of a kind) and prosperity (of a sort).

...

There were some quite clear differences of opinion amongst you about the
unions,David Cameron and indeed most things.However, I thought I should start by
answering reagus, who asked what I would have done had I been drafted in to take
charge as the financial crisis struck.I am sure that I would have supported the
banks. Had they failed, the consequences would have been too awful.But I would
have wanted the directors of several of them to be charged with false accounting
in that they published accounts they must have known, or ought to have known,
were not a true and fair picture of their banks affairs. Not only that, I would
have tried to go for the auditors too, not as firms, but as individuals.The
sight of those men in the dock at the Old Bailey would have done more good than
a truckload of new regulations.

As to interest rates at the present time, I do not think I have the experience
or knowledge to second-guess the bank, although I am increasingly uneasy about
inflation.

Then I thought that prince fielder and cooking lager simply did not know what
they were talking about in comparing percentage polls in Parliamentary elections
and strike ballots.First of all, they have forgotten that I deliberately (in the
face of some criticism) only legislated that there should be a ballot, not even
that it should be carried, on the grounds that no sane trade union leader would
commit his union to a strike if it did not have widespread support. Up to now, I
have been proved right, but a new generation of extremist leaders seem eager to
be taught a sharp lesson either by their own members or by Parliament. Secondly,
unlike a Parliamentary election, a strike is a breach of the contract between
employer and employee for which the striker could, but for the protection
afforded by industrial relationslaw, be sued in court, as could those who
procured the breach.Naturally, in exchange for that protection, the law requires
certain rules to be observed, such as that the relevant workers must have been
fairly balloted.

Of course zebedee may think Crowe "a good bloke" and that Tories like me"loathe
the rights of ordinary people". He forgets that it was I who first gave trades
unionists the right to elect their leaders by secret ballot and to have strike
ballots and it was the union leaders who opposed me.

A lot of apologists for the proposed strikes in the public sector forgot that
those workers are paid out of our taxes. Assomeonesaid, a strike does not put
any more money into his pocket to pay increased wages.In the private sector
either workers produce more to pay for higher wages, or their employers go out
of business and they lose their jobs.

I liked chasdf's thought that public sector strikes save money spent on wages,
and ceoloric thought they could all strike for 14 days a year, though with their
sickies and four weeks holiday some of them would not be at workvery much,
leaving non-striking boudiccaand those like herworking harder than ever.

Manyof you agreed, including sealordlawrence, tauki, sarumano, nogood boyo
tenbelly and JacksonAliBaba, and lots more felt Mr Cameron would back down in
the face of strikes; others like phantomthought he is playing it right
whileAthelstans Heir said he just has to win and Bill Etheridge took the view
that he could do himself no end of good by doing so.PaulDavies888 thought we
might well be surprised by the Prime Minister.Well, I hope so, but he has not
yet struck fear into the hearts of his adversaries.I take the point made by
Furious D that Cameron is doing a balancing job between the "utterly mad" Lib
Demsand his own Party, but his criticism of the 1922 Committee was plain silly
and the lack of a majority is entirely due to the campaign Cameronfought, so it
is no use blaming UKIP. Then andyed said the electors "did not make a clear
choice at the election".Well, they could not, as they were not offered one.

There were many more interesting comments and some good essays from pixiejade,
getonit, Elizaand otherson all sorts of subjects (and others not very good at
all) as well as the usual merry quips and jibes from crownarmourerand
interesting posts from our team of regulars including Laveen Ladharam, who is
obviously on holiday from his studies, as well as bersher, darkseid who was
pretty hawkish,and all the usual suspects. Finally I have to say once again to
all the Scargill apologiststhat the mines were closed because the coal they
produced was too expensive to buy.Just like poor Chris Huhne's wind-generated
electricity which, as several of you pointed out, isanother disaster in the
making as the lights go out in 2015 or 2020.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Nottinghamshire v Lancashire;
LV= County Championship

BYLINE: Neville Scott

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 261 words


Trent Bridge (third day of four): Lancashire, with all second-innings wickets in
hand, need 205 runs to beat Nottinghamshire

On Test Match Special last Saturday, championship cricket, which he never
watches, was treated to a farrago of ill-informed disdain by Nigel Farage, the
leader of UKIP. Happily, this magnificent match offered an instant raspberry.

At no stage during the first two days was it possible to predict the winner and
no sooner had one apparently emerged than an exhilarating counter-attack from
Paul Franks and Andre Adams yesterday seized the plot once more. Batting again,
Nottinghamshire lost four men in their opening dozen overs and another three in
seven balls from Kyle Hogg straight after lunch. At 81 for seven, 101 ahead,
they were seemingly dead.

High pace, movement off the seam and a staggering catch from Steven Croft had
combined on a pitch of welcome lift but increasingly variable bounce to bring
mayhem. However, Adams wreaks havoc of his own. Three times hooking for six, he
added 119 in 19 overs with Franks, 45 of them coming in 18 minutes before tea.

Hooking again at Sajid Mahmood, he eventually gloved a catch to go for 52 from
51 balls. Franks, calm and orthodox, reached 57 from 87 balls until being
stumped beautifully by Gareth Cross to leave Lancashire needing 237 to win.

Mahmood claimed his second haul of ten wickets in a match and Luke Fletcher's
maiden five-wicket bag first thing was all but lost in the drama that came
after. At least the Lancashire openers, despite blows to the hand, survived 13
overs to the close.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 22, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Europe braced for MEPs' expenses storm;
Publication of suppressed report could undermine efforts to deal with eurozone
debt crisis

BYLINE: By Oliver Wright, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 855 words


The European Parliament will today back down and order the release of a secret
report detailing the widespread abuse of expenses by MEPs, The Independent has
learnt.

A meeting of senior MEPs is expected to accept a European Court of Justice
ruling that there is an "overriding public interest in disclosure".

The decision could have far-reaching consequences for transparency within the
European Parliament and wider European Union institutions. It will increase
pressure on the parliament to publish more details of the expenses claims of
MEPs including their travel expenditure, attendance records and the highly
controversial (EURO)4,300 (£3,800) "go anywhere" budget given to members.

Given the difficulties the EU faces in persuading countries such as Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to accept tough austerity measures, the re-emergence of
allegations of misuse of taxpayer funds by MEPs is unlikely to be welcome on the
streets of Athens or across the Union. It also means future reports - however
controversial - into governance of EU institutions are likely to be put into the
public domain.

"Bit by bit the parliament is being brought kicking and screaming towards
transparency," said Chris Davies MEP, who first leaked the contents of the
report compiled by the parliament's chief internal auditor, Robert Galvin, in
2008. "I was delighted by the European Court's decision. There is still a long
way to go but I would hope pressure will now build to identify what was done to
pursue those MEPs identified by Galvin as misusing the system."

The court ruled earlier this month that European institutions could no longer
claim potential political controversy as grounds to refuse access of internal
audit reports.

A leaked copy of the report to The Sunday Times revealed systematic abuses by
Euro MPs of parliamentary allowances that enable them to pocket more than £1m
from a five-year term.

Among the abuses it detailed were:

* Payments made to assistants of MEPs who were not accredited.

* End-of-year bonuses worth nearly 20 times the monthly salary paid to
assistants, which allowed members to use up their full annual allowance.

* Some assistants doubled their salaries by banking pay-offs from outgoing MEPs
at the same time as receiving salaries from incoming ones.

But despite widespread outrage at the allegations senior officials in the
European Parliament refused to release the full report and fought a costly court
battle with Ciaran Toland, an Irish lawyer, over its disclosure.

The parliament had argued that if such reports were released to the public then
in future those writing them might not be prepared to offer frank advice and
could adversely affect decision-making. However, this was rejected by the court.

Last night Mr Toland said: "I would very much welcome this development. When
they refused me access to the report, the European Parliament effectively said
that the taxpayers of Europe, who fund the parliament, cannot be trusted to know
how their money is being spent by that parliament, nor are they entitled to know
what recommendations exist for how the system should be reformed.

"What is at the heart of the case are central issues of European transparency
law. This case has now established new rights of access to a wide range of
documents by both citizens and the media. On a wider point, involving the public
in any debate on legislative reform, or in respect of public funds, is an
essential prerequisite of a democratic system. No self-respecting parliament
should ever be afraid to discuss its finances in front of the citizens who elect
it, and who pay for those very funds."

Those who argued against the publication will be anxious it should not inflame
the situation in Greece. Anger there is so far directed at the Commission and
other nation member states, but that could spread.

Sources in the European Parliament said last night that the Galvin report would
be discussed today at a meeting of the Bureau of the Parliament which is
responsible for matters relating to the budget, administration, organisation and
staff. It is composed of the President, Jerzy Buzek, along with all 14
vice-presidents.

The release of the Galvin report is being backed by Diana Wallis, the
vice-president responsible for transparency and is expected to be passed.

"The plan is to release the report and not question the wider element of the
European Court's decision either," said the source.

The move was welcomed by the Ukip MEP Nikki Sinclaire, who has campaigned for
greater transparency within European institutions.

Selected revelations from the Galvin Report

* Documentation was not provided for 63 of the 105 contracts examined.

* A series of bonuses awarded MEPs' assistants between three and 19.5 times
their normal salary.

* A payment was made to a crèche, supposedly for secretarial work, whose manager
was a local politician from the MEP's party.

* Payments were made to national political parties.

* One MEP paid the full £182,000 staff allowance to one person, suspected of
being a relative.

* The report was based on a sample of 167 payments - out of a total of 4,686 -
made during October 2004.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Europe braced for MEPs' expenses storm;
Publication of suppressed report could undermine efforts to deal with eurozone
debt crisis Report's release could herald new era of EU transparency

BYLINE: Oliver Wright Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 853 words


THE EUROPEAN Parliament will today back down and order the release of a secret
report detailing the widespread abuse of expenses by MEPs, The Independent has
learnt.

A meeting of senior MEPs is expected to accept a European Court of Justice
ruling that there is an "overriding public interest in disclosure".

The decision could have far-reaching consequences for transparency within the
European Parliament and wider European Union institutions. It will increase
pressure on the parliament to publish more details of the expenses claims of
MEPs including their travel expenditure, attendance records and the highly
controversial Euro 4,300 (£3,800) "go anywhere" budget given to members.

Given the difficulties the EU faces in persuading countries such as Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to accept tough austerity measures, the re-emergence of
allegations of misuse of taxpayer funds by MEPs is unlikely to be welcome on the
streets of Athens or across the Union. It also means future reports - however
controversial - into governance of EU institutions are likely to be put into the
public domain.

"Bit by bit the parliament is being brought kicking and screaming towards
transparency," said Chris Davies MEP, who first leaked the contents of the
report compiled by the parliament's chief internal auditor, Robert Galvin, in
2008. "I was delighted by the European Court's decision. There is still a long
way to go but I would hope pressure will now build to identify what was done to
pursue those MEPs identified by Galvin as misusing the system."

The court ruled earlier this month that European institutions could no longer
claim potential political controversy as grounds to refuse access of internal
audit reports.

A leaked copy of the report to The Sunday Times revealed systematic abuses by
Euro MPs of parliamentary allowances that enable them to pocket more than £1m
from a five-year term.

Among the abuses it detailed were:

* Payments made to assistants of MEPs who were not accredited.

* End-of-year bonuses worth nearly 20 times the monthly salary paid to
assistants, which allowed members to use up their full annual allowance.

* Some assistants doubled their salaries by banking pay-offs from outgoing MEPs
at the same time as receiving salaries from incoming ones.

But despite widespread outrage at the allegations senior officials in the
European Parliament refused to release the full report and fought a costly court
battle with Ciaran Toland, an Irish lawyer, over its disclosure.

The parliament had argued that if such reports were released to the public then
in future those writing them might not be prepared to offer frank advice and
could adversely affect decision-making. However, this was rejected by the court.

Last night Mr Toland said: "I would very much welcome this development. When
they refused me access to the report, the European Parliament effectively said
that the taxpayers of Europe, who fund the parliament, cannot be trusted to know
how their money is being spent by that parliament, nor are they entitled to know
what recommendations exist for how the system should be reformed.

"What is at the heart of the case are central issues of European transparency
law. This case has now established new rights of access to a wide range of
documents by both citizens and the media. On a wider point, involving the public
in any debate on legislative reform, or in respect of public funds, is an
essential prerequisite of a democratic system. No self-respecting parliament
should ever be afraid to discuss its finances in front of the citizens who elect
it, and who pay for those very funds."

Those who argued against the publication will be anxious it should not inflame
the situation in Greece. Anger there is so far directed at the Commission and
other nation member states, but that could spread.

Sources in the European Parliament said last night that the Galvin report would
be discussed today at a meeting of the Bureau of the Parliament which is
responsible for matters relating to the budget, administration, organisation and
staff. It is composed of the President, Jerzy Buzek, along with all 14
vice-presidents.

The release of the Galvin report is being backed by Diana Wallis, the
vice-president responsible for transparency and is expected to be passed.

"The plan is to release the report and not question the wider element of the
European Court's decision either," said the source.

The move was welcomed by the Ukip MEP Nikki Sinclaire, who has campaigned for
greater transparency within European institutions.

SELECTED REVELATIONS FROM THE GALVIN REPORT

* Documentation was not provided for 63 of the 105 contracts examined.

* A series of bonuses awarded MEPs' assistants between three and 19.5 times
their normal salary.

* A payment was made to a crèche, supposedly for secretarial work, whose manager
was a local politician from the MEP's party.

* Payments were made to national political parties.

* One MEP paid the full £182,000 staff allowance to one person, suspected of
being a relative.

* The report was based on a sample of 167 payments - out of a total of 4,686 -
made during October 2004.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Eurocrat Ashton is damned in memo from Whitehall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 285  words


TOP eurocrat Baroness Ashton yesterday faced fresh embarrassment when a secret
Foreign Office memo saying she was not up to the job was released by mistake.

It said FO chiefs believed the Labour peer lacked the authority and experience
to be EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security.

Written in 2009 during the selection process for the post, the memo was leaked
in error on the department's website.

It was part of a document about the EU External Action Service released after a
Freedom of Information inquiry.

A section about Lady Ashton's credentials was supposed to be witheld but it
could be read by cutting and pasting.

A blacked-out section read: "The assumption is that a former foreign minister
would need to be the candidate to have enough authority; we could consider a
former PM or head of state."

In an accompanying letter, the FO says it blanked out some parts because they
"would be likely to prejudice relations between the UK and other EU states".

Ukip leader and MEP Nigel Farage said: "Ukip has always said that Baroness
Ashton is not fit for purpose, and these documents clearly show the Foreign
Office was looking for a far more politically aware and experienced candidate."

The Foreign Office said: "We wrote to all Foreign and Commonwealth Office
departments in March, setting out best practice on handling redaction of
withheld material.

"We also regularly update guidance to staff on Freedom of Information handling.
In light of this incident, we will be looking at how further to tighten up
procedures."

A spokesman for Baroness Ashton said:

"The High Representative was chosen by the 27 heads of government of the
European Union. She was the unanimous choice of all EU leaders."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Cathy Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 20, 2011 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Baroness Cox: 'If we ignore wrongs, we condone them';
When Baroness Cox takes up a cause, she invariably courts controversy. Her
latest - a campaign against sharia law - is no exception. Jerome Taylor meets
her

SECTION: PROFILES

LENGTH: 1233 words


If there is one thing Baroness Caroline Cox is not afraid of it is whipping up
controversy. For almost three decades the Christian peer has sat in the House of
Lords campaigning on one obscure issue to another, desperately trying to alert
Britain's political elite to some of the world's forgotten conflicts.
Nagorno-Karabakh, southern Sudan, Burma, Nigeria: If there is an ignored
conflict - particularly one in which Christians are facing persecution - you can
bet the 73-year-old will have been there.

"I seem to spend half my life in a jungle, a desert or half way up a mountain,"
she says, explaining her return from Burma, which she entered illegally to
report on rights abuses against minority tribes. She will soon travel back to
Sudan, which is lurching back towards civil war.

She often enters war zones under fire - no one could deny that Baroness Cox is
brave. But the tactics she uses often raise eyebrows. In the 1990s, she
infuriated anti-slavery groups when she began travelling into Sudan to buy
slaves from Arab traders with money raised by evangelical churches.

By her own reckoning she spent somewhere in the region of £100,000 freeing more
than 2,000 slaves during 55 trips to Sudan - one of the few countries at the
time where slavery was still openly practised, often with deliberate government
backing.

Proponents said the world simply could not stand by while humans were being
traded on an open market. But the vast majority of anti-slavery charities
condemned such forays, arguing that the purchase of people, no matter how
altruistic the intentions, only perpetuated and encouraged the trade.

More recently, Baroness Cox stoked tensions when she, along with two other
peers, extended an invitation to far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders to
screen his highly inflammatory and anti-Islamic film, Fitna, in the House of
Lords.

And now, in a cramped side-room down a warren of corridors in the Lords, she is
taking aim at her latest bête noire. "We cannot sit here complacently in our red
and green benches while women are suffering a system which is utterly
incompatible with the legal principles upon which this country is founded," she
says. "If we don't do something, we are condoning it."

Baroness Cox is talking about sharia law in Britain. It is exactly the sort of
topic mainstream politicians will not touch, but Cox - freed from party politics
when she had the Tory whip withdrawn seven years ago for signing a pro-Ukip
letter - relishes an unpopular cause.

Earlier this month, the peer - backed by an unusual alliance of Christians,
secularists and women's rights groups - tabled a Bill in the House of Lords
which would effectively cauterise sharia courts, forcing them to recognise the
primacy of UK law and threatening anyone who falsely claims to have legal
jurisdiction with a five-year prison sentence.

The Bill easily passed its first reading and will have a second airing later
this summer. But the chances of it getting anywhere near the House of Commons
are slight. Before the election David Cameron promised to make forced marriage a
criminal offence and they have not even got around to that yet.

But Baroness Cox hopes her proposals may gain enough support to be taken
seriously by all parties. "I hope it will open up responsible, sensitive
discussion about sharia law," she explains, rattling through her sentences like
a machine-gun. "People come to me and say no one in the centre is talking about
this, should I vote BNP? And that worries me. If no one does anything in
Parliament, then people will go to the extremes."

Take a look through the Arbitration and Mediation Services (Equality) Bill and
you realise what Baroness Cox is trying to do is not actually that radical.
Other than a new criminal offence for anyone caught falsely passing themselves
off as a bona-fide judge, the main thrust of the Bill is to ensure the judgments
of arbitration panels - be they Muslim, Jewish of any other variant - are only
enforceable in civil disputes, not in family law or criminal law.

Technically that is what the law already says but there is growing concern that
religious courts are suffering from "jurisdiction creep" and are ruling on
issues such as domestic violence and child custody when they have absolutely no
right to do so.

The use of sharia in the UK currently comes in two forms. Like Jewish Beth Din
courts, Muslim arbitration tribunals can rule on property and financial disputes
as long as both parties are happy to have their hearing heard in a religious
context. Any decision an arbitration tribunal then makes is enforceable by the
civil courts.

Sharia councils - of which there are an estimated 85 operating across the
country - have no jurisdictional powers and should only be operating in an
advisory capacity, but there are fears they are increasingly straying into areas
of family and criminal law.

Baroness Cox says her Bill will empower Muslim women to fight any decision made
by a sharia court that contravenes equality legislation - and considering a
woman's testimony is only worth half that of a man's under sharia, virtually any
decision they make would be inherently challengeable.

"It does not interfere with freedom of religion," Baroness Cox quickly replies
as I ask whether this is simply an attempt by the Christian right to bash Islam.

"If women are happy with the sharia principles and if there is a case made which
discriminates against them and they are satisfied with it then that's that, they
have the freedom to do that. But if retrospectively they say, hey, I suddenly
realised there's a legal system out there which doesn't discriminate against me
and I would like the ruling to be reconsidered then - if it was based on sharia
principles that discriminate against women - it could be reconsidered and
overruled in a civil court."

Baroness Cox insists her chief motivation is protecting vulnerable women who are
hoodwinked by sharia courts into believing that these courts have the power to
make judgments. Few will disagree with the idea of reining in any attempt to
usurp British law. But I cannot help feeling slightly uncomfortable that the
chief proponent of this Bill is the kind of person who extends an invitation to
a virulent Islamaphobe like Geert Wilders.

"I am utterly committed to the principle of free speech," Baroness Cox counters.
"There's a lot he has said and done that I don't agree with, but he should at
least have a chance to come to the UK and I should have the chance to challenge
him. Many more people probably watched Fitna because he was kept out than had he
been allowed in." But wasn't it her initial invitation that gave Wilders a
platform, not the Home Office's decision to ban him? (Wilders was eventually
allowed in and screened Fitna in the House of Lords). "Sure," she replies. "But
he still had a right to come."

In an age of political compromise, Baroness Cox's fierce independence stands
out.

Life in brief

* Born 6 July 1937 in Hertfordshire. Attended Channing School in Highgate and
became a nurse at London Hospital  in 1958.

* Married her husband, Dr Murray Newell Cox, in 1959. The couple have two sons
and one daughter and remained together until Dr Cox's death in 1997.

* Turned to academia in1960s and 70s.

* Appointed by Margaret Thatcher as a working peer in 1982, taking the title
Baroness Cox of Queensbury. Deputy speaker of the House of Lords from 1986 to
2006.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

'IF WE IGNORE WRONGS, WE CONDONE THEM';
The Monday Interview When Baroness Cox takes up a cause, she invariably courts
controversy. Her latest - a campaign against sharia law - is no exception.
Jerome Taylor meets her

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1231 words


If there is one thing Baroness Caroline Cox is not afraid of it is whipping up
controversy. For almost three decades the Christian peer has sat in the House of
Lords campaigning on one obscure issue to another, desperately trying to alert
Britain's political elite to some of the world's forgotten conflicts.
Nagorno-Karabakh, southern Sudan, Burma, Nigeria: If there is an ignored
conflict - particularly one in which Christians are facing persecution - you can
bet the 73-year-old will have been there.

"I seem to spend half my life in a jungle, a desert or half way up a mountain,"
she says, explaining her return from Burma, which she entered illegally to
report on rights abuses against minority tribes. She will soon travel back to
Sudan, which is lurching back towards civil war.

She often enters war zones under fire - no one could deny that Baroness Cox is
brave. But the tactics she uses often raise eyebrows. In the 1990s, she
infuriated anti-slavery groups when she began travelling into Sudan to buy
slaves from Arab traders with money raised by evangelical churches.

By her own reckoning she spent somewhere in the region of £100,000 freeing more
than 2,000 slaves during 55 trips to Sudan - one of the few countries at the
time where slavery was still openly practised, often with deliberate government
backing.

Proponents said the world simply could not stand by while humans were being
traded on an open market. But the vast majority of anti-slavery charities
condemned such forays, arguing that the purchase of people, no matter how
altruistic the intentions, only perpetuated and encouraged the trade.

More recently, Baroness Cox stoked tensions when she, along with two other
peers, extended an invitation to far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders to
screen his highly inflammatory and anti-Islamic film, Fitna, in the House of
Lords.

And now, in a cramped side-room down a warren of corridors in the Lords, she is
taking aim at her latest bête noire. "We cannot sit here complacently in our red
and green benches while women are suffering a system which is utterly
incompatible with the legal principles upon which this country is founded," she
says. "If we don't do something, we are condoning it."

Baroness Cox is talking about sharia law in Britain. It is exactly the sort of
topic mainstream politicians will not touch, but Cox - freed from party politics
when she had the Tory whip withdrawn seven years ago for signing a pro-Ukip
letter - relishes an unpopular cause.

Earlier this month, the peer - backed by an unusual alliance of Christians,
secularists and women's rights groups - tabled a Bill in the House of Lords
which would effectively cauterise sharia courts, forcing them to recognise the
primacy of UK law and threatening anyone who falsely claims to have legal
jurisdiction with a five-year prison sentence.

The Bill easily passed its first reading and will have a second airing later
this summer. But the chances of it getting anywhere near the House of Commons
are slight. Before the election David Cameron promised to make forced marriage a
criminal offence and they have not even got around to that yet.

But Baroness Cox hopes her proposals may gain enough support to be taken
seriously by all parties. "I hope it will open up responsible, sensitive
discussion about sharia law," she explains, rattling through her sentences like
a machine-gun. "People come to me and say no one in the centre is talking about
this, should I vote BNP? And that worries me. If no one does anything in
Parliament, then people will go to the extremes."

Take a look through the Arbitration and Mediation Services (Equality) Bill and
you realise what Baroness Cox is trying to do is not actually that radical.
Other than a new criminal offence for anyone caught falsely passing themselves
off as a bona-fide judge, the main thrust of the Bill is to ensure the judgments
of arbitration panels - be they Muslim, Jewish of any other variant - are only
enforceable in civil disputes, not in family law or criminal law.

Technically that is what the law already says but there is growing concern that
religious courts are suffering from "jurisdiction creep" and are ruling on
issues such as domestic violence and child custody when they have absolutely no
right to do so.

The use of sharia in the UK currently comes in two forms. Like Jewish Beth Din
courts, Muslim arbitration tribunals can rule on property and financial disputes
as long as both parties are happy to have their hearing heard in a religious
context. Any decision an arbitration tribunal then makes is enforceable by the
civil courts.

Sharia councils - of which there are an estimated 85 operating across the
country - have no jurisdictional powers and should only be operating in an
advisory capacity, but there are fears they are increasingly straying into areas
of family and criminal law.

Baroness Cox says her Bill will empower Muslim women to fight any decision made
by a sharia court that contravenes equality legislation - and considering a
woman's testimony is only worth half that of a man's under sharia, virtually any
decision they make would be inherently challengeable.

"It does not interfere with freedom of religion," Baroness Cox quickly replies
as I ask whether this is simply an attempt by the Christian right to bash Islam.

"If women are happy with the sharia principles and if there is a case made which
discriminates against them and they are satisfied with it then that's that, they
have the freedom to do that. But if retrospectively they say, hey, I suddenly
realised there's a legal system out there which doesn't discriminate against me
and I would like the ruling to be reconsidered then - if it was based on sharia
principles that discriminate against women - it could be reconsidered and
overruled in a civil court."

Baroness Cox insists her chief motivation is protecting vulnerable women who are
hoodwinked by sharia courts into believing that these courts have the power to
make judgments. Few will disagree with the idea of reining in any attempt to
usurp British law. But I cannot help feeling slightly uncomfortable that the
chief proponent of this Bill is the kind of person who extends an invitation to
a virulent Islamaphobe like Geert Wilders.

"I am utterly committed to the principle of free speech," Baroness Cox counters.
"There's a lot he has said and done that I don't agree with, but he should at
least have a chance to come to the UK and I should have the chance to challenge
him. Many more people probably watched Fitna because he was kept out than had he
been allowed in." But wasn't it her initial invitation that gave Wilders a
platform, not the Home Office's decision to ban him? (Wilders was eventually
allowed in and screened Fitna in the House of Lords). "Sure," she replies. "But
he still had a right to come."

In an age of political compromise, Baroness Cox's fierce independence stands
out.

LIFE IN BRIEF

* Born 6 July 1937 in Hertfordshire. Attended Channing School in Highgate and
became a nurse at London Hospital in 1958.

* Married her husband, Dr Murray Newell Cox, in 1959. The couple have two sons
and one daughter and remained together until Dr Cox's death in 1997.

* Turned to academia in1960s and 70s.

* Appointed by Margaret Thatcher as a working peer in 1982, taking the title
Baroness Cox of Queensbury. Deputy speaker of the House of Lords from 1986 to
2006.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 19, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How you fund £1.1bn Euro MPs' gravy train;
FOCUS

BYLINE: Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 701 words


ON TUESDAY, five journalism students from Birmingham University will fly to
Brussels for a riveting two-night trip to witness the long drawnout proceedings
of the European Parliament.

They will check into their downtown hotels and then waltz over to the mini-city
that is the sprawling, expensively furbished bubble of the Brussels bureaucracy.

With them will be two of their tutors and a European press officer who will
travel from London to extol the workings of the organisation.

The £4,200 budget for the visit includes the cost of a slap-up dinner. However,
it is not the university that will be picking up the tab but you, the
hard-working taxpayers who fund the parliament.

The students will no doubt be amazed by the first-class press facilities,
impressed by the quality of the ground-floor restaurant, bewildered by the
prices of the on-site hairdresser and wowed by the banks of translators who
surround the parliament's debating chamber. As part of the charm offensive,
their guide will explain the growing importance of the European Parliament and
its major impact on the domestic legislation at Westminster and in local
government.

However, what they are unlikely to be told is the enormous cost of the
operation.

A report released this month reveals the Parliament, which was given extra
powers under the Lisbon Treaty in December 2009, last year managed to get
through £1.1billion.

About £60million went on the salaries of 785 MEPs and £67million went on their
expenses, an average of about £160,000 for each member.

The workload of their jet-setting jobs was alleviated by another £560million
paid to the parliament's officials and support staff.

Some £4.7million was also spent on the Parliament's nursery and crÈche, while
£3.3million was shelled out on new furniture.

Another £7.2million helped improve wireless internet connections in the
parliament building and £27million was set aside for meetings and conferences.

In total, MEPs made 17,058 journeys to attend the sittings of the Parliament in
Brussels and Strasbourg and another 30,216 trips to take part in various
committee hearings, according to the report, which also reveals a level of
spending on property that has shocked even the closest of Brussels watchers.

In 2010, the parliament set aside about £9million to buy a new office block in
Sofia, Bulgaria that will house just five staff from the European Parliament and
a few more from the European Commission. Although the deal has yet to be
finalised, reports in Bulgaria suggest the price tag is well above market rates.

In the past few years more than £100million has gone on buying prime properties
to establish a network of mini-embassies dedicated to spreading the word of its
MEPs.

The Sofia office will be the 34th Europe House to raise its flag, the 11th to be
bought outright, including those in Athens, Budapest, Lisbon, Vienna, The Hague,
Valetta in Malta, and Nicosia in Cyprus.

Most controversial is the Europe House in London's Smith Square, bought for more
than £20million, with £5million spent on refurbishment.

It houses 18 European Parliament and Commission staff.

Their job is to act as "information points" and "educate" Britons about the
European Parliament, including taking students on trips to Brussels.

However, members of the public wishing to look around the building last week
were told by staff: "There's nothing really to see to be honest."

It does not even have any leaflets to give passers-by because the area to handle
that isn't yet ready. However, the office's publicity material says: "We send
out more than a million items annually, including brochures and promotional
items such as balloons, pens and maps."

Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen said: "Taxpayers' money is being used to satisfy
pompous desires of bureaucrats and politicians who will not accept the EU
institutions in anything less than premium real estate."

Pieter Cleppe, of the Open Europe think tank, said: "Instead of building up a
real estate portfolio across Europe, the European Parliament should genuinely
think about how it can respond to citizens' and taxpayers' concerns."

In the past few years ' more than £100m has gone on buying prime properties to
establish a network of miniembassies '

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 19, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The foreign students who beat us at English;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Hilary Douglas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 309 words


FOREIGN students are flooding into British universities because they have better
English than our teenagers.

Unlike British youngsters, when European children are taught English they are
not allowed to use slang or colloquial words.

Last year 25,607 EU undergraduates were awarded places at UK universities with
those accepted at 20 of the most sought-after institutions increasing by nearly
30 per cent over the past three years.

Up to 200,000 British school pupils are expected to fail to gain a place at
university this year.

Having sat the international baccalaureate, EU pupils have studied a wider range
of subjects than British pupils, including at least two foreign languages,
maths, a science, humanity and arts subject. They also must have either history
or geography, do a philosophy-style course and a 4,000-word academic paper up to
university standard.

Former Manchester headteacher Steve Patriarca, now working at the Danube
International School in Vienna, said: "The rot set in 10 years ago with the new
English GCSE.

"For the French, Germans and here in Austria there is a requirement to teach
formal French or German even if the children speak a dialect at home.

"In the UK it's the reverse.

Almost everyone is encouraged to speak with a dialect.

"In Vienna there is a bilingual school programme, so when they reach their teens
they are as fluent in English as they are in German and would take on and beat
most English children for content and use of language."

A lack of languages in Britain had to be put right, he said, before British
children miss out on any more international job and business opportunities.

Latest figures show just 11,723 UK students went to study in Europe last year,
half the number coming into Britain.

Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall called for a "fairer deal for British students" by
limiting places available for those from abroad.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 19, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How you fund GBP 1.1bn Euro MPs' gravy train

BYLINE: ByTed Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 13

LENGTH: 688  words


ON TUESDAY, five journalism students from Birmingham University will fly to
Brussels for a riveting two-night trip to witness the long drawnout proceedings
of the European Parliament.

They will check into their downtown hotels and then waltz over to the mini-city
that is the sprawling, expensively furbished bubble of the Brussels bureaucracy.

With them will be two of their tutors and a European press officer who will
travel from London to extol the workings of the organisation.

The GBP 4,200 budget for the visit includes the cost of a slap-up dinner.

However, it is not the university that will be picking up the tab but you, the
hard-working taxpayers who fund the parliament.

The students will no doubt be amazed by the first-class press facilities,
impressed by the quality of the ground-floor restaurant, bewildered by the
prices of the on-site hairdresser and wowed by the banks of translators who
surround the parliament's debating chamber.

As part of the charm offensive, their guide will explain the growing importance
of the European Parliament and its major impact on the domestic legislation at
Westminster and in local government.

However, what they are unlikely to be told is the enormous cost of the
operation.

A report released this month reveals the Parliament, which was given extra
powers under the Lisbon Treaty in December 2009, last year managed to get
through GBP 1.1billion.

About GBP 60million went on the salaries of 785 MEPs and GBP 67million went on
their expenses, an average of about GBP 160,000 for each member.

The workload of their jet-setting jobs was alleviated by another GBP 560million
paid to the parliament's officials and support staff.

Some GBP 4.7million was also spent on the Parliament's nursery and crèche, while
GBP 3.3million was shelled out on new furniture.

Another GBP 7.2million helped improve wireless internet connections in the
parliament building and GBP 27million was set aside for meetings and
conferences.

In total, MEPs made 17,058 journeys to attend the sittings of the Parliament in
Brussels and Strasbourg and another 30,216 trips to take part in various
committee hearings, according to the report, which also reveals a level of
spending on property that has shocked even the closest of Brussels watchers.

In 2010, the parliament set aside about GBP 9million to buy a new office block
in Sofia, Bulgaria that will house just five staff from the European Parliament
and a few more from the European Commission.

Although the deal has yet to be finalised, reports in Bulgaria suggest the price
tag is well above market rates.

In the past few years more than GBP 100million has gone on buying prime
properties to establish a network of mini-embassies dedicated to spreading the
word of its MEPs.

The Sofia office will be the 34th Europe House to raise its flag, the 11th to be
bought outright, including those in Athens, Budapest, Lisbon, Vienna, The Hague,
Valetta in Malta, and Nicosia in Cyprus.

Most controversial is the Europe House in London's Smith Square, bought for more
than GBP 20million, with GBP 5million spent on refurbishment. It houses 18
European Parliament and Commission staff.

Their job is to act as "information points" and "educate" Britons about the
European Parliament, including taking students on trips to Brussels.

However, members of the public wishing to look around the building last week
were told by staff: "There's nothing really to see to be honest."

It does not even have any leaflets to give passers-by because the area to handle
that isn't yet ready. However, the office's publicity material says: "We send
out more than a million items annually, including brochures and promotional
items such as balloons, pens and maps."

Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen said:

"Taxpayers' money is being used to satisfy pompous desires of bureaucrats and
politicians who will not accept the EU institutions in anything less than
premium real estate."

Pieter Cleppe, of the Open Europe think tank, said: "Instead of building up a
real estate portfolio across Europe, the European Parliament should genuinely
think about how it can respond to citizens' and taxpayers' concerns."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Lady Ashton snub to Hague at UN

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 144 words


EU foreign affairs supremo Baroness Ashton sparked fury yesterday after
increasing her rights to speak for Europe as a whole at the UN.

Lady Ashton and her EU foreign service have overridden British protests and
enlarged their representation and speaking rights at the UN from just its New
York general assembly to 61 other UN bodies, including a politically-sensitive
human rights council.

The development is embarrassing for Foreign Secretary William Hague. He promised
MPs last year that EU infl uence would be "strictly limited" to the general
assembly. But Bill Cash, chairman of the Commons European scrutiny committee,
said the move was "in fl agrant breach of the assurances". Ukip MEP William

Dartmouth said: "The EU is diminishing Britain's infl uence in the world." But
Europe Minister David Lidington claimed the development was a "simple technical
change".

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -30 'Embarrassing' Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ed Miliband has just made a terrible decision on the EU

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 815 words


BACK in January, in the pursuit of this newspaper's ongoing crusade to get
Britain out of the EU, I passed on a thought to a senior associate of Ed
Miliband. Your man's poll lead won't last, I said. People will say he is not
strong enough. He will reach a moment of crisis. You will then need to have a
"game-changer" in your back pocket that will alter the political dynamics. So
what about the promise of a referendum on EU membership in the first term of any
government led by him?

This could be defended from a pro-EU standpoint on grounds of restoring
democracy and trust in politics, I pointed out. It would make the British public
sit up and take note and wonder whether it had written off Mr Miliband
prematurely. It would set him apart from a political class despised for ignoring
the wish of ordinary people to finally have their say on Europe. It would also
have the not unhelpful side-effect for him of setting the cat among the pigeons
in the Conservative Party. Surely, then, Miliband should side with the Daily
Express and back an In/Out referendum?

His associate thought about this briefly before replying: "The problem with that
is that the British people would probably vote to leave the EU." The pro-EU
blinkers were firmly on - it was Brussels first and democracy a distant second.

Yet later I heard that Miliband's team were discussing this very idea but that
he was reluctant to endorse it. Things then went quiet for a while. They are not
so quiet now. For Miliband has finally made his choice after being pressed to do
so by the excellent EU Referendum Campaign.

After he failed to respond to its initial inquiries, a supporter of the campaign
who is also a constituent of Miliband's began writing to him. And now that
woman, Kathryn Heaney, has finally received a reply which we have published
today.

The letter, written on Miliband's behalf by a V Mitchell in his "correspondence
unit", reveals the Labour leader to be such an idealistic and fanatical
supporter of the European empire he will simply not countejobs" nance letting
the British people have a referendum on membership.

IT OPENS by telling Ms Heaney "he appreciates that this issue provokes strong
feelings on both sides" but concludes by saying: "Mr Miliband does not believe
that a referendum on UK membership of the EU is appropriate at this time."

In the interim it outrageously claims that "UK membership of the EU, of course,
was confirmed by a referendum in 1975" when anyone knows that the EU did not
exist then and the British people were merely asked to rubber-stamp a decision
to join the "Common Market" that had already been implemented by the political
class.

Anyway, that was 36 years ago.

Only those now over the age of 54 would have had the opportunity to vote.
Miliband himself was five at the time. Miliband's letter does not even endorse
David Cameron's commitment to hold a referendum on any future transfers of
sovereignty to Brussels, although it does mention that undertaking.

It also mentions the usual pro-EU lies about membership being necessary in order
to protect trade with other European countries and its claim that "membership of
the EU creates an estimated 2.75million is ridiculous. This letter, dated June
2, 2011 and written on his offi-cial Commons notepaper, is an immensely
significant document as it marks the moment that Miliband consciously closed off
one of his few remaining possible paths to power.

That he did so despite being in the political doldrums tells us that he came
into politics to undermine British independence rather than to bolster it. His
heart is stirred by the idea of greater European unity but he fears putting his
case to voters.

Given that his mother was born in Poland and his father in Belgium and the
couple arrived in Britain seeking refuge from the Nazis, Miliband's sentimental
attachment to a united and peaceful Europe is perfectly understandable. His
brother David shares it and it led him, while Foreign Secretary, to ensure the
Lisbon Treaty was ratified by Britain without a promised referendum. But it is
Nato that delivered peace in Europe, not the EU. And the idea that Britain
leaving would make it more likely that Germany would invade France again is mad.

So we must now look to the other parties for commitments to hold a referendum.
Good showings for Ukip in opinion polls and elections will hopefully put fire in
the bellies of Conservative MPs who believe in a referendum and ramp up the
pressure on David Cameron to grant one. The Lib Dems must also be leant on to
revive their promise of an In/Out referendum (one of many pledges they dumped at
the first sight of a ministerial limousine).

But one thing is now crystal clear: if you care passionately about resisting the
forces of European federalism and winning back Britain's right to national
self-determination then, so long as Ed Miliband is its leader, DON'T VOTE
LABOUR.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: PA; ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Total of Romanians in UK jobs trebles in year

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 295 words


THE number of Romanians seeking jobs in Britain has more than trebled in a year.

Nearly 17,500 arrived last year, according to an online recruitment service, up
from 5,000 in 2009.

Britain also tops the list of favourite destinations for Romanian job seekers
with 111,000 applying for work here last year, figures from the tjobs.ro website
show.

An estimated 60,000 Romanians in Britain sent home £1.5billion between 2005 and
2010, according to bank records. That works out at £800,000 a day.

Hospitals here have been inundated with applications from medics and nurses
after a 25 per cent cut in public sector wages in Romania.

That, combined with low private sector salaries and an increase in north African
migrants arriving in Italy, another favoured destination, is said to be behind
the growth in Romanians heading here.

Yesterday campaigners voiced fears over further mass immigration. Gerard Batten,
of Ukip, said: "There are large numbers of British people unemployed and the
Romanians are willing to do uncomfortable jobs on low wages.

"It enables them to send vast amounts of money back home which is good for them
but it doesn't benefit Britain or the British economy.

"You can't blame them for coming here. But that we can't control how many arrive
is our fault for joining the EU and handing over immigration control to
Brussels."

Disaster Alp Mehmet, of MigrationWatch, said: "These figures remind us of the
lack of foresight when we accepted Romania and Bulgaria into the EU.

"It will be a disaster if we embark on another round of accession talks with
other countries and don't take mass economic migration into account."

More than 80 per cent of 210,000 jobs created in the UK last year were taken by
foreign-born workers, official figures revealed earlier this year.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday

Silence of the Lambs fiend dumped on UK

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 488 words


A BRITON who moved to Australia 45 years ago was arrested yesterday and now
faces deportation back to the UK for a horrific sex attack he was jailed for.

Leslie Cunliffe, 63, kidnapped a 21-year-old woman, gagged, blindfolded and
bound her, strapped a fake bomb to her body and raped her. He then demanded a
ransom of £656,000 from her family.

At the time of the seven-hour attack in 1999, local police in Geelong, near
Melbourne, compared it to something from the horror film The Silence Of The
Lambs.

Cunliffe, who holds a British passport, served 12 years in an Australian prison
for the rape before being freed two months ago. But he was arrested yesterday
after breaching his parole conditions and is now awaiting deportation.

No date has been fixed, but it "will be as soon as practical", said an
immigration spokesman.

Cunliffe moved from the UK in 1967 and is a British citizen even though he has
lived in Australia for most of his life.

He is the latest in a series of British sex offenders deported to the UK under
Australia's immigration policy. Convicted paedophiles Raymond Horne and Robert
Excell were both sent back after each spent 56 years in Australia.

Simon Wilson, a murderer and serial rapist, was deported after 48 years in the
country.

The news of Cunliffe's return emerged on the day it was revealed that 99 foreign
prisoners successfully fought deportation from Britain on human rights grounds
in the last three months of 2010. In one case Nepalese killer Rocky Gurung was
allowed to remain even though he was a single adult with no children, who lived
with his parents.

Last night campaigners voiced their outrage that while Australia has the power
to get rid of foreign criminals, the UK's attempts were foiled by human rights
laws. Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham, said: "It says a great deal that
Australia can do this while we can't. Our prisons are full of foreign criminals
who need to be sent home. This is an issue to which the Government should pay a
great deal of attention."

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten added: "It's absurd that this man is being sent from
Australia after 45 years. But it highlights the absurdity that we cannot deport
foreign criminals who have been here for five minutes. We have tied our hands
over the matter with human rights laws."

Cunliffe will be met by police when he lands in the UK and will almost certainly
be placed on the sex offenders register, the Home Office said yesterday.

"Protecting the public is our number-one priority," added a spokesman. "Anyone
convicted of a relevant sexual offence in another country can be placed on the
sex offenders register on their return to the UK.

"Tough checks and a range of tools are available to the police to manage known
sex offenders in the community, including sexual offences prevention orders,
which can also apply to offenders convicted of sexual or violent offences
overseas if they pose a risk of serious sexual harm in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cunliffe, 63, breached his parole

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Total of Romanians in UK jobs trebles in year

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 294  words


THE number of Romanians seeking jobs in Britain has more than trebled in a year.

Nearly 17,500 arrived last year, according to an online recruitment service, up
from 5,000 in 2009.

Britain also tops the list of favourite destinations for Romanian job seekers
with 111,000 applying for work here last year, figures from the tjobs.ro website
show.

An estimated 60,000 Romanians in Britain sent home GBP 1.5billion between 2005
and 2010, according to bank records. That works out at GBP 800,000 a day.

Hospitals here have been inundated with applications from medics and nurses
after a 25 per cent cut in public sector wages in Romania.

That, combined with low private sector salaries and an increase in north African
migrants arriving in Italy, another favoured destination, is said to be behind
the growth in Romanians heading here.

Yesterday campaigners voiced fears over further mass immigration.

Gerard Batten, of Ukip, said: "There are large numbers of British people
unemployed and the Romanians are willing to do uncomfortable jobs on low wages.

"It enables them to send vast amounts of money back home which is good for them
but it doesn't benefit Britain or the British economy.

"You can't blame them for coming here. But that we can't control how many arrive
is our fault for joining the EU and handing over immigration control to
Brussels."

Alp Mehmet, of MigrationWatch, said: "These figures remind us of the lack of
foresight when we accepted Romania and Bulgaria into the EU.

"It will be a disaster if we embark on another round of accession talks with
other countries and don't take mass economic migration into account."

More than 80 per cent of 210,000 jobs created in the UK last year were taken by
foreign-born workers, official figures revealed earlier this year.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Silence of Lambs' fiend back in UK

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 46

LENGTH: 488  words


A BRITON who moved to Australia 45 years ago was arrested yesterday and now
faces deportation back to the UK for a horrific sex attack he was jailed for.

Leslie Cunliffe, 63, kidnapped a 21-year-old woman, gagged, blindfolded and
bound her, strapped a fake bomb to her body and raped her. He then demanded a
ransom of GBP 656,000 from her family.

At the time of the seven-hour attack in 1999, local police in Geelong, near
Melbourne, compared it to something from the horror film The Silence Of The
Lambs.

Cunliffe, who holds a British passport, served 12 years in an Australian prison
for the rape before being freed two months ago. But he was arrested yesterday
after breaching his parole conditions and is now awaiting deportation.

No date has been fixed, but it "will be as soon as practical", said an
immigration spokesman.

Cunliffe moved from the UK in 1967 and is a British citizen even though he has
lived in Australia for most of his life.

He is the latest in a series of British sex offenders deported to the UK under
Australia's immigration policy. Convicted paedophiles Raymond Horne and Robert
Excell were both sent back after each spent 56 years in Australia. Simon Wilson,
a murderer and serial rapist, was deported after 48 years in the country.

The news of Cunliffe's return emerged on the day it was revealed that 99 foreign
prisoners successfully fought deportation from Britain on human rights grounds
in the last three months of 2010. In one case Nepalese killer Rocky Gurung was
allowed to remain even though he was a single adult with no children, who lived
with his parents.

Last night campaigners voiced their outrage that while Australia has the power
to get rid of foreign criminals, the UK's attempts were foiled by human rights
laws.

Priti Patel, Tory MP for Witham, said: "It says a great deal that Australia can
do this while we can't. Our prisons are full of foreign criminals who need to be
sent home. This is an issue to which the Government should pay a great deal of
attention."

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten added: "It's absurd that this man is being sent from
Australia after 45 years. But it highlights the absurdity that we cannot deport
foreign criminals who have been here for five minutes. We have tied our hands
over the matter with human rights laws."

Cunliffe will be met by police when he lands in the UK and will almost certainly
be placed on the sex offenders register, the Home Office said yesterday.

"Protecting the public is our number-one priority, " added a spokesman. "Anyone
convicted of a relevant sexual offence in another country can be placed on the
sex offenders register on their return to the UK.

"Tough checks and a range of tools are available to the police to manage known
sex offenders in the community, including sexual offences prevention orders,
which can also apply to offenders convicted of sexual or violent offences
overseas if they pose a risk of serious sexual harm in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cunliffe, 63, breached his parole

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

'Silence of the Lambs' beast is sent back to UK

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 46

LENGTH: 415  words


A BRITON who moved to Australia 45 years ago is being deported back to the UK
after carrying out a horrific sex attack.

Leslie Cunliffe, 63, kidnapped a 21-year-old woman, gagged, blindfolded and
bound her, strapped a fake bomb to her body and raped her.

He then demanded a ransom of one million Australian dollars from her family.

At the time of the seven-hour attack in 1999, police in Geelong, near Melbourne,
compared it to something from the violent film The Silence Of The Lambs.

Cunliffe, who holds a British passport, served 12 years in an Australian prison
for the rape before being freed two months ago. But he was arrested yesterday
after breaching his parole conditions and is now awaiting deportation.

No date has been fixed, but it "will be as soon as practical", said an
immigration spokesman.

Cunliffe moved from the UK in 1967 and is a British citizen even though he has
lived in Australia for most of his life.

He is the latest in a series of British sex offenders deported to the UK under
Australia's immigration policy.

Convicted paedophiles Raymond Horne and Robert Excell were both sent back after
each spent 56 years in Australia.

Simon Wilson, a murderer and serial rapist, was deported after 48 years in the
country.

The news emerged on the day it was revealed that 99 foreign prisoners
successfully fought deportation from Britain on human rights grounds in the last
three months of 2010.

In one of the most notorious cases, Nepalese killer Rocky Gurung was allowed to
remain even though he was a single adult with no children.

Last night, campaigners voiced their outrage that while Australia has the power
to get rid of foreign criminals, the UK's attempts were foiled by human rights
laws.

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "It says a great deal that Australia can do this while
we can't. Our prisons are full of foreign criminals who need to be sent home."

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten added: "It's absurd that this man is being sent from
Australia after 45 years. But it highlights the absurdity that we cannot deport
foreign criminals who have been here for five minutes. We have tied our hands
over the matter with human rights laws."

Cunliffe will be met by police when he lands in the UK and will almost certainly
be placed on the sex offenders register, the Home Office said.

"Protecting the public is our number-one priority, " said a spokesman. "Anyone
convicted of a relevant sexual offence in another country can be placed on the
sex offenders register on their return to the UK."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Australia is to deport rapist Leslie Cunliffe, 63

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Lady Ashton snub to Hague at UN

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 143  words


EU foreign affairs supremo Baroness Ashton sparked fury yesterday after
increasing her rights to speak for Europe as a whole at the UN.

Lady Ashton and her EU foreign service have overridden British protests and
enlarged their representation and speaking rights at the UN from just its New
York general assembly to 61 other UN bodies, including a politically-sensitive
human rights council.

The development is embarrassing for Foreign Secretary William Hague. He promised
MPs last year that EU influence would be "strictly limited" to the general
assembly. But Bill Cash, chairman of the Commons European scrutiny committee,
said the move was "in flagrant breach of the assurances".

Ukip MEP William Dartmouth said: "The EU is diminishing Britain's influence in
the world." But Europe Minister David Lidington claimed the development was a
"simple technical change".

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Embarrassing' Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 17, 2011 Friday 3:10 PM GMT

Nick Clegg's draft House of Lords Reform Bill is an absolute dog's dinner

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1585 words


I spent a couple of days in the House of Lords this week listening to what other
Peers from all sides of the House were saying both in public and private. They
were not a happy bunch, even before the Government Chief Whip announced on
Thursday that the House would come back from the summer recess not only for a
week in September (a bad practice started by New Labour), but a week earlier
than expected in October.

With remarkable self-control, Labour's spokesman Lord (Swampy) Bassam managed to
avoid blushing as he denounced the Coalition for bring too much ill-considered
legislation into the House. Far sharper were the words of Lord Ryder, a former
Tory chief whip in the Commons, who complained that much of the problem sprang
from the failure of the Commons to spend enough time on the detailed scrutiny
that contentious legislation needs.

There is no doubt about how the great majority of Peers, regardless of Party,
would clear the legislative log-jam, and the former Labour chief whip was on
target with his suggestion that the House of Lords Reform Bill should be kicked
into the long grass once again. If that were to be done, he observed, "the
country would remain calm".

It would certainly calm the House of Lords, and particularly the Tory peers. It
is not just the usual suspects, but a lot of usually loyalist Tories who are
talking of joining the Opposition in delaying tactics on other legislation to
derail the Lords Reform Bill. Nor is the bolshiness confined to the
dyed-in-the-wool opponents of any reform at all. There is widespread support,
even among Ministers, for the view that the Bill is poorly conceived and poorly
drafted. The trouble is that what the Bill proposes is not reform of the House
of Lords, but the abolition of it (other than in name) and the creation of an
entirely new chamber.

Clearly there are four key questions which the advocates of reform should have
asked themselves. First, what do they want the new House to do? Second, what
powers should it have to carry out those tasks?  Third, what sort of members
would be best suited to carry out those tasks? And lastly how should those
members be selected or elected?

Sadly the Coalition has answered only the fourth question and ignored the first
three.

A House elected by a different system to the Commons, and one which some would
claim was "more fair" or "more representative", is bound to challenge the
supremacy of the Commons. That is, unless its powers and duties are far more
clearly defined in statute. Merely saying that "nothing except the electoral
system and membership will be changed" won't do.

Neither the Parliament Act, nor the Salisbury Convention, will prevent that
outcome. Even worse, loading the work which a House of some 600 mostly part-time
experienced former Ministers, diplomats, civil servants, local government
representatives, military men, scientists, doctors, intellectuals and men and
women of letters and the arts used to do so well, on to 300 full-time Members
(240 elected, 60 nominated and 12 Bishops) would rob the House of almost all
such people.

Even worse, the new professional politicians would serve only one 15-year term,
so they would never be democratically accountable to the electors. There is
general agreement that the Bill is an absolute dog's dinner. More worryingly for
the Government, many Conservative Peers believe the best way to kill it would be
to join the Opposition in wrecking the rest of the Government's legislative
programme unless it is withdrawn.

As one old hand said to me, "We know that the Lib Dems can change Mr Cameron's
mind whenever they wish by cutting up nasty, so we will have to do the same."

I am glad I am not a Government whip.

...

I had not really expected to arouse so many erudite contributions on the nature
of religous belief, nor the management of the Church of England.  Those are
matters in which I lack certainty, and I am not sure whether I envy or mistrust
some of those who have absolute certainty either one way or the other. However,
mental fight's contributions, in particular, did add to the debate, and before
anyone asks where I stand, I should say that I am a fellow traveller in the
Church of England.I thought that the discussion on the causes and  purposes of
the Crusades was well worth reading  and has prompted me to put a couple of
unread books on that period which are gathering dust in my library back on my
holiday reading list.I think that most of you were more or less in agreement
with me in my comments about the views of the Archbishop, although some were
rather sharper than I had been.   It was Ace Pilot 101 who wondered if the
Archbishop had ever evangalised anyone, dave evans asked what he thought of
affairs in Tower Hamlets,  whilst crosscop said that the Archbishop says nothing
about the persecution of Christians and ssimone asked if the Church stilll
sought to convert Muslims to Christianty.   No doubt many would agree with
Johnny Norfolk's suggestion that the Church might set its own house in order, or
as bella put it, "why not talk about the Church and God".There was a pretty odd
contribution from ecostayer who suggested that the EU is democratic because we
can elect a tiny minority of the Parliament and British Ministers go to the
Council.  The idea of being able to sack the real government, the Commission,
did not appeal to him, however. There were some other weird posts, including
that from tiddles who thinks Blair is the son of Thatcher, but the prize for
conspiracy fantasist of the week has to go to davejon who believes that "UKIP
was created to siphon off  votes from the BNP".We could not get away from the
immigration issue, and indeed david albion asked why neither Churchill nor Eden
did anything about it, or indeed about illiteracy.  The short answer to that is
that  95 per cent of school leavers were literate in those days and there was
not an immigration problem.  Then vonmise asked why I did not oppose
immigration.  He really should pay attention to what I write.I did.  The
mischief of uncontrolled, uncounted immigration was done by Blair in order to
change British society. Please look at the figures. In Thatcher's day we watched
with horror what the importation of "guest workers" was doing to Germany as
Germa Michel described here this week.  None the less, ssimone was right to
repeat my point that the Coalition has not reversed Blair's immigrant flood.

I am sorry too that I have not managed to persaude maxmaier to get a grip on the
facts.  There was no majority in Parliament or the country to leave the EEC in
the early 1980s.  The SEA was a substantial step forward in creating a single
market to the advantage of our exporters of goods and services. The Maastricht
Treaty, which I opposed, created the European  Union that is the federalist
would-be Euro State out of the original Common Market or EEC , as bersher
explained.Sally Roberts questioned what I would have said to 'entryism' when I
was Party Chairman.  Well, I always did and still do emcourage Conservatives to
join the Conservative Party and to fight for conservative policies and to select
and elect Conservative Members of the Commons. Of course, in my day local
Conservative Associations were autonomous bodies over which I did not have
control, whereas today they are more like branches of the central Party, a point
well made by Cranmer.My messge is that local Conservatives should control
constituency associations and insist on secting Conservative candidates who they
like, not Central Office nominees.  It could be called the Big Society politics.
As wuffothe wonderdog says, Central Office might not like it, but faced with
Conservatives willing to run  independent Conservative  candidates against
imposed ones, they would probably think again.It was shaft 120 who asked about
the 3 million missing Tory voters.  I think that some voted UKIP, but most
simply stayed at home and as I have written before,  Labour has a similar
problem. Both parties  have lost interest in their traditional core voters and
gone for the soft middle ground.  The result is a far lower turnout of voters
than in the second half of the last century.I should thank all those who posted
supportive comments and really interesting ones like that of trevadic on Monday
at 01.19pm with a German's assesment of Islam.  It is kind of you and I
appreciate it.

I should tell norto that my reference to what Ed Balls achieved  was not tongue
in cheek.  It was a tribute to his energy and commitment which took him from
being a wet behind the ears, sprog MP to a key power broker in a couple of
years.

However, the most shocking post was that of shaft120 who directed us to the BBC
Children's programme "Horrible Histories"  on Queen Victoria.  In pc speak, it
was a hate crime against the British people and our history.  It is worth
looking at to understand just how foul are some of the traitorous mob working
against this country from within the BBC.

I am afraid that I do have to tell GW74 that merely reciting how wonderful one
is and giving a verdict in one's own favour does not do anything to convince
anyone, other of course than oneself.Lastly, I share Aasvogel's concern about
events in Pakistan and its worsening relations with  America.  However, I have
no better insight than him about what is going on there, but it has all the
hallmarks of the irrationality of other recent events across the Muslim world.
Perhaps it needs a working party comprised of the Archbishop and GW74 to analyse
it.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

AFTER a spiky encounter at [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 61 words


AFTER a spiky encounter at the weekend, MEP Nigel Farage has no plans to let one
slippery customer off the hook.

The dapper UKIP leader, pictured, displayed indomitable spirit after coming off
rather badly in a battle with a big fish. "Off to hospital to get a fishing hook
removed from my thumb. Ouch," he reported on Twitter. "I will be cooking that
bass later on..."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 61  words


AFTER a spiky encounter at the weekend, MEP Nigel Farage has no plans to let one
slippery customer off the hook.

The dapper UKIP leader, pictured, displayed indomitable spirit after coming off
rather badly in a battle with a big fish. "Off to hospital to get a fishing hook
removed from my thumb.

Ouch, " he reported on Twitter. "I will be cooking that bass later on?"

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Our men in Fiji on GBP 3m a year

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 432  words


UNDER-FIRE Brussels supremo Baroness Ashton sparked fresh outrage yesterday for
employing 33 people to help boost the EU's profile in Fiji.

The European Union foreign affairs chief splashes out GBP 3million a year for
nine diplomats - expats posted to the tropical island.

Salaries alone work out at about GBP 170,000 a year for each of the envoys -
more than Prime Minister David Cameron's GBP 142,000. They also get bumper
expenses for chauffeurs, homes and their children.

Alongside this far-flung branch of the EU diplomatic corps work another 24
support staff officially employed by the European Commission under her control.

Official figures show the cost of Lady Ashton's European External Action Service
delegation on the South Pacific island last year was 3,146,930 euros (GBP
3million).

Around 1.7million euros (GBP 1.5million) of this goes on salaries.

It shows the EU juggernaut of excess exhibits no sign of slowing and adds
further weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of the EU. Ukip
leader Nigel Farage blasted the need for such a vast staff as "absurd".

He said: "I wonder why so many people are needed on that idyllic paradise South
Pacific island?

"There is no way Cathy Ashton needs such a large presence. After all there are
only 30 people working in London for the Commission but in Suva they have 33.
And three million euros for internal EU admin in Fiji is absurd, just absurd."

Details of the bloated staff numbers were exposed following an inquiry from
Italian MEP Lorenzo Fontana. The Labour peer replied that delegations around the
world had "taken over the previous responsibilities of member states in
relations with third countries and multilateral organisations".

Baroness Ashton, the world's highest paid female politician on GBP 230,000 a
year, who was plucked from obscurity by Gordon Brown to be Europe's first
"foreign minister", has been criticised for squandering vast sums of taxpayer
cash on an army of pen ushers around the world. The EEAS has around 7,000 staff
and a budget of GBP 8billion to establish embassies.

She has also sparked fury for demanding a budget rise of almost six per cent and
been accused of failing to provide leadership on the world stage in a string of
crises.

A spokesman for her said last night: "We have a delegation in Fiji which covers
the entire South Pacific region. It carries out countless development projects
on behalf of the EU as well as foreign relations and political work.

"The comparison with our office in London is ridiculous as that has a completely
different purpose and works with just one country."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU foreign affairs supremo Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 13, 2011 Monday 7:24 AM GMT

Why doesn't Rowan Williams speak out about illiteracy, immigration and the
undemocratic rule of Brussels?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1131 words


I have been thinking over the weekend of what the Archbishop of Canterbury has
been saying.First of all - as I made clear last week - I would say that he hasa
rightto consider in publicsuch contentious political issues.Whether it was well
judged for him to do so and whether he was right in his comments arevery
different matters.Indeed, he might recollect thatwhen Archbishop Runcie made not
dissimilar remarks in the1980s, Margaret Thatcher was re-elected with a hugely
increased majority not long afterwards.

It is not so much that I disagree with his criticisms ofGove's educational
reforms, orDuncan Smith's welfare reforms, but that the Archbishop seems unaware
of the rising tide of illiteracy and innumeracy, as spending on schools was
increased over many years, and of the rise ofwelfare dependency whichhas been
rotting society.

Of course he was right to be concerned at the very nature of coalition
government.However to say that it is undemocratic without turning his attention
to the far, far, greater loss of democracy to Our Unelected Mastersin Brussels,
and to NuLab decision to inflict uncontrolled, uncounted immigration and the so
called multicultural society on the British people against their overwhelming
oppositionis a failure on the part of the Archbishop to have spoken out when he
should have done.

...

Well, once again it serves me right.I thought that two uncontentious blogs
wouldresult in less of your comments to read, but I have only just finished
wading through a thousand or so.Thank goodness for some good laughs to keep me
going.

On the subject of the Balls leaks, I have to say that my comment on the
"mystery" of why my Party failed to win the last election was a touchironic, as
I think many readers of my blogs may have guessed. Nor was that failure entirely
attributable to the bias in the constituency boundaries as christopher_bowring
suggested. It was simply that Mr. Cameron could persuade no more than 10.7
millionelectors to vote for him, and that is 3 million less than awell
directedcampaign usually gives a successful Tory leader.

The reason for that, said Aasvogel, was that after Thatcher the Tories lost
their way, or as bubbles 15 put it, "they (the Tories) were them (NewLab)".That
was more or less the theme echoed by Benedict Carter, sheumais, vaselino,
jeffersonian, boudicca,george204 and others.

I think darkseid asked a very good question:"Who leaked the Balls papers?"Well,
it would not have beenthe Conservatives, nor the civil service, who would not
havebeen copied into the Labour Party plotting. We have to assume it was a
Labour colleague of Mr Balls.Perhaps a friend of Blair, seeking to settle old
scores or to mark the publication of a paperback edition of Blair's book.

Of course struggles for the leadership of a Party, or even for its soul if it
has one, are not confined to Labour.However, the sheer nastiness of this puts
even Heseltine's plotting against Thatcher into the shade.

There was anodd postfrom duckham who says he cannot tell the difference between
Brown and me, which I think puts him into a rather small minority andanother
from sparkflash who thought that Mandelson was more of a Conservative than
Cameron.

Turning to my blog on the inability of the BBC to understand that humour and
obscenity are not synonymous, I should say that the headings to my blog posts
are not written by me.I would never have used the word "gaffe" in writing of The
Duke of Edinburgh.

A good many of you, including Ped, andre michel, JimmyB, eviltory,
ladymoneypenny, roberteve Londonistar, sanctimony and alex the tory, sided with
me as did peterbj7, who said he had never before been in total agreement
before.I hope it becomes a habit.

There was something of a consensus that at the right time and place there is not
much wrong with a touch of bawdiness, or even lewdness in making a good joke,
but that what is objectionable is the use of obscenity as a substitute for
humour.

To be fair, some of you took the view of Hughand Freddie that swearing is
effective communication, whereas I normally swear only to relieve tension (as
when I hit my thumb with the hammer). It seems to me that to say swearing
iseffective communication is to confess to a lack of communication skills.

The star turn of the day was,by a country mile, GW74. What a towering giant of a
man! He told us'I am very clever', I am right' 'I am very intelligent', 'I
always win the argument' and that 'anyone objecting toracist remarks to whites
is mental' and that he is a Lib Dem supporter. We also learned that he is rich,
hip, cool, a seducer of aristocratic young women and a black single mother.

Oh,yes, he also told us that there is not a Left-wing establishment in the BBC
or this country.What a pity that the Archbishop promptly proved him wrong on
that.

I am afraid that I think that some people, bersher in particular, took him a bit
too seriously and crownarmourer sent up both him and poor deluded
fabianunmercifully, which was a great laugh.However,I was slightly uncertain
whether to regard him as a figure of fun or someone in desperate need of
professional help.

I agreed with the dashingcaptaindan that the BBC is simply hypocritical, as I
fear I thoughtsome of you were too.To demand the right to use in publiclanguage
long held to have been offensive, not least by its sexual connotations, and then
demand that words long in use should banned since they may be offensive to other
people is the essence of hypocrisy.Even worse, to rewrite hisorical facts in
order to make them compliant with contemporary standards is a pefect example of
the thinking at the root of Orwell's1984.

Happily there was some grown-up discussion of the integration issue,
particularly by vaselino, Laveen Ladharam and bf2.I should apologise for
converting Laveen Ladharam to Islam. He is, of course Hindu by birth, but spoke
not just for those of that faith but Muslims who, whatever the tenets of their
religion, have found it possible to integrate into a Western culture.

For a moment or two bf2, also a Hindu, and spearofodin were on common ground.
The latter asked what are the values left in our societywhich we expect
immigrants to adopt, whilst the former, a political Right-winger who loves his
adopted country, said he could not bear to see what it is doing to itself.

Finally,my thanks to those of you like boudicca who are working within political
parties as she is in UKIP.Do not give up.Conservativescan take over Conservative
Associations and simply decline to support Central Office clone dummies as
Parliamentary candidates. It can be your party.

And look at what Ed Ballsachieved.Elected to Parliament only in 2005, by 2007 he
was a leader of the plot to topple Blair and change the Labour Party. Poor Ed
Miliband! It can be only a matter of time for him.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              June 12, 2011 Sunday

'NO MATTER HOW OFTEN HE'S TOLD, CLEGG IS STILL PULLING HIS GLUM FACE'

LENGTH: 601 words


INDISCREET TWEETS

NO10 SPIN DOCTOR? NO, A HOAX THAT LEFT MPS ALL A-TWITTER

BY JONATHAN PETRE

THEY read like withering dispatches from the centre of power, apparently laying
bare deep divisions at the heart of the Coalition Government.

In a series of cutting tweets, David Cameron's new spin doctor appears to
ridicule Nick Clegg for always looking glum at Prime Minister's Questions and
wittering on about primary schools.

The Downing Street Director of Communications, Craig Oliver, also seems to lose
his patience with Energy Secretary Chris Huhne and says Health Secretary Andrew
Lansley is more on 'Beachy Head' than the 'naughty step' over his stalled NHS
reforms.

And in a diatribe worthy of the BBC satirical comedy series The Thick Of It, the
tweeter describes UKIP leader Nigel Farage as 'up himself' and says Scottish
First Minister Alex Salmond has been grilled like 'a salmon' by 'Jeremy Axeman'
on Newsnight.

The CraigOliverNo10 Twitter site, complete with a photograph of the former BBC
executive holding a telephone, has attracted more than 1,200 followers,
including political commentators and MPs.

But to the embarrassment of those who admit to having been taken in, it has now
been exposed as a hoax.

Tom Harris, Labour MP for Glasgow South, said: 'The Craig Oliver account smacked
of authenticity as he was very upfront about being new to Twitter and I thought
it would be a good idea to follow the PM's new Head of Communications.

'So if you want to expose me as someone who fell for it, then feel free! To be
fair to the hoaxer, he actually tweeted me and said it was a fake address. He
clearly realised I believed it and felt bad about it.'

The fake account first appeared as Mr Oliver began his 6140,000-a-year job in
March, succeeding Andy Coulson.

The 41-year-old father of three, who is married to BBC news presenter Joanna
Gosling, attracted attention when he strode into Downing Street on his first day
carrying an Apple iPad and a 'manbag' and wearing Beats headphones designed by
Dr Dre, the New York rapper.

He later appeared to defend his choice of headgear by tweeting: 'I'm glad you
all like the headphones Z I do.' Of course, it was actually the hoaxer at work.

As recently as last Wednesday, a tweet appeared on the site during Prime
Minister's Questions saying: 'No matter how many times he's told, Clegg is still
pulling his glum face.'

Another stinging post on April 16 read: 'Oh dear, just seen Clegg prattling on
about building primary schools every 20 mins . . . again.'

And a month earlier Energy Secretary Chris Huhne Z facing claims that he
persuaded his estranged wife to take speeding penalty points on his behalf Z was
the target of a critical tweet that read: 'Trying to phone Huhne to tell him
what a rubbish line he has.'

Mr Huhne has consistently denied any wrongdoing.

On April 8, a tweet said 'Lansley on the naughty step? More like Beachy Head',
while in March Mr Farage was told: 'For someone who has no parliamentary seats,
you're really up yourself.'

However, Downing Street has confirmed that Mr Oliver had never had a Twitter
site and the identity of the hoaxer remains unknown.

Mr Farage said: 'The whole thing is quite amusing, to be honest, and in politics
you need a very thick skin along with a decent sense of the absurd.'

A well-known political journalist on a national newspaper Z not The Mail on
Sunday Z said last night: 'When I first saw the site, it looked very believable.
But then it included some silly quotes and I smelt a rat.

'I happened to be meeting Craig Oliver a few days later and when I mentioned it
to him, he laughed and said it was all a fake.'

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 12, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Blind civil servant may help clear 'groping' MP;
THE TORY MILLIONAIRE ACCUSED OF SEX ASSAULT CLAIMS THE ALLEGED VICTIM TOOK HIS
COMMONS PASS AND PHONE

BYLINE: Simon McGee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 707 words


THE mystery over the incident that left a millionaire Tory MP accused of sexual
assault took a twist last night when it was alleged that his accuser had left
with his Commons security pass, his mobile phone and correspondence when she
fled his flat in the early hours.

Police are believed to have retrieved the items from the woman after she rang
them at about 1am on Thursday complaining that Andrew Bridgen, 46, had groped
her and tried to put his hand up her skirt.

Bridgen, a former Royal Marines officer who entered parliament at last year's
general election, was arrested an hour later and questioned at a central London
police station for 12 hours before being released on bail.

The MP is married and has two children. He became wealthy from his family's
fruit and vegetable business in Leicestershire.

The alleged victim, who is in her twenties and cannot be named for legal
reasons, is the girlfriend of a politician in the UK Independence party.

Fresh details have emerged from the police and other sources of the events that
unfolded on Wednesday night and in the early hours of Thursday that left the
woman with a black eye, Bridgen in hiding and a media scrum outside a smart
block of apartments in Westminster. The MP had spent Wednesday evening in the
House of Commons with a businessman from his North West Leicestershire
constituency.

The pair were seen on the House of Commons terrace between 9.30pm and 10pm. An
independent witness said that the MP had been drinking but was not drunk.

Bridgen is understood to have waved his constituent off as they left parliament
at about 10.30pm, and had been heading back alone towards his Westminster flat,
a five-minute walk away, when he met the woman outside The Marquis of Granby pub
on Romney Street.

The pub is known as "the MOG" among the political party workers and civil
servants who drink there and is fitted with a division bell that calls MPs back
to the Commons for votes. It is around the corner from Bridgen's flat.

That night, the pavements outside the pub were overflowing with drinkers and
smokers, and as Bridgen walked past he started chatting to the woman. A friend
of Bridgen claimed they knew about each other but had never met before and that
she introduced herself to him.

Bridgen and the woman both drank white wine and smoked cigarettes as they spoke
to another man, who has been described as a blind civil servant. A witness said:
"The three of them stayed until closing time."

The trio then went back to Bridgen's flat in the Westminster Green portered
residential development on Dean Ryle Street, where penthouse flats go for £6m,
to continue their political chit-chat over coffee and cigarettes.

Bridgen has denied suggestions that their visit to his flat had been to carry on
drinking, claiming there had been no alcohol in the apartment.

Bridgen told police that nothing untoward happened at the flat and that the
blind civil servant had never left his side and could corroborate his account.

He claims that the woman disappeared suddenly and the first he discovered that
anything was wrong was when he and the civil servant went looking for her and
found her downstairs in the entrance lobby sobbing.

The woman claims that at some point before 1am, when she rang the police with
the help of the block's concierge, Bridgen had assaulted her and she had fled
the apartment.

A source claimed that the woman was overheard telling the concierge that she had
injured herself on leaving the flat and had suffered a bruised eye.

The woman did not respond to inquiries from The Sunday Times.

Bridgen refused to comment last night, referring The Sunday Times to a statement
he had issued on Friday in which he declared: "The allegations made against me
are wholly false and without foundation. Fortunately, they are also demonstrably
and provably false."

Bridgen hit the headlines earlier this year when he declared war on Ed Balls,
the shadow chancellor, and Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, over their
expenses claims for their children's travel.

He told parliament's standards watchdog he had been "concerned" about the
married Labour frontbenchers' claims for 375 journeys taken by their three
children from 2007 to 2010 between London and Yorkshire, which cost £14,000.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jackie Bridgen returning to the family home yesterday Andrew Bridgen
celebrating his election win with his wife, Jackie. He met his alleged victim at
a pub, top left, before returning with her to his flat, top right
CATERS RAYMONDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Pilot in election day crash threatened to kill Farage;
In Brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 123 words


The pilot of a plane that crashed on election day last year, injuring Nigel
Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, was given a two-year community
order after threatening to kill the politician.

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was flying a light aircraft that
was towing an election banner on May 6 last year when it nosedived and both men
suffered ''significant injuries'', Oxford Crown Court heard. Adams, a
self-employed pilot, lost work while the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)
investigated.

He made threats to kill both Martin James, a CAA crash investigator, and Mr
Farage, saying he had a gun and could ''shoot to kill'', the judge told the
court.

Adams was found guilty of five counts of making threats to kill.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Croatia is latest EU burden

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 132 words


TAXPAYERS face an extra hike in payments to Brussels after Croatia was last
night given the go-ahead to join the European Union.

The former Yugoslav republic is expected to become a full member of the EU in
July 2013, the European Commission announced yesterday.

But critics warned that supporting the Croatian economy will increase the burden
on the UK.

As the Daily Express continues to campaign for Britain to leave the EU, Treasury
officials estimate that Croatia's membership will cost the UK around £200million
a year. It will also raise the membership hopes of other countries on the
fringes of the EU, such as Serbia and Turkey.

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The EU is
broke. To include another Balkan country at this time would be financial
nonsense."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK's 204,000 passports giveaway

BYLINE: Tom Morgan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 357 words


BRITAIN handed out passports at the "astonishing" rate of almost two every five
minutes to make it the most open country in Europe to immigrants. New research
showed yesterday that an incredible 204,000 foreign nationals won British
citizenship in 2009 - the highest across the continent.

That is 50 per cent more than second-placed France which let 136,000 become
citizens.

It is more than double the 96,000 given the right to become German. Both
countries are vastly bigger than the UK.

The figures, from the EU's statistical wing Eurostat, came in the week the same
body released predictions that the UK would leapfrog France and Germany to
become the most populated EU country by 2060.

An estimated 79 million people would be crammed in.

Last night, critics said the statistics confirmed that the UK's borders had been
left wide open by the previous government.

They warned Britain's public services were buckling under the growing strain.
Ukip's home affairs spokesmanGerard Batten said: "These figures are truly
astonishing.

"They show how Labour's uncontrolled, unlimited immigration policy is coming
home to roost. This level of immigration is simply unsustainable. "David Cameron
must get a grip and introduce radical policies to halt mass immigration."
Yesterday's figures revealed that UK passports were handed to more one in four
of the 776,000 new citizens welcomed into the EU in 2009.

The EU total marked a 77,000 rise - 11 per cent - on the previous 12 months. The
figure of 203,600 ushered into the UK was 74,000 - 57 per cent - up on the 2008
figure of 129,300.

The huge rise can be partially accounted for by the "virtual amnesty" granted to
asylum seekers whose files were discovered in a backlog of nearly 450,000
applications in 2006.

The majority of those getting British passports were Indians with 13 per cent -
26,500 - followed by 21,000 Pakistanis and 12,000 from both Bangladesh and the
Philippines.

David Cameron has said he wants to cut net immigration to the "tens of
thousands" from a high of more than 200,000 under Labour.

Immigration minister Damian Green has announced clampdowns on student and work
visas.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UK's 204,000 passports giveaway

BYLINE: By Tom Morgan

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 354  words


BRITAIN handed out passports at the "astonishing" rate of almost two every five
minutes to make it the most open country in Europe to immigrants.

New research showed yesterday that an incredible 204,000 foreign nationals won
British citizenship in 2009 - the highest across the continent.

That is 50 per cent more than second-placed France which let 136,000 become
citizens.

It is more than double the 96,000 given the right to become German. Both
countries are vastly bigger than the UK.

The figures, from the EU's statistical wing Eurostat, came in the week the same
body released predictions that the UK would leapfrog France and Germany to
become the most populated EU country by 2060.

An estimated 79 million people would be crammed in.

Last night, critics said the statistics confirmed that the UK's borders had been
left wide open by the previous government. They warned Britain's public services
were buckling under the growing strain.

Ukip's home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten said: "These figures are truly
astonishing.

"They show how Labour's uncontrolled, unlimited immigration policy is coming
home to roost. This level of immigration is simply unsustainable.

"David Cameron must get a grip and introduce radical policies to halt mass
immigration."

Yesterday's figures revealed that UK passports were handed to more one in four
of the 776,000 new citizens welcomed into the EU in 2009.

The EU total marked a 77,000 rise - 11 per cent - on the previous 12 months. The
figure of 203,600 ushered into the UK was 74,000 - 57 per cent - up on the 2008
figure of 129,300.

The huge rise can be partially accounted for by the "virtual amnesty" granted to
asylum seekers whose files were discovered in a backlog of nearly 450,000
applications in 2006.

The majority of those getting British passports were Indians with 13 per cent -
26,500 - followed by 21,000 Pakistanis and 12,000 from both Bangladesh and the
Philippines.

David Cameron has said he wants to cut net immigration to the "tens of
thousands" from a high of more than 200,000 under Labour.

Immigration minister Damian Green has announced clampdowns on student and work
visas.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

PILOT RAPPED;
UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words


THE pilot of a plane that crashed with UKIP leader Nigel Farage inside was
yesterday given a two-year community order for threatening the politician.

Justin Adams, 46, of Farringdon, Oxon, said he had a gun and could "shoot to
kill" after he lost work because of the accident in May last year. Sentencing
Adams, who was found guilty of threatening to kill, Mr Justice Saunders said at
Oxford crown court: "Nothing justifies your crime."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

203,600 migrant 'citizens'

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 129 words


BRITAIN is giving citizenship to far more foreigners than any other country in
the EU, a new report reveals.

The UK issued passports to a QUARTER of all the "new" citizens in the European
Union - 203,600 out of the 776,100 handed out.

France gave 135,800 foreigners citizenship, while Germany gave just 96,100.

The study by Brussels number-crunchers Eurostat showed 29 per cent of the new UK
citizens came from India, Bangladesh or Pakistan. Critics have warned it it is
too easy to settle in Britain.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "We granted citizenship to more
new people than live in Newcastle."

Immigration minister Damian Green unveiled plans this week to make it harder for
foreigner workers to stay. He said: "Settling in Britain should be a privilege."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Privilege' ... Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

203,600 migrant 'citizens'

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


BRITAIN is giving citizenship to far more foreigners than any other country in
the EU, a new report reveals.

The UK issued passports to a QUARTER of all the "new" citizens in the European
Union in 2009 - 203,600 out of the 776,100 handed out.

France gave 135,800 foreigners citizenship, and Germany just 96,100.

The study by Brussels number-crunchers Eurostat showed 29 per cent of the new UK
citizens came from India, Bangladesh or Pakistan. UK Independence Party leader
Nigel Farage said: "We granted citizenship to more new people than live in
Hackney."

Immigration minister Damian Green unveiled plans this week to make it harder for
foreigner workers to stay.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Privilege' ... Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MIGRANTS BOOM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


BRITAIN is giving citizenship to far more foreigners than any other country in
the EU, a new report reveals. The UK issued passports to a QUARTER of all the
"new" citizens in the European Union - 203,600 out of the 776,100 handed out.

France gave 135,800 foreigners citizenship and Germany just 96,100. The study by
Brussels numbercrunchers Eurostat showed 29 per cent of the new UK citizens came
from India, Bangladesh or Pakistan.

a Critics have warned it it is too easy to settle in Britain. UKIP leader Nigel
Farage said: "In a year we granted citizenship to more new people than live in
Newcastle." Immigration minister Damian Green has unveiled plans making it
harder for foreigners to stay on.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Pilot's threats to kill UKIP leader 'were cry for help'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 169 words


Oxford The pilot of a light aircraft who threatened to kill Nigel Farage, the
UKIP leader, after a crash that injured them both on the day of the general
election has been given a two-year community order.

The threats by Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, "were a cry for help
as well as an expression of anger and resentment at the events that had
happened", Mr Justice Saunders said at Oxford Crown Court.

Adams had been towing a UKIP election banner on May 6 last year when his plane
nose-dived. During a six-month investigation by the Civil Aviation Authority,
the self-employed commercial pilot lost work and could not collect insurance
money for repairs.

As well as anger at the length of the investigation, he felt resentment towards
Mr Farage after being advised not to speak to the media, believing that he had
lost an opportunity to sell his story, the judge said.

Adams was convicted in April of threats against Mr Farage and the crash
investigator, saying that he had a gun and could "shoot to kill".

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French Muslims use our cash to fight burkha ban

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words


A FRENCH Muslim couple sparked fury yesterday by using a free legal service paid
for by British taxpayers to challenge their country's contraversial burkha ban.

The unnamed husband and wife claim they were forced to move to Britain from
France by the new law which prevents women wearing the veil in public.

They want £10,000 damages because the "unnecessary, disproportionate and
unlawful" ban breaches their right to free movement across the european Union.
Now based in the West Midlands, they are trying to overturn the law at the
European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.

The couple are represented by lawyers from Britain's Immigration Advisory
Service which gets an annual £15million in taxpayers' cash.

Robina Shah, a Birminghambased solicitor, has instructed top immigration and
public law barrister Ramby de Mello to fight their landmark case.

But last night, Ukip MEP Gerard Batten blamed the costly "mess" on European laws
designed to over-ride domestic law.

Hostility

"We are in a mess because we allow EU law to supersede UK law, and the result is
that your internal affairs are in trouble," he said.

"It's a nonsense. It should be up to the French to sort out whether they want to
ban the burkha in their country or not, and someone should challenge it from
within.

"About 10 per cent of the population of France are Muslim. Why don't they club
together and pay for someone to challenge it."

According to Ms Shah the couple have two daughters and want to remain anonymous
in case they suffer "hostility".

Documents lodged in Strasbourg say they "wish to reside and work in France"
because they have family there.

But the French ban - which includes the full-length face-covering burkha , and
the niqab, a face veil that leaves only eye openings - made it impossible.

They say that the husband, the main applicant, "expects and instructs" his wife
to wear the burkha but risks prosecution if he crosses the Channel.

He does not force his wife to wear the niqab but "expects her to do so in
public, in keeping with his religious and cultural expectation and his authority
as her husband".

Their legal papers say she "respects and follows" her husband's instructions
"out of her own free will" and wants to cover up "in keeping with her faith".

When she wears the niqab, "she feels at inner peace with herself and her
surroundings and is cocooned from the outer world". At such times she can
"concentrate on her innermost thoughts" and "manifest her religious and personal
beliefs in public places".

Ms Shah added: "The case clearly is of importance to my clients. As a result of
the ban they have had to leave their country of nationality, as the ban
restricts their freedom of choice, and that of their daughters."

The Immigration Advisory Service bills itself as the UK's "largest charity
providing representation and advice in immigration and asylum law".

Its lawyers mainly represents asylum seekers and other migrants who cannot
afford to hire solicitors privately.

It receives approximately £15million - a hefty chunk of its funding - in
taxpayers' cash, through the Legal Services Commission which hands out legal
aid.

But a Legal Services spokesman said that even if taxpayer-funded IAS lawyers
were representing the couple, that service would not be paid for by legal aid.

He added that they only gave legal aid to cases involving British law and
concerned with immigration.

Nobody from the IAS was available for comment.

oPINIoN: PAGe 12 UK LAWYERS BEHIND CHALLENGE THE lawyers involved in the burkha
ban challenge, Ramby de Mello and Robina Shah, are two of the most familiar
names in immigration and public law.

One of barrister Mr de Mello's most recent highprofile clients was Davender
Ghai, a Hindu who won the right to be cremated on an open-air pyre.

Mr Ghai, 71, from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, believed the traditional Indian ceremony
was essential for the eternal freedom of his soul.

With Mr de Mello's help, he beat off objections from the council and the
Ministry of Justice to challenge the 1902 Cremations Act.

His Appeal Court victory meant that thousands of Hindus, Sikhs and anyone else
wanting a "natural cremation" can legally be burned on a pyre.

He also represented Jane Williams, former personal assistant to peer Jeffrey
Archer's wife, after Lady Archer accused Ms Williams of leaking details about
her.

Mr de Mello began his legal career in a Citizens Advice Bureau and was called to
the bar in 1983. He is regularly voted "Lawyer of the Week" at No 5 Chambers in
Birmingham, the legal practice where he is based.

Ms Shah, who is also based in Birmingham, is known for her work with asylum
seekers and other migrants.

"Many illegal immigrants end up wandering the streets for days or are told by
police to make their own way to immigration offices," she has declared.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Covering the face is banned in France where the devout family would
prefer to live
Picture: PETER CORNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

French Muslims use our cash to fight burkha ban

BYLINE: By Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 570  words


A FRENCH Muslim couple sparked fury yesterday by using a free legal service paid
for by British taxpayers to challenge their country's contraversial burkha ban.

The unnamed husband and wife claim they were forced to move to Britain from
France by the new law which prevents women wearing the veil in public.

They want GBP 10,000 damages because the "unnecessary, disproportionate and
unlawful" ban breaches their right to free movement across the European Union.

Now based in the West Midlands, they are trying to overturn the law at the
European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.

The couple are represented by lawyers from Britain's Immigration Advisory
Service which gets an annual GBP 15million in taxpayers' cash.

Robina Shah, a Birminghambased solicitor, has instructed top immigration and
public law barrister Ramby de Mello to fight their landmark case.

But last night, Ukip MEP Gerard Batten blamed the costly "mess" on European laws
designed to over-ride domestic law.

"We are in a mess because we allow EU law to supersede UK law, and the result is
that your internal affairs are in trouble, " he said.

"It's a nonsense. It should be up to the French to sort out whether they want to
ban the burkha in their country or not, and someone should challenge it from
within.

"About 10 per cent of the population of France are Muslim. Why don't they club
together and pay for someone to challenge it."

According to Ms Shah the couple have two daughters and want to remain anonymous
in case they suffer "hostility".

Documents lodged in Strasbourg say they "wish to reside and work in France"
because they have family there.

But the French ban - which includes the full-length face-covering burkha , and
the niqab, a face veil that leaves only eye openings - made it impossible.

They say that the husband, the main applicant, "expects and instructs" his wife
to wear the burkha but risks prosecution if he crosses the Channel.

He does not force his wife to wear the niqab but "expects her to do so in
public, in keeping with his religious and cultural expectation and his authority
as her husband".

Their legal papers say she "respects and follows" her husband's instructions
"out of her own free will" and wants to cover up "in keeping with her faith".

When she wears the niqab, "she feels at inner peace with herself and her
surroundings and is cocooned from the outer world". At such times she can
"concentrate on her innermost thoughts" and "manifest her religious and personal
beliefs in public places".

Ms Shah added: "The case clearly is of importance to my clients. As a result of
the ban they have had to leave their country of nationality, as the ban
restricts their freedom of choice, and that of their daughters."

The Immigration Advisory Service bills itself as the UK's "largest charity
providing representation and advice in immigration and asylum law".

Its lawyers mainly represents asylum seekers and other migrants who cannot
afford to hire solicitors privately.

It receives approximately GBP 15million - a hefty chunk of its funding - in
taxpayers' cash, through the Legal Services Commission which hands out legal
aid.

But a Legal Services spokesman said that even if taxpayer-funded IAS lawyers
were representing the couple, that service would not be paid for by legal aid.

He added that they only gave legal aid to cases involving British law and
concerned with immigration.

Nobody from the IAS was available for comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Covering the face is banned in France where the devout family would
prefer to live

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

UK paying for French Muslims' burka fight

BYLINE: By Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 424  words


A FRENCH Muslim couple sparked fury yesterday by using a free legal service paid
for by British taxpayers to challenge their country's burka ban.

The unnamed husband and wife claim they were forced to move to Britain from
France by the new law, which prevents women wearing the veil in public.

They want GBP 10,000 damages because the "unnecessary, disproportionate and
unlawful" ban breaches their right to free movement across the European Union.

Now based in the West Midlands, they are trying to overturn the law at the
European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The couple are represented by
lawyers from Britain's Immigration Advisory Service, which gets an annual GBP
15million in taxpayers' cash.

Birmingham-based solicitor Robina Shah has instructed top immigration and public
law barrister Ramby de Mello to fight their landmark case.

But last night, UKIP MEP Gerard Batten blamed the costly "mess" on European laws
designed to override domestic law.

"We are in a mess because we allow EU law to supersede UK law, and the result is
that your internal affairs are in trouble, " he said. "So we have a French law
being interfered with in Britain by a French national using taxpayer-funded
lawyers.

"It's a nonsense. It should be up to the French to sort out whether they want to
ban the burka in their country or not, and someone should challenge it from
within.

"About 10 per cent of the population of France are Muslim - why don't they club
together and pay for someone to challenge it?"

According to Ms Shah, the couple have two daughters, and want to remain
anonymous in case they suffer "hostility". Documents lodged in Strasbourg say
they "wish to reside and work in France" because they have family there. But the
ban - which includes the burka, a full-length facecovering garment, and niqab, a
face veil that leaves only eye openings - made it impossible.

They say that the husband, the main applicant, "expects and instructs" his wife
to wear the burka but risks prosecution if he crosses the Channel.

He does not force his wife to wear the niqab but "expects her to do so in
public, in keeping with his religious and cultural expectation and his authority
as her husband".

Their legal papers say that she "respects and follows" her husband's
instructions and wants to cover up "in keeping with her faith".

Ms Shah said: "The case clearly is of importance to my clients.

"As a result of the ban they have had to leave their country of nationality, as
the ban restricts their freedom of choice."

Nobody from the IAS was available for comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: France banned full veils for Muslim women

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 10, 2011 Friday 8:20 AM GMT

Pilot sentenced for Farage threats

BYLINE: PA

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 317 words


The pilot of a plane that crashed during an election day stunt, injuring Ukip
leader Nigel Farage, will be sentenced today for making threats to kill the
politician.

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was flying a light aircraft that
was towing an election banner on May 6 last year when it nose-dived to the
ground. Both men were treated in hospital.

Adams was found guilty on April 14 by a jury of five counts of making threats
to kill relating to Mr Farage and Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) crash
investigator Martin James after a three-day trial, and has been in custody
ever since.

Speaking at an earlier hearing, Judge Mr Justice Saunders said he believed
"alcohol played a part" at the time the threats were made. He has indicated
that he will give Adams a suspended sentence.

During the trial earlier this year, the jury was played a recording of an
exchange between a man calling himself Justin Adams and Sharon Bailey, a
police inquiry centre officer at Thames Valley Police.

He said: "I'm going to kill somebody or two," the court heard. Within the
conversation, on the evening of November 28 last year, Adams was heard to   say:
"I know where they live, they destroyed my life."

He later added: "I now have a 9mm pistol, I've got the means - I will take
them out and then myself."

Adams told the operator he had lost his livelihood, house, wife and child in
the wake of the CAA investigation.

He said: "You need to understand all charges were dropped against me after six
or seven months of investigations. In the intervening period everything else
fell apart."

He added: "He's taken my life, I'll take his."

Referring to Mr Farage during the conversation, he said the politician had
promised to issue a joint media statement following the conclusion of the
investigation into the crash, which had cleared him.

Adams will be sentenced at Oxford Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farmers get extra E.coli cash

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 439 words


BRITAIN faces a £23million bill to help European salad and vegetable farmers
after the costs of an EU-wide E.coli panic soared, despite German assurances
that the spread of the deadly outbreak was slowing.

Just one day after the European Commission tabled £135million to compensate
farmers facing a sales slump, the EU was forced to increase the aid package by
39 per cent.

The new £187million rescue fund for salad and summer vegetable producers in
continental Europe will mean an extra £6million from Britain, even though
British farmers are not affected.

Dacian Ciolos, the EU agriculture commissioner, said the new aid would repay
European producers for losses of £374million caused by Germany's bungled
handling of the crisis.

"The source of the E.coli epidemic is still not known but the priority is to
stop the health crisis and restore consumer trust," he said. "But at the same
time we must avoid a situation where entire sectors such as vegetables are
unjustly affected by the situation: we cannot abandon the farmers."

A spokesman for the Government said: "The UK has stressed that this needs to be
a targeted, time-limited compensation package."

Sales of tomatoes, lettuce, cucumbers, bean sprouts and other salads have
collapsed by between 50 to 80 per cent after Germany blamed summer vegetables
for a poisoning outbreak that has left 25 people dead.

The German authorities first blamed Spanish cucumbers before extending health
warnings to all raw vegetables.

Stuart Agnew MEP, the UK Independence Party's agriculture spokesman said: "The
responsibility is Germany's and the costs should be paid by Germany.

"There is no way that British taxpayers should have to fork out to repair the
damage caused by loose-lipped German officials."

Yesterday the British rowing team decided to withdraw from the World Rowing Cup,
which was due to take place in Hamburg between June 17 and 19, because of the
outbreak.

Germany expressed hope that the "worst" of the deadly bacteria outbreak was
over. It has left over two dozen people dead and more than 2,600 ill, but the
number of new infections is falling.

Daniel Bahr, Germany's health minister, said: "I cannot sound the all-clear, but
after analysing the latest data we have reasonable cause for hope. The worst of
the illness is behind us."

Mr Bahr defended Germany's warnings that vegetables, from cucumbers to bean
sprouts, had been infected despite a lack of hard scientific evidence.

"The E.coli outbreak in Germany is so severe that we have to react very
quickly," he said.

£23m Cost to Britain of compensating farmers for the outbreak, even though no
producers in this country are affected

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

17m more to swamp open-door UK

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 397 words


BRITAIN will squeeze in 79 million people by 2060 to become the most heavily
populated country in the EU, experts warned yesterday.

Despite being far smaller than Germany and France, the UK will leapfrog them in
population size and add 17 million citizens because of immigration and soaring
numbers of pensioners.

The figures, published by EU statisticians, revealed an estimated 27 per cent
rise which will fuel concerns that public services will be overwhelmed.

Warnings They underline warnings about the UK's ticking pensions timebomb by
showing that the number of people who are 65 and older is set to rocket from
11.8 million to almost 20 million.

But net immigration - the number entering the country minus those leaving - will
still be the main driver for population growth.

The EU statistical office, Eurostat, says more than half the UK increase - 10
million people - will be as a direct consequence of immigration.

The statistics will add to mounting anger over Britain's open-door immigration
policy. According to official figures, 1,440 migrants currently move here every
day.

Tory MP Nicholas Soames, who formed the Balanced Migration campaign group with
Labour's Frank Field, is calling for a limit on the UK population to be held at
65 million.

He said: "We have seen this coming.

The Government needs to control the whole immigration structure a lot more
carefully. We have to monitor the number of people coming and going in fine
detail."

Gerard Batten MEP, UKIP's immigration spokesman, said: "These figures are truly
frightening for a geographically small country like the UK. This level of
population growth is simply unsustainable.

"The UK faces ever increasing pressure on its housing, roads, transport systems,
education and health services, and its infrastructure and public services
generally.

"Without mass immigration the UK population would stabilise and then slightly
decline to a more manageable level."

The UK Office for National Statistics last month revealed that in the year to
September 2010, the number of people in the country grew by 243,000 - the
third-highest rise on record. Eurostat estimates the annual figure will be
133,610 in 2060.

In contrast to the UK's explosion, Germany will see its population plummet 19
per cent from 81.7 million to 66.3 million by 2060, due largely to falling
births and France is set to grow from 64.7 million to 73.7 million.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Open borders mean Romanians won't need to queue for passports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Migrants to swell population by 17m

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 392  words


BRITAIN will be squeezing in 79 million inhabitants by 2060, experts warned
yesterday, giving the UK the largest population in the EU.

Despite being far smaller, the UK will leapfrog Germany and France, growing by
17 million people thanks to immigration and soaring numbers of pensioners.

The figures, published by EU statisticians, represent a 27 per cent rise and
will fuel concerns that public services will be overwhelmed.

They underline warnings about the UK's ticking pensions timebomb by showing that
the number of people aged 65 and older is set to rocket from 11.8 million to
almost 20 million.

But net immigration - the number entering the country minus those leaving - will
still be the main driver for population growth.

The EU statistical office, Eurostat, says more than half the UK increase - 10
million people - will be as a direct consequence of immigration.

The statistics will add to mounting anger over Britain's open-door immigration
policy. According to official figures, 1,440 migrants currently move here every
day.

Tory MP Nicholas Soames, who formed the Balanced Migration campaign group with
Labour's Frank Field, is calling for the UK population to be held at 65 million
by the midcentury.

He said: "We have seen this coming.

The Government needs to control the whole immigration structure a lot more
carefully. We have to monitor the number of people coming and going in fine
detail."

Gerard Batten MEP, the UKIP immigration spokesman, said: "These figures are
truly frightening for a geographically small country like the UK.

This level of population growth is simply unsustainable.

"The UK faces ever-increasing pressure on its housing, roads, transport systems,
education and health services, and its infrastructure and public services
generally. Without mass immigration the UK population would stabilise and then
slightly decline to a more manageable level."

The UK Office for National Statistics last month revealed that in the year up to
September 2010, the number of people in the country grew by 243,000, the third
highest rise on record. Eurostat estimates the annual figure will be 133,610 in
2060.

In contrast to the UK's explosion, Germany will see its population plummet 19
per cent from 81.7 million to 66.3 million by 2060 due largely to falling
births.

France's population is set to grow from 64.7 million to 73.7 million.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday

MEPs criticise 'disproportionate' use of European arrest warrants

BYLINE: Owen Bowcottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 666 words

ABSTRACT

Owen Bowcott: Labour's Claude Moraes and Lib Dem Baroness Ludford say pursuit of
trivial offences is damaging

FULL TEXT

In April, the EU justice commissioner, Viviane Reding,  that crossborder
pursuits of bicycle thieves, piglet rustlers and those accused of trivial
offences was damaging the authority of the European arrest warrant (EAW).

This week it was the turn of MEPs to voice their alarm - or appreciation - of
the accelerated system of extradition that is meant to speed up the wheels of
justice across the EU. Inevitably, questions about Julian Assange's fate
resurfaced.

The EU Commission has tried to sugar the pill, promising legislation to ensure
that no one facing criminal charges in any member country will be denied access
to a lawyer.

"The law would require every person facing extradition under Europe's fast-track
extradition regime - the EAW - to be guaranteed access to a lawyer in both
countries, to ensure protection of their fundamental rights," a soothing
statement from Brussels declared.

The new measure includes a "right for non-nationals to have their own country
informed that they have been arrested", which, unless individuals wish to boast
about bad behaviour, may sound less reassuring than intended.

Improved access to lawyers has been welcomed by , chief executive of Fair Trials
International. He said: "It is a shocking fact that, even within Europe, people
are still being denied private access to a lawyer at crucial points in their
case. This law will be an important step in the right direction, towards a
Europe where countries can work together to tackle serious crime, safe in the
knowledge that basic defence rights will be respected."

There have been calls for the introduction of a threshold below which
extradition would not be permitted for minor allegations. Poland, in particular,
has become notorious among EU states for the large quantity of its warrants.

EAWs have been sought for such offences as bicycle theft, possession of 0.45
grams of cannabis, removing car tyres and stealing piglets. More than 2,400
requests were received by the UK from Poland last year.

The EAWwas introduced in January 2004 to help speed extraditions between EU
states. Among those resisting removal from the UK is Julian Assange, the
WikiLeaks founder,  in Sweden.

The debate in the European parliament on Wednesday, which was launched on the
initiative of the Greens, raised concerns about flaws in the EAW system. Some
fear it will be expanded to provide for the extradition of those merely wanted
for questioning abroad.

Catherine Heard, head of policy at Fair Trials International said: "MEPs from a
broad political base clearly share our concerns about the serious and continuing
misuse of the arrest warrant. Only by working together to introduce key
safeguards in the European arrest warrant system will the EU produce a fairer
extradition system."

Questions tabled by MEPs included the use of warrants for questioning only;
warrants being issued to prosecute minor offences; countries not respecting
other states' decisions to refuse extradition, leading to people being arrested
repeatedly; inadequate legal representation and poor prison conditions for
extradited people held in pre-trial detention.

Labour MEP, Claude Moraes and Liberal Democrat MEP, Baroness Ludford asked: "How
is the commission going to guarantee that disproportionate use of the EAW is put
to an immediate end both in law and practice?"

The reputation of the EAW, they warned, has been tarnished by reports of it
being used for questioning instead of prosecution and execution of sentences and
minor offences without proper consideration of whether surrender is
proportionate. Each warrant is said to cost on average (EURO)25,000 (£22,000).

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten asked a more provocative question, inquiring whether "the
case against Mr Julian Assange demonstrates the possible abuse of the EAW for
political purposes"?

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

GREATEST BRITAIN

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 229 words


BRITAIN'S population is set to rocket to 79million over the next 50 years - the
highest in the EU.

By 2060 the UK will have overtaken Germany, the current most populous EU state.

Immigration and rising birth rates will be the key drivers behind a dramatic 27
per cent increase from the present 62million.

The increase will also make Britain Europe's most over-crowded major country -
putting fresh pressure on over-stretched schools, hospitals and housing.

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said: "These figures are truly
frightening for a geographically small country. This level of population growth
is simply unsustainable."

By contrast, Germany's population is expected to plummet by 19 per cent from
81million to 66million. France will grow from 64million to 74million.

The figures from EU number-crunchers Eurostat reveal that only Ireland,
Luxembourg and Cyprus, three of the EU's smallest countries, will see
populations grow faster than Britain's.

A report said the overall population of the EU will rise from 501million to
525million by 2060. Britain alone will account for 17million of the 24million
rise. Britain's Office for National Statistics has also predicted a big
population rise. The Eurostat report shows that Britain will have a younger
population. By 2060, one in four people will be 65 or older. In Germany it will
be one in three.

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Crowded ... UK's future

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now the great EU cucumber fiasco costs Britain GBP 16m

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 746  words


ANGER erupted last night after the European Union pledged millions of pounds of
taxpayers' cash to bail out farmers hit by the German E. coli outbreak.

Brussels farming chiefs called for about GBP 135million of EU cash as
compensation to crop growers unable to sell their vegetables following the
food-poisoning panic.

The money is being found from the Common Agricultural Policy budget and means no
new cash from national governments.

But the UK share, as a proportion of the national annual contribution to the EU
budget, is estimated at about GBP 16.6million.

Anger is already growing at the amount of British taxpayers' money handed to
Brussels every year and this has been reflected in the huge support behind the
Daily Express crusade for Britain to quit the EU.

Critics insisted the German government should pay the bill after wrongly blaming
the outbreak on Spain.

Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This is a particular problem in Germany, not a
pan-European crisis.

"I would have thought Germany, the most prosperous country in Europe, would want
to pay and not be bailed out by British taxpayers.

"It would be very unfair on my constituents for them to have to pay towards
this, particularly as the British contribution to the EU is already rising.

"We are supposed to be cutting public spending to reduce our Government deficit
but it increasingly seems that the money we save is being used to bail out our
European partners."

The row flared after an emergency meeting of EU agriculture chiefs was held in
Luxembourg yesterday to discuss the crisis.

EU farm commissioner Dacian Ciolos told the meeting that Brussels cash should be
used to compensate growers of salad vegetables whose sales had been devastated.

"We propose 150million euros. We will see what we get, " he said.

Spanish farmers have been hit by falling sales after German authorities
initially blamed imported cucumbers for the outbreak before later withdrawing
the claim.

The Germans then insisted bean sprouts grown near Hamburg were to blame only to
later admit they remained clueless about the cause.

Critics of EU waste last night insisted that British taxpayers should not be
liable for a single penny of the compensation bill.

Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance pressure group, said:

"British taxpayers will be incredibly frustrated if they have to pay millions in
compensation to Spanish farmers because the finger was wrongly pointed at them
by German officials after the E. coli outbreak there.

"This is a matter that should be settled between the farmers and those who
wrongly accused them.

"Britain has nothing to do with it and taxpayers here shouldn't have to pay to
clean up the mess just because the EU bureaucracy has got involved."

Euro-MP Stuart Agnew, the UK Independence Party's agriculture spokesman, said:
"This economically disastrous panic was caused by ill-judged comments made by
the German authorities.

"It has devastated the Spanish farmers, it is doing the same to German farmers
and it is having a knock-on effect on our own salad producers. The
responsibility is Germany's and the costs should be paid by Germany.

"There is no way that British taxpayers should have to fork out to repair the
damage caused by loose-lipped German officials." Any British contribution will
come on top of the GBP 15billion paid out in emergency bail outs for Ireland,
Portugal and possibly Greece.

The proposed GBP 135million compensation fund is equivalent to about 30 per cent
of the expected compensation bill for the food panic.

While European agriculture ministers were last night haggling over details of
the compensation, German agriculture minister Ilse Aigner said: "Today is about
a European solution. It is a European problem."

Farmers' representatives in Spain claim the panic has cost the country's
producers up to GBP 200million.

A Spanish Euro MP Francisco Sosa-Wagner brandished a cucumber in the European
Parliament yesterday, saying: "We have to restore the cucumber's honour."

EU health chief John Dalli criticised German officials for reachin g premature
conclusions on the source of the contaminated food.

He told the EU parliament in Strasbourg: "It's crucial that national authorities
don't rush to give information which is not justified by the science. It creates
fears and problems for food producers."

Health officials in Germany last night said 23 people there were thought to have
died in the outbrea k and 1,683 left seriously ill.

A new case has been reported in the UK, bringing the total to 12.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Spanish MEP Mr Sosa-Wagner yesterday defends his country's cucumbers
Tons of cucumbers are destroyed in Romania where sales have collapsed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 8, 2011 Wednesday 8:38 PM GMT

What do MEPs get up to all day?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 155 words


The above clip contains one part of a single day's voting list. The point is not
that it is exceptional, but that it is typical. Remember this list the next time
someone tells you that the EU exists only to enable its members to achieve
collectively what they can't singly.

Two points for those who are interested. The reason I encouraged the Deputy
Speaker to carry on using Greek is that, moments earlier, the amiable Earl of
Dartmouth, who sits for UKIP, had twitted him for not using English - a language
which he speaks immaculately.It may seem a small point, but the right of every
MEP to use his native tongue is one of the few remaining signs that the EU is an
association of nations rather than a federation. Take it away and you
simultaneously remove the main obstacle to statehood.

Oh, and if you're wondering who the foxy blonde at the beginning is, she is Emma
McClarkin, the clever and patriotic MEP for the East Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 7, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

French let 100 illegals a week slip into Br itain

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown Political Correspondent and Peter Allen in Calais

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 663  words


MORE than 100 migrants are caught illegally trying to sneak into Britain every
week from Calais, it emerged yesterday.

So far this year at least 2,000 people have been arrested in the back of
UK-bound lorries at the port, and many more try their luck every night.

It is feared thousands more evade detection, with critics warning that those
caught were only the "tip of the iceberg". And they attacked lax French
authorities for letting illegal migrants slip through the net.

They pointed out that those who get across undetected have taken advantage of a
crumbling European asylum system to begin new lives in Britain, while many
caught in France are released to try again.

The shock figures were revealed as Home Secretary Theresa May yesterday hailed
the border between France and Britain as one of the "strongest in the world".

Mrs May used a meeting in Calais with French counterpart Claude Gueant to say
better policing has led to a 70 per cent drop in the number of people attempting
to cross the common border illegally. "Our partnership has helped to create one
of the strongest borders in the world, " she said.

The extraordinary arrests figure - which does not include 80 stopped in the
secure area around the Channel Tunnel last month - was revealed by Mr Gueant.

Many of the migrants gathering around Calais are from the "Arab Spring"
countries like Libya and Tunisia which have experienced pro-democracy
revolutions this year.

Among makeshift Calais camps used as a springboard to Britain is a derelict
industrial unit nicknamed "Africa House" because of the large number of North
Africans arriving. Commenting on her private discussions with Mr Gueant, Mrs May
said: "High on our agenda will be the impact of the uprisings in the Middle East
and North Africa on illegal immigration.

"I have made absolutely clear to my counterparts in Europe that we will not
agree to so-called 'burden sharing' - Britain will not be accepting large
numbers of North African migrants."

Referring to the destruction of an illegal Calais migrant camp cleared by riot
police in 2009, Mrs May said: "To be fair to the French, their work to clear the
infamous 'Jungle' camp has been one of the most effective measures.

"I will be pressing the French for further assurance that they will act against
any new camps for illegal migrants."

But Ukip's Paul Nuttall said not enough was being done to stop illegal migrants
smuggling their way across the border.

"That a couple of thousand people are picked off the back of trucks is merely
the tip of an iceberg, " he said. "The fact is that we have been promised action
by our Government, by the French government and by Uncle Tom Cobley and all, yet
still the migrants come in their thousands.

"Until we get a grip and do something, not just wring our hands, then tens of
thousands of illegal immigrants will continue to find any which way to come to
Britain. We have only ourselves to blame."

While the 2,000-plus arrests figure is, at first glance, an impressive one, the
vast majority of migrants are released within a few hours of being caught.

Without passports or documentation and without having committed any serious
offence, they are very hard to "process" as criminals. The police usually find
attempts to detain them in holding centres thwarted in the courts.

They can technically be delivered to their last point of entry, but since this
is usually Belgium or Italy, there is little point because they can return.

"It's a never-ending game of cat and mouse, " one senior French Frontier Police
officer said yesterday.

"We can stop them for a few hours, but then they come straight back again to
have another go at getting to England. Many of them won't leave until they're
successful."

The Anglo-French meeting in Calais also discussed cross-Channel security
measures in the run-up to the 2012 London Olympics.

It comes after a scathing report last week exposed failings in Britain's
immigration system including a secret amnesty for asylum seekers.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: How Theresa May wrote in the Daily Express
Theresa May, centre, meets her French counterpart Claude Gueant in Calais
yesterday
GOTCHA! An illegal immigrant hides behind a holdall as he tries to sneak into
Britain on a lorry. But the man was seized by UK officials while Mrs May visited
the French port yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  June 5, 2011

Fifa's real 'family';
Disgraced Blatter nephew's multi-million-pound contracts

BYLINE: James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 673 words


QUESTIONS have been raised over Fifa boss Sepp Blatter's business relationship
with his nephew Philippe Blatter's sports media firm which has been awarded
lucrative contracts with football's governing body.

The 75-year-old president who often refers to Fifa as a "family", faces scrutiny
after Infront Sports and Media won the contract to provide World Cup host
broadcasting for the second tournament running.

Philippe, 46, is president and chief executive of Infront, based in Zug,
Switzerland, just half an hour's drive from Fifa's HQ in Zurich.

Unlike Fifa, the company has a solid reputation for its professional attitude
and Philippe has a winning, transparent approach to his business dealings.

Yet Infront's clean image risks being tarnished by corruption allegations
swirling around Fifa, where his uncle was re-elected for a fourth term last
week.

The company has won the contract to provide host broadcasting for the 2014 World
Cup in Brazil after being given the same contract last year in South Africa.

London Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "When Sepp Blatter talks about the Fifa
family, I expect most people did not know a firm run by his nephew has strong
business contacts with the governing body. "You can see how people might be
concerned about this. Philippe Blatter must be concerned about the allegations
of corruption surrounding Fifa. He should put to one side his family
relationship and ask the pointed questions his shareholders will no doubt want
answered and whether Infront risks being tarnished because of its association
with Fifa and the extremely questionable way it's run."

However, a spokesman for Infront denied that Philippe Blatter felt there was a
conflict of interest in his company's contracts with Fifa because his uncle is
its president.

The spokesman said: "No. Our team delivers top quality services to Fifa, as we
do to the other 120 federations and clubs among our clients. We are involved in
various highly specialised areas of the Fifa World Cup project with conspicuous
success since 1997.

"Philippe Blatter took over as president and chief executive of Infront in July
2006. He is not a private shareholder of any Infront Sports & Media companies.

"We do our job well and this is the decisive factor. Infront's capabilities are
judged entirely on their merits." Asked about Philippe Blatter's views on the
corruption allegations at Fifa, he added: "We are unable to comment on the
allegations being made. Fifa is a highly valued business partner of Infront
Sports & Media.

"Infront's role with Fifa has actually been reduced drastically since 2006, when
Fifa took the handling of the global TV rights distribution in house."

Fifa lurched into a mire of new 'Fifa is a highly valued partner' controversies
last week after the suspension of Sepp Blatter's one time challenger Qatari
Mohamed bin Hammam over claims that 25 Caribbean football officials were offered
£24,000 bribes to vote for Bin Hammam.

Executive committee member Jack Warner was also suspended from all
football-related activity after the Fifa ethics committee said it would launch a
"full inquiry" into bribery allegations against him. Warner has claimed that
Blatter gave laptop computers to officials from the Confederation of North,
Central American and Caribbean Association Football.

The confederation yesterday suspended its acting president, Lisle Austin for an
alleged infringement of statutes and asked Fifa to extend the ban worldwide.

Meanwhile it was reported that last night that Fifa had secured a £1.5million
junket at the London Olympics, including tickets to some of the top events.

A newspaper said it had discovered Sepp Blatter would receive the services of a
chauffeur-driven car and an exclusive access-allareas pass at London 2012.

Other senior members of the organisation would get to see the main events and
ceremonies.

The news is sure to infuriate many British sports fans who failed to obtain
tickets for any of the events in the public ballot. Their only hope now is the
black market.

'Fifa is a highly valued partner'

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONTROVERSY: Sepp Blatter
THE PRIZE: Fifa's World Cup trophy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 5, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fifa's real 'family'

BYLINE: By James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 668  words


Disgraced Blatter nephew's multi-million"pound contracts

QUESTIONS have been raised over Fifa boss Sepp Blatter's business relationship
with his nephew Philippe Blatter's sports media firm which has been awarded
lucrative contracts with football's governing body.

The 75-year-old president who often refers to Fifa as a "family", faces scrutiny
after Infront Sports and Media won the contract to provide World Cup host
broadcasting for the second tournament running.

Philippe, 46, is president and chief executive of Infront, based in Zug,
Switzerland, just half an hour's drive from Fifa's HQ in Zurich.

Unlike Fifa, the company has a solid reputation for its professional attitude
and Philippe has a winning, transparent approach to his business dealings.

Yet Infront's clean image risks being tarnished by corruption allegations
swirling around Fifa, where his uncle was re-elected for a fourth term last
week.

The company has won the contract to provide host broadcasting for the 2014 World
Cup in Brazil after being given the same contract last year in South Africa.

London Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said:

"When Sepp Blatter talks about the Fifa family, I expect most people did not
know a firm run by his nephew has strong business contacts with the governing
body.

"You can see how people might be concerned about this. Philippe Blatter must be
concerned about the allegations of corruption surrounding Fifa. He should put to
one side his family relationship and ask the pointed questions his shareholders
will no doubt want answered and whether Infront risks being tarnished because of
its association with Fifa and the extremely questionable way it's run."

However, a spokesman for Infront denied that Philippe Blatter felt there was a
conflict of interest in his company's contracts with Fifa because his uncle is
its president.

The spokesman said: "No. Our team delivers top quality services to Fifa, as we
do to the other 120 federations and clubs among our clients. We are involved in
various highly specialised areas of the Fifa World Cup project with conspicuous
success since 1997.

"Philippe Blatter took over as president and chief executive of Infront in July
2006. He is not a private shareholder of any Infront Sports & Media companies.

"We do our job well and this is the decisive factor. Infront's capabilities are
judged entirely on their merits." Asked about Philippe Blatter's views on the
corruption allegations at Fifa, he added: "We are unable to comment on the
allegations being made. Fifa is a highly valued business partner of Infront
Sports & Media.

"Infront's role with Fifa has actually been reduced drastically since 2006, when
Fifa took the handling of the global TV rights distribution in house."

Fifa lurched into a mire of new controversies last week after the suspension of
Sepp Blatter's one time challenger Qatari Mohamed bin Hammam over claims that 25
Caribbean football officials were offered GBP 24,000 bribes to vote for Bin
Hammam.

Executive committee member Jack Warner was also suspended from all
football-related activity after the Fifa ethics committee said it would launch a
"full inquiry" into bribery allegations against him.

Warner has claimed that Blatte r gave laptop computers to officials from the
Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football.

The confederation yesterda y suspended its acting president, Lisle Austin for an
alleged infringement of statutes and asked Fifa to extend the ban worldwide.

He was deputising for Warne r but immediately caused controversy when he
attempted to sac k the US Fifa representative, Chuc k Blazer, the whistleblower
whose evidence sparked the Fifa corruption scandal.

Blazer was reinstated and the Barbadian Austin has now himsel f been banned for
"possible violations of Concacaf statutes, Fifa statutes, regulations, decisions
and code of ethics, and breach of fiduciary duty to Concacaf."

Concacaf's website said vicepresident Alfredo Hawit, from Honduras, will step
into the role as an interim measure.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE PRIZE: Fifa's World Cup trophy
REPUTATION: Philippe Blatter
CONTROVERSY: Sepp Blatter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 5, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Fifa's real 'family'

BYLINE: By James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 673  words


Disgraced Blatter nephew's multi-million-pound contracts

QUESTIONS have been raised over Fifa boss Sepp Blatter's business relationship
with his nephew Philippe Blatter's sports media firm which has been awarded
lucrative contracts with football's governing body.

The 75-year-old president who often refers to Fifa as a "family", faces scrutiny
after Infront Sports and Media won the contract to provide World Cup host
broadcasting for the second tournament running.

Philippe, 46, is president and chief executive of Infront, based in Zug,
Switzerland, just half an hour's drive from Fifa's HQ in Zurich.

Unlike Fifa, the company has a solid reputation for its professional attitude
and Philippe has a winning, transparent approach to his business dealings.

Yet Infront's clean image risks being tarnished by corruption allegations
swirling around Fifa, where his uncle was re-elected for a fourth term last
week.

The company has won the contract to provide host broadcasting for the 2014 World
Cup in Brazil after being given the same contract last year in South Africa.

London Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said:

"When Sepp Blatter talks about the Fifa family, I expect most people did not
know a firm run by his nephew has strong business contacts with the governing
body.

"You can see how people might be concerned about this. Philippe Blatter must be
concerned about the allegations of corruption surrounding Fifa. He should put to
one side his family relationship and ask the pointed questions his shareholders
will no doubt want answered and whether Infront risks being tarnished because of
its association with Fifa and the extremely questionable way it's run."

However, a spokesman for Infront denied that Philippe Blatter felt there was a
conflict of interest in his company's contracts with Fifa because his uncle is
its president.

The spokesman said: "No. Our team delivers top quality services to Fifa, as we
do to the other 120 federations and clubs among our clients. We are involved in
various highly specialised areas of the Fifa World Cup project with conspicuous
success since 1997.

"Philippe Blatter took over as president and chief executive of Infront in July
2006. He is not a private shareholder of any Infront Sports & Media companies.

"We do our job well and this is the decisive factor. Infront's capabilities are
judged entirely on their merits." Asked about Philippe Blatter's views on the
corruption allegations at Fifa, he added: "We are unable to comment on the
allegations being made. Fifa is a highly valued business partner of Infront
Sports & Media.

"Infront's role with Fifa has actually been reduced drastically since 2006, when
Fifa took the handling of the global TV rights distribution in house."

Fifa lurched into a mire of new controversies last week after the suspension of
Sepp Blatter's one time challenger Qatari Mohamed bin Hammam over claims that 25
Caribbean football officials were offered GBP 24,000 bribes to vote for Bin
Hammam.

Executive committee member Jack Warner was also suspended from all
football-related activity after the Fifa ethics committee said it would launch a
"full inquiry" into bribery allegations against him.

Warner has claimed that Blatte r gave laptop computers to officials from the
Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football.

The confederation yesterda y suspended its acting president, Lisle Austin for an
alleged infringement of statutes and asked Fifa to extend the ban worldwide.

Meanwhile it was reported that last night that Fifa had secured a GBP 1.5million
junket at the London Olympics, including tickets to some of the top events.

A newspaper said it had discovered Sepp Blatter would receive the services of a
chauffeur-driven car and an exclusive access-allareas pass at London 2012.

Other senior members of the organisation would get to see the main events and
ceremonies.

The news is sure to infuriate many British sports fans who failed to obtain
tickets for any of the events in the public ballot. Thei r only hope now is the
black market.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE PRIZE: Fifa's World Cup trophy
REPUTATION: Philippe Blatter
CONTROVERSY: Sepp Blatter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 3, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Crisis talks in fight to stem migrant hordes

BYLINE: From Peter Allen in Calais

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 905  words


A CRISIS summit has been called between Britain and France next week in a bid to
tackle crossChannel border control failures.

In the wake of a damning report exposing UK border officials for creating a
secret amnesty for tens of thousands of asylum seekers, Home Secretary Theresa
May will hold the meeting with her French opposite number in Calais.

We can reveal that she will travel on Monday to France to see Claude Gueant, the
hardline Interior Minister who has pledged to close his country's frontiers to
unwanted foreigners.

They will inspect the notoriously frail security measures around the Calais port
area and the Channel Tunnel.

While security in the run-up to the London Olympics will be an important part of
the talks, Calais mayor Natacha Bouchart confirmed that illegal migrants will be
top of the agenda.

"The visit will certainly be about the question of immigration, " said Ms
Bouchart. "Whatever happens, I'll be discussing the matter with the minister."

It comes as Britain's asylum system plunges into crisis, with the UK Border
Agency - which is meant to police ports like Calais - described as "still not
fit for purpose" by Labour MP Keith Vaz.

Tens of thousands of asylum seekers have in effect been granted an amnesty to
stay in the UK because of blunders in the system.

They are among 450,000 whose case files were found abandoned in boxes at the
Home Office five years ago.

Of these, 430,000 have now been considered, and 161,000 immigrants have been
given the right to stay - many simply because they have been here so long.

Another 75,000 have disappeared.

Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip, said yesterday: "The message we are sending to the
rest of the world is: Come on down, Britain is a soft touch. You can come here
illegally and it doesn't matter, no one's going to bother and after a few years
you'll be given full rights to stay."

Many more migrants are now waiting in illegal camps around Calais, which they
use as a springboard to get into Britain.

All play a regular game of cat and mouse with the police, jumping on trains and
lorries for an illegal passage to Dover.

Mr Gueant wants to inspect the security measures currently in place, which are
clearly not working. He will become the first Interior Minister to visit Calais
since Nicolas Sarkozy, now President, visited the Sangatte Red Cross camp in
2002.

Mr Sarkozy shut the camp down because it was attracting so many migrants to the
town but the crisis continues.

"Northern ports like Calais are the obvious choice for illegal immigrants trying
to get into Britain, and both Mr Gueant and Mrs May want to see the security
measures in place for themselves, " said an Interior Ministry source.

Migrants from the "Arab Spring" countries were among those milling around Calais
yesterday.

At the moment most are living in ramshackle squats dotted around the port in
northern France and the authorities fear the numbers will grow far larger over
the summer. One squat, a derelict house situated less than two miles from the
Channel Tunnel, has been dubbed Africa House because of the large number of
people, including women and children, who have moved in.

All have escaped turmoil in countries like Tunisia, Egypt, and Libya.

Representatives from the International Organisation for Migration, which is
partly funded by Britain and aims to reduce migration, have visited Africa House
regularly.

They distributed leaflets in numerous languages warning:

"There is a risk of severe injury or even death when trying to cross to the UK
illegally by hiding in a truck. Do not attempt to enter refrigerated trucks or
tanker lorries. You risk being locked in, being exposed to chemicals or being
frozen to death."

Despite such stark warnings, the ultimate aim is to get on a Dover-bound train
or ferry.

Once in the UK, they will claim political asylum or else disappear into the
black economy.

At least 40,000 have fled to Europe since the start of the Arab Spring.

Most come through Italy, and especially the tiny island of Lampedusa, where the
government has offered many of them temporary EU travel documents to get them
out of the country.

From Italy they board trains to Paris where camps are also springing up around
the Gare du Nord Eurostar station. Police raids on the squats in Paris and
Calais are a daily occurrence, with complaints that beatings are common and that
water is poured over blankets and food.

Authorities in Calais fear a recreation of The Jungle, a vast illegal encampment
which grew up next to an industrial estate before being forcibly shut down in
2009.

"We are very concerned by the smaller camps which are starting to appear, " said
a police spokesman. "The migrants' aim is to get to Britain at all costs."

One lorry driver from Tamworth, Staffs, said: "I've driven a lorry across the
Continent for the past 20 years and I've seen this whole problem escalate. It's
pitiful, on occasions it would bring you to tears."

Referring to the amnesty he said: "Now the Government has given these mafia
gangs who control the trade a green ticket, they're going to be straight on the
phone saying: Hey, England is giving an amnesty. If they give an amnesty now,
they know they'll give another in five years and in 10 years.

Is Britain doing enough to curb migrants?

YES: 0901 030 8346 Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8347 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrants queue for food handouts in Calais, above. Below left, police
keep an eye on more migrants in Calais yesterday. Below right, children at a
makeshift encampment near Paris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 3, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Would Labour's other donor please stand up?;
The party is practically bankrupt. But in politics you only improve your
cashflow by improving your policies

BYLINE: Philip Collins

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1104 words


I wonder if you could help me solve a mystery. I know that one was Alastair
Campbell, but who is the other person who has just given a donation to the
Labour Party? In the first quarter of 2011 the Labour Party had two individual
donors. We know that Mr Campbell gave £10,000 but who is the other benefactor?
The search is on.

When Alastair Campbell is the Labour Party's largest donor we know that politics
is bankrupt. Not morally; financially. The Tory party has net liabilities of
£2.8 million. Labour has net liabilities to the value of £16.6 million. The
biggest donation to the Liberal Democrats came from a staff pension fund that
has just been scrapped. Over the six months just gone, the parties have raised
£15 million, about the same amount that Comic Relief got in text messages. Their
combined effort is yielding less than the fundraising team of Barnardo's.
Political parties have £34 million in outstanding loans and credit deals. As
they are spending more than they receive, they paid off only £113,000 during the
past six months. At that rate, they'll be in the black by about 2150. This is a
deficit that we are all in denial about.

The Labour Party is the parlous case. The two people who gave a donation in the
first quarter of 2011 constitute an infinite improvement on the last quarter of
2010, when nobody did. That's right, nobody. Labour's individual donations are
now only just greater than UKIP's. Corporate Britain now gives the Tories ten
times more than Labour.

All of which means that almost 90 per cent of the Labour Party's money now comes
from the unions. Even a year ago it was only 62 per cent. The Unite union alone
provides Labour with 37 per cent of its cash and it comes, of course, at a
price. Unite is not buying policies. How could it? The Labour Party has no
policies. It is buying control of candidate selection and the day will come when
the Labour Party rues the queue-jumping of timeserving mediocrities that Unite
is now organising. It's a sort of Z-list selection policy that draws a straight
line between Labour Party finances and the quality of the Parliamentary Labour
Party.

Labour's general secretary, Ray Collins, recently told the inquiry into party
funding by the Committee on Standards in Public Life that Labour would fold if a
cap on donations of £50,000 were introduced. Gifts of that kind, almost all from
unions, have accounted for 85 per cent of the Labour Party's income since 2005.

With accumulated debts of £16 million, the Labour Party is, not for the first
time, on the verge of bankruptcy. In his excellent book Inside Out, Peter Watt,
a predecessor of Mr Collins, describes sitting in his garden with his head in
his hands wondering how to keep the Labour Party afloat. As the cash-for-honours
investigation proceeded, it was only the generosity of the likes of David
Sainsbury and Gulam Noon that saved the party from drowning in the costs of the
2005 election. In 1997, the Tory party was so poor that suppliers used to gather
in the foyer of Conservative Central Office and refuse to leave until they had
been given a cheque.

You might say that the Tory party recovered financially when it recovered
intellectually and that the cashflow is every bit as instructive for a political
party as it is for a business. It is obvious that a Labour Party that relocates
in the Centre has a better chance of being funded because it has a better chance
of winning. That is the chronology of money in politics. Cash, like betting
stakes, flows to the winner in advance of the victory. In analysis by Heath,
Jowell and Curtice of the 1992 general election there is no mention of the
impact of money at all. It pays for good staff, for advertising and research,
but it isn't decisive.

Yet it would send a bolt of lightning through the political system if a major
party filed for administration. The Labour Party has no inalienable right to
survive, of course. But every developed democracy has three broad traditions of
thought: conservative, liberal and social democrat. A party of some kind will be
needed to do the logistics that turn an intellectual church into a congregation.
The democratic functions of participation and representation, posing an
electoral choice, forming policy and staffing the executive is more easily done
with coherent political parties. There is a lot wrong with political parties but
it is hard to envisage democratic politics working well without them.

This is why it is standard practice in most countries for taxpayers to fund
politics directly. In Germany it is written into the federal Constitution that
any party gaining more than 1 per cent of the vote is entitled to state funding
up to a maximum of 50 per cent of its income. In fact, about a third of party
income in Germany comes from taxpayers and it costs them (EURO)1.66 each, about
the price of a cup of coffee. Popular outrage after a series of funding scandals
led the French, in 1988, to introduce public funding. The Australians did the
same in 1984 and the Candians in 2003.

Whisper it, but we do it here too. We give a grant to the Opposition, which is
known as Short money in the Commons and Cranborne money in the Lords. Between
2001 and 2003, the Tory party received more in grants than in private donations.
Apart from the unions, the £1.7 million from the the public purse in the last
quarter was Labour's salvation. Over the past six months, political parties have
received £15 million in donations and £6 million in public funds. The argument
about state funding is not whether we should introduce it. It's about whether we
should extend it.

Not that this is the argument that will actually occupy the inquiry. David
Cameron is not going to risk the fragile consensus of his party by saving the
Labour Party from Charlie Whelan. Besides, even a politician of unusual
magnaminity would have to conclude that it is hardly wise, after the poison of
expenses, to ask the taxpayer for some money to give to Ed Miliband.

The real fear is that party finances are stabilising each time at a lower base.
Wealthy individuals are now reluctant to give because political money smells.
But in the absence of public funds there is no other option and that's why the
inquiry could hold a nasty surprise for the Labour Party. It had better jump
back to the Centre while it still can. I just don't think Alastair Campbell's
got enough money to do any more. And neither, probably, has the other person.

OpEd Live, from 1pm

Watch Morten Morland's animation about Sepp Blatter's beautiful game
thetimes.co.uk/opinion

Unite buys control of candidate selection. It's a sort of Z-list policy

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Can this be right? Can I really be the Labour Party's largest
individual donor?
DAVID BEBBER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

MILIBAND IS A 'LABOUR DISASTER'

BYLINE: BY GERRI PEEV POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 306 words


ED Miliband is leading his party to 'disaster', it was claimed last night as an
opinion poll revealed that Labour had lost its lead over the Tories for the
first time in seven months.

The Labour leader has been accused of 'creating a monster' by instigating 25
separate policy reviews.

Support for the party has dropped by two points, putting the party level with
the Tories on 37 per cent, according to a poll by ComRes.

Liberal Democrat backing had recovered by one point to 12 per cent while support
for the smaller parties including the SNP, UKIP and Greens, was up two points to
14 per cent.

The grim news for Mr Miliband came as it emerged that under his leadership,
Labour had launched around two dozen policy reviews.

Titles included: 'X Factor for the many, not the few', 'Family life. What
helps?' and 'Supporting the sustainable empowerment of women and girls in the
developing world', according to an article by Labour blogger and insider Dan
Hodges in the left-wing New Statesman magazine.

One shadow cabinet minister said Mr Miliband had 'created a monster' with the
reviews.

The insider told the magazine: 'It's going to be a disaster. When [David]
Cameron set up a similar consultation he was careful to keep it at arm's length.
That way when someone like Zac Goldsmith popped up and started banging on about
boycotting Sainsbury's, Cameron could contain it.

'Our consultation may be separated from the leader, but it's still lashed to the
party. We've created a monster.'

Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, also came in for criticism, with one source
comparing him to the way Gordon Brown acted when working alongside Tony Blair.

The source said: 'Everyone knows the [forthcoming policy] review will be
meaningless unless we come up with some serious proposals on the economy.

'But Balls is blocking everything. He's acting like Gordon.'

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

PRIVATE JETS, TIFFANY JEWELLERY AND PARTIES IN EU'S £7M JUNKETS

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 695 words


EUROPEAN chiefs have landed taxpayers with a 'grotesque' expenses bill running
into millions of pounds that highlights once again the culture of excess in
Brussels.

Private jets, luxury hotels, cocktail parties and even Tiffany jewellery were
among the items claimed.

MPs last night called for an inquiry following the release of astonishing
details of commissioners' lavish lifestyles.

In one case Jose Manuel Barroso, the Commission's president, ran up a £24,600
hotel bill during a luxury four-day stay in New York.

The figures reveal that the EU's 27 commissioners clocked up a £6.6million bill
for hiring private jets in the four years to 2010

.

With extra expenses, the bill for their high life comes to £6.99million.

The full extent of the extravagance remains unclear, however, as the figures are
not thought to represent the entire picture.

The overall figure is likely to be far higher than the £7million of wasteful
spending so far discovered. Britain's commissioners during the period were Peter
Mandelson and Baroness Ashton.

In 2009 alone, the Commission billed taxpayers £265,000 for cocktail parties.

Events included a £11,638 bill for a cocktail party for TV weathermen from
across Europe, and two cocktail parties to celebrate Europe Day, at a total cost
of £9,597.

The Commission also ran up a £66,000 bill for a 'science' event in Amsterdam
which boasted a 'night filled with wonder like no other É state-of-the-art
technology, challenging art, combined with trendy cocktails, surprising
performances and top DJs'.

Further figures reveal that the Commission spent £17,741 over three years on
luxury jewellery for VIPs who agreed to appear at EU events.

The figures include spending at the renowned jewellers Tiffany.

The Commission is bidding for a five per cent increase in its £117 billion a
year budget. Tory MP Chris Heaton-Harris called for an investigation.

Mr Heaton-Harris, a former MEP who campaigned against Brussels waste, said: 'The
European commissioners behave like a royal court. There is so much power
concentrated in those 27 individuals and they are not directly accountable to
anyone. They really do live it up. It is a proper jet-set lifestyle at our
expense.'

The figures were unearthed following an investigation by the London-based Bureau
of Investigative Journalism.

Its editor Iain Overton said: 'Our findings raise questions not just about
taxpayers' money being wasted, but also about how accountable the European
Commission is for its spending.'

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said 'They [commissioners]
are unaccountable, out of control and they don't care how much taxpayers' money
they spend. But I'm afraid I am not surprised because they treat taxpayers'
money with contempt and will continue to do so until we have a referendum.'

Martin Callanan MEP, Conservative leader in the European Parliament: 'When the
commission said it needs a five per cent budget increase to "pay its bills", we
didn't think it meant private jets, Tiffany jewellery and cocktail parties.

'This is exactly the sort of spending that needs to be slashed.'

Mr Barroso's £24,600 hotel bill covered a four-day stay at New York's five-star
Peninsula Hotel for himself and eight officials. The Commission said it related
to his attendance at a U.N. General Assembly. It said the hotel was chosen to
'fulfil a number of protocol and security requirements'.

A Commission spokesman last night claimed that the latest figures were 'taken
out of context and deliberately misinterpreted'.

The spokesman said that chartering private planes was 'strictly regulated' and
only undertaken when there was no alternative.

She said that Mr Barroso's New York hotel bill included the cost of hiring
meeting rooms. She added that the refreshments bill was only a small percentage
of the cost of the Amsterdam event.

The EU yesterday launched an 'outrageous' bid for new powers which could cost
every British family £200 a year. Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski wants
Brussels to be given the power to levy direct taxes.

Tory MP Mark Reckless described the proposal as 'utterly unacceptable'. Fellow
Tory Bill Cash said: 'The veto must be used.'

j.groves@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN OPENS DOOR TO ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 870  words


Secret amnesty for 235,500

BRITAIN'S border chiefs have been savaged in a damning report for creating a
secret amnesty for asylum seekers.

They were criticised after MPs discovered they had dished out visas as a way of
clearing a huge backlog of files.

Out of 450,000 outstanding cases, just 38,000 migrants were removed.

A massive 161,000 were given indefinite leave to stay after a change in rules
and almost 75,000 simply disappeared. That meant about 235,500 benefited from
Britain's open door immigration policy, branded "still not fit for purpose" in
the report published today. Other critics called the system "feeble" and
"shambolic".

MPs on the cross-party Home Affairs committee found the backlog that arose in
2006 eventually reached its clearance target "largely" by giving claimants
permission to stay. "We consider that in practice an amnesty has taken place at
considerable cost to the taxpayer, " the report said. Guidance was revised to
allow officials to grant leave to remain to applicants who had been in the UK
for between six and eight years, as opposed to the 10-12 years stipulated by
rules that previously applied.

Sir Andrew Green, of MigrationWatch, said: "The removal of those people who
overstay their visas and no longer have the right to be in the country is
absolutely essential to the credibility of the whole system.

"This report suggests that the removal effort is much too feeble and giving the
green light to illegal immigrants."

Gerard Batten, MEP and Ukip spokesman on immigration, said:

"This report confirms what we have suspected all along. Britain's immigration
system is shambolic and unworkable.

"There is no political will to deal with the problem of illegal residents and
they are being massaged into society in what can only be called a secret
amnesty."

The influential report, published after months of investigations by the
influential committee, looked into how officials were dealing with a massive
backlog of 450,000 asylum cases discovered in 2006 by the then Labour Home
Secretary John Reid.

MPs were astonished to find that although the agency had hit its target to clear
the backlog by this summer, final figures showed just 38,000 - nine per cent -
had been removed from the UK. One in six - 74,500 - had completely disappeared.

Indefinite leave to remain was given to 161,000 asylum seekers. The rest of the
cases are thought to be duplicates, errors or EU nationals who should not have
been on the list.

The report condemned the massive number of untraceable asylum seekers as
"indefensible" saying it "severely undermined" public confidence.

The scathing criticism comes as the coalition Government is battling to reduce
annual net migration - the number coming to the UK minus those who leave - to
the "tens of thousands" from a high of more than 200,000 a year under Labour.
Among the numerous complaints in today's report, the agency's handling of the
GBP 1.2billion "electronic borders" computer system project was singled out for
particular criticism.

The programme is at the heart of Government plans to cut net migration by
allowing immigration officials to ensure people whose visas have expired
actually leave the country.

The National Audit Office estimates 181,000 people could have overstayed their
visas in the past four years.

The e-borders system was meant to be fully operational by 2014. But the main
contractor was sacked last year after chronic delays that have seen that date
put back by at least 12 months.

MPs said they were not clear that even then the system would be able to monitor
all those coming and leaving the UK by rail, sea and air. "We remain deeply
concerned about the e-borders programme, given its history, the lack of clarity
about the final shape of the scheme and the high (but still unquantifiable) cost
of the e-borders programme both to the taxpayer and the carriers, " it was said.

Presenting the report, Labour MP Keith Vaz, chairman of the Home Affairs
Committee, said: "Though progress has been made it is clear that the UK Border
Agency is still not fit for purpose.

"While there is no doubt that individual caseworkers are dedicated and
hard-working, there are serious concerns over the agency's ability to deal with
cases and respond to intelligence swiftly and thoroughly."

Immigration minister Damian Green said: "We have known for some time that the
asylum system we inherited was chaotic.

"Some of these cases date back more than a decade and the UK Border Agency was
always clear that because of the length of time many of these individuals have
been in the country there would be no alternative to granting them leave to
remain.

There is no amnesty.

"This Government is overhauling the uncontrolled immigration system it
inherited. We are already radically reforming the points-based system and other
routes of entry that have been subject to widespread abuse.

"We are making greater use of intelligence to remove people with no right to be
here and are concluding individual cases faster."

Should Britain have tougher border control?

QYES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345 Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088 No text
DXTHURNO to 80088 Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Unlike thousands of others, these migrants emerging from a road tanker
were caught as they tried to enter Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 697 words


&#10002;As he adjusts from life in the controlled environment that is the House
of Lords to a good few months in the controlled environment that is Her
Majesty's prison, Lord Taylor of Warwick - the latest jailed expenses fiddler -
can at least tell his fellow inmates that he always had their interests at
heart. His last parliamentary question: "To ask Her Majesty's government what
plans they have to give prisoners the vote." Proof that there were days when the
ignoble lord thought of someone other than himself.

&#10002;And strange, is it not, that Lord Taylor will be able to do his time,
keep his peerage and, if it suits, return to the red benches. Lord Archer kept
his; many would argue that he should never have had it in the first place. But
at least his lies related to matters away from Westminster. Isn't it a rum do
that Lord Taylor, and presumably Lord Hanningfield, retain their positions
despite having defrauded the parliamentary system itself?

&#10002;But then, life is full of surprises. Imagine Today presenter James
Naughtie's surprise yesterday morning on learning that underneath the prominent
Scottishness, he's really English. Tests on his DNA showed his origins to be
Anglo Saxon. "He's English," chirped Humphrys triumphantly. "At least I'm not
Welsh," Naughtie shot back. "He's one of those little black gnomes from
Brittany," jibed Naughtie at his sparring partner. "I'm going to go to the CRE,"
threatened Humphrys. "Someone make the call for me." Good fun for all but the
English perhaps. For having digested the bad news, Naughtie received from an
anthropologist some advice on what it takes to be English. Just be chronically
socially inhibited, she said. Socially challenged, a bit autistic, a bit
agoraphobic. Greet every reverse with the exclamation "Typical!". It's easy.

&#10002;Meanwhile in France, a couple of papers, including France Soir, finally
ventilate the mad rumours that the CIA plotted Dominique Strauss-Kahn's
downfall. They do so in order to laugh at DSK's Paris communications agency
personnel, alleging that the hopeless firm of spinners are behind the kooky
tales. The theory is that American plotters wanted to get an orthodox
rightwinger in at the IMF, judging DSK as too lefty and too pro-euro. They
supposedly knew DSK made a habit of chasing Sofitel staff and so set up the
sting, removing him from both the IMF and ending any hopes he might have had of
becoming president. Fanciful, yes, but then they are different on the other side
of the Channel. How many French voters think DSK is a victim of a plot?
Fifty-seven percent.

&#10002;But then people think all kinds of things. Look at electrical giant
Philips. It has convened a panel to consider the challenges of creating
"liveable cities". Pride of place, according to the company, goes to "Sir Ken
Livingstone, former mayor of London". Don't panic, it's a mistake. No prospect
of a knighthood for the artist formerly known as "Red Ken". At least, not yet.

&#10002;So it is to be the battle of the books; two literary heavyweights in the
market place. Get ready to rumble Nigel Farage, Ukip leader, whose memoir
Fighting Bull charts the birth of Ukip. And ready to launch, those three novels
we mentioned yesterday, a political trilogy from Farage's ex sparring partner,
the ever reddy Robert Kilroy-Silk. Farage was first to publish - his masterwork
came out just before the last general election - but there are grumblings from
his camp that the book has never quite gained the lift-off it deserves because
it lacks promotion. Ukip recently gave away 10 copies as prizes in its spring
raffle. Almost as many giveaways as sales, wags say.

&#10002;Finally, we referred yesterday to the writer/broadcaster Matthew Parris
and his strategy for success. "If you don't succeed at first, then by all means
give it a really good go, but then give up and try something else," he said.
Which makes him a wit, but also an unlikely standard bearer for WC Fields. "If
at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Then quit. No use being a damn fool
about it," the great man said. WC knew his limits. They just didn't apply to
women and drink.

diary@guardian.co.uk

twitter.com/hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

European tax powers would force British families to pay £200 a year

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 409 words


THE European Commission is to demand direct taxation powers to generate one
third of the EU budget by 2020 under proposals that will impose £3billion a year
in "stealth taxes" on Britons.

The measure would add an extra tax burden to the average British family of more
than £200 a year for the EU financial period 2013 to 2020.

Janusz Lewandowski, the European budget commissioner, wants tax-raising powers
to shift EU funding from national government transfers to taxation on energy,
travel or banking in countries throughout the union.

"I have as an objective a future budget being fed two thirds, 66 per cent, by
member state contributions, and own resources, one third, or 33 per cent," he
said. "We want to make it less politicised."

Under the plan, the EU will raise revenues directly through taxes it sets on
consumers or business in order to reduce reliance on contributions from national
treasuries - payments that are increasingly resented in countries such as
Britain following austerity programmes.

Mr Lewandowski will suggest that national payments are cut by almost a quarter
and funding for a growing share of EU spending, worth £117billion next year,
would be replaced by taking a fixed percentage for Brussels of aviation or
carbon taxes, new levies on financial transactions and VAT.

But in the austerity climate there would be no guarantees that savings for
national treasuries from reduced EU payments would result in domestic tax cuts.

Bill Cash, the chairman of the Commons European scrutiny committee, warned David
Cameron that Tory backbench MPs would not tolerate any question of direct EU
taxes.

"This kind of attempt to stitch up the British people can only be answered by
the simple word: No. The veto must be used," he said.

"The Prime Minister knows he is heading for a showdown which he can only lose
now that the Liberal Democrats are so weak."

Currently, around 18 per cent of the EU budget is collected from so-called "own
resources", mainly via an automatic cut for the EU of customs duties. But the
income stream on import tariffs has dropped because of trade liberalisation.

Officials are confident that another 21 per cent can be found from energy,
greenhouse gas, aviation and financial taxes which would bring in income for
national governments as well as the EU.

But Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, said: "With this kind of stealth taxes,
Eurosceptics across Europe will take up the slogan 'no taxation without
representation'."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fury at £1m-a-month 'bribes' to send illegal migrants home

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 577 words


FAILED asylum seekers and illegal immigrants are being "bribed" to go home with
more than £1million of taxpayers' cash every month, Home Office figures have
revealed.

Nearly £74million has been handed out in the past five years to get rid of those
with no legal right to be here.

The revelation brought outrage yesterday. Gerard Batten, the Ukip MEP and home
affairs spokesman, said: "These people must think they have hit the jackpot.

"It is a revolving door of handouts for them. They come here, get paid to leave
and then told they can come back in two years and go through the whole process
again.

"We need to get a grip on it and stop this kind of nonsense. If they have no
right to be here send them home, don't bribe them."

Alp Mehmet of MigrationWatch said: "I am concerned that no one is looking at who
is taking the money and whether or not they would have left anyway.

Criticism

"There is a lot of money going out and there is no limit to the number of people
who can be paid.

"This is a form of aid but there are better ways of doing it than in this
blunderbuss fashion."

The assisted voluntary return programme provides support for those who are
willing to return home without appealing against removal.

But taking the handout does not bar them from returning to the UK. The Home
Office has faced widespread criticism after changing its immigration rules so
that those who accept a returns package can apply to come back after two years
instead of the previous five-year ban.

Anyone taking up the offer can get up to £2,000 of "in kind" support - which can
be used to buy a home or set up a business - in return for not fighting removal.

The £2,000 incentive is the equivalent of eight years' wages for a worker in
Afghanistan. Since 2006, a total of £73.9million has been spent on the voluntary
return scheme - the equivalent of £1.2million a month. Kept in the UK, the
£74million could pay the annual salaries of up to 740 GPs or 3,200 teachers.

A further £8.2million was spent last year alone on charter flights to send home
almost 2,000 failed asylum seekers and foreign prisoners. The National Audit
Office has estimated it costs £11,000 to deport a foreign national who refuses
to leave.

Yesterday Damian Green, the immigration minister, defended the massive cost of
the scheme. "Assisted voluntary returns represent good value," he claimed.

"They cost less than an enforced return and save the taxpayer money by reducing
the amount spent on financial support and detention."

Last year it emerged that more than £1million had been used to persuade hundreds
of asylum seekers and would-be illegal immigrants to return home before they
even reached the UK.

The Home Office-backed Global Calais Project focused on "irregular migrants" who
were caught at the French port and paid 468 of them £3,500 each to return to
their countries of origin.

VIETNAMESE IN A TYRE TRUCK

THIS is the moment a pair of illegal immigrants were caught hiding in a lorry.

The Vietnamese men were arrested during a check by the UK Border Agency in the
French port of Calais. They hopped on to the back of the lorry carrying tyres to
a depot in Coventry last Friday.

Immigration officials became suspicious after carbon dioxide probes revealed
people breathing in the back of the truck.

They were arrested and the driver faces a £2,000 fine. Carole Upshall, of the UK
Border Agency, said:

"Our strong presence helps protect the whole of the UK from people attempting to
enter the country illegally."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 84 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury at GBP 1m-a-month 'bribes' to send illegal migrants home

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 25

LENGTH: 477  words


FAILED asylum seekers and illegal immigrants are being "bribed" to go home with
more than GBP 1million of taxpayers' cash every month, Home Office figures have
revealed.

Nearly GBP 74million has been handed out in the past five years to get rid of
those with no legal right to be here.

The revelation brought outrage yesterday. Gerard Batten, the Ukip MEP and home
affairs spokesman, said: "These people must think they have hit the jackpot.

"It is a revolving door of handouts for them. They come here, get paid to leave
and then told they can come back in two years and go through the whole process
again.

"We need to get a grip on it and stop this kind of nonsense. If they have no
right to be here send them home, don't bribe them."

Alp Mehmet of MigrationWatch said: "I am concerned that no one is looking at who
is taking the money and whether or not they would have left anyway.

"There is a lot of money going out and there is no limit to the number of people
who can be paid.

"This is a form of aid but there are better ways of doing it than in this
blunderbuss fashion."

The assisted voluntary return programme provides support for those who are
willing to return home without appealing against removal.

But taking the handout does not bar them from returning to the UK.

The Home Office has faced widespread criticism after changing its immigration
rules so that those who accept a returns package can apply to come back after
two years instead of the previous five-year ban.

Anyone taking up the offer can get up to GBP 2,000 of "in kind" support - which
can be used to buy a home or set up a business - in return for not fighting
removal.

The GBP 2,000 incentive is the equivalent of eight years' wages for a worker in
Afghanistan. Since 2006, a total of GBP 73.9million has been spent on the
voluntary return scheme - the equivalent of GBP 1.2million a month. Kept in the
UK, the GBP 74million could pay the annual salaries of up to 740 GPs or 3,200
teachers.

A further GBP 8.2million was spent last year alone on charter flights to send
home almost 2,000 failed asylum seekers and foreign prisoners.

The National Audit Office has estimated it costs GBP 11,000 to deport a foreign
national who refuses to leave.

Yesterday Damian Green, the immigration minister, defended the massive cost of
the scheme. "Assisted voluntary returns represent good value, " he claimed.

"They cost less than an enforced return and save the taxpayer money by reducing
the amount spent on financial support and detention."

Last year it emerged that more than GBP 1million had been used to persuade
hundreds of asylum seekers and would-be illegal immigrants to return home before
they even reached the UK.

The Home Office-backed Global Calais Project focused on "irregular migrants" who
were caught at the French port and paid 468 of them GBP 3,500 each to return to
their countries of origin.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 704 words


&#10002;Like being savaged by a dead sheep, was how Denis Healey described an
assault by his contemporary Lord Howe. And much of the time this will be David
Cameron's reaction on walking away unscathed after yet another one-sided prime
minister's questions. But it won't be like that for ever. Ed's on the warpath,
and this time it's personal. According to an account of the last private
gathering of Labour's national executive committee, the leader apparently agreed
that it was time "for the shadow cabinet to sharpen its attacks" on the
coalition. Indeed, the gloves are off all round. Party members, he said, will
henceforth have "more of a voice, even if this was inconvenient for him
personally". A voice on strategy, and on policy, both being examined as part of
reviews led by Peter Hain and Liam Byrne utilising all of the media at their
disposal. Some will embrace these new ways. Some won't. Dennis Skinner "had no
patience with twittering twaddle", the circulated memo said.

&#10002;So that's Ed. Meanwhile, out of the shadows and blinking into the light
at the Hay festival comes David, who says just enough to give the Daily Mail a
stick to beat his sibling with. "David Miliband says the Tories and Lib Dems are
more representative of the country than the Labour party led by his younger
brother, Ed," the story says. He's bloodied but not bowed. And he's obviously a
bit sharper than he was back in the day when he rashly posed for photographers
holding a banana. The Hay blog, authored by the writer Horatio Clare, reports
that when an unknowing Argentinian photographer sought Miliband's help to
construct a picture of an unnamed author, the former foreign secretary
acquiesced. Then he realised it meant holding aloft a watering can. "No props,"
barked an anxious aide, having speedily computed the uses to which the photo
might later be put. As for Miliband himself, he ran a mile.

&#10002;What's Chris Huhne up to these days? Should be easy to find out. It's
all on Twitter. Let's see what's here: "I'm catching up on departmental
business" - that's a regular. "I'm doing my weekly surgery for Eastleigh
residents." Here's a goodie. " I'm having one of my regular catch-ups with
DECC's chief scientific adviser." He's had nothing to report since last Friday,
which is strange because his life has hardly been boring in recent weeks. But
then, he was no more forthcoming, by all accounts, when interviewed about his
driving history by Essex police.

&#10002;We have more on the return to public life of Robert Kilroy-Silk, ex
Labour, ex BBC, ex Daily Express, ex Ukip, ex Veritas - now ploughing his furrow
as a writer of racy fiction. Coming up, not just the novel about incest we
mentioned yesterday, out via Kindle, but two other books: one featuring forced
adoptions and kidnappings; the other war, divorce and suicide - "very
politically incorrect". The strategy is characteristically populist. "I don't
mind controversy," he says. And that we know. Who can forget how in 2004 he
triggered a firestorm describing Arabs as "suicide bombers, limb-amputators,
women repressors"? Or his attack on multiculturalism imposed by "liberal
fascists in London". He's older now and a bit of a sweetie, but defiant on both
career-destroying stances. And struggling to find a mainstream publisher. Can't
think why.

&#10002;Finally, as it's half-term, and there will doubtless be a few
impressionable young people tuning in, a few inspiring words from Matthew
Parris. "I was brought up to believe that, if at first you don't succeed, you
must try, try and try again," he told the National Association of Pension Funds.
"But this is totally wrong. If you don't succeed at first, then by all means
give it a really good go, but then give up and try something else." According to
Public Servant magazine, Parris said he has tried seven careers so far and
failed at six. "If you give up enough things that you are bad at, then by the
law of averages you should eventually find something you are rather better at."
So it's your choice: the traditional try and try again, a la Robert the Bruce.
Or throw a lot of mud, like Matthew says, and see if any sticks. In any event,
good luck!

diary@guardian.co.uk

twitter.com/hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 1, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Labour has lost lead over Tories, says survey

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris, Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 233 words


Labour has lost its lead over the Tories for the first time in seven months as
Ed Miliband struggles to make an impact with the public, according to ComRes's
poll for The Independent. It shows the parties running neck and neck following a
turbulent political month in which Labour was trounced in elections to the
Scottish Parliament and recorded a mixed performance in contests for English
councils.

The poll finds that Labour support has dropped two points since the last ComRes
survey to 37 per cent, putting the party level with the Tories, whose support
has fallen by one point.

Liberal Democrats will be relieved that their recent dramatic collapse in
popularity appears to have ended, with their party's backing recovering by one
point to 12 per cent. Support for other parties, including the SNP, Ukip and the
Greens, is up by two points to 14 per cent. Labour's lead rose to a high of nine
points after the Chancellor, George Osborne, set out plans for spending cuts in
the autumn, but has dropped away since then.

Its continuing failure to break through will dismay party strategists and could
raise questions about Mr Miliband's leadership.

Some Shadow Cabinet members fear he is too risk-averse and complain the party is
spending too much time looking inwards with a succession of policy reviews. They
believe it is crucial for Mr Miliband to raise his, and Labour's, profile over
the summer.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 84 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Labour loses poll lead over the Tories

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 233 words


LABOUR HAS lost its lead over the Tories for the first time in seven months as
Ed Miliband struggles to make an impact with the public, according to ComRes's
poll for The Independent. It shows the parties running neck and neck following a
turbulent political month in which Labour was trounced in elections to the
Scottish Parliament and recorded a mixed performance in contests for English
councils.

The poll finds that Labour support has dropped two points since the last ComRes
survey to 37 per cent, putting the party level with the Tories, whose support
has fallen by one point.

Liberal Democrats will be relieved that their recent dramatic collapse in
popularity appears to have ended, with their party's backing recovering by one
point to 12 per cent. Support for other parties, including the SNP, Ukip and the
Greens, is up by two points to 14 per cent. Labour's lead rose to a high of nine
points after the Chancellor, George Osborne, set out plans for spending cuts in
the autumn, but has dropped away since then.

Its continuing failure to break through will dismay party strategists and could
raise questions about Mr Miliband's leadership.

Some Shadow Cabinet members fear he is too risk-averse and complain the party is
spending too much time looking inwards with a succession of policy reviews. They
believe it is crucial for Mr Miliband to raise his, and Labour's, profile over
the summer.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
