
                               1 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NEW CHANCE TO FORCE EU VOTE

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 739  words


Rule change means you can now make MPs have referendum debate

THE great British public is today given a new chance to join a bid to force a
key vote on Britain leaving the European Union.

We are calling on readers to grasp this unique opportunity to thrust the
argument right to the heart of UK democracy - by signing up to our new online
petition demanding a referendum on EU membership.

Once you have signed up via the link on Page 5 we will add your signature to our
exclusive "Britain wants a referendum to leave the EU" petition, registered
yesterday on the Government's new directgov e-petitions website.

The Government has said it would consider any public campaign backed by 100,000
signatures for a debate in Parliament.

Joining our petition will force the country's politicians openly to discuss an
issue that is gathering momentum as Britain bails out failing eurozone states
and our laws are increasingly adversely affected by EU human rights restraints.

This newspaper's historic crusade - the first to demand that Britain must quit
the EU - has already been backed by almost 400,000 people in a postal coupon
campaign earlier this year.

Now our readers can force the issue direct to the heart of Government again via
the e-petition.

Senior Tory ministers and MPs have expressed their support for us in driving the
issue of winning freedom from Brussels interference to the forefront of national
debate.

Mark Reckless, Tory MP for Rochester and Strood, said last night: "I am
extremely supportive of the wonderful campaign by the Daily Express which has
helped push the debate on to the national stage.

"I would urge as many people as possible to sign up to this petition so we can
push the debate for a referendum into Parliament once and for all."

Another staunch supporter of our crusade, Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell,
said: "I for one will be signing up. The Government has said they want more
direct democracy and I hope they welcome the Daily Express's efforts to give us
a chance to debate whether there should be a referendum on the EU."

The eurozone crisis has only heightened the sense of urgency for a referendum
that will give people the chance to decide if we are better off out of the EU
altogether.

In the past year the UK has stumped up GBP 12.5billion to help rescue Greece,
Ireland and Portugal with bail-outs. As further economic disasters loom in Spain
and Italy, the financial noose on Britain from Europe could tighten even
further.

Opponents of the EU are also angry about the threat to Britain's democracy by
meddling Brussels bureaucrats. Critics claim we have lost control of immigration
due to EU freedom of movement laws.

And they complain that our law and order system - and basic common sense - are
being undermined by the European Convention on Human Rights. Ukip leader Nigel
Farage said last night: "Direct democracy is a great principle and one Ukip has
advocated for years.

"It is great news that the Government is introducing this scheme, and of course
the Daily Express is absolutely right to take the opportunity to call for a
referendum on our EU membership."

The latest chance to push the issue on to the agenda follows a relentless Daily
Express crusade urging the UK to cut ties with Brussels. Our battle, launched
with an unprecedented 24-page pull-out edition in January, has been backed by
hundreds of thousands of people.

We were instantly deluged with overflowing mailbags packed with our special
coupons calling on David Cameron's Government to launch an orderly withdrawal
from the EU.

Support hit the six-figure mark within days of the campaign's launch.

The astonishing response made it one of the fastest-growing campaigns in
newspaper history. At the end of January we delivered a 373,000-signature
petition to 10 Downing Street.

The new e-petitions website was launched yesterday by Commons Leader Sir George
Young.

Any campaign on the site backed by 100,000 signatures will trigger consideration
for debate in Parliament, he said. The Commons backbench business committee will
assess all petitions that qualify and decide if they should be given time from
the 35 days allocated each session for non-governmental business.

Sir George said: "This new system of e-petitions could give the public a
megaphone to make themselves heard."

Sign the petition today at www.express.co.uk/web/referendum. We will collate
your signatures and put them on the official e-petition website on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP Mark Reckless backs our crusade Letters from almost 400,000 readers
poured in to support the Daily Express crusade for Britain to quit the EU. Now
you can demand a Commons debate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Eurocrats meddle with Royal Mail sell-off plans

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 378  words


MEDDLING eurocrats sparked fury yesterday after launching a probe into the
Government's plans to privatise the Royal Mail.

The European Commission will examine whether plans to write off Royal Mail's
debts and take responsibility for its multi-billion pound pension deficit meet
EU guidelines for state aid.

The Government hopes to sell the publicly owned company by March next year but
would first have to get its finances in order.

According to the EC, the Post Office has an estimated pension deficit of GBP
8billion and around GBP 1.7billion of debt.

Minister for postal affairs Edward Davey said: "State aid approval is the next
critical step in our plans to put Royal Mail on a secure footing.

"Today's announcement was expected and is the start of the EU's state aid
procedures.

"It is only right that the Commission has opened the state aid process to
properly investigate the case. However, we are keen to resolve the case as soon
as possible and are seeking a resolution by March 2012.

"The Commission will now begin a dialogue with us and also invite views from
relevant stakeholders such as Royal Mail's competitors and European
counterparts."

But MEP Paul Nuttall, Ukip's deputy leader, said: "Through the various postal
services directives the EU has ripped the limbs off our local post office
network. Now with this review it appears that they want to tear out its heart.

"The Royal Mail provides a vital service to millions across the country, acting
as a community hub and ensuring that those who are the weakest in society have
access to the services that they need. To threaten them again in the name of
faceless efficiency is wrong."

In a statement, the European Commission said: "The UK authorities have not
convincingly demonstrated that the submitted restructuring plan would comply
with the guidelines." It said that while it had previously authorised states
helping their postal services with pension deficits, Royal Mail's problems
stemmed from declines in the stock market, an issue for all UK companies.

The Mail Competition Forum, representing private sector operators such as TNT,
UK Mail, DHL and DX, has said it would make clear to Brussels its "serious
reservations" over the planned bail-out and demand that conditions be attached
to a write-off.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 29, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

don't worry, the clegglet won't leg it

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 291 words


MANY Tories are tempted to chortle into their gins and tonic as we watch Nick
Clegg trying to retain his voters. The fact is they are deserting his standard
in legions.

The Conservatives should restrain their mirth. Eighty per cent of Lib Dem voters
(and most of them employees of the state) are well Left of Centre and horrified
by the gritty pragmatism of a real conservative.

If the Clegglet held a general election tomorrow he might well end up leading a
party that, like its predecessors, could arrive at Westminster inside just one
black London cab. But the 80 per cent would not have switched to Conservative.
Abstainers apart they would have gone to Labour despite its dizzy leadership and
simmering civil war.

It has long been a conceit that you can treat the traditional Tory core vote any
which way because they have nowhere else to go. No longer true.

Despite copious warnings over the years UKIP is now attracting lifelong
Conservatives who are sick and tired of the contempt in which Brussels holds our
country and successive British governments' continued forelock tugging. Which,
alas, has not stopped.

What will really be fascinating for the poll-watchers at Tory Headshed will be
the figures at the next Euro elections. Of course these elections of our MEPs
have a derisory turnout and voters can vote what they really think rather than
for our next government.

But if the UKIP vote is more than half the Tory vote there ought to be maroon
flares all over Millbank.

Headshed could change this at a stroke. Tell the Clegglet he has had his
referendum, now we are having ours and if he wants to walk he can.

Don't worry Prime Minister he'll stick around. Now it is he who has nowhere else
to go and there was never a VC awarded in Westminster.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Meltdown for ice cream vans

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 590 words


EU rules could mean the end of the road for the traditional British icecream
van, campaigners are warning.

Van owners fear they will be forced out of business when air quality standards
are extended in the New Year to cover a new range of vehicles.

The vans are among hundreds of thousands that will attract hefty fines if they
do not meet strict new particle emission limits from January 3.

The law currently applies to London boroughs, but the Environment Department is
looking at introducing low emission zones in other cities.

The London zone began in 2008 and requires lorries, buses and coaches to meet
limits set in a 1996 EU directive.

From January they will have to meet higher requirements, while thousands of
smaller commercial vans, minibuses and "specialist vehicles'' will have to pass
the current tests for the first time.

People with large vans and minibuses which break the rules will have to pay £100
a day to drive within the London zone. For lorries, buses and coaches, the
charge will be £200 a day.

Owners could also face fines of £500 or £1,000 a day respectively for
noncompliance. Transport for London says the measures are needed to improve air
quality and avoid EU fines running into hundreds of millions of pounds. It urges
those affected to replace their vehicles or fit filters.

Critics say the filters are expensive and it his hard to travel fast enough in
London to make them work. The cost of converting vehicles or buying new ones
will be a massive burden for thousands of small businesses - including owners of
the iconic ice-cream vans.

The measures will add weight to the Daily Express's campaign to quit the EU,
which has been supported by nearly 400,000 readers.

Lawrence Webb, Ukip's spokesmen for London, who yesterday met worried ice cream
traders in north London, said an estimated 300,000 vehicles in the South-east
would be affected.

He added: "This is yet another EU directive that will impact on hundreds of
thousands of people when they can least afford it. No one would argue against
improving air quality in London but fining people is not the answer.''

Mr Webb said cutting duty on cleaner high octane fuels and removing VAT from
"greener" vehicles would cut emissions without "further penalising the
overburdened motorist and small business operator".

He added: "More councils are considering introducing such zones so now is the
time to tackle this very real threat to individuals and businesses.''

Michelle Ahmet, of north London, and husband Niyazi have run Top Ices for 17
years. She said one of their three vans is new enough to meet the standards but
the others are 20 years old. One cannot be converted and she is investigating if
the other could be fitted with a filter, costing £1,500-£2,000 plus VAT. "It's a
lot of money,'' said the mother of three. "It will leave us financially
extremely tight.''

New vans cost £75,000 and secondhand ones at least £25,000.

Mrs Ahmet urged the authorities to give traders until 2014 to save up.

Bruno Moretto, of wholesale icecream suppliers Moretto Brothers in north London,
said: "A lot of our customers are worried. They can't afford the money. It's
another nail in the cof-fin for the one-man-band business.''

A Transport for London spokesman said the tougher standards would affect 75,000
heavy goods vehicles, buses and coaches registered before October 2006 and
72,000 larger vans and minibuses registered before 2002.

He said London Mayor Boris Johnson had already delayed widening the measures and
negotiated discounts on new vehicles from manufacturers.=

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Traditional 99s could be a rare sight
Many ice cream sellers fear they could be forced out of business next year when
their vans fall under EU pollution controls for the first time

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Meltdown for ice cream vans

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 594  words


EU rules could mean the end of the road for the traditional British icecream
van, campaigners are warning.

Van owners fear they will be forced out of business when air quality standards
are extended in the New Year to cover a new range of vehicles.

The vans are among hundreds of thousands that will attract hefty fines if they
do not meet strict new particle emission limits from January 3.

The law currently applies to London boroughs, but the Environment Department is
looking at introducing low emission zones in other cities.

The London zone began in 2008 and requires lorries, buses and coaches to meet
limits set in a 1996 EU directive.

From January they will have to meet higher requirements, while thousands of
smaller commercial vans, minibuses and "specialist vehicles'' will have to pass
the current tests for the first time.

People with large vans and minibuses which break the rules will have to pay GBP
100 a day to drive within the London zone. For lorries, buses and coaches, the
charge will be GBP 200 a day.

Owners could also face fines of GBP 500 or GBP 1,000 a day respectively for
noncompliance. Transport for London says the measures are needed to improve air
quality and avoid EU fines running into hundreds of millions of pounds. It urges
those affected to replace their vehicles or fit filters.

Critics say the fiters are expensive and it his hard to travel fast enough in
London to make them work.

The cost of converting vehicles or buying new ones will be a massive burden for
thousands of small businesses - including owners of the iconic ice-cream vans.

The measures will add weight to the Daily Express's campaign to quit the EU,
which has been supported by nearly 400,000 readers.

Lawrence Webb, Ukip's spokesmen for London, who yesterday met worried ice cream
traders in north London, said an estimated 300,000 vehicles in the South-east
would be affected.

He added: "This is yet another EU directive that will impact on hundreds of
thousands of people when they can least afford it. No one would argue against
improving air quality in London but fining people is not the answer.'' Mr Webb
said cutting duty on cleaner high octane fuels and removing VAT from "greener"
vehicles would cut emissions without "further penalising the overburdened
motorist and small business operator".

He added: "More councils are considering introducing such zones so now is the
time to tackle this very real threat to individuals and businesses.'' Michelle
Ahmet, of north London, and husband Niyazi have run Top Ices for 17 years. She
said one of their three vans is new enough to meet the standards but the others
are 20 years old.

One cannot be converted and she is investigating if the other could be fitted
with a fier, costing GBP 1,500GBP 2,000 plus VAT. "It's a lot of money, '' said
the mother of three. "It will leave us financially extremely tight.'' New vans
cost GBP 75,000 and secondhand ones at least GBP 25,000.

Mrs Ahmet urged the authorities to give traders until 2014 to save up.

Bruno Moretto, of wholesale ice cream suppliers Moretto Brothers in north
London, said: "A lot of our customers are worried. They can't afford the money.
It's another nail in the coffin for the one-man-band business.'' A Transport for
London spokesman said the tougher standards would affect 75,000 heavy goods
vehicles, buses and coaches registered before October 2006 and 72,000 larger
vans and minibuses registered before 2002.

He said London Mayor Boris Johnson had already delayed widening the measures and
negotiated discounts on new vehicles from manufacturers.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Many ice cream sellers fear they could be forced out of business next
year when their vans fall under EU pollution controls for the first time
Traditional 99s could be a rare sight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 27, 2011 Wednesday 11:12 AM GMT

Being 'Right-wing' is about freedom, not violence

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1088 words


There is no doubt that the Norwegian massacre is a truly dreadful story of the
kind bound to dominate the headlines.Nor is there any doubt that all decent
people would want to express their sympathy withthe bereaved, and I thought that
just as the Norwegian people send us a Christmas tree every year in thanks for
our support during the War,the suggestion that we might send them a tree to
symbolise our feelings for them at this timemade sense. But as the evening wore
on and more than half of every news broadcast was filled with endlessly repeated
pictures of the bomb damage in Oslo and aerial shots of the island camp site, I
become growingly irritated at the exclusion of almost all other news.

As for the BBC, I am not in the least surprised that it hasdenounced Anders
Behring Breivik as - yes, you've guessed it - an extreme Right-winger. After
all, Left-wingers like the Baader Meinhof gangdon't kill people, do they? There
was time, too, for a bit of Christian-bashing and not too much thought about the
doctrines of Christianity.Then Breivik's views on Islam (similar to Prime
Minister Putin's views onChechnya) and those onimmigration (shared byPol Pot and
Mao) were used tofit him upas a Nazi and therefore an extreme Right-winger.The
only bit missing from the charge sheet is that we do not know if he was a
climate change denier and, like Tony Benn, a critic of the European Union.

On Sunday evening the BBC even dug up a psychiatristto say that Breivik was
perfectly aware of what he was doing and it was all about leading a Right-wing,
conservative revolution. It makes one wonder what the Corporation might have
made of it all but for its statutory duty of impartiality.

Clearly there are people like Breivik who imagine that being "Right-wing" is
about violence rather than economics and personal freedom within social
stability and cohesion.It is in the interests of we Right-wingers that they are
exposed as being outside the limits of rationality.

...

There are moments when I despair at the purblind arrogance and ignoranceof some
of those who haunt this site. Fortunately that despair is then blown away by
substantial and thoughtful posts from people like david in rome, bersher, Our
Man In Hamburg, pragamist, IgonikonJack, michael in deutchsland,
expatinturkeyand others, although I am not sure what to make of the fact that
they are mostly ex-pats or non-Brits.

Wading through the turgid rants of those like immanuel kant and highland jock
(who sounds more like a Glaswegian to me)full of ignorant prejudice against
Americans and wild accusation of racism against those of us who believe that the
British have a right to manageour own affairs, is a depressing experience. I am
not sure if it was out of admiration of my political skills or perhaps because
he has never visitedIslington that immanuel kantbelieves that I could have won a
seat as a Right-wingConservative in Islington in 1970, but he must be in a
minority of one on that.

None the less, I feel that bothkant andhighland jock would find a more
appropriate place for their bile on an inner-city public lavatory wall than on
this site.

Turning back to rational comment, I was struck by the number of those, including
darkseid, peta, timacand david in romewho, while regarding Hague's "in Europe
but not ruled by Europe" mantrawith some derision, would support British
membership of EFTA and a level relationship with the EU.

I agree. Or, even better, the United Kingdom could draft an entirely new
European Treaty of Co-operationbetween the European Republic of totally
integrated countries led by Germany, and the other nations, or partnerships of
nations, of Europe, and seek the support of the growing number of governments
and people opposed to the grand imperial project of Brussels. .

Of course there were thoselike petervl who thought wehad a referendum on the
European Union in 1975, when it did not exist, and those who do not think there
is any demandfor one now, or indeed much interest in the European question.My
advice to them is to read, and be educated by Anthony Browne's article in the
current issue of The Spectator.

On the other hand, the views I expressed found general support from hagar,
johnyduke, surreyman, Bill Etheridge djt,colliemum, snakehipsryan, crownarmourer
(and his old mum),dynaglide, danielfg, idmurray, wiganer, zedman, TomBacon,
steady barker, captainbadger, skicarver, danielfg, Richard Bruce, logical
unionist, strongunitedkingdom, and others.There were lots of good points made,
not least from any old iron,who pointed out what I first discovered as a
Minister in the Council in Brussels, that my European colleagues mostly saw
nothinginherently wrong in governments, or the EU, breaking the law.

There were apologists for the EU (and I should apologise to peta for having
described him as such) like Poker Knave who declared that a single market needs
a single currency and askedwhy should we be upset if that is managed by a single
person.

Well, because that single Minister, or ministry, would have power to tax us
without our consent, but as phptest observed, we could not dismiss him

That is also the answer to Tin Can Ferry who said instead of complaining, we
should get in there and put it right.By definition it canot be "'put right".It
is the very nature of the beast. Henry Page objected to "emotive words like
superstate", but what is a centrally governed group of 20 or 30 states but a
superstate?

There were plenty of critics of David Cameron, notably Nikki Collins, who
suggested he should take Baroness Warsi with him and go to the Lib Dems,
crownarmourer, Elliott Kane, richardstafford, beatriz and others.As usual there
were plenty of you asking me to leave the Conservative Party and to join UKIP,
so I was glad of david in rome's support for my stand on that.On the other hand.
ohsoveryhumble thought that Cameron had done well since "being deprived of a
majority by UKIP and the unfair constituency boundaries", but I thought his
characterisation of "the far Right" owed more to the BBC than toany sense of
reality

Lastly, I do not intend to go through yet again how I moved from being a
Europhile in the 1960s and 70s to a Eurosceptic in government and finally to an
opponent of the EU superstateas it has developed since Maastricht. Again, I
remind you all, that it was when Margaret Thatcher hadmade that same journey
that the Europhiles moved in to bring her down.

I am sure that, with the support of the EU, they will try to do that to anyone
who stands in their path to the Euro-Empire.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 25, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

One baby born every 40 seconds in Britain

BYLINE: Sarah Westcott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words


BRITAIN'S maternity wards are struggling to cope with a baby boom that now sees
one child born every 40 seconds.

Experts last night said much of the UK's soaring birth rate was due to mass
immigration which had left hospitals "buckling" under the pressure.

Official figures show one in every four babies born in Britain in 2009 was to a
migrant mother - the highest since 1969.

Government statisticians have admitted the high birth rate among the growing
number of immigrant families is a "significant" factor in the baby boom, while
there has also been a large rise in the number of British mothers giving birth.

Forced

Now a report has uncovered disturbing new evidence of substandard maternity care
in parts of the UK.

Maternity units across the country were forced to close temporarily to new
admissions 1,055 times last year, due to under-staffing or lack of beds. It
meant at least 927 women had to be turned away.

Milton Keynes Hospital had to shut its doors 14 times, Leicester Royal Infirmary
55 times and Leicester General Hospital 52 times. The Leicester hospitals were
twice closed at the same time.

Barnet Hospital in North London closed its doors more than any other in 2010 - a
shocking 102 times.

The survey of 171 Health Trusts and Boards found that the average midwife
vacancy rate in some London trusts was 19 or 20 per cent, meaning that one in
five posts was unfilled.

BBC1's Panorama also found the standard of care women receive varies widely
depending on where they live and when they give birth.

The Royal College of Midwives recommends a midwife to birth ratio of no more
than 1:28 to provide a safe maternity service.

But only Scotland and Northern Ireland meet that target.

The average ratio elsewhere is one midwife to 33 births in England and one to 30
in Wales.

The investigation also found that 17 recent maternal deaths in London could have
been avoided if the women had better care.

Culture

Paul Nuttall, MEP and Ukip deputy leader, said: "Lowering the borders has caused
this problem and successive governments have downplayed the sheer numbers
involved.

"It is not fair on the public services. It is not going to be the migrants
paying the increased bill - it is the  indigenous population.

"Most migrants come from places with a culture of more children and less social
security and they are bringing their culture with them. "You can't blame
maternity services from buckling under pressure."

Cathy Warwick of the Royal College of Midwives said: "To turn up at the place
you were expecting to have your baby and be told, 'I'm very sorry you can't come
here. You've got to go down the road to a different unit' - that's not a high
standard of care and should not be what we're giving women of this country."

Britain is enjoying its biggest baby boom in a decade. In the 12 months to July
2010, there were 797,000 births, around 10,000 more than the previous year.

OPINION: PAGE 12

One baby born in the UK every 40 seconds last year

One in six of the population is now from a "non-white" background

Last year's 470,000 rise is the biggest for nearly half a century and is enough
to repopulate Manchester

The increase took the UK's population in July 2010 to 62.2 million

Fertility rates of non-UK born females stands at 2.48 children each on average,
compared with 1.94 for those women born here

The number of white Britons has remained static over the same period

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

One baby born every 40 seconds in Britain

BYLINE: Sarah Westcott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1255 words


Outlook Tomorrow: BRITAIN'S maternity wards are struggling to cope with a baby
boom that now sees one child born every 40 seconds.

It will be rather cloudy in the west, but some sunny spells are expected in the
north and east. However, a few showers are possible in the south. Gentle
northerly winds.

Experts last night said much of the UK's soaring birth rate was due to mass
immigration which had left hospitals "buckling" under the pressure.

six-day forEcasT min max min max Official figures show one in every four babies
born in Britain in 2009 was to a migrant mother - the highest since 1969.

London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth
Tue Wed 14 22 15 23 9 13 18 20 12 13 212 213 14 20 20 12 13 19 19 12 13 20 21 10
12 17 19 12 12 19 2011 13 19 20 Government statisticians have admitted the high
birth rate among the growing number of immigrant families is a "significant"
factor in the baby boom, while there has also been a large rise in the number of
British mothers giving birth.

24 hours SUN RAIN TEMP to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) Britain Forced Aberdeen
1.3 0.00 10 14 Aberporth 5.0 0.00 12 15 Alnwick 8.8 0.00 9 16 Belfast 14.2 0.00
9 19 Birmingham 12.5 0.00 9 21 B'mouth 7.1 0.00 8 21 Bristol 7.3 0.00 11 20
Cardiff ** 0.01 12 19 Durham 8.1 0.00 7 19 Edinburgh 15.0 0.00 6 21 Now a report
has uncovered disturbing new evidence of substandard maternity care in parts of
the UK. Glasgow Hull Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London Manchester Oxford S'hampton St
Andrews Lighting-up times Birmingham Bristol Glasgow Belfast 9.35pm-5.23am
Maternity units across the country were forced to close temporarily to new
admissions 1,055 times last year, due to under-staffing or lack of beds. It
meant at least 927 women had to be turned away.

Today Europe Amsterdam Cloudy 18C/64F Brussels Cloudy 20C/68F Dublin Cloudy
18C/64F Frankfurt Fair 21C/70F Geneva Cloudy 19C/66F Lisbon Sunny 31C/88F Madrid
Sunny 30C/86F Paris Fair 23C/73F Rome Sunny 25C/77F Milton Keynes Hospital had
to shut its doors 14 times, Leicester Royal Infirmary 55 times and Leicester
General Hospital 52 times. The Leicester hospitals were twice closed at the same
12 12 13 12171819 18 time. Barnet Hospital in North London closed its doors more
than any other in 2010 - a shocking 102 times.

yesterday Moon, sun and tides MOON rises: 12.27am, sets: 5.11pm SUN rises
Dublin: 5.30am, sets: 9.31pm Manchester rises: 5.13am, sets: 9.16pm 15.8 0.00 7
21 9.7 0.00 9 19 6.9 0.00 10 21 1.9 0.00 7 19 9.3 0.00 11 21 9.7 0.00 10 23 8.7
0.00 10 18 11.5 0.00 8 23 9.3 0.00 11 20 14.8 0.00 6 18 The survey of 171 Health
Trusts and Boards found that the average midwife vacancy rate in some London
trusts was 19 or 20 per cent, meaning that one in five posts was unfilled.

HIGH TIDE Waterford (1.37am), (2.12pm) Limerick (2.29am), (3.06pm) Galway
(12.50am), (1.33pm) Cobh (12.40am), (1.15pm) Dublin (7.46am), (8.28pm) Belfast
(6.51am), (7.33pm) 9.09pm-5.17am 9.08pm-5.25am 9.35pm-5.11am London
8.59pm-5.16am Manchester 9.16pm-5.15am Newcastle 9.19pm-5.05am BBC1's Panorama
also found the standard of care women receive varies widely depending on where
they live and when they give birth.

forecast Tomorrow The Royal College of Midwives recommends a midwife to birth
ratio of no more than 1:28 to provide a safe maternity service.

Amsterdam Cloudy 18C/64F Brussels Cloudy 19C/66F Dublin Fair 19C/66F Frankfurt
Cloudy 21C/70F Geneva Fair 23C/73F Lisbon Sunny 28C/82F Madrid Sunny 33C/91F
Paris Fair 22C/72F Rome Sunny 26C/79F But only Scotland and Northern Ireland
meet that target.

The average ratio elsewhere is one midwife to 33 births in England and one to 30
in Wales.

Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth 12 13 20 10 12 17 12 12 19 11 13 19 The
investigation also found that 17 recent maternal deaths in London could have
been avoided if the women had better care.

24 hours SUN RAIN TEMP to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) 25n02babies Culture
Britain Aberdeen 1.3 0.00 10 14 Aberporth 5.0 0.00 12 15 Alnwick 8.8 0.00 9 16
Belfast 14.2 0.00 9 19 Birmingham 12.5 0.00 9 21 B'mouth 7.1 0.00 8 21 Bristol
7.3 0.00 11 20 Cardiff ** 0.01 12 19 Durham 8.1 0.00 7 19 Edinburgh 15.0 0.00 6
21 Paul Nuttall, MEP and Ukip deputy leader, said: "Lowering the borders has
caused this problem and successive governments have downplayed the sheer numbers
involved. Glasgow Hull Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London Manchester Oxford S'hampton
St Britain Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday) Warmest: Pershore 22C (72F)
Coldest: Tulloch Bridge 2C (36F) Wettest: Baltasound 0.47in. Sunniest: Bishopton
15.8hr.

"It is not fair on the public services. It is not going to be the migrants
paying the increased bill - it is the indigenous population.

Today "Most migrants come from places with a culture of more Amsterdam Cloudy
18C/Brussels Cloudy 20C/Dublin Cloudy 18C/ children and less social security and
they are bringing their culture with them.

"You can't blame maternity services from buckling under pressure."

11 11 12 21 18 18 19 1 11 11 19 18 17 18 13 11 12 20 21 20 20 12 12 13 20 17 18
19 If you're having difficulty getting hold of your Daily Express, then we want
to know. Get in touch on 020 8612 7644 or email us at sellouts@express.co.uk For
all other enquiries please call our switchboard on 020 8612 7000 yesterday Moon,
sun and tides MOON rises: 1.03am, sets: SUN rises Madrid: 6.04am, sets:
Manchester rises: 5.13am, sets: New Moon 30 July 15.8 0.00 7 21 9.7 0.00 9 19
6.9 0.00 10 21 1.9 0.00 7 19 9.3 0.00 11 21 9.7 0.00 10 23 8.7 0.00 10 18 11.5
0.00 8 23 9.3 0.00 11 20 Andrews 14.8 0.00 6 18 Cathy Warwick of the Royal
College of Midwives said: "To turn up at the place you were expecting to have
your baby and be told, 'I'm very sorry you can't come here. You've got to go
down the road to a different unit' - that's not a high standard of care and
should not be what we're giving women of this country." Britain is enjoying its
biggest baby boom in a decade. In the 12 months to July 2010, there were 797,000
births, around 10,000 more than the previous year. HIGH TIDE London B'ge
(9.05am), (Liverpool (6.45am), (Greenock (7.49am), (Dover (6.50am), ( DON'T MISS
Lighting-up times Glasgow 9.35pm-London 8.59pm-Manchester 9.16pm-Newcastle
9.19pm-Belfast 9.35pm-5.23am Birmingham 9.09pm-5.17am Bristol 9.08pm-5.25am OUT
ON THE Europe forecast OPINION: PAGE 12 64F 68F 64F Amsterdam Cloudy Brussels
Cloudy Dublin Fair One baby born in the UK every 40 seconds last year Mainly
sunny, chance of a shower High 24C (75F).

North: A dry day with sunny variable amounts of cloud. Gentle westerly winds.
High 20C (68F). fine day, with sunny Gentle High 22C (72F).

One in six of the population is now from a "non-white" background Scotland:
Spells of sunshine cloud, with the odd shower. northerly winds. High 19C (66F).

DON'T MISS Last year's 470,000 rise is the biggest for nearly half a century and
is enough to repopulate Manchesterday with sunny Gentle northerly Ireland:
Rather cloudy at times odd spot of drizzle. Gentle winds. High 20C (68F).

OUT ON THE The increase took the UK's population in July 2010 to 62.2 million
Tomorrow: Variable cloud with possible forEcasT in Britain Temperatures in
Fertility rates of non-UK born females stands at 2.48 children each on average,
compared with 1.94 for those women born here min max min max min max min max min
max Wed Thu Fri SaT 22 15 14 13 13 23 22 212 213 10 11 12 18 20 16 17 17 13 12
11 12 212 219 19 20 14 12 13 13 20 20 18 18 19 The number of white Britons has
remained static over the same period DON'T MISS

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 25, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

One baby born every 40 seconds in Britain

BYLINE: By Sarah Westcott

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 556  words


BRITAIN'S maternity wards are struggling to cope with a baby boom that now sees
one child born every 40 seconds.

Experts last night said much of the UK's soaring birth rate was due to mass
immigration which had left hospitals "buckling" under the pressure.

Official figures show one in every four babies born in Britain in 2009 was to a
migrant mother - the highest since 1969.

Government statisticians have admitted the high birth rate among the growing
number of immigrant families is a "significant" factor in the baby boom, while
there has also been a large rise in the number of British mothers giving birth.

Now a report has uncovered disturbing new evidence of substandard maternity care
in parts of the UK.

Maternity units across the country were forced to close temporarily to new
admissions 1,055 times last year, due to under-staffing or lack of beds. It
meant at least 927 women had to be turned away.

Milton Keynes Hospital had to shut its doors 14 times, Leicester Royal Infirmary
55 times and Leicester General Hospital 52 times.

The Leicester hospitals were twice closed at the same time. Barnet Hospital in
North London closed its doors more than any other in 2010 - a shocking 102
times.

The survey of 171 Health Trusts and Boards found that the average midwife
vacancy rate in some London trusts was 19 or 20 per cent, meaning that one in
five posts was unfilled.

BBC1's Panorama also found the standard of care women receive varies widely
depending on where they live and when they give birth.

The Royal College of Midwives recommends a midwife to birth ratio of no more
than 1:28 to provide a safe maternity service.

But only Scotland and Northern Ireland meet that target.

The average ratio elsewhere is one midwife to 33 births in England and one to 30
in Wales.

The investigation also found that 17 recent maternal deaths in London could have
been avoided if the women had better care.

Paul Nuttall, MEP and Ukip deputy leader, said:

"Lowering the borders has caused this problem and successive governments have
downplayed the sheer numbers involved.

"It is not fair on the public services. It is not going to be the migrants
paying the increased bill - it is the indigenous population.

"Most migrants come from places with a culture of more children and less social
security and they are bringing their culture with them.

"You can't blame maternity services from buckling under pressure."

Cathy Warwick of the Royal College of Midwives said: "To turn up at the place
you were expecting to have your baby and be told, 'I'm very sorry you can't come
here. You've got to go down the road to a different unit' - that's not a high
standard of care and should not be what we're giving women of this country."

Britain is enjoying its biggest baby boom in a decade.

In the 12 months to July 2010, there were 797,000 births, around 10,000 more
than the previous year.

One baby born in the UK every 40 seconds last year

One in six of the population is now from a "non-white" background

Last year's 470,000 rise is the biggest for nearly half a century and is enough
to repopulate Manchester

The increase took the UK's population in July 2010 to 62.2 million

Fertility rates of non-UK born females stands at 2.48 children each on average,
compared with 1.94 for those women born here

The number of white Britons has remained static over the same period

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

It's no puzzle, my lord - you can't sit in our House

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 155 words


Viscount Monckton is something of a Renaissance man: former deputy leader of
UKIP, inventor of the mathematical "Eternity" puzzle, leading climate sceptic,
and - so he says - the last man in London who still wears a bowler hat. But he
has been ordered to stop claiming he's also a member of the House of Lords.

David Beamish, the senior Lords official, has issued a strong rebuke to Monckton
for insisting in interviews that he is a member of the upper house, albeit with
no right to sit.

"You are not and have never been a member of the House of Lords," says Beamish,
a former Mastermind winner, in a public letter.

"Your assertion that you are a member, but without the right to sit or vote, is
a contradiction in terms. I must therefore again ask that you desist."

And if it happens again, my lord, there are a couple of toughs on the bishops'
benches who can do things with the bowler hat that'll make a 3rd viscount's eyes
water.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Leading Article: Cameron's card: Britain and Europe

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 660 words


At first sight, there may not seem any very obvious connection between the
roiling British political scandal over phone hacking and the eurozone package
for Greece that was agreed in Brussels on Thursday evening. Britain, after all,
is not a member of the eurozone and the chancellor, George Osborne, was
conspicuously not at the table in Brussels either. Yet there was a clear glimpse
of a domestic political connection between the two events in David Cameron's
meeting with Conservative backbench MPs in midweek. Two subjects reportedly
dominated this important encounter. The first, naturally enough, was hacking, on
which Mr Cameron won widespread backbench support. The second was Europe, which
took up most of the meeting, and on which Mr Cameron pledged to use any
post-bailout treaty change process to renegotiate Britain's relationship with
the EU. The prime minister was said to be "sharpening his pencils" for such an
opportunity.

It would be too crude to claim that the more Mr Cameron finds his position
threatened over News International, the greater the temptation for him to play
the European card in domestic politics. There are, after all, the pro-European
Liberal Democrats to consider, not to mention Kenneth Clarke, before the
coalition government can undertake any significant Eurosceptic demarche. But
there are plenty of reasons why Mr Cameron might find the idea attractive all
the same. First, because it is a way of cementing his core support in a
Conservative party which remains overwhelmingly and viscerally anti-European but
is frustrated that a Tory prime minister has been soft-pedalling on Europe.
Second, because it sends a message of reassurance to the rightwing media - the
Telegraph and the Mail as much as the Murdoch titles - that press reform, which
they all fear and detest, does not mean any abandonment of the anti-European
faith. And third, because it is what Mr Cameron himself believes anyway. Just as
Tony Blair always played the law-and-order card when things got tough, so Mr
Cameron may feel he needs to play the European card in similar circumstances -
of which there may be many more if his defence of Andy Coulson continues to
unravel at its current rate.

Mr Cameron should nevertheless resist the temptation. The government's
pragmatism over the EU has been one of its saving graces over the last 15
months, sensible domestically in the light of the makeup of the coalition and
even more sensible abroad as a practical representation of British interests at
a time of recession and uncertainty throughout the EU, Britain included. The
coalition's heavy hitters in Europe - Mr Cameron, Mr Osborne and the foreign
secretary, William Hague - are all Tory Eurosceptics, but they have all played
engaged and often constructive roles at the key crises of the past year or more.
None of those crises has been more potent than the one in the eurozone. But
Britain has a role to play there too. The eurozone's decisions affect us even
though we are not within it. This week's attempt to pull the eurozone back from
the brink was in Britain's interests as well. If it succeeds, it will also be to
the UK's benefit. If it fails, the UK will need to remain engaged with the
process too.

None of this is ideal from a pro-European perspective. But nor is the current
economic and political situation in Europe. And it is better than picking a
wholly unnecessary fight with the EU over treaty reform in order to humour
implacable backbenchers, please the Telegraph leader writers or upstage Ukip. Mr
Cameron should lay off. These are embers best left unfanned. Far better to
follow the advice of Sir John Major, a man worth listening to on Europe, who
suggested in his recent Ditchley lecture that it is better to plan for a
multi-speed opt-in union than to threaten yet again to opt out. Britain's place
in Europe may not be satisfactory, but it is too important to be hostage to Mr
Cameron's domestic political difficulties.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 22, 2011 Friday 12:30 PM GMT

Euro crisis: If he cares about British voters, David Cameron will have to upset
Nick Clegg

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1367 words


The advocates of an ever closer union leading to the European Empire have won
the day again. Put aside the arguments about whether yet another Greek bailout
will be enough to calm the markets. There will probably be another one after
that.

More important by far is the cat let out of the bag by President Sarkozy. He set
out the truth of the matter plainly enough: "Our ambition is to seize the Greek
crisis to make a quantum leap in Eurozone government." That, of course, has
always been the purpose of the single currency. No one with any pretence of
economic reality ever believed that the currency could survive without a single
finance ministry and a single tax system which would create a single
pan-European government.

It is a long time since I challenged the then Chancellor, Ken Clarke, to name a
currency which had more than one Chancellor of the Exchequer to its name. If the
euro is to survive, then, the financial management of the eurozone has to be
concentrated to one organisation. Two, let alone 22, treasuries is too many.

Again, Sarkozy made that clear. As he put it, he and Angela Merkel have plans
for an embryonic EU treasury by way of the European Monetary Fund, and would
soon propose plans for "economic government" in the eurozone.

In the meantime enough will be squeezed out of the German taxpayers and perhaps
the private sector to keep the Greek economy on a life-support system that will
preclude any substantial reduction of its debts or significant economic
recovery. The unfortunate Greeks have been given all possible forms of
assistance except actual help. They will be allowed to default on their debts,
but to gain no advantage from doing so.

There were three possible options to resolve this crisis. One was to allow
Greece to leave the eurozone, recreate a devalued drachma and reinvigorate its
economy. The second was to create two eurozones, the northern "hard" eurozone
and the southern "soft" eurozone, which could pre-empt the potential Portuguese,
Spanish and Italian crises. The third, which Merkel, Sarkozy and the Commission
have chosen, is to march on towards their dream of "ever closer union" in the
grand European Empire stretching from the Atlantic across the continent of
Europe, down to (or even beyond) the Mediterranean and through Turkey into Asia.

There is a great problem in that vision. It has not been achieved since Roman
times. It has been attempted time and time again from the time of Philip of
Spain to that of Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin without success.

Now in the 21st Century it will have to overcome the nationalism of European
states in its modern form of a demand for democracy, but as Enoch Powell
declared long ago that could not work on a pan-European scale since "there is no
European Demos".

The EU already has the legal status of a state: it has a flag, anthem,
frontiers, a Foreign Ministry, embassies, a defence force, courts, judges, a
currency and now, before long, a Treasury and a Chancellor of the Exchequer. If
it looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it probably is a
duck.

The trouble is that it will be a lame duck state since it is being imposed
without the consent of the peoples of Europe. And without that Demos of citizens
sharing newspapers, language, cultures, habits, political parties and more which
is essential for it to be a democracy, the riots will not be confined to Athens.
They will proliferate and spread, because the people will lack the  power to
control those who govern them.

We are entering a European autumn. The winter will inexorably follow and we can
only hope that a European Spring will not be long delayed.

In the meantime, at our parochial United Kingdom level all these events are
putting some extra strain on the Coalition. The Prime Minister it seems might be
minded to take advantage of a situation in which unanimity might be required in
the Council for steps to buttress the euro by making his consent conditional on
securing concessions or safeguards for this country. Mr Clegg on the other hand
seems to regard that as unsporting at best and unprincipled at worst.

If the Prime Minister has any sense he will do what is needed to please British
voters, not his Deputy, particularly as the next election approaches.

...

Those responsible for EU fisheries policy did not find many (or should that be
any) friends amongst you this week. In fact the EU itself found few enough
friends. I think peta was an apologist for it writing about the terrible things
that our "friends" in Europe might do to us if we left. Most of them would be
illegal under the WTO.  They would also do as much damage to other EU states as
to us.

He also observed that I was a member of a government which tolerated the
fisheries policy. Exactly so. As boudicca wrote, there is no possibility that,
as Hague would have us believe, that one can be in the EU, but not run by it.
Not only tea addict, but many more including norto and rapscallion agreed on
that.

As kubizek said Heath gave control of fisheries away in 1972, and as auld fermer
noted he has a lot to answer for. Then european 387 asked who voted for it.
Well, I have to put my hand up. I did. So did most other MPs, and at the 1970
election and in the 1977 referendum most electors did so too. Since then most of
us have changed our minds in the light of experience.

Some of you like bob3 feel there is no point in moaning about the EU since we
are stuck with it, whilst lord lucan hopes that it will end with a whimper, but
as hagar asserted it still aims to create a single European government.

Then darkseid was amongst the optimists hoping it will self-destruct and come
back as the EEC. That hope was echoed by Laveen Ladharam in another thoughtful
post. I am sure that we would all want to wish him well on his graduation and
for his further studies.

The great majority of posts however including those from norto, stopcpdotcom,
Lucy Brown, crownarmourer,incensed, rosina, Bill Etheridge, pjon, raw,
youtakejohn and others were simply in favour of getting out.There was a fair
point made by bubbles 15 that we should have an authoritative unbiased audit of
the costs and benefits of our membership of the EU. That is something for which
my friend Lord Pearson has asked again and again, but the Europhiles always say
"No". At least timaction gave us a good list of the costs involved. Then boester
said no one represents the average Englishman, lord lucan made the shrewd point
that no one listens to the ordinary people across the EU.

I was glad that Oberstleutnent picked up the point that fish stocks will only be
sustainable as long as someone owns them and can profit from that ownership. I
cannot agree, nor could alhamilton, with izman and fly in the sky that if stocks
collapse, fishing will cease and stocks will increase again.

Non-edible species will move in to dominate the environment left vacant, as
indeed we are seeing with the increasing numbers of jellyfish whose predators we
have probably eaten. The science of forecasting the outcome of our predation of
some species of fish is not exact but in answer to diamalcon I think we can
believe the statistics.

Like fenbeagle I believe our fishermen deserve our support and I think
bellebrise was talking nonsense to say that as the industry is concentrated in
Scotland no one cared about it.

There were the usual arguments about UKIP from the usual suspects, but although
darkseid was dismissive of the party, boudicca was right to point out that Lord
Glasman (the Labour peer) has been making some powerful arguments about the EU
and immigration and as durnovia wrote UKIP membership is rising while that of
other parties is falling.

General Patton was in broad agreement with me but asked what is the support for
that view amongst Tory MPs.  Frankly, I do not know, but I suspect it is
substantial and I am sure it is growing.

There was a merry dispute between lord lucan and tepid cocoa 1983 involving
technical expressions entirely unfamiliar to me, nor, I fear could I understand
the point made by Robinson F.  However I appreciated the courtesy of Robbie Bell
in a very pleasant post.

Finally, I think your comments on the crisis over the euro are addressed above.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It is time to bury the corpse of the single currency

BYLINE: Stephen Pollard

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 882 words


.... .....

YOU might have thought that nothing much was happening anywhere in the world
apart from the phone hacking scandal. Yet the rest of Europe has been watching
another show - an infinitely more significant one. The euro has been plunging
further into crisis and debt-ridden European governments have been sinking
deeper into the mire.

The financial crisis now unfolding in Europe threatens to dwarf even the events
of 2008 when the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered the recession from which
we still suffer. We are facing meltdown. And our political leaders - both here
and, especially, in the rest of Europe - appear to be unable and unwilling to
face up to the gravity of what is happening.

The sums involved are mindboggling.

As of two months ago (the latest figures) banks within the eurozone had made
loans to eurozone governments of (EURO)1.156trillion and held securities issued
by them of (EURO)1.442trillion. In sterling that's a total of £2.286trillion. (A
trillion pounds is a thousand billion, so you can see just how vast these loans
are.) The problem is that some of these governments are so deep in debt and,
because of their membership of the euro so unable to turn things around, that
they are no longer creditworthy.

As the financial markets smell danger they make it even harder for the afflicted
governments to finance their debt. It becomes a vicious circle in which we all
get caught.

ON MONDAY for instance more than £5billion was wiped off the value of Lloyds,
Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays. That is six per cent of their value. The
global financial markets see the ever-worsening crisis in the eurozone
countries, see no prospect of any serious action to counter it, and respond.

An emergency summit is being held today in Brussels but the chances of anything
worthwhile emerging from it appear slim. The US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner
made clear yesterday that EU leaders need to get their act together: "What
Europe obviously needs to do is to act more forcefully to contain the risk of an
escalating crisis in Europe."

Yet German Chancellor Angela Merkel pooh-poohed the idea that action is urgent:
"Further steps will be necessary and not just one spectacular event that solves
everything."

She added that the idea of an imminent solution to the Greek crisis was
unrealistic.

We may at times feel tempted to look on smugly and thank Gordon Brown for his
one undoubted success - keeping us out of the wretched euro. But we are not
insulated from the contagion.

Chancellor George Osborne may have taken the necessary first steps towards
containing our deficit, and we may - one hopes - have put a limit on the amount
of money we are prepared to throw away supporting the Greeks and other
nearbankrupt economies. But if the crisis worsens and plunges Europe and the
world into a deeper recession we will suffer the consequences.

In part that would be because some of our big export markets would contract. But
the real danger to the UK is of an everworsening financial collapse hitting our
globally focused City banks, insurers and institutional investors. Because it is
no longer just Greece that is in peril, bad as that would be. Spain and Italy
now also sit on the precipice.

The 2008 crisis was brought about by bad mortgages and banking debt. Today the
threat is even more toxic: loans to governments which may themselves effectively
go bust.

As Europe's leaders meet in Brussels and the economic health of Spain and Italy
come under intense scrutiny, the International Monetary Fund has issued a grave
warning. The IMF forecasts that the European debt crisis could be "very costly"
for the global economy if it is not tackled and will have worldwide
repercussions.

Bodies such as the IMF do not use language loosely. They err on the side of
caution. For the IMF to warn so starkly of what may happen shows just how great
is the threat of devastating economic crisis.

Yet with every passing day the political pygmies running Europe seem less able
to cope and less able to see the scale of the problem let alone take sensible
action.

It is obvious to everyone bar the eurofanatics that the central problem is the
euro itself. The idea was always politically driven, to push nearer the idea of
full economic union. Having a one-size-fitsall interest rate for countries such
as Germany and France and Greece and Spain could only ever work if there was
consent for vast transfers of resources from more prosperous to poorer
countries. And there is nothing of the sort.

THE German public, for instance, rightly wonders why it should hand over money
to bail out the profligate Greeks. And so on across the EU. But the leaders'
real wish now is to do what the EU has always done in a crisis: use it to force
through closer union, against the public's wishes, not the looser arrangements
that are what the public wants and the economies need.

So my prediction is that the euro will remain in place - its supporters would
rather plunge Europe into chaos than admit defeat - and the bad debts of
bankrupt members will be taken over by the EU itself.

It will adopt economically crazy ruses to massage it. And in return the
collapsed states will have to cede all economic independence. The eurofanatics
will have got their way again.

'The central problem is the euro itself'

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REST IN PEACE: UKIP supporters in Brussels giving the euro a decent
burial
Picture: REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

It is time to bury the corpse of the single currency;
LEADER

BYLINE: Stephen Pollard

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 873  words


YOU might have thought that nothing much was happening anywhere in the world
apart from the phone hacking scandal. Yet the rest of Europe has been watching
another show - an infinitely more significant one. The euro has been plunging
further into crisis and debt-ridden European governments have been sinking
deeper into the mire.

The financial crisis now unfolding in Europe threatens to dwarf even the events
of 2008 when the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered the recession from which
we still suffer.

We are facing meltdown. And our political leaders - both here and, especially,
in the rest of Europe - appear to be unable and unwilling to face up to the
gravity of what is happening.

The sums involved are mindboggling. As of two months ago (the latest figures)
banks within the eurozone had made loans to eurozone governments of
?1.156trillion and held securities issued by them of ?1.442trillion. In sterling
that's a total of GBP 2.286trillion. (A trillion pounds is a thousand billion,
so you can see just how vast these loans are. ) The problem is that some of
these governments are so deep in debt and, because of their membership of the
euro so unable to turn things around, that they are no longer creditworthy. As
the financial markets smell danger they make it even harder for the afflicted
governments to finance their debt. It becomes a vicious circle in which we all
get caught.

ON MONDAY for instance more than GBP 5billion was wiped off the value of Lloyds,
Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays. That is six per cent of their value.

The global financial markets see the ever-worsening crisis in the eurozone
countries, see no prospect of any serious action to counter it, and respond.

An emergency summit is being held today in Brussels but the chances of anything
worthwhile emerging from it appear slim. The US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner
made clear yesterday that EU leaders need to get their act together:

"What Europe obviously needs to do is to act more forcefully to contain the risk
of an escalating crisis in Europe."

Yet German Chancellor Angela Merkel pooh-poohed the idea that action is urgent:

"Further steps will be necessary and not just one spectacular event that solves
everything." She added that the idea of an imminent solution to the Greek crisis
was unrealistic.

We may at times feel tempted to look on smugly and thank Gordon Brown for his
one undoubted success - keeping us out of the wretched euro.

But we are not insulated from the contagion.

Chancellor George Osborne may have taken the necessary first steps towards
containing our deficit, and we may - one hopes - have put a limit on the amount
of money we are prepared to throw away supporting the Greeks and other near
bankrupt economies. But if the crisis worsens and plunges Europe and the world
into a deeper recession we will suffer the consequences.

In part that would be because some of our big export markets would contract. But
the real danger to the UK is of an ever worsening financial collapse hitting our
globally focused City banks, insurers and institutional investors. Because it is
no longer just Greece that is in peril, bad as that would be.

Spain and Italy now also sit on the precipice.

The 2008 crisis was brought about by bad mortgages and banking debt. Today the
threat is even more toxic: loans to governments which may themselves effectively
go bust.

As Europe's leaders meet in Brussels and the economic health of Spain and Italy
come under intense scrutiny, the International Monetary Fund has issued a grave
warning. The IMF forecasts that the European debt crisis could be "very costly"
for the global economy if it is not tackled and will have worldwide
repercussions.

Bodies such as the IMF do not use language loosely. They err on the side of
caution. For the IMF to warn so starkly of what may happen shows just how great
is the threat of devastating economic crisis.

Yet with every passing day the political pygmies running Europe seem less able
to cope and less able to see the scale of the problem let alone take sensible
action.

It is obvious to everyone bar the euro fanatics that the central problem is the
euro itself. The idea was always politically driven, to push nearer the idea of
full economic union. Having a one-size-fits all interest rate for countries such
as Germany and France and Greece and Spain could only ever work if there was
consent for vast transfers of resources from more prosperous to poorer
countries. And there is nothing of the sort.

T HE German public, for instance, rightly wonders why it should hand over money
to bail out the profligate Greeks. And so on across the EU. But the leaders'
real wish now is to do what the EU has always done in a crisis: use it to force
through closer union, against the public's wishes, not the looser arrangements
that are what the public wants and the economies need.

So my prediction is that the euro will remain in place - its supporters would
rather plunge Europe into chaos than admit defeat - and the bad debts of
bankrupt members will be taken over by the EU itself.

It will adopt economically crazy ruses to massage it. And in return the
collapsed states will have to cede all economic independence. The eurofanatics
will have got their way again.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REST IN PEACE: UKIP supporters in Brussels giving the euro a decent
burial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN MUST BAN MIGRANTS

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 667  words


It's essential for British workers says new report

BRITAIN should shut the door to more migrants to protect jobs for native w
orkers, a Labour adviser said yesterday.

Lord Glasman, Ed Miliband's chief policy guru, wants a temporary halt to
immigration to ensure British people are first in the queue for jobs.

The Labour peer also urged the Government to renegotiate EU rules allowing the
free movement of migrant workers in a decisive break with the open door policy
of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

"The people who live here are the highest priority. We've got to listen and be
with them. They're in the right place - it's us who are not, " he said.

His remarks follow a report he has written for the Labour leader and sparked
fresh anger last night over the relaxation of border controls by the last Labour
government that allowed more than five million immigrants to settle in Britain.

Mr Miliband yesterday tried to distance himself from the remarks by claiming he
had not read them. Lord Glasman spoke out on immigration in an interview for
Fabian Review, the journal of the Left-wing Fabian Society thinktank.

"We've got to reinterrogate our relationship with the EU on the movement of
labour, " he said.

"It's legalistic, it's administrative and it's no good. So I think we have got
to renegotiate with the EU.

"Britain is not an outpost of the UN [United Nations]. We have to put the people
in this country first."

The peer believes that the previous Labour government's backing for mass
immigration from Eastern Europe helped undermine support among traditional
Labour voters.

Last month the Daily Express reported that nine out of 10 new jobs created in
Britain go to migrants.

Lord Glasman had been asked by Ed Miliband to study how Labour can reconnect
with millions of working class and middle-class voters who have turned their
backs on the party, particularly in areas that were once the Labour heartlands.

Under the title "Blue Labour", his report looked at how to re-establish the
party's standing among socially conservative voters uncomfortable at the rapid
change to their communities caused by huge influxes of immigrants in some areas.

But the peer's remarks were last night seen as embarrassing for the Labour
leader.

Mr Miliband has admitted Labour made mistakes on immigration while in office but
has opposed the coalition's Government's drive to limit the number of arrivals
each year and does not support overhaul of EU freedom-of-movement rules.

Yesterday he claimed not to have read Lord Glasman's comments and said: "I think
that one of the virtues of being in the House of Lords is that you can speak
independently on any issues of the day.

"I haven't seen those comments by Maurice Glasman, I'll obviously have a look at
them. But I've said in the past that we underestimated the impact of Polish
migration to Britain.

"I think it is quite hard to renegotiate the terms of free movement of labour.

"I think the right solution is to provide a strong immigration policy but also
provide people with the guarantees they need in relation to wages and
conditions, which is one of the biggest worries that people have about some of
the migration issues."

Critics of mass immigration yesterday seized on the peer's remarks as evidence
that Labour was beginning to acknowledge the huge damage they caused by allowing
more than 200,000 migrants a year into the UK.

The Daily Express was the first newspaper to highlight the potential dangers of
allowing unrestricted migration.

And yesterday Tory MP Philip Hollobone said: "I don't believe that freedom of
movement across the countries of the EU is a good idea.

'I certainly feel we should break the link between people working here and the
right to settle here.

"If the Labour Party is beginning to wake up to this, I think the Conservative
Party should as well."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "He, like we, believes that
there should always be the opportunity to invite people of drive and talent but
to shut the gates to mass migration."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We warned of growing threat
Lord Glasman - 'Halt immigration'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 18, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How the rich Germans robbed us of train jobs

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 289  words


BRITISH train maker Bombardier had "the odds stacked against it" in trying to
win a key contract because its German rival spent hundreds of thousands of
pounds influencing key Brussels decision makers, it was claimed yesterday.

The GBP 1.5billion Thameslink rail project was always likely to be awarded to
the German company Siemens ahead of Bombardier because of its huge EU lobbying
operation, experts have said.

A report showed the German engineering giant was the fifth biggest spender on
lobbyists in the EU with a budget of about GBP 500,000 in 2008.

In contrast, Derby-based Bombardier did not feature at all on the Friends of the
Earth list published last year. Bombardier has announced more than 1,400 job
losses, with fears of thousands more job cuts among suppliers.

There has been no suggestion Siemens acted dishonestly in securing the deal.

But as the Daily Express Battle For Bombardier Crusade gathered momentum last
night, campaigners demanded more transparency on EU lobbying rules.

Geoffrey Robinson, the Coventry Labour MP and former Paymaster General, said:
"This kind of spending tilts the balance in favour of those who have the money
to engage in it. The odds would be stacked against Bombardier.

That is why firms do it, if it had no effect they would not bother. There has to
be an investigation."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "These figures show Bombardier was up against the
significant lobbying might o f Siemens. Awarding this contract to a German-based
company is a massive snub to the people of Derby."

Ray Egan, an anti-EU campaigner and John Bull impersonator visiting the city to
support the axed workers, said: "This is a massive blow for Derby, it is a
railway town without much of a railway industry left."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flying the flag for British jobs. . .Ray Egan, as John Bull, visiting
the Derby factory of Bombardier, whose workers lost out to German rivals

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Climate sceptic Lord Monckton told he's not member of House of Lords

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 832 words

ABSTRACT

Clerk of parliaments publishes letter on Lords' site saying peer is not and has
'never been a member of the House of Lords'

FULL TEXT

The House of Lords has taken the unprecedented step of  demanding that Lord
Christopher Monckton, a prominent climate sceptic and the UK Independence
party's head of research, should stop claiming to be a member of the upper
house.

The move follows  in which he repeated his long-stated belief that he is a
member of the House of Lords. When asked by ABC Sydney's Adam Spencer if he was
a member, he said: "Yes, but without the right to sit or vote ... [The Lords]
have not yet repealed by act of parliament the letters patent creating the
peerage and until they do I am a member of the house, as my passport records. It
says I am the Right Honourable Viscount Monckton of Brenchley. So get used to
it."

The letter, sent by David Beamish, clerk of the parliaments, to Monckton last
Friday and now published on the Lords' website, states: "You are not and have
never been a member of the House of Lords. Your assertion that you are a member,
but without the right to sit or vote, is a contradiction in terms. No one denies
that you are, by virtue of your letters patent, a peer. That is an entirely
separate issue to membership of the House. This is borne out by the recent
judgement in Baron Mereworth v Ministry of Justice (Crown Office)."

In May, Mr Justice Lewison threw out an action at the Royal Courts of Justice
brought by Baron Mereworth, who maintains that it his hereditary entitlement to
attend the Lords, despite the House of Lords Act 1999 debarring all but 92 of
the 650 hereditary peers, including his late father Lord Oranmore and Browne. :
"In my judgement, the reference [in the House of Lords Act 1999] to a 'member of
the House of Lords' is simply a reference to the right to sit and vote in that
house ... In a nutshell, membership of the House of Lords means the right to sit
and vote in that house."

The letter from Beamish to Monckton continues: "I must therefore again ask that
you desist from claiming to be a member of the House of Lords, either directly
or by implication, and also that you desist from claiming to be a member
'without the right to sit or vote'. I am publishing this letter on the
parliamentary website so that anybody who wishes to check whether you are a
member of the House of Lords can view this official confirmation that you are
not."

The Guardian understands that the House of Lords has been consulting with its
lawyers on this issue since the ABC radio interview aired. It is not yet clear
what form of sanction the Lords has available to it should Monckton persist with
his claim.

Last year, the then clerk of the parliaments, Michael Pownall, , nor should he
use parliament's famous portcullis symbol on his letterheads or lecture slides,
as he has done for a number of years.

Monckton wrote back stating that "the House of Lords Act 1999, which purported
to exclude hereditary peers from membership of the House of Lords, is
defective". He argued that the act removed the right to sit or vote in the upper
house, but did not remove membership because peerages are granted by letters
patent, which are a personal gift of the monarch. Monckton claimed in the letter
that "only a specific law can annul a grant. The 1999 act was a general law."

Buckingham Palace was drawn into the dispute when it was revealed that Pownall
had sought advice from the Lord Chamberlain, a key officer in the royal
household, on the potential misuse of the portcullis emblem due to it being the
property of the Queen. The Buckingham Palace website states that any misuse of
the emblem is prohibited by the Trade Marks Act 1994, meaning Monckton could
potentially be liable for fines and a six-month prison term if the palace
pursues the matter and successfully prosecutes him.

Monckton has since been using a slightly altered portcullis emblem on his
lecture slides. The two chains hanging either side of portcullis are now kinked
instead of straight. It is not known whether the Lord Chamberlain is content
with the change. A spokesperson told the Guardian that the palace was "aware of
the issue", but it had a policy of not commenting on private correspondence
between it and an individual.

Monckton is . The tour has been dogged by venue cancellations after he referred
to the Australian government's former climate advisor Prof Ross Garnaut as a
fascist during a recent lecture in Los Angeles. Footage of the lecture also
showed Monckton displaying a swastika next to one of Garnaut's quotes.  for
"having made the point I was trying to make in such a catastrophically stupid
and offensive way".

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              July 17, 2011 Sunday

BRUSSELS LAUNCHES PLAN TO SCUPPER UK COASTGUARD

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN

LENGTH: 474 words


BRITAIN'S coastguards would be replaced by a new pan- European fleet under
'harmonisation' plans which would see their life-saving work being taken over by
an EU coastguard corps emblazoned with the Brussels logo.

The news comes just days after Transport Secretary Philip Hammond performed a
partial U-turn on cutting the number of currently operating Coastguard centres
from 19 to eight, with just three remaining open 24 hours a day.

After an outcry over the safety risks, he told the Commons last week that 11
centres will remain, all of which will be operational 24 hours a day.

Under the Brussels plan, which will be voted on by the European Parliament in
October, an EU Coastguard will be created to 'effectively combat current or
future dangers at sea such as terrorism, piracy and trafficking'.

If approved, it would then be put before EU member countries for ratification.

Trevor Coleman, MEP for the South West of England, who uncovered the proposals,
said: 'A European Coastguard service would contribute, we were told, towards the
single European state "we dream of" and that "member states need to contribute
to these structures and relinquish some of their power."

'No one spoke of local knowledge or the use of volunteer Coastwatch personnel.'

UKIP leader and South East England MEP Nigel Farage said: 'We've already had our
fishing rights taken away from us. Wanting us to relinquish control of our own
marine borders simply must be taken off the agenda at the earliest possible
opportunity.

'We've already seen the EU embassies take hold, and seen the EU try to take over
defence. And immigration has been a disaster for years because of European
rules'.

A spokesman for the European Parliament said: 'Once it is approved by the
Parliament as a whole, it will be forwarded to the Commission, Council and
Member States. The Commission then may come up with legislative proposals or
take measures based on the content of the report.'

Tory Shipping Minister Mike Penning said the proposals would be resisted by the
UK Government.

He added: 'A European Coastguard is not a concept that the UK would support. Her
Majesty's Coastguard has a long and proud history and has a worldwide reputation
for excellence.Our first priority is to plan for its future in a way that makes
it a more resilient and more efficient service for the UK.'

Announcing the U-turn on the Coastguard closures, Mr Hammond said the Government
had been trying to distribute the workload of the Coastguard service more evenly
across the UK, while at the same time cutting costs as part of the drive to
reduce the budget deficit.

Campaigners argued that safety would be threatened and the skills of experienced
Coastguards lost if local centres were closed.

David Cameron admitted in January that Prince William had personally lobbied him
against the proposed cuts to the service.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bravo for the Proms - but let's pay for them;
Damian Thompson ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Damian Thompson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 591 words


The world's greatest classical music festival began last night: 74 concerts
spread over eight weeks, selling well over 300,000 tickets in a 5,000-seat
concert hall. It's the Proms, of course, jazzed up - as they always are these
days - by an attention-grabbing gimmick for kiddies. This year it's a Horrible
Histories Prom, which will no doubt be as painfully right-on as the children's
books. Also, I can't imagine anything more tedious than attending the Last
Night: the Lib Dem/UKIP combo of socks, sandals and the Union flag really
doesn't work for me.

But none of this matters, because only at the Proms could you discover a
gargantuan forgotten masterpiece such as Havergal Brian's "Gothic" Symphony,
which hasn't been performed in Britain for over 30 years, mostly because it
requires more musicians than any symphony in the repertoire. (The most recent
recording was sponsored, implausibly, by the Grateful Dead.) I'm going to hear
it tomorrow; I haven't been so excited about a concert for ages. And it's only
thanks to the vision of Roger Wright - a mighty champion of English music and
the best controller of Radio 3 and the Proms for decades - that such an event is
happening at all.

So, no complaints about the Proms line-up, which is reliably excellent and fills
the Albert Hall to near-capacity night after night - such a contrast to the
1970s, when attendances were embarrassingly low. My problem is with the way it's
funded.

Put simply, if the BBC sells hundreds of thousands of tickets to a music
festival, why does it need a subsidy of nearly £6 million from the licence fee?
I hesitate to ask this question because, after hanging around classical music
circles for years, I've seen first-hand how brainwashed everyone is by the
culture of state subsidy. When the Coalition's arts cuts were announced, a
wellknown music critic tweeted: "Does the Government think music is degenerate?"
That was an in-joke, and a pretty sick one. Entartete Musik, "degenerate music",
was the Nazis' term of abuse for entertainment supposedly corrupted by the Jews.
That sort of hysterical analogy is typical. I once tried defending the cuts to a
group of musicians at a dinner party. It was a real "I'll get my coat" moment.

Anyway, back to my original question: why do the (wonderful) Proms need nearly
£6 million of your money, out of a budget of around £9 million? The main factor
is that ticket prices are too low. The Beeb may get a philanthropic buzz from
charging only £5 for Prommers' tickets in the arena, but it's at our expense. If
music students can drop £20 in the college bar, they can damn well pay £10 for a
Prom. Also, it's absurd that the best seats, even for guaranteed sell-outs such
as Gergiev conducting Swan Lake, cost only £55. At most concerts, the top price
is £35. Try getting into a London football match for that.

Putting up prices wouldn't make up all the shortfall: the Proms - and classical
music in general - need to learn the art of screwing large sums of money out of
rich people who, at the moment, are only too happy to stand under the subsidy
hosepipe.

And here's where the Government really is culpable. It hits the well-off with a
vengeful 50 per cent tax rate that won't cut a penny off the deficit because the
intended victims will spend all their money avoiding it. Instead, it should
introduce radical tax breaks for endowments.

I'm sure the BBC could adjust to the new environment. As any arts minister will
tell you, it's very, very good at asking for money. Very well: let it turn its
charm on billionaires.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: That Lib Dem/ Ukip experience

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Outrage at VAT threat after 'greedy' Eurocrats target UK for another GBP 3bn a
year

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 504  words


AN EU money-grabbing plan that could increase VAT by one per cent sparked
outrage yesterday.

The European Commission is angling for an extra one per cent - or GBP 3billion -
more of our sales tax takings, analysis of budget proposals reveals.

This would either require the Treasury to hand over more cash from Britain's
under-pressure budget - or pass on the cost to taxpayers by raising VAT from 20
per cent to an eye-watering 21 per cent.

Conservative MP Anne Main called the bid "appalling", adding:

"It's a tax on every man, woman and child. If we could bring down VAT I would
like to do so. The last thing we need is a greedy person in Brussels grabbing a
bit more of it.

"How can I look my constituents in the eye and say they have to cough up even
more to go into the EU's coffers?"

Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's outrageous that the EU is
trying to levy this new tax.

British taxpayers already hand over millions each day to Brussels and our
Government should resist any attempt by the EU to grab even more of our money."

At present, 0.3 per cent of VAT on every pound spent goes directly towards the
EU budget, about GBP 900million a year.

Under the Commission's proposals to increase its take from national V AT income,
that could grow to 1.3 per cent, a crippling annual total of GBP 3.9billion.

Brussels has already set itself on collision course with governments, including
the UK, by setting out a seven-year budget to take effect from 2014 which the
Treasury says will add a "completely unrealistic" 11 per cent, or GBP 1.4billion
a year, to Britain's net contribution.

The move can only boost support for the Daily Express campaign to get Britain
out of the EU.

Martin Callanan, Conservative leader in the European Parliament, said in
response to the VAT proposal: "This just goes to show how out of touch with real
people the Brussels bureaucrats have become.

"In these difficult times people just can't pay - won't pay - more taxes to fund
more European empire-building."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said of the Eurocrats: "Unelected, unwanted and
unspeakable, they govern us in silenced rooms and behind heavy curtains. Thank
God for papers like the Express who are ensuring that the truth about their
plans are coming to light."

John Walker, national chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses, said: "The
economy is in a fragile state with consumer confidence, small business profits
and employment intentions all at a low.

"Increasing VAT by another one per cent would only further this downward trend."

A Treasury spokesman said last night: "The Government believes the European
Commission's proposals are unrealistic. We oppose any new tax to fund the EU and
these proposals are unacceptable. Tax is and should remain a matter for
sovereign governments."

Q Should British taxpayers give more to the EU?

YES: 0901 030 8348 NO: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088 No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: People won't pay, says Callanan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 16, 2011 Saturday 2:11 AM GMT

I love the Proms - but why subsidise them?

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1123 words


From Saturday's Daily Telegraph

The world's greatest classical music festival began last night: 74 concerts
spread over eight weeks, selling well over 300,000 tickets in a 5,000-seat
concert hall. It's the Proms, of course, jazzed up - as they always are these
days - by an attention-grabbing gimmick for kiddies. This year it's a Horrible
Histories Prom, which will no doubt be as painfully right-on as the children's
books. Also, I can't imagine anything more tedious than attending the Last
Night: the Lib Dem/UKIP combo of socks, sandals and the Union flag really
doesn't work for me.

But none of this matters, because only at the Proms could you discover a
gargantuan forgotten masterpiece such as Havergal Brian's "Gothic" Symphony,
which hasn't been performed in Britain for over 30 years, mostly because it
requires more musicians than any symphony in the repertoire. (The most recent
recording was sponsored, implausibly, by the Grateful Dead.) I'm going to hear
it tomorrow; I haven't been so excited about a concert for ages. And it's only
thanks to the vision of Roger Wright - a mighty champion of English music and
the best controller of Radio 3 and the Proms for decades - that such an event is
happening at all.

So, no complaints about the Proms line-up, which is reliably excellent and fills
the Albert Hall to near-capacity night after night - such a contrast to the
1970s, when attendances were embarrassingly low. My problem is with the way it's
funded.

Put simply, if the BBC sells hundreds of thousands of tickets to a music
festival, why does it need a subsidy of nearly 6 million from the licence fee?

I hesitate to ask this question because, after hanging around classical music
circles for years, I've seen first-hand how brainwashed everyone is by the
culture of state subsidy. When the Coalition's arts cuts were announced, a
well-known music critic tweeted: "Does the Government think music is
degenerate?" That was an in-joke, and a pretty sick one. Entartete Musik,
"degenerate music", was the Nazis' term of abuse for entertainment supposedly
corrupted by the Jews. That sort of hysterical analogy is typical. I once tried
defending the cuts to a group of musicians at a dinner party. It was a real
"I'll get my coat" moment.

Anyway, back to my original question: why do the (wonderful) Proms need nearly 6
million of your money, out of a budget of around 9 million?

The main factor is that ticket prices are too low. The Beeb may get a
philanthropic buzz from charging only 5 for Prommers' tickets in the arena, but
it's at our expense. If music students can drop 20 in the college bar, they can
damn well pay 10 for a Prom. Also, it's absurd that the best seats, even for
guaranteed sell-outs such as Gergiev conducting Swan Lake, cost only 55. At most
concerts, the top price is 35. Try getting into a London football match for
that.

Putting up prices wouldn't make up all the shortfall: the Proms - and classical
music in general - need to learn the art of screwing large sums of money out of
rich people who, at the moment, are only too happy to stand under the subsidy
hosepipe.

And here's where the Government really is culpable. It hits the well-off with a
vengeful 50 per cent tax rate that won't cut a penny off the deficit because the
intended victims will spend all their money avoiding it. Instead, it should
introduce radical tax breaks for endowments.

I'm sure the BBC could adjust to the new environment. As any arts minister will
tell you, it's very, very good at asking for money. Very well: let it turn its
charm on billionaires.

...

How riveting to read my colleague Cassandra Jardine's interview with Margaret
Drabble, which focused on her intractable, decades-old feud with her sister, A S
Byatt. Drabble put paid to cruel rumours that the falling-out has something to
do with Byatt's Booker prize. Perish the thought! "I won't allow my books to be
entered for it," she explained. We also learned that Drabble's first husband was
Clive Swift, who played Richard in Keeping Up Appearances. Good practice for the
role, don't you think? "Darling, it's your sister at the door." Shriek from
Drabble, followed by muffled noises from behind the sofa. "She wants to tell you
about a prize she's won..."

...

Inevitably, someone has proposed making a film about the fall of the house of
Murdoch, and Twitter is full of suggestions as to who might play which role. For
example, who could do justice to the Speaker, John Bercow? Someone nominated
"pint-sized Tom Hollander", but Bercow's preposterous wife Sally had other
ideas. "Sources close to the Speaker think Brad Pitt should play Mr B," she
tweeted.

Bercow and Brad have one thing in common: they were born in 1963. Otherwise it's
not a close fit. Alas, the only person who could have captured the essence of Mr
Speaker is long dead: Peter Lorre, a memorable presence in The Maltese Falcon
and Casablanca. It's true that Lorre was rather better looking than Bercow, but
there's definitely a certain resemblance...

...

Jake and Dinos Chapman, the "rebellious" artist brothers, have really pushed the
boundaries with their latest show at the White Cube galleries in London. It
features mannequins dressed in - you'll never guess - Nazi uniforms. Only these
German officers don't sport swastikas. Instead, their armbands depict smiley
faces.

Now, I love a postmodern subversive paradox as much as the next man, but I can't
help asking myself why creative folk insist on fetishising the distinctive garb
of the Third Reich. Just as it's against the law in Germany to display Nazi
iconography, one wonders whether it's against the law in Britain not to feature
Nazi costumes in art installations and modernist productions of classic plays
and operas.

The official explanation tends to involve the subliminal fascistic undertones of
capitalism, etc. I'm not so sure. Their politics notwithstanding, if there's one
thing Lefty luvvies can't resist it's the swish of a thigh-length leather coat.

...

The Church of England could be extinct in 20 years, the General Synod was warned
this week. I don't believe it. Anglicanism has a genius for reinventing itself,
even if recent attempts don't have much in common with orthodox Christianity.
But one part of the C of E will certainly die, and that's traditional
Anglo-Catholicism. Those ultra-High clergy who pray for the Pope but have
decided to reject the Vatican's offer of reunion cut sad figures; they'd rather
swan around in pretty vestments in a Church they despise than swim the Tiber. I
think they're in for a shock. Until now, their champion has been Dr John Hind,
Bishop of Chichester. But he's retiring next year, and rumour has it that he's
packing his swimming trunks.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN TOLD 'YOU CAN QUIT EU'

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 750  words


Euro MPs explode after a Daily Express exclusive reveals their latest crazy plan

BRITAIN should consider quitting the EU, scornful Euro MPs said yesterday after
the Daily Express exposed Brussels' latest power grab.

During heated exchanges, British MEPs were heckled at an EU meeting as they
referred to our front page report that Brussels could force sports stars to wear
the EU flag on their kit.

The German committee chairwoman, Doris Pack, accused Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall of
grandstanding when he flourished a copy of yesterday's Daily Express and
described the EU proposal as "baloney".

She said, to applause from some MEPs, that it was just "better not" to speak
about the British press.

She later added: "In the Lisbon Treaty there is a possibility to leave the EU .
. . I only wanted to say it."

MEPs at the meeting said they understood her comments to mean Britain had the
mechanism to leave the EU if it wanted. Mr Nuttall said:

"The chairwoman got quite irate and said the good thing about the Lisbon Treaty
is that it includes a clause that would let us leave, that would allow we
British to leave."

Yesterday we revealed how the European Parliament is considering, as part of
wide ranging report on sport, plans to force European teams to wear the EU flag
on their kit in addition to their national flag.

The idea that sports stars, including our football, rugby, cricket and Olympic
teams, might have to display the blue and yellow symbol prompted outrage in
Britain.

Tory MP Tracey Crouch, who is a qualified FA coach, said: "It's outrageous. It's
an affront to our national teams."

Former England football manager Graham Taylor said: "When competing European
nations play against each other it seems pointless to have the European flag on
both teams' shirts. It seems a bit daft."

The proposal featured in a draft motion debated yesterday at the EU Parliament's
culture and education committee suggesting ways to develop a "European
dimension" in sport.

It said that "the European flag should be flown at major sports events held on
EU territory and suggests that it should be displayed on the clothing of
athletes from member states".

Mr Nuttall, Ukip's deputy leader, told the meeting there was "a fair bit of
sense" in the overall document. But on the EU flag proposal he said he "didn't
know whether to laugh or cry when I read it".

Holding up a copy of yesterday's Daily Express, he declared: "You've only got to
look at what the English press is writing to see this idea is utter baloney,
it's mad." Amid jeering from other MEPs, the chairwoman called for order before
Mr Nuttall insisted that any flag ruling would be "repugnant to many people in
the UK".

Curtly slapping him down, Ms Pack said: "Thank you very much, you had your
broadcasting, your TV, you had everything you wanted - but you're not right."
She urged Mr Nuttall to read the draft motion to see that the "tiny" flag issue
was "a proposal, not an obligation".

British Conservative MEP Emma McClarkin was also later rebuked by Ms Pack after
she said the flag idea was "absolutely outrageous".

Miss McClarkin said Scottish, Welsh, and Northern Irish teams did not display
the British flag let alone the EU flag. She added: "It's a very sensitive issue.
If you go for vanity projects like this, you're going to turn people off from
the EU."

Ms Pack retorted that the "wonderful" report was "not about the European flag"
and that MEPs should not keep going on about it.

Speaking after the meeting, Mr Nuttall said he believed some of the MEPs were
"very keen" on the flag idea. He added: "I believe they will push this forward
because if the EU becomes more and more unpopular across the Continent, they
will try to use sport as a tool of propaganda."

He has tabled an amendment to delete the relevant clause from the draft motion,
which had been proposed by a Spanish MEP.

The committee is due to vote on the package in October. If passed, it will go to
the European Parliament, and then potentially be presented to the European
Commission as a proposal for legislation.

EU member governments would also have to approve.

An EU Commission spokeswoman said it was "not against" the flag proposal but
conceded that it was "controversial".

See the shocking video of yesterday's EU row in full at www.express.co.uk/news.

Q Should Britain quit the EU?

NO: 0901 030 8347 No text DXFRINO to 80088

YES: 0901 030 8346 Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates S

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEP Paul Nuttall holds a copy of yesterday's Daily Express during
yesterday's stormy debate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

BRITAIN TOLD 'YOU CAN QUIT EU'

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 538  words


Euro MPs' anger after Express exposes their latest crazy plan

SCORNFUL Euro-MPs yesterday hinted that Britain should take its chance to quit
the European Union after our revelation that sports stars could have to display
its flag on their kit.

British MEPs said some foreign colleagues tried to shout them down as they
flourished a copy of the Daily Express in Brussels.

The proposal, contained in a draft motion before a committee of the EU
Parliament, would see sporting heroes from home nations' football, rugby and
athletics teams show the blue and yellow symbol alongside existing emblems.

UKIP deputy leader and spokesman Paul Nuttall, a former Tranmere Rovers player,
told the meeting there was "a fair bit of sense'' in the overall document and he
highlighted sport's ability to bring people together.

But on the EU flag section, he "didn't know whether to laugh or cry when I read
it''. Holding up a copy of yesterday's Daily Express, he declared: "You have
only got to look at what the Press is writing to see this idea is utter baloney,
it's mad.'' When other MEPs heckled it was "the Murdoch press", he insisted,
correctly, that the Daily Express is not part of the group hit by the
phonehacking scandal.

Committee chairwoman Doris Pack called for order and he declared that such
proposals were why half of Britons in recent polls said they wanted to leave the
EU.

Ms Pack, a German MEP, then told him, in terms suggesting she believed he had
been grandstanding: "Thank ou very much, you had your broadcasting, your TV, you
had everything you wanted but you are not right." Ending the debate, she urged
Mr Nuttall to read the draft motion to see that the "tiny" flag issue was "a
proposal, not an obligation".

Later, she stressed that the EU treaties gave sports organisations "full
autonomy'' and that the EU would "not interfere with them'' although it would
offer "support" to bodies if they requested it.

She also remarked, in a comment taken to indicate what Britain should do: "In
the Lisbon Treaty, there is a possibility to leave the EU . . . I only wanted to
say it."

Ms Pack later rebuked Tory MEP Emma McClarkin after she said the flag idea was
"absolutely outrageous" and that sport was a huge part of national identity in
the UK.

The MEPs heard that and that Scottish, Welsh, and Northern Irish teams did not
use the Union flag "let alone the EU flag".

Ms McClarkin added: "It is a very sensitive issue. If you go for vanity projects
like this, you are going to turn people off from the EU."

Mr Nuttall later said he believed some MEPs were "very keen" on the flag
proposal. "They behaved like a pack of hyenas. It was a real siege mentality, "
he added.

He vowed to try to stop the proposal's progress and has tabled an amendment to
delete the clause from the draft motion ahead of a vote in October.

If passed, it will go to the European Parliament, and then potentially be
presented to the European Commission as a proposal for legislation.

Q EU member governments would also have to approve.

NO: 0901 030 8347 No text DXFRINO to 80088

YES: 0901 030 8346 Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates Should Britain quit the EU?

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Football player turned MSP Paul Nuttall proudly shows the Express

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRIT FOOTIE STARS ARE MADE TO WEAR EU FLAG

BYLINE: STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 241 words


EUROPRATS are trying to force football stars to wear the EU flag on their
beloved Three Lions England shirts.

The barmy new plans are being discussed in Brussels today.

Members of the European Parliament also want to see the EU's blue flag with
yellow stars flown at all top sporting events.

All national teams, including football, rugby, cricket and the British Olympic
team, would be covered.

The idea has been slammed as "daft" by politicians and critics in the football
world. Tory MEP Emma McClarkin said: "The EU has no business interfering in the
badges worn on national team shirts.

"Can you imagine Wayne Rooney or Jessica Ennis walking out into the arena
sporting an EU flag on their kit? It is simply daft."

And UKIP deputy leader and sports spokesman Paul Nuttall, who used to play for
Tranmere Rovers, labelled the idea a joke.

"This debate gives you a real insight into the minds of the EU and how they want
to interfere in every area of our lives,'' he said. "It is a complete and utter
joke.'' The idea is outlined in a draft motion on the agenda for today's
meeting.

Conservative MP Peter Bone said: "This is the sort of nonsense that makes
British people throw up at the thought of the EU.'' Football Supporters'
Federation spokesman Kevin Miles added: "The EU cannot dictate what footballers
wear on their shirts."

However the European Parliament's culture committee has already given its
endorsement to the plan.

steve.hughes@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ONE IN FOUR UK BABIES BORN TO FOREIGN MUMS;
Migrant births hit record

BYLINE: PAUL ROBINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 217 words


THE number of babies born to foreign mums in Britain has hit a record high.

Shocking figures show a quarter of women who gave birth here last year were
migrants.

They accounted for 181,000 of the 723,000 newborns in 2010, according to the
Office for National Statistics. It is more than double the number of 20 years
ago.

The news has reignited the immigration row as the population boom piles pressure
on schools, jobs and hospitals.

In some areas English is now a minority language in nine out of 10 schools.

And analysts fear the trend will continue because migrant mums tend to have more
babies than British women.

Fertility rates of foreign mums stand at 2.48 children each, compared with 1.94
for women born here.

UKIP Home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten MEP said: "It's not rocket science to
understand that if you have effectively unlimited and uncontrolled migration
from people with traditionally higher birth rates than the existing population
inevitably numbers here will grow by more than just the number passing through
passport control."

Figures published earlier this month showed Britain's population has rocketed by
470,000 as a result of our lax border controls over the past decade.

It was the biggest rise in 50 years and took the population to a record
62million.

paul.robins@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Migrant births hit record

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words


THE number of babies born in the UK to foreign mothers has hit a record high,
accounting for more than one in four births last year.

Figures published yesterday by the Office for National Statistics reveals 25.1
per cent - or 181,514 - of the 723,165 newborns in 2010 were from migrants.

The increase represents a rise of nearly 3,000 extra children from women born
abroad on 2009. Most of the 37 21 18 mothers were from Poland, Pakistan and
India. In the same period British mothers giving birth fell by just under
10,000. Campaigners warn the growth places an intolerable strain on public
services.

Gerard Batten, the Ukip MEP and home affairs spokesman, said: "These figures
reinforce the need for the Government to take into account population trends 28
when formulating immigration policy." Cathy Warwick, head of the Royal College
of Midwives, said 4,700 extra staff were needed to deal with the rise in births.

Births to non UK-born women are at their highest since the nationality of
mothers was first recorded in 1969. In 2009 the number of children born to
foreigners was 24.7 per cent (174,443 births), in 2000 15.5 per cent and 11.6
percent in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning by Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

BRITISH TEAMS FORCED TO WEAR EU FLAGS;
another crazy idea from Brussels

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1395 words


BRITISH sports stars could be forced to wear the EU flag on their kit in the
latest bid by Brussels to impose its symbols on the UK.

The move would affect all our national teams including football, rugby, cricket
and the British Olympic team.

The EU's blue and yellow flag would also have to be flown at major sporting
events, such as the FA Cup Final, the Ashes series, Wimbledon and the British
Grand Prix.

The European Parliament will today debate the idea and if, as expected, MEPs
give their backing it will go before the European Commission to draft formal
proposals. However, the move sparked outrage last night. Ukip deputy leader
sports spokesman Paul Nuttall said: "It is a complete and utter joke. Ukip will
do everything it can to scupper this ridiculous idea for the sake of sports fans
and our national identity.

Temperatures in Centigrade 23 Today's Spain, Portugal and the "Potentially this
would affect all our national teams, including football, rugby and cricket. Can
you imagine Steven Gerrard playing for England with three lions on one side of
his shirt and the EU logo on the other? The majority of Spain will be dry and
hot with plenty of sun. Cooler along the north coast with patchy cloud. The
chance of a few showers in the northeast and over southeastern "This gives you a
real insight into the minds of the EU and how they want to interfere in every
area of our lives."

outlook: Mainly and back in London/South East: A rather cloudy and breezy day
with some rain, mainly across Kent and Sussex. High 22C (72F).

Tory MP Tracey Crouch, who is a qualified FA coach, said: "It's outrageous. It's
an affront to our national teams - and I can't see how it would work anyway."

Midlands: A mainly dry day with spells of sunshine, but also some areas of cloud
around too. High 22C (72F).

Pointless Wales: It will be a dry and fine day with long spells of sunshine and
just patchy cloud. High 22C (72F).

UK Outlook tomorrow: Rain Former England football manager Graham Taylor said:
"When competing European nations play against each other it seems pointless to
have the European flag on both teams shirts.

six-day forEcasT iN min max min max "Why would sides want the European flag on
all the competing individuals? "It seems a bit daft. I just don't see why anyone
would want to bring it in. It's a nonstarter for me."

London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth
Fri SaT 14 21 12 18 12 11 15 15 12 11 19 17 14 12 16 16 12 12 16 16 13 10 18 16
12 10 19 16 13 12 23 19 14 12 16 16 The disclosure comes just a day after the
Daily Express revealed that the EU is to challenge the Government's decision to
refuse European immigrants a full state pension when they have never worked
here.

24 hours SUN RAIN TEMP to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) Britain Aberdeen 10.6 0.00
3 15 Aberporth 7.3 0.00 12 17 Alnwick 8.9 0.00 11 15 Belfast 9.8 0.00 10 21
Birmingham 1.7 0.00 11 18 B'mouth 3.3 0.00 11 19 Bristol 3.2 0.00 11 18 Cardiff
9.0 0.00 13 18 Durham 3.1 0.00 9 18 Edinburgh 12.1 0.00 8 18 And it will add to
the growing disquiet over Brussels' insatiable desire to intrude into cherished
areas of national life, prompting a surge of support for this paper's crusade to
get Britain out of the EU. Glasgow Hull Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London Manchester
Oxford S'hampton St Andrews The move to force Britain's sporting heroes to wear
the EU symbol alongside their national emblems has been made possible after the
Britain Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday) Warmest: Castlederg 21C (70F)
Coldest: Kinbrace -1C (30F) Wettest: Mumbles 0.08in. Sunniest: Stornoway 14.4hr.

Belfast Bristol Lisbon Treaty gave the EU power over sport for the first time.

10111010 17 17 18 18 11 13 12 12 17 17 17 17 12 12 12 12 16 16 16 16 11 11 12 10
17 17 17 10 10 10 10 16 16 16 16 11 13 11 11 18 19 19 20 12 12 12 12 16 16 17 17
The idea is spelt out in a draft motion on the agenda for today's meeting of the
European Parliament's culture and education committee.

yesterday Moon, sun and tides MOON rises: 8.08pm, sets: 4.59am SUN rises Madrid:
5.55am, sets: 8.43pm Manchester rises: 4.58am, sets: 9.30pm Under the heading
European Identity Through Sport, it proposes "that the European flag should be
flown at major sports events held on EU territory and suggests that it should be
displayed on the clothing of athletes from member states".

Full Moon 15 July 0.00 10 21 0.00 11 16 0.00 12 15 0.00 9 17 0.00 1015 0.00 13
18 0.00 11 18 0.00 12 18 0.00 13 18 12.2 0.00 6 15 HIGH TIDE London B'ge
(1.30am), (2.02pm) Liverpool (11.17am), (11.35pm) Greenock (12.13am), (12.39pm)
Dover (11.13am), (11.36pm) But leading Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This is the
sort of nonsense that makes British people throw up at the thought of the EU.

Lighting-up times Glasgow 9.51pm-4.54am London 9.12pm-5.01am Manchester
9.30pm-4.59am Newcastle 9.34pm-4.49am 9.50pm-5.07am Birmingham 9.22pm-5.02am
9.20pm-5.10am "The idea that, for example, our Olympic athletes should wear the
European logo next year is so unbelievable that it could only be thought up in
the EU.

Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth "What it clearly shows is
how the people in Brussels see Europe as a country, not as a collection of
individual sovereign states. 14 12 16 12 12 16 13 10 18 12 10 19 13 12 23 14 12
16 24 hours SUN RAIN TEMP to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) "Perhaps even more than
all the money we are wasting on the EU and the surrender of sovereignty, if you
put it to the people that the England football team would be wearing the
European flag, they'd be absolutely incensed.

Britain Aberdeen 10.6 0.00 3 15 Aberporth 7.3 0.00 12 17 Alnwick 8.9 0.00 11 15
Belfast 9.8 0.00 10 21 Birmingham 1.7 0.00 11 18 B'mouth 3.3 0.00 11 19 Bristol
3.2 0.00 11 18 Cardiff 9.0 0.00 13 18 Durham 3.1 0.00 9 18 Edinburgh 12.1 0.00 8
18 Glasgow Hull Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London Manchester Oxford S'hampton St
Andrews "If it wasn't so sad, it would be funny.'" It is not yet known how much
progress the proposal will make in Brussels but there were indications last
Britain Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday) Warmest: Castlederg 21C (70F)
Coldest: Kinbrace -1C (30F) Wettest: Mumbles 0.08in. Sunniest: Stornoway 14.4hr.

10 11 10 17 17 17 18 11 13 12 12 16 17 17 17 12 12 12 16 16 16 16 11 11 12 16 17
17 10 10 10 16 16 16 16 11 13 11 11 19 18 19 19 12 12 12 16 16 16 17 night that
the UK government will oppose the idea. A Whitehall source said the UK position
would be that it was for sports governing bodies, competition organisers and
clubs to decide what flags were displayed on clothing or flown at sporting
events.

yesterday Moon, sun and tides Brussels already has the power to fine
organisations in certain circumstances for not flying the EU flag. MOON rises:
6.11pm, sets: 3.16am SUN rises Athens: 4.16am, sets: Manchester rises: 4.58am,
sets: Full Moon 15 July 7.3 0.00 10 21 0.2 0.00 11 16 0.0 0.00 12 15 1.9 0.00 9
17 1.9 0.00 1015 1.2 0.00 13 18 4.4 0.00 11 18 1.4 0.00 12 18 2.3 0.00 13 18
12.2 0.00 6 15 Recently it emerged that the University of Northampton was fined
more than £56,000 for not displaying the EU logo to acknowledge it had received
funding from the European Regional Development Fund. HIGH TIDE London B'ge
(1.30am), (Liverpool (11.17am), (Greenock (12.13am), (Dover (11.13am), (
Lighting-up times Glasgow 9.51pm-London 9.12pm-Manchester 9.30pm-Newcastle
9.34pm-Belfast 9.50pm-5.07am Birmingham 9.22pm-5.02am Bristol 9.20pm-5.10am
opinion: page 12 31 British teams Cyprus 28 27 30 Temperatures in Centigrade
flying EU flag forecast: Balearic and Canary Islands Today's forecast: Eastern
Mediterranean mountains. High 38C (100F). Dry in Portugal with sunny spells.
High 35C (95F). The Canaries will be dry but breezy, with cloud breaking to give
sunny spells. High 29C (84F). Greek Islands: A dry and hot day for most with
plenty of bright sunshine. However, patchy cloud will bubble up across inland
parts of the mainland during the afternoon. Breezy through the Aegean. High 37C
(99F). There will be just a little patchy fair weather cloud inland over the
later. Gentle winds. High 38C (Cyprus: Dry and hot with plenty sunshine.
However, a little thin high in western coastal areas may make sunshine appear
hazy here. Winds gentle. High 38C (100F). ...what a joke! Turkish Resorts: It
will be dry and hot with widespread sunshine and blue skies. dry, hot and sunny

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 12 11 10 11 11 15 15 15 15 15 Belfast Sport events may have to fly both
EU and British flag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britons cannot be made to feel patriotic about the EU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 271 words


IT FORCES us to fly its flag from public buildings and to use its logo on the
official stationery of public bodies but now the European Union wants to go even
further.

The Brussels elite has dreamt up a proposal to make international sports teams
from EU member nations sport the circle of stars on their kits, alongside
cherished symbols of nationhood.

The very idea of the England football team's three lions, or Scotland's Lion
Rampant or the Prince of Wales's feathers on a Welsh rugby shirt having to
compete for room with the EU's circle of stars is an insult to fans of those
teams.

International sport is, fairly obviously, about nations competing against each
other and therefore provides a precious opportunity for people to proclaim and
show loyalty to their national identity.

Such an idea is clearly both alien and threatening to those pushing for a United
States of Europe in which national identities are submerged rather than
celebrated.

As UKIP deputy leader Paul Nuttall notes: "This debate gives you a real insight
into the minds of the EU and how they want to interfere in every area of our
lives."

The irony, of course, is that when it comes to golf's Ryder Cup, Britons have
embraced a European identity with enthusiasm. The reason is that it was not
imposed by Brussels diktat but emerged at the suggestion of those involved in
the sport.

So there is one thing to be thankful for: every time the Brussels elite makes it
compulsory to display a European identity, it also makes it more certain than
ever that the British people will stay loyal to their own nations and
antagonistic to the empire across the water.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

QuOTe Of THe DAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 45 words


QuOTe Of THe DAY 'Can you imagine Steven gerrard playing for england with three
lions on one side of his shirt and the eu logo on the other?' UKIP DEPUTY LEADER
AND SPORTS SPOKESMAN PAUL NUTTALL CONDEMNS THE EU PLAN TO MAKE BRITISH SPORTS
STARS WEAR THE EU FLAG ON THEIR KIT

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRITISH TEAMS FORCED TO WEAR EU FLAGS;
another crazy idea from Brussels British teams flying EU flag ...what a joke!

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 730 words


BRITISH sports stars could be forced to wear the EU flag on their kit in the
latest bid by Brussels to impose its symbols on the UK.

; The move would affect all our national teams including football, rugby,
cricket and the British Olympic team.

; The EU's blue and yellow flag would also have to be flown at major sporting
events, such as the FA Cup Final, the Ashes series, Wimbledon and the British
Grand Prix.

; The European Parliament will today debate the idea and if, as expected, MEPs
give their backing it will go before the European Commission to draft formal
proposals.

However, the move sparked outrage last night. Ukip deputy leader and sports
spokesman Paul Nuttall said: "It is a complete and utter joke. Ukip will do
everything it can to scupper this ridiculous idea for the sake of sports fans
and our national identity.

"Potentially this would affect all our national teams, including football, rugby
and cricket. Can you imagine Steven Gerrard playing for England with three lions
on one side of his shirt and the EU logo on the other?

; "This gives you a real insight into the minds of the EU and how they want to
interfere in every area of our lives."

Tory MP Tracey Crouch, who is a qualified FA coach, said: "It's outrageous. It's
an affront to our national teams - and I can't see how it would work anyway."

Pointless

Former England football manager Graham Taylor said: "When competing European
nations play against each other it seems pointless to have the European flag on
both teams shirts.

"Why would sides want the European flag on all the competing individuals?

"It seems a bit daft. I just don't see why anyone would want to bring it in.
It's a nonstarter for me."

The disclosure comes just a day after the Daily Express revealed that the EU is
to challenge the Government's decision to refuse European immigrants a full
state pension when they have never worked here.

And it will add to the growing disquiet over Brussels' insatiable desire to
intrude into cherished areas of national life, prompting a surge of support for
this paper's crusade to get Britain out of the EU.

The move to force Britain's sporting heroes to wear the EU symbol alongside
their national emblems has been made possible after the Lisbon Treaty gave the
EU power over sport for the first time.

; yesterday Moon, sun and tides The idea is spelt out in a draft motion on the
agenda for today's meeting of the European Parliament's culture and education
committee.

Under the heading European Identity Through Sport, it proposes "that the
European flag should be flown at major sports events held on EU territory and
suggests that it should be displayed on the clothing of athletes from member
states".

But leading Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This is the sort of nonsense that makes
British people throw up at the thought of the EU.

"The idea that, for example, our Olympic athletes should wear the European logo
next year is so unbelievable that it could only be thought up in the EU.

"What it clearly shows is how the people in Brussels see Europe as a country,
not as a collection of individual sovereign states.

"Perhaps even more than all the money we are wasting on the EU and the surrender
of sovereignty, if you put it to the people that the England football team would
be wearing the European flag, they'd be absolutely incensed.

"If it wasn't so sad, it would be funny.'"

It is not yet known how much progress the proposal will make in Brussels but
there were indications last Britain Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday)
Warmest: Castlederg 21C (70F) Coldest: Kinbrace -1C (30F) Wettest: Mumbles
0.08in. Sunniest: Stornoway 14.4hr.

A Whitehall source said the UK position would be that it was for sports
governing bodies, competition organisers and clubs to decide what flags were
displayed on clothing or flown at sporting events.

Brussels already has the power to fine organisations in certain circumstances
for not flying the EU flag.

Recently it emerged that the University of Northampton was fined more than
£56,000 for not displaying the EU logo to acknowledge it had received funding
from the European Regional Development Fund.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should British sports stars wear the EU flag?

YES: 0901 030 8344

NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHUrYes to 80088

No text DXTHUrno to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sport events may have to fly both EU and British flag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITISH TEAMS FORCED TO WEAR EU FLAGS

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 708  words


Another crazy idea from Brussels

BRITISH sports stars could be forced to wear the EU flag on their kit in the
latest bid by Brussels to impose its symbols on the UK.

The move would affect all our national teams including football, rugby, cricket
and the British Olympic team.

The EU's blue and yellow flag would also have to be flown at major sporting
events, such as the FA Cup Final, the Ashes series, Wimbledon and the British
Grand Prix.

The European Parliament will today debate the idea and if, as expected, MEPs
give their backing it will go before the European Commission to draft formal
proposals.

However, the move sparked outrage last night. Ukip deputy leader and sports
spokesman Paul Nuttall said: "It is a complete and utter joke. Ukip will do
everything it can to scupper this ridiculous idea for the sake of sports fans
and our national identity.

"Potentially this would affect all our national teams, including football, rugby
and cricket. Can you imagine Steven Gerrard playing for England with three lions
on one side of his shirt and the EU logo on the other?

"This gives you a real insight into the minds of the EU and how they want to
interfere in every area of our lives."

Tory MP Tracey Crouch, who is a qualified FA coach, said: "It's outrageous. It's
an affront to our national teams - and I can't see how it would work anyway."

Former England football manager Graham Taylor said: "When competing European
nations play against each other it seems pointless to have the European flag on
both teams shirts.

"Why would sides want the European flag on all the competing individuals?

"It seems a bit daft. I just don't see why anyone would want to bring it in.
It's a nonstarter for me."

The disclosure comes just a day after the Daily Express revealed that the EU is
to challenge the Government's decision to refuse European immigrants a full
state pension when they have never worked here.

And it will add to the growing disquiet over Brussels' insatiable desire to
intrude into cherished areas of national life, prompting a surge of support for
this paper's crusade to get Britain out of the EU.

The move to force Britain's sporting heroes to wear the EU symbol alongside
their national emblems has been made possible after the Lisbon Treaty gave the
EU power over sport for the first time.

The idea is spelt out in a draft motion on the agenda for today's meeting of the
European Parliament's culture and education committee.

Under the heading European Identity Through Sport, it proposes "that the
European flag should be flown at major sports events held on EU territory and
suggests that it should be displayed on the clothing of athletes from member
states".

But leading Tory MP Peter Bone said: "This is the sort of nonsense that makes
British people throw up at the thought of the EU.

"The idea that, for example, our Olympic athletes should wear the European logo
next year is so unbelievable that it could only be thought up in the EU.

"What it clearly shows is how the people in Brussels see Europe as a country,
not as a collection of individual sovereign states.

"Perhaps even more than all the money we are wasting on the EU and the surrender
of sovereignty, if you put it to the people that the England football team would
be wearing the European flag, they'd be absolutely incensed.

"If it wasn't so sad, it would be funny.'" It is not yet known how much progress
the proposal will make in Brussels but there were indications last night that
the UK government will oppose the idea.

A Whitehall source said the UK position would be that it was for sports
governing bodies, competition organisers and clubs to decide what flags were
displayed on clothing or flown at sporting events.

Brussels already has the power to fine organisations in certain circumstances
for not flying the EU flag.

Recently it emerged that the University of Northampton was fined more than GBP
56,000 for not displaying the EU logo to acknowledge it had received funding
from the European Regional Development Fund.

Q Should British sports stars wear the EU flag?

YES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088 No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sport events may have to fly both EU and British flag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Most of us now want to pull out of the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 127  words


HALF of voters want the UK to quit the European Union, an opinion poll revealed
last night.

In a stark indication of growing opposition to Brussels, 49 per cent would vote
in a referendum for Britain to quit, the Angus Reid survey found.

Only a quarter wanted to remain in the EU.

So opponents now outnumber supporters by two to one.

Fifty-seven per cent believe being in the EU has been negative while 32 per cent
think it has been positive.

A massive 81 per cent of voters were against Britain joining the euro.

Tory MP Peter Bone said: "The Conservative Party has yet to catch up with public
opinion."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "Across all social groups people want to leave."

The poll follows the hugely popular Daily Express crusade for Britain to leave
the EU.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£1bn corruption fines of German firm that cost Britain 1,400 jobs

BYLINE: John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 213 words


THE German engineering giant which cost 1,400 British workers their jobs after
landing a huge train contract was at the centre of a corruption row yesterday.

Questions were asked whether Siemens was a suitable bidder after £1billion in
fines were imposed by German and US authorities in 2008 over allegations of
bribing public officials. Siemens was also fined £349million by the European
Commission in 2007 for alleged violations of competition law.

Last month the firm was awarded the £1.5billion contract to build carriages for
the Thameslink rail line ahead of UK manufacturer Bombardier - leading to the
loss of 1,400 jobs in Derby.

The Daily Express last week launched a campaign to save the Bombardier jobs.

A Greek parliamentary committee is also investigating alleged wrongdoing by
Siemens, a claim the firm rejects as "unfounded".

Yesterday UKIP MEP Derek Clark urged the EU to inquire into the decision to hand
the train contract to the firm. There is no suggestion that Siemens acted
dishonestly in securing the deal.

The Department for Transport said it was satisfied that the firm was a suitable
bidder.

Siemens said: "As a result of the issues that occurred in the past Siemens has a
zero-tolerance approach to non-compliance which is enforced throughout the
global company."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 1bn corruption fines of German firm that cost Britain 1,400 jobs

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 304  words


THE German engineering giant which cost 1,400 British workers their jobs after
landing a huge train contract was at the centre of a corruption row yesterday.

Questions were asked whether Siemens was a suitable bidder after GBP 1billion in
fines were imposed by German and US authorities in 2008 over allegations of
bribing public officials.

Siemens was also fined GBP 349million by the European Commission in 2007 for
alleged violations of competition law.

Last month the firm was awarded the GBP 1.5billion contract to build carriages
for the Thameslink rail line ahead of UK manufacturer Bombardier - leading to
the loss of 1,400 jobs in Derby.

The Daily Express last week launched a campaign to save the Bombardier jobs.

A Greek parliamentary committee is also investigating alleged wrongdoing by
Siemens, a claim the firm rejects as "unfounded".

Yesterday UKIP MEP Derek Clark urged the EU to inquire into the decision to hand
the train contract to the firm. There is no suggestion that Siemens acted
dishonestly in securing the deal.

The Department for Transport said it was satisfied that the firm was a suitable
bidder.

Siemens said: "As a result of the issues that occurred in the past Siemens has a
zero-tolerance approach to non-compliance which is enforced throughout the
global company."

BOMBARDIER has a good order book - starting in two years - for its Derby train
facility.

So how do we fill the gap until then to prevent the closure of our last
train-maker?

Do what the Germans or the French would do, that's how!

A good order for over a billion pounds is subjected to a procurement process
that gives the order to Siemens of Germany. Are we mad?

Bombardier is a world-class business. It deserves a world class Government
procurement policy to work with. What a pity that it will leave these shores for
good because last week

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

German train bid firm paid out GBP 1bn in corruption fines

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 179  words


GERMAN engineering giant Siemens was at the centre of a corruption row
yesterday.

Last month the firm was awarded the GBP 1.5billion contract to build carriages
for the Thameslink rail line ahead of UK manufacturer Bombardier - leading to
the axeing of 1,400 jobs in Derby.

The Daily Express last week launched a campaign to save the Bombardier jobs.

But yesterday questions were being asked about fines of nearly GBP 1billion
imposed by German and American authorities in 2008 over allegations of bribing
public officials. Siemens was also fined GBP 349million by the European
Commission in 2007 for alleged violations of competition law.

A Greek parliamentary committee is investigating alleged wrongdoing by Siemens,
a claim the firm rejects as "unfounded".

Yesterday the UKIP MEP for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, urged EU authorities
to inquire into the Thameslink decision, although there is no suggestion that
Siemens acted dishonestly in securing the deal. The Department for Transport
said it was aware of the issue but was satisfied that the firm was a suitable
bidder.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                 July 10, 2011
                                 3 Star Edition

Damned EUnited;
Britain whimpers as Brussels calls the shots

BYLINE: Charlie Catchpole

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 422 words


BREAKING news - Britain has imposed strict border controls to keep out criminals
and illegal immigrants from Europe.

Yeah right, as if that's going to happen.

On the other hand take the example of Denmark, a far from enthusiastic member of
the European Union.

By tightening its borders, Denmark is accused of breaching the Schengen
agreement, which allows free movement of goods and people and applies to all EU
member states, except Britain and Ireland.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, has urged the PM to use this
development to demand concessions for Britain.

He said: "If David Cameron genuinely wanted to stand up to Brussels, now would
be the perfect time.

"The two crowning achievements of the EU are meant to be the single currency and
the Schengen agreement. The first is in the deepest crisis imaginable and the
Danes have torn up the second." Yes. And the band played Believe It If You Like.

Two news items this week reveal just how tightly Europe's tentacles are wrapped
around the heart of British life.

.Brussels imposed fines of almost pounds 500,000 on councils, museums,
universities, business groups and voluntary PuPils school scarborough, told they
could out" of sports (losing leaves mental scars... organisations for failing to
fly the EU flag or display its logo in return for grant money.

Birmingham Chambers of Commerce was hit with a pounds 77,609 penalty for using
its own corporate branding rather than EU logos at an event. blah.) so lots
layabouts grass,guzzling drinks and keen classmatesspeed past. preparation
grown-up iwould say.

Even Peterborough YMCA had to stump up pounds 1,325 because it didn't put the EU
symbol on some leaflets.

Meanwhile, the Department for Culture ruled out any official celebration in 2015
of the 200th anniversary of Waterloo - arguably Britain's greatest, and
bloodiest, military triumph.

at a in were "opt day.

Instead, there'll be "initiatives" at army museums and "some commemorative
activity" at former homes of the Duke of Wellington, who masterminded France's
defeat.

Well, we can't upset our European allies, can we? blah, of on the fizzy watching
ideal for the Compare this with the fuss over the 200th anniversary of the
abolition of the slave trade in 2007, which culminated in a Westminster Abbey
service and a lip-trembling apology on behalf of the nation by the then Prime
Minister, Tony Blair.

At least Britain won't be apologising to France for ending Napoleon's dream of a
united Europe.

Unless Brussels tells us to.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 10, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

RICH PICKINGS;
The best of the bunch from the Foto8 Summershow 2011

BYLINE: Emma Broomfield

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38

LENGTH: 717 words


WITH MY BODY...

This week's Spectrum features entrants from the 2011 Foto8 Summershow. Now in
its fourth year, the international competition accepts images from emerging and
established photographers. This year it has attracted over 2,800 entries. Cover:
this unique take on portraiture by Annie Collinge features her model, the set
designer Sarah May, shrouded in floral material to blend perfectly into the
background. Top: by photographing family members and repeating each pose
herself, Jocelyn Allen (centre) hopes to learn more about her own quirks and
character traits. Middle, left: this still life of an octopus and a squid was
taken by Dr Eran Gilat, a neuroscientist based in Israel, who makes art out of
the creatures he uses in his research.

Middle, right: while on assignment in Kenya, Abbie Trayler-Smith visited Lake
Nakuru - famed for its flamingos, which are under threat as silt from farming
shrinks the lake. Left, below: exhausted newlyweds at a group wedding at the
Pader refugee camp in northern Uganda, by Becky Matthews and Clare Struthers.
The wedding dresses were sourced from the UK by a charity. After 25 years of
civil war, there are 1.6m people displaced across Uganda. Above: Neil Craver's
nude bather floats in cloudy, calm water - his metaphor for exploring the
subconscious. Right: Natalie Naccache photographed these nine-year-old girls as
they waited their turn in the beautician's chair, at a make-over birthday party
at the Chez Lulu salon in Beirut

HERE'S THE CATCH

Fishermen haul their boats towards the water's edge in Sansui, a county in the
province of Guizhou, southeast China. The communities here have relied on
traditional fishing techniques for centuries, but overfishing has forced
authorities to regulate the amount caught during the peak spawning season. Those
found breaking the law are fined severely and risk having their catch
confiscated. Photograph by Chan Kwok Hung

GHOSTS AND THE MACHINE

Top left: a youngster in a Halloween mask poses for Kurt Simonson, part of a
series for which the photographer revisited his home town in Minnesota, and some
of his earliest memories. Left: 42-year-old Derrick Jackson, photographed by
Justin Clemons at a prison in Livingston, Texas last July. Jackson was giving
his last interview: he was executed by lethal injection three weeks later, for
the killing of two Houston opera singers in 1988. Above right: rebels parade
through the streets after liberating the Ras Lanuf oilfields in northern Libya
in February. The celebrations, captured by Dan Charity, would prove short-lived,
as pro-Gadaffiforces reclaimed the territory days later. Right: in May 2010,
Neil Hall was hired to photograph Nigel Farage in a light aircraft on general
election day. He captured the UKIP candidate staggering from his plane, seconds
after it nosedived into the ground at a private airfield near Brackley,
Northants. Far right: Sara Hannant's photograph of a burning effigy of David
Cameron and his puppet, Nick Clegg, at bonfire night celebrations in Lewes, East
Sussex

FEELING THE PINCH

Left: Ed Wray photographed this trainer and his monkeys in Jakarta, where they
perform tricks for tourists. Right: a startled hare eyes the lens of Peter
Denness's camera in Suffolk. Hare sightings are increasingly rare in the UK.
Bottom left: a dog awaits its turn in the showring at the American Spaniel
Club's Flushing Spaniel Show in Pennsylvania. Her ears have been loosely
bandaged to keep them clean. Photograph by Mark Makela. Bottom right: a
life-size model of African big game and a panda greets visitors to Taiyuan Zoo
in China's Shanxi province. This photograph, by Jonathan Browning, is from a
series that considers how China's vast urban population has little or no contact
with the natural world

ROAR FROM THE TERRACES

Footballers warm up on a floodlit pitch in Hong Kong, sandwiched between
high-rise offices and tower blocks. The image, by Chris Frazer Smith, is part of
a series about life in some of the most dense urban environments A selection of
this year's commended entries can be seen at the Foto8 Summershow 2011, from
July 8-August 12 at Host Gallery, 1-5 Honduras Street, London EC1

For more information visit: www.foto8.com/summershow

For an extended selection of Spectrum images, visit www.thesundaytimes.
co.uk/spectrum

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALL PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF FOTO8

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU CHEATS US OUT OF JOBS;
Unfair rules favour foreign firms EU rules favour the biggest over the best

BYLINE: Eugene Henderson;John Ingham

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 468 words


BRITISH train maker Bombardier "never stood a chance" of winning a key contract
because the rules favoured its German rival, it was claimed yesterday.

The deal was always likely to be awarded to German company Siemens because of
its superior financial clout within the European Union, an insider revealed.

Bidding criteria laid down by the last Labour government and overseen by the EU
meant the winning firm had to arrange finance for the £1.5billion deal as part
of the Thameslink rail project. Siemens, which dwarfs Bombardier in size, has a
better credit rating and can secure loans at much cheaper rates. Under EU law,
the Government has to award the contract to the firm that wins according to the
original bidding criteria, which clearly favoured Siemens.

Bombardier this week announced more than 1,400 job losses at its Derby base,
with fears of thousands more among suppliers.

As the Daily Express Battle For Bombardier crusade gathered momentum last night,
a Government source said: "Finance was a major issue. Siemens had much lower
costs due to much cheaper credit."

Industry sources believe Bombardier's price for the 1,200 carriages was
"competitive" though its tender for maintenance was slightly more expensive.

Unite official Mark Young, whose union represents most of the 3,000 workers at
Bombardier's Derby site, said the fundraising requirement meant the company was
not competing on equal terms.

He said: "If this is the case it is quite clear that Bombardier never stood a
chance. The only companies that can ever win a major contract under these
circumstances are giants. It is not a level playing field. It is not fair
competition, which is all we were asking for."

Derek Clark, Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, said: "Bombardier has fallen foul
of the EU bidding process. Just because another company is bigger, has a more
favourable balance sheet and can get its hands on money more easily does not
necessarily mean it has the best bid. Other countries play the EU system to
their advantage but Britain just follows the rules without any deviation." An
industry source said: "Bombardier could not match Siemens when it came to the
balance book and the ability to raise finances.

"It is a small company compared to Siemens who have the financial clout that it
could never match. If it comes to EU rules giving the advantage to the bigger,
and not necessarily the best company, then it makes a mockery of the whole
thing."

Siemens has an A+ credit rating, allowing it to pay about 1.5 per cent a year
less in interest - worth £700million over 30 years.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Is the EU a disaster for Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8348 NO: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088

No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: East Midlands MEP Derek Clark

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU CHEATS US OUT OF JOBS

BYLINE: By Eugene Henderson and John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 472  words


Unfair rules favour foreign firms

BRITISH train maker Bombardier "never stood a chance" of winning a key contract
because the rules favoured its German rival, it was claimed yesterday.

The deal was always likely to be awarded to German company Siemens because of
its superior financial clout within the European Union, an insider revealed.

Bidding criteria laid down by the last Labour government and overseen by the EU
meant the winning firm had to arrange finance for the GBP 1.5billion deal as
part of the Thameslink rail project. Siemens, which dwarfs Bombardier in size,
has a better credit rating and can secure loans at much cheaper rates. Under EU
law, the Government has to award the contract to the firm that wins according to
the original bidding criteria, which clearly favoured Siemens.

Bombardier this week announced more than 1,400 job losses at its Derby base,
with fears of thousands more among suppliers.

As the Daily Express Battle For Bombardier crusade gathered momentum last night,
a Government source said: "Finance was a major issue. Siemens had much lower
costs due to much cheaper credit."

Industry sources believe Bombardier's price for the 1,200 carriages was
"competitive" though its tender for maintenance was slightly more expensive.

Unite official Mark Young, whose union represents most of the 3,000 workers at
Bombardier's Derby site, said the fundraising requirement meant the company was
not competing on equal terms.

He said: "If this is the case it is quite clear that Bombardier never stood a
chance.

The only companies that can ever win a major contract under these circumstances
are giants. It is not a level playing field. It is not fair competition, which
is all we were asking for."

Derek Clark, Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, said: "Bombardier has fallen foul
of the EU bidding process. Just because another company is bigger, has a more
favourable balance sheet and can get its hands on money more easily does not
necessarily mean it has the best bid. Other countries play the EU system to
their advantage but Britain just follows the rules without any deviation." An
industry source said: "Bombardier could not match Siemens when it came to the
balance book and the ability to raise finances.

"It is a small company compared to Siemens who have the financial clout that it
could never match. If it comes to EU rules giving the advantage to the bigger,
and not necessarily the best company, then it makes a mockery of the whole
thing."

Siemens has an A+ credit rating, allowing it to pay about 1.5 per cent a year
less in interest - worth GBP 700million over 30 years.

Q Is the EU a disaster for Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8348 NO: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088 No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: East Midlands MEP Derek Clark

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

EU CHEATS US OUT OF JOBS

BYLINE: By Eugene Henderson and John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 462  words


Unfair rules favour foreign firms

BRITISH train maker Bombardier "never stood a chance" of winning a key contract
because the rules favoured its German rival, it was claimed yesterday.

The deal was always likely to be awarded to German company Siemens because of
its superior financial clout within the European Union, an insider revealed.

Bidding criteria laid down by the last Labour government and overseen by the EU
meant the winning firm had to arrange finance for the GBP 1.5billion deal as
part of the Thameslink rail project. Siemens, which dwarfs Bombardier in size,
has a better credit rating and can secure loans at much cheaper rates.

Under EU law, the Government has to award the contract to the firm that wins
according to the original bidding criteria, which favoured Siemens.

Bombardier this week announced more than 1,400 job losses at its Derby base with
fears of thousands more among its 12,000-man supply chain.

As the Daily Express Battle for Bombardier campaign gathered momentum, with
thousands of readers backing the call to support British jobs and reverse the
controversial decision, a Government source said: "Finance was a major issue.
Siemens had lower costs due to much cheaper credit."

Industry sources believe that Bombardier's price for the 1,200 train carriages
was "competitive" though its tender for maintenance was slightly more expensive.
But Unite official Mark Young, whose union represents most of the 3,000 workers
at Bombardier's Derby site, said the fund-raising requirement meant Bombardier
was not competing on equal terms.

He said: "If this is the case it is quite clear that Bombardier never stood a
chance. The only companies that can ever win a major contract under these
circumstances are giants.

"It is not a level playing field.

It is not fair competition which is all we were asking for."

Derek Clark, Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, said: "Bombardier has fallen foul
of the EU bidding process. Other countries play the EU system to their advantage
but Britain just follows the rules without any deviation."

An industry source said:

"Bombardier could not match Siemens when it came to the balance book and the
ability to raise finances. It is a small company compared to Siemens who have
the financial clout that it could never match.

"If it comes to EU rules giving the advantage to the bigger, and not necessarily
the best company, then it makes a mockery of the whole thing."

Siemens has an A+ credit rating, allowing it to pay about 1.5 per cent a year
less interest which could be worth GBP 700million over the 30-year deal.

Bombardier employs 65,000 worldwide and last year reported profits worldwide of
GBP 480million. Siemens employs more than 400,000 and last year generated its
largest ever operating profit, nearly GBP 7billion.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Clegg: We must bail out euro

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 250  words


NICK Clegg came under fire last night by saying Britain must prop up the euro
and play a bigger role bailing out debt-stricken nations.

The Deputy Prime Minister angered critics by insisting Britain's fortunes were
tied to the eurozone.

He said the UK could not stand by while countries like Greece teeter on the
brink.

Threatening to open up a split in the Coalition, he told Euro sceptics to stop
"wagging fingers" and "watching from the wings". Delivering his speech in French
in Paris, Mr Clegg said: "Mistakes have been made by countries outside the
eurozone and those inside it. As members of the EU, all of our economic fortunes
are tied.

"The UK, for example, exports more to our eurozone partners than to the US."

Mr Clegg's pro-European speech came as David Cameron promised, in a magazine
interview, to claw back powers from Brussels.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Mr Clegg's views proved he was out of touch with
the British public. He said: "Clegg simply doesn't get it. In the case of Greece
it has become increasingly clear that the country should be allowed to go
bankrupt and leave the euro in order to start the slow journey of getting its
economy back on track. It is not 'finger-wagging' but simply making the point
that the euro vanity project is failing.

"If Nick Clegg was really in touch with the people in this country he would
realise that they are not being 'triumphalist' about the eurozone's critical
condition - they have simply had enough of putting their hand in their pockets."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Clegg in Paris yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 8, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU BUNCH OF BULLIES;
University fined £60k for failing to fly European flag

BYLINE: LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words


EUROPEAN Union chiefs have sparked outrage after fining a British university
£60,000 for not flying the EU flag.

The University of Northampton was penalised because displaying the logo on a
notice board was part of the deal when it got cash for a new building from the
European Regional Development Fund.

But Tory MP Michael Ellis slammed the fine as "outrageous" and demanded the cash
be returned. Mr Ellis, MP for Northampton North, said: "These EU dictocrats
shouldn't be worrying about their egos or wasting money investigating these
matters. "This is British taxpayers' money being wasted on absurd
self-publicity.

"There's not an ounce of common sense being used."

Northampton's Euro MP, Derek Clark, promised to fight the fine in the European
Parliament.

The UKIP politician said: "These European officials insist on having flags put
up to tell people how wonderful they are, but they are nothing of the sort. It
is an absolute disgrace."

A university spokesman said they had agreed to display the flag as part of the
funding deal.

He added: "Without the support of the European funding the building of a new
facility would not have been possible."

Since 2007 eight British organisations have been fined for breaching agreements
to display the EU logo.

news@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 8, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

University fined £56,000 for not flying EU's flag

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 469 words


TAXPAYERS were left with a £56,000 bill after a British university was hit with
a huge fine for failing to fly the EU flag.

Brussels bureaucrats were branded "an absolute disgrace" yesterday after the
University of Northampton was penalised for breaching funding rules.

The revelation comes after Eric Pickles, Secretary of State for Communities and
Local Government, called for the unfair penalties to be scrapped.

The £56,477 fine was imposed after money from the European Regional Development
Fund was used to fund new facilities in the university's Newton Building.

Officials complained the cash was provided on condition the university promoted
the EU flag.

Outrageous But yesterday critics branded the penalty an outrageous waste of
taxpayers' money.

Local Conservative MP Michael Ellis labelled the fine "astronomical" and
insisted the money should be paid back to the university immediately.

He said: "It's outrageous. These European dictocrats shouldn't be worrying about
their egos or wasting taxpayers' money on investigating these matters.

"This is British taxpayers' money being wasted on absurd self-publicity. There's
not an ounce of common sense being used here."

Northampton's Ukip Euro MP Derek Clark promised to fight the fine in the
European Parliament. He said: "This whole thing is an absolute disgrace and an
awful thing to do to a university.

"These European officials insist on having flags put up to tell people how
wonderful they are, but they're nothing of the sort."

Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's outrageous that Eurocrats are
now trying to dictate which flags British institutions must fly.

"If EU grants come with ridiculous strings attached then the university should
reconsider whether they want funding from a source that's so devoted to pathetic
pedantry like this.

"British taxpayers give millions to the EU every day and a large amount of it is
wasted on publicity and flag-checking bureaucrats."

Britain is a net contributor to the EU budget. Last year the UK paid Brussels
£6.4billion more than it received back. Critics say ERDF cash is nothing more
than recycled taxpayers' money sloshing around in a sea of red tape. Last night
the university refused to criticise the fund. A spokesman said: "Without the
European funding, the project would not have been possible and we appreciate
their continued support." On Tuesday Mr Pickles said of the system: "It defies
common sense that the EU can hammer public bodies with huge fines for merely not
flying their flag.

"This is a prime example of bureaucracy taking over, with organisations being
hit for the most minor breaches for overcomplicated rules.

"The end result is British taxpayers' money being wasted on design guidelines,
form-filling and millions of pounds of red tape. These fines should be axed."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP wants EU flag fine paid back

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 8, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

University fined GBP 56,000 for not flying EU's flag

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 465  words


TAXPAYERS were left with a GBP 56,000 bill after a British university was hit
with a huge fine for failing to fly the EU flag.

Brussels bureaucrats were branded "an absolute disgrace" yesterday after the
University of Northampton was penalised for breaching funding rules.

The revelation comes after Eric Pickles, Secretary of State for Communities and
Local Government, called for the unfair penalties to be scrapped.

The GBP 56,477 fine was imposed after money from the European Regional
Development Fund was used to fund new facilities in the university's Newton
Building.

Officials complained the cash was provided on condition the university promoted
the EU flag.

But yesterday critics branded the penalty an outrageous waste of taxpayers'
money.

Local Conservative MP Michael Ellis labelled the fine "astronomical" and
insisted the money should be paid back to the university immediately.

He said: "It's outrageous. These European dictocrats shouldn't be worrying about
their egos or wasting taxpayers' money on investigating these matters.

"This is British taxpayers' money being wasted on absurd self-publicity. There's
not an ounce of common sense being used here."

Northampton's Ukip Euro MP Derek Clark promised to fight the fine in the
European Parliament.

He said: "This whole thing is an absolute disgrace and an awful thing to do to a
university.

"These European officials insist on having flags put up to tell people how
wonderful they are, but they're nothing of the sort."

Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's outrageous that Eurocrats are
now trying to dictate which flags British institutions must fly.

"If EU grants come with ridiculous strings attached then the university should
reconsider whether they want funding from a source that's so devoted to pathetic
pedantry like this.

"British taxpayers give millions to the EU every day and a large amount of it is
wasted on publicity and flag-checking bureaucrats."

Britain is a net contributor to the EU budget. Last year the UK paid Brussels
GBP 6.4billion more than it received back. Critics say ERDF cash is nothing more
than recycled taxpayers' money sloshing around in a sea of red tape.

Last night the university refused to criticise the fund. A spokesman said:
"Without the European funding, the project would not have been possible and we
appreciate their continued support."

On Tuesday Mr Pickles said of the system: "It defies common sense that the EU
can hammer public bodies with huge fines for merely not flying their flag.

"This is a prime example of bureaucracy taking over, with organisations being
hit for the most minor breaches for overcomplicated rules.

"The end result is British taxpayers' money being wasted on design guidelines,
form-filling and millions of pounds of red tape.

These fines should be axed."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MP wants EU flag fine paid back

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

STORM GROWS AT TRAIN DEAL;
Union & MEP issue rally call

BYLINE: LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 205 words


A RALLYING cry to back British jobs for British workers went out last night
after train-maker Bombardier axed 1,400 staff.

EU rules handed a major contract to rival German company Siemens.

The Derby firm lost out on the multimillion-pound order - 1,200 carriages - for
the £6billion Thameslink project.

UKIP MEP for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, said: "Whatever happened to British
jobs for British workers? "Workers have been let down by successive governments
which have not made better efforts to retain manufacturing in this country and
have simply caved in to EU pressure."

Gerry Doherty, rail union TSSA leader, said: "Ministers must abandon their role
as Pontius Pilate and stop standing idly by while train-making slowly bleeds to
death in the UK."

Transport Secretary Philip Hammond has already ruled out a U-turn.

The Star Says: Page 6 news@dailystar.co.uk SHOULD BRITISH JOBS GO TO BRITISH
WORKERS? YES: 0901 030 8386 NO: 0901 030 8387 If you want to use sms text: Yes
text DSTHURYES to 80088 No text DSTHURNO to 80088 Calls 26p from BT Landlines.
Texts 25p plus your standard network charges. Lines close midnight tonight. 99%
of Daily Star readers think immigrants who can't find a job should be forced to
leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We want British jobs for British workers

BYLINE: John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1283 words


15 A RALLYING cry to back British workers was issued last night after the UK's
last train-maker announced it was cutting over 1,400 jobs because it was losing
a key contract to a German rival.

15 13 A further 12,000 jobs are likely to go at 100 local companies supplying
the plant. Derby-based Bombardier suffered the latest blow to British industry
after the Government chose German company Siemens as the preferred bidder to
supply 1,200 train carriages.

Today's summary: They are part of the £6billion Thameslink mainline rail
project.

North West Coast: It is set to be mainly cloudy with scattered showers, some
heavy with the risk of thunder. A gentle southerly breeze. High 16C (61F). South
West Coast: It is set to be mostly cloudy with heavy showers and the risk of
thunder. A fresh southwesterly wind. High 15C (59F).

The Government claims that it had no choice under EU competition rules.

But today the Daily Express launches its latest crusade "Battle for Bombardier"
and urges the Government South Central Ireland: It is set to be mostly cloudy
with scattered showers, some heavy later with thunder. A brisk southwesterly
wind. High 16C (61F).

to think again over the decision and prevent further sell-outs affecting our
companies and workers. min max min max CRUSADE BATTLE FOR BOMBARDIER Ukip MEP
for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, asked: "Whatever happened to British jobs
for British workers? London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester
newcastle norwich Plymouth Fri SaT 12 19 12 22 10 11 16 18 11 10 18 21 13 12 17
19 12 12 18 17 11 11 18 19 10 1 17 19 12 12 20 23 13 12 17 18 "Workers have been
let down by successive governments which have not made better efforts to retain
manufacturing in this country and simply caved in to EU pressure.

CRUSADE 24 hours SUN RAIN TEMP to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) Britain BATTLE FOR
BOMBARDIER "While we are in the EU we cannot do anything about competition rules
or stop manufacturers going elsewhere."

Aberdeen 0.0 0.58 13 14 Aberporth 9.2 0.12 10 15 Alnwick 0.2 1.34 13 16 Belfast
7.3 0.00 12 18 Birmingham 6.6 0.18 12 20 B'mouth 5.4 0.13 12 18 Bristol 5.4 0.31
11 17 Gerry Doherty, leader of Glasgow Hull Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London
Manchester Cardiff n/a 0.12 12 17 Durham 1.0 0.18 13 18 Edinburgh 0.7 0.36 13 17
Oxford S'hampton St Andrews the TSSA rail union, said: "Ministers must abandon
their role as Pontius Pilate and stop standing idly by while train-making slowly
bleeds to death in the UK.

Lighting-up times Birmingham Bristol Glasgow Belfast 9.56pm-4.58am "They owe it
to British manufacturing in general, Today Europe to 2pm yesterday) and the
people of Derby in particular, to reverse their decision to award this huge
contract to Siemens.

First Quarter 8 July Temperatures in Centigrade "No German or French government
would be so foolish as to award such a vital contract to an overseas
manufacturer, threatening thousands of domestic jobs.

min max min max min max min max Sun Mon Tue Wed 13 12 12 22 22 22 22 9 10 12
1217 17 18 1011 11 12 20 2121 21 12 13 14 14 20 212 12 11 112 13 13 17 18 18 18
1011 11 12 19 19 19 20 "We should be equally hard headed when it comes to
preserving our own trainbuilding industry." Unite Midlands: Unsettled with the
chance heavy showers, mainly later. Fresh southwesterly winds. High 19C (66F).
Wales: A breezy day with sunny and showers, some heavy and Fresh southerly
winds. High 18C ( general secretary Len McCluskey said: "It's a tragedy because
these redundancies would have been needless if the government really cared about
British manufacturing and skills."

UK outlook Tomorrow: six-day forEcasT He cited Chancellor George Osborne's
Budget statement when he said: "We want the words 'Made in Britain', 'Created in
Britain', 'Designed in Britain', 'Invented in Britain' to drive our nation
forward.

min max London Belfast Fri SaT 12 19 12 1011 16 cloud across the Canaries with
odd light shower. High 28C (82F).

A Britain carried aloft by the march of the makers.

"That is how we will create jobs and support families."

Dry and fine for most in Britain today longer Brisk Mr McCluskey said: "Today
these hollow words will stick in the teeth of the loyal and hardworking men and
women at Bombardier."

North: Unsettled with a few showers, some heavy and thundery. Moderate southerly
winds. High 20C (68F). of Scotland: A few sunny intervals, but heavy and
thundery showers. Moderate variable winds. High 18C (64F).

spells thundery. Stephen Tetlow, chief executive of the Institution of
Mechanical Engineers, said: "The UK has no clear vision for its long-term
transport infrastructure for which 64F). Ireland: Showers or longer spells of
some heavy with the risk of thunder. winds. High 16C (61F).

British manufacturing can tool up, raise funds, and develop skills.

Showers or longer spells of rain iN BriTaiN Temperatures in Centigrade "The UK
is on course to remain one of the worst performing European countries in
transport infrastructure for the next 10 years."

max min max min max min max Transport Secretary Philip Hammond stressed that
Bombardier had written to him in May to say it was planning 1,200 redundancies
whether or not it won the Thameslink contract.

Sun Mon Tue Wed 13 12 22 22 22 22 9 10 12 18 17 17 18 1011 1 21 20 2121 12 13 14
19 20 212 11 112 13 17 18 1011 11 19 19 19 19 10 10 10 19 19 17 18 12 12 1 23 22
20 19 11 12 18 18 19 19 Siemens, meanwhile, has pledged to create British jobs
for the contract, notably in the North-east.

Britain yesterday Moon, sun and tides But Mr Hammond was yesterday branded an
"EU puppet" over the job losses at Bombardier.

MOON rises: 12.46pm, sets: - SUN rises Madrid: 5.50am, sets: Manchester rises:
4.50am, sets: First Quarter 8 July He insists that he was bound by a Thameslink
bidding process laid down by the previous Labour government.

0.4 0.72 1217 1.0 0.56 14 19 5.6 0.24 13 20 3.6 0.20 13 19 4.8 0.10 13 20 6.5
0.16 13 20 4.7 0.16 12 19 3.7 0.09 12 18 5.6 0.20 14 18 Andrews 0.0 1.47 14 15
OPINION & COMMENT: PAGE 12 HIGH TIDE London B'ge (6.43am), (Liverpool (3.50am),
(Greenock (4.54am), (Dover (3.56am), ( 15 12 DAVID Cameron last night promised
to negotiate a new relationship between Britain and the European Union that will
bring back power to Westminster from Brussels.

In a shift in Government policy, the Prime Minister predicted that fresh
opportunities for loosening the UK's ties to the EU were certain to arise as a
result of the eurozone crisis.

Temperatures in Centigrade showers with thunder East Coast: Wet and overcast
with rain and then scattered showers, some heavy and thundery. A moderate
southerly wind.

He said: "There will be opportunities for Britain to maximise what we want in
terms of our engagement with Europe."

He argued the economic turmoil will force eurozone countries, including France
and Germany, into even closer political union, freeing Britain to go its own way
and avoid Brussels meddling.

Temperatures in Centigrade Mr Cameron's remarks, in an interview with today's
Spectator magazine, will please a number of Tory MPs, who want the PM to stand
up to Eurocrats.

Spain, Portugal and But it is unlikely to satisfy campaigners, who Most of Spain
will be dry with 30 support the Daily Express crusade for Britain to withdraw
from the EU.

34 Mr Cameron told the Spectator he had already successfully negotiated an exit
for Britain from the £60billion euro bailout fund that the country was locked
into by the last Labour government.

23 30 He said: "I got us out of the bailout mechanism, which has been used
repeatedly and from 2013 cannot be used again, so I think I exacted a good and
fair price for Britain."

Today's forecast: the Balearic and Canary Islands plenty High 37C (99F).
Portugal will

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

We want British jobs for British workers

BYLINE: John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words


A RALLYING cry to back British workers was issued last night after the UK's last
train-maker announced it was cutting over 1,400 jobs because it was losing a key
contract to a German rival.

A further 12,000 jobs are likely to go at 100 local companies supplying the
plant.

Derby-based Bombardier suffered the latest blow to British industry after the
Government chose German company Siemens as the preferred bidder to supply 1,200
train carriages.

They are part of the £6billion Thameslink mainline rail project.

The Government claims that it had no choice under EU competition rules.

But today the Daily Express launches its latest crusade "Battle for Bombardier"
and urges the Government to think again over the decision and prevent further
sell-outs affecting our companies and workers.

Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, asked: "Whatever happened to
British jobs for British workers?

"Workers have been let down by successive governments which have not made better
efforts to retain manufacturing in this country and simply caved in to EU
pressure. While we are in the EU we cannot do anything about competition rules
or stop manufacturers going elsewhere."

The RMT union said last night Transport Secretary Philip Hammond would meet
unions next Wednesday over the crisis. It added that unions would be staging a
mass demonstration in Derby on July 23.

Gerry Doherty, leader of the TSSA rail union, said: Today Europe to 2pm
yesterday) First Quarter 8 July "Ministers must abandon their role as Pontius
Pilate and stop standing idly by while train-making slowly bleeds to death in
the UK.

They owe it to British manufacturing in general, and the people of Derby in
particular, to reverse their decision to award this huge contract to Siemens.

"No German or French government would be so foolish as to award such a vital
contract to an overseas manufacturer, threatening thousands of domestic jobs. We
should be equally hard headed when it comes to preserving our own trainbuilding
industry."

Unite general secretary Len McCluskey said: "It's a tragedy because these
redundancies would have been needless if the Government really cared about
British manufacturing and skills."

He cited Chancellor George Osborne's Budget statement when he said: "We want the
words 'Made in Britain', 'Created in Britain', 'Designed in Britain', 'Invented
in Britain' to drive our nation forward. A Britain carried aloft by the march of
the makers.

"That is how we will create jobs and support families."

Mr McCluskey said: "Today these hollow words will stick in the teeth of the
loyal and hardworking men and women at Bombardier."

Stephen Tetlow, chief executive of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,
said: "The UK has no clear vision for its long-term transport infrastructure for
which British manufacturing can tool up, raise funds, and develop skills.

"The UK is on course to remain one of the worst performing European countries in
transport infrastructure for the next 10 years."

Mr Hammond stressed that Bombardier had written to him in May to say it was
planning 1,200 redundancies whether or not it won the Thameslink contract.

Siemens, meanwhile, has pledged to create British jobs for the contract, notably
in the North-east.

But Mr Hammond was yesterday branded an "EU puppet" over the job losses at
Bombardier.

CAMERON MOVES TO SWITCH EU POWER BACK TO WESTMINSTER

DAVID Cameron last night promised to negotiate a new relationship between
Britain and the European Union that will bring back power to Westminster from
Brussels.

In a shift in Government policy, the Prime Minister predicted that fresh
opportunities for loosening the UK's ties to the EU were certain to arise as a
result of the eurozone crisis.

Temperatures in Centigrade showers with thunder East Coast: Wet and overcast
with rain and then scattered showers, some heavy and thundery. A moderate
southerly wind.

He said: "There will be opportunities for Britain to maximise what we want in
terms of our engagement with Europe."

He argued the economic turmoil will force eurozone countries, including France
and Germany, into even closer political union, freeing Britain to go its own way
and avoid Brussels meddling.

Temperatures in Centigrade Mr Cameron's remarks, in an interview with today's
Spectator magazine, will please a number of Tory MPs, who want the PM to stand
up to Eurocrats.

Spain, Portugal and But it is unlikely to satisfy campaigners, who Most of Spain
will be dry with 30 support the Daily Express crusade for Britain to withdraw
from the EU.

34 Mr Cameron told the Spectator he had already successfully negotiated an exit
for Britain from the £60billion euro bailout fund that the country was locked
into by the last Labour government.

23 30 He said: "I got us out of the bailout mechanism, which has been used
repeatedly and from 2013 cannot be used again, so I think I exacted a good and
fair price for Britain."

YES: 0901 030 8344

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088

NO:901 030 8346

No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

Please complete and send to: BATTLE FOR BOMBARDIER CRUSADE, Newsdesk, The Daily
Express The Northern & Shell Building, 10 Lower Thames Street, London EC3R 6EN
We will make sure your voucher gets to 10 Downing Street
???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Address: Name:
Signed: Postcode: To David Cameron, Prime Minister I believe that the Government
should stop the meddling EU stealing British jobs at the Bombardier train
factory

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We want British jobs for British workers

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 532  words


A RALLYING cry to back British workers was issued last night after the UK's last
train-maker announced it was cutting over 1,400 jobs because it was losing a key
contract to a German rival.

A further 12,000 jobs are likely to go at 100 local companies supplying the
plant.

Derby-based Bombardier suffered the latest blow to British industry after the
Government chose German company Siemens as the preferred bidder to supply 1,200
train carriages.

They are part of the GBP 6billion Thameslink mainline rail project.

The Government claims that it had no choice under EU competition rules.

But today the Daily Express launches its latest crusade "Battle for Bombardier"
and urges the Government to think again over the decision and prevent further
sell-outs affecting our companies and workers.

Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, asked: "Whatever happened to
British jobs for British workers?

"Workers have been let down by successive governments which have not made better
efforts to retain manufacturing in this country and simply caved in to EU
pressure.

"While we are in the EU we cannot do anything about competition rules or stop
manufacturers going elsewhere."

Gerry Doherty, leader of the TSSA rail union, said:

"Ministers must abandon their role as Pontius Pilate and stop standing idly by
while train-making slowly bleeds to death in the UK.

"They owe it to British manufacturing in general, and the people of Derby in
particular, to reverse their decision to award this huge contract to Siemens.

"No German or French government would be so foolish as to award such a vital
contract to an overseas manufacturer, threatening thousands of domestic jobs.

"We should be equally hard headed when it comes to preserving our own train
building industry." Unite general secretary Len McCluskey said: "It's a tragedy
because these redundancies would have been needless if the government really
cared about British manufacturing and skills."

He cited Chancellor George Osborne's Budget statement when he said: "We want the
words 'Made in Britain', 'Created in Britain', 'Designed in Britain', 'Invented
in Britain' to drive our nation forward.

A Britain carried aloft by the march of the makers.

"That is how we will create jobs and support families."

Mr McCluskey said: "Today these hollow words will stick in the teeth of the
loyal and hardworking men and women at Bombardier."

Stephen Tetlow, chie f executive of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,
said: "The UK has no clear vision for its long-term transport infrastructure for
which British manufacturing can tool up, raise funds, and develop skills.

"The UK is on course to remain one of the worst performing European countries in
transport infrastructure for the next 10 years."

Transport Secretary Philip Hammond stressed that Bombardier had written to him
in May to say it was planning 1,200 redundancies whether or not it won the
Thameslink contract.

Siemens, meanwhile, has pledged to create British jobs for the contract, notably
in the North-east.

But Mr Hammond was yesterday branded an "EU puppet" over the job losses at
Bombardier.

He insists that he was bound by a Thameslink bidding process laid down by the
previous Labour government.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

We want British jobs for British workers

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 543  words


A RALLYING cry to back British workers was issued last night after the UK's last
train-maker announced it was cutting over 1,400 jobs because it was losing a key
contract to a German rival.

A further 12,000 jobs are likely to go at 100 local companies supplying the
plant.

Derby-based Bombardier suffered the latest blow to British industry after the
Government chose German company Siemens as the preferred bidder to supply 1,200
train carriages.

They are part of the GBP 6billion Thameslink mainline rail project.

The Government claims that it had no choice under EU competition rules.

But today the Daily Express launches its latest crusade "Battle for Bombardier"
and urges the Government to think again over the decision and prevent further
sell-outs affecting our companies and workers.

Ukip MEP for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, asked: "Whatever happened to
British jobs for British workers?

"Workers have been let down by successive governments which have not made better
efforts to retain manufacturing in this country and simply caved in to EU
pressure. While we are in the EU we cannot do anything about competition rules
or stop manufacturers going elsewhere."

The RMT union said last night Transport Secretary Philip Hammond would meet
unions next Wednesday over the crisis. It added that unions would be staging a
mass demonstration in Derby on July 23.

Gerry Doherty, leader of the TSSA rail union, said:

"Ministers must abandon their role as Pontius Pilate and stop standing idly by
while train-making slowly bleeds to death in the UK.

"They owe it to British manufacturing in general, and the people of Derby in
particular, to reverse their decision to award this huge contract to Siemens.

"No German or French government would be so foolish as to award such a vital
contract to an overseas manufacturer, threatening thousands of domestic jobs. We
should be equally hard headed when it comes to preserving our own trainbuilding
industry."

Unite general secretary Len McCluskey said: "It's a tragedy because these
redundancies would have been needless if the Government really cared about
British manufacturing and skills."

He cited Chancellor George Osborne's Budget statement when he said: "We want the
words 'Made in Britain', 'Created in Britain', 'Designed in Britain', 'Invented
in Britain' to drive our nation forward.

A Britain carried aloft by the march of the makers.

"That is how we will create jobs and support families."

Mr McCluskey said: "Today these hollow words will stick in the teeth of the
loyal and hardworking men and women at Bombardier."

Stephen Tetlow, chie f executive of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,
said: "The UK has no clear vision for its long-term transport infrastructure for
which British manufacturin g can tool up, raise funds, and develop skills.

"The UK is on course to remain one of the worst performing European countries in
transport infrastructure for the next 10 years."

Mr Hammond stressed that Bombardier had written to him in May to say it was
planning 1,200 redundancies whether or not it won the Thameslink contract.

Siemens, meanwhile, has pledged to create British jobs for the contract, notably
in the North-east.

But Mr Hammond was yesterday branded an "EU puppet" over the job losses at
Bombardier.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

We want British jobs for British workers

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 547  words


A RALLYING cry to back British workers was issued last night after the UK's last
train-maker announced it was axing 1,400 jobs because it was losing a key
contract to a German rival.

Derby-based Bombardier suffered the latest blow to British industry after the
Government chose German company Siemens as the preferred bidder to supply 1,200
train carriages as part of the GBP 6billion Thameslink main line rail project.

The Government claims it had no choice under EU competition rules - but today
the Daily Express launches its latest campaign "Battle for Bombardier" and urges
the Government to think again over the decision.

UKIP MEP for the East Midlands, Derek Clark, asked: "Whatever happened to
British jobs for British workers?

"They have been let down by successive governments which have not made better
efforts to retain manufacturing in this country and caved in to EU pressure.

"While we are in the EU we cannot do anything about competition rules or stop
manufacturers from going elsewhere."

Gerry Doherty, leader of the TSSA rail union, said:

"Ministers must abandon their role as Pontius Pilate and stop standing idly by
while train-making slowly bleeds to death in the UK.

"They owe it to British manufacturing in general, and the people of Derby in
particular, to reverse this decision.

"No German or French government would be so foolish as to award such a vital
contract to an overseas manufacturer, threatening thousands of domestic jobs.

"We should be equally hard headed when it comes to preserving our own train
building industry."

Unite general secretary Len McCluskey said:

"It's a tragedy because these redundancies would have been needless if the
government really cared about British manufacturing and skills."

He cited Chancellor George Osborne's Budget statement when he said: "We want the
words 'Made in Britain', 'Created in Britain', 'Designed in Britain', 'Invented
in Britain' to drive our nation forward.

A Britain carried aloft by the march of the makers. That is how we will create
jobs and support families."

Mr McCluskey said: "Today these hollow words will stick in the teeth of the
thousands of loyal and hard-working men and women at Bombardier."

Stephen Tetlow, the chie f executive of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,
said: "The UK has no clear vision for its long-term transport infrastructure.

"It is on course to remain one of the worst performin g European countries in
transport infrastructure for the next 10 years."

The number of jobs lost is likely to rise as Bombardier has a supply chain
involvin g 12,000 people and 100 local companies.

Transport Secretary Philip Hammond has stressed that Bombardier had written to
him in May to say that it planned 1,200 redundancies whether or not it won the
Thameslink contract.

Siemens, meanwhile, has pledged to create British jobs for the contract.

David Cameron last night promised to negotiate a new relationship between
Britain and the EU that will brin g back power to Westminster from Brussels.

In a shift in Government policy, the Prime Minister predicted that fresh
opportunities for loosenin g the UK's ties to the EU were certain to arise as a
result o f the eurozone crisis.

He said: "There will be opportunities for Britain to maximise what we want in
terms of our engagement with Europe."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

DENMARK SLAMS DOOR ON EU FREE MOVEMENT

BYLINE: By Jason Groves Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 316 words


THE EU's flagship commitment to free movement was 'in tatters' last night as
Denmark imposed border controls to keep out criminals and illegal immigrants
from other parts of Europe.

The nation was accused of breaching the Schengen treaty, which allows free
movement of goods and people and includes all EU member states except Britain
and Ireland.

Denmark deployed extra 50 customs officers at crossings with Germany and Sweden
yesterday, saying the move was needed to fight border-hopping criminals and
illegal immigrants within the Schengen zone. A further 50 officers will be added
by the end of the year.

German holidaymakers were urged to boycott Denmark in protest. Alexander Alvaro,
a German member of the European Parliament, called Denmark's move 'a backward
roll' which 'endangers the cohesion of the European Union.'

The European Commission said Denmark risks contravening the terms of the
25-nation passport-free Schengen zone, and was monitoring the move.

Just 24 hours earlier, the Netherlands threatened to deport Eastern Europeans
who cannot find work.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said the developments left
the Schengen treaty 'in tatters'. He urged the Prime Minister o use the
situation to demand concessions for Britain.

He said: 'If David Cameron genuinely wanted to stand up to Brussels now would be
the perfect time. The two crowning achievements of the EU are meant to be the
single currency and the Schengen agreement. The first is in the deepest crisis
imaginable and the Danes have torn up the second.'

Denmark's centre-right coalition agreed to toughen border controls last week
following pressure from its anti-immigration ally the Danish People's Party.
Finance minister Claus Hjort-Frederiksen said: 'We have seen too many examples
of violence, break-ins and brutal criminality committed by perpetrators who have
crossed our borders.'

This is a caption

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

THE MOST POWERFUL JUDGE IN EUROPE...

BYLINE: By Steve Doughty Social Affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 554 words


A British lawyer who has never held a senior judge's job in this country was
yesterday put in charge of the European Court of Human Rights.

Sir Nicolas Bratza takes over leadership of the Strasbourg court while it is in
the midst of a dispute with David Cameron and his Coalition over its demand that
prisoners should have the right to vote.

Even leading liberal judges in England have criticised the human rights court
for interfering in British democracy.

Sir Nicolas, 66, was chosen for the post in a vote among the 47 judges appointed
to Strasbourg by their countries.

His promotion to president gives him a leading role among the human rights
judges who are increasingly seen as the real supreme court, making the final
decisions over what law must be obeyed in Britain.

He has served as a Strasbourg judge since 1998, and taken part in several cases
which have done most to anger British politicians and stoke resentment of human
rights law among the public.

In particular, he was a member of the human rights court's appeal body, the
Grand Chamber, when it decided in 2005 that axe killer John Hirst had been
wrongfully deprived of the vote when he was in prison.

The court is now demanding that the Government acts against the will of MPs and
overturns hundreds of years of British practice which denies the franchise to
convicted prisoners. Sir Nicolas is a lawyer and human rights enthusiast who
reached the rank of QC as a courtroom lawyer but did not win any senior
appointment to the judiciary in England.

He went to Strasbourg as a court official in 1993, a year in which he was made a
recorder, the most junior level of Crown Court judge, in this country.

Yesterday human rights advocates said British voters should be proud of Sir
Nicolas's appointment. James Welch of Liberty said: 'It should be a matter of
great pride that the British judge on the Court of Human Rights has been elected
to such an important and influential position by his European peers.

'It is very significant that a judge so steeped in the principles of the common
law should be leading the Strasbourg court as important decisions are made about
its future.

'Doubtless, Sir Nicolas's appointment will also encourage a greater
understanding of Britain's ongoing contribution to international human rights
law.'

However enthusiasm for the appointment was not shared by Eurosceptics. Douglas
Carswell, Tory MP for Clacton, said it does not do 'anything to legitimise human
rights in British eyes'.

'The attitude of the Strasbourg judges has not changed,' he added. 'They behave
as though they are entitled to make the laws we live by although none of them
have been elected by us.'

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage noted that Sir Nicolas is past the
normal retirement age. 'He will understand the need to engage with pensioners,'
Mr Farage said.

'His appointment will sadly do nothing to protect the UK from the excesses of
the European Convention on Human Rights Z indeed, will no doubt reinvigorate the
court in its attempt to alter the rights and duties that we hold so dear.'

Mr Cameron has until the autumn to decide how to deal with the Strasbourg
court's repeated insistence that Britain must give the vote to prisoners.

It could result in tens of thousands of prisoners suing for compensation, which
may cost taxpayers more than 6150million.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

Call to axe EU flag fine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 218 words


HARSH penalties for failing to display the EU flag over UK institutions should
be abolished, a minister said yesterday.

Brussels has hit British councils, universities, travel firms and business
groups with penalties totalling £436,000 over the last 11 years.

The fines came after they breached funding rules which required them to display
the 12-starred EU logo as part of the deal to receive grant money from Brussels.

Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, Eric Pickles, said the
system of fines was totally unfair.

Logo He said: "It defies common sense that the EU can hammer public bodies with
huge fines for merely not flying their flag. This is a prime example of
bureaucracy."

One EU funded scheme, Advantage West Midlands, had to pay £200,000 for failing
to use the EU logo on publicity material.

Birmingham Chambers of Commerce was hit with a £77,609 fine for using its
corporate branding rather than EU logos at an event.

The revelations come as Denmark deployed 50 additional customs officers at
crossings with Germany and Sweden in an effort to combat illegal immigrants
moving within Europe.

Denmark was accused of breaching the Schengen treaty which allows for free
movement within its 25 member states.

Nigel Farage, leader of the Ukip, said the developments left the treaty "in
tatters".

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Call to axe EU flag fine

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 219  words


HARSH penalties for failing to display the EU flag over UK institutions should
be abolished, a minister said yesterday.

Brussels has hit British councils, universities, travel firms and business
groups with penalties totalling GBP 436,000 over the last 11 years.

The fines came after they breached funding rules which required them to display
the 12-starred EU logo as part of the deal to receive grant money from Brussels.

Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, Eric Pickles, said the
system of fines was totally unfair.

He said: "It defies common sense that the EU can hammer public bodies with huge
fines for merely not flying their flag.

This is a prime example of bureaucracy."

One EU funded scheme, Advantage West Midlands, had to pay GBP 200,000 for
failing to use the EU logo on publicity material.

Birmingham Chambers of Commerce was hit with a GBP 77,609 fine for using its
corporate branding rather than EU logos at an event.

The revelations come as Denmark deployed 50 additional customs officers at
crossings with Germany and Sweden in an effort to combat illegal immigrants
moving within Europe.

Denmark was accused of breaching the Schengen treaty which allows for free
movement within its 25 member states.

Nigel Farage, leader of the Ukip, said the developments left the treaty "in
tatters".

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 6, 2011 Wednesday 5:17 PM GMT

There's no excuse for the News of the World scandal - but the smug hypocrisy of
the Left is pretty revolting, too

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 930 words


There can be no excuses for what was done by investigators or journalists in the
pay of editorial executives at The News Of The World. However, it would take a
strong stomach not to be revolted at the smug, self satisfied journalists of the
Left, who were ready with excuses for one of their kind recently uncovered as
having regularly stolen the work of other writers and made a living by passing
it off as his own, but are writhing with delight at the exposure, humiliation
and possible downfall of their enemies in the far more popular and successful
Murdoch press.

Even if there were to be no more revelations, enough is now know to be pretty
sure that criminal offences have been committed. Those responsible should be
prosecuted wherever there is sufficient evidence to do so. That includes those
who procured the offences as well as they who actually committed them. And it
might include police officers who assisted in the commission of offences.

Amidst the lather of indignation, some well justified and some rather less so,
we should be clear that the job of an "investigative journalist" is to uncover
matters of such interest to the readers of a newspaper that it will sell extra
copies, and bad taste has seldom damaged the bottom end of the tabloid market.
The issue in this affair is not the truly repellent intrusion into the lives of
people scarred by personal loss and tragedy, but the way in which that intrusion
was accomplished. Had these stories be obtained by eavesdropping on normal face
to face conversations, provided that did not involve trespass or some other
illegality, it would have been as morally repugnant, but it would not have been
illegal.

Again I repeat that in my view there should be prosecutions in this affair. But
suppose unlawful phone hacking had been used to expose a public scandal. What
would we have said about that? What if a jounalist discovered that a senior
Cabinet Minister was spending part of his working day in the office paid for by
the taxpayers, fornicating with a member of his staff whilst she was being paid
too? Would that have justified hacking into the Minister's telephone? It would
have certainly been unlawful. But immoral? Well, there is a nice question for
you.

...

Two things slightly suprised me about your responses to my blog on the
significance of the Shale memorandum. First, that no one pointed out that the
easiest way to get a cheer from the crowd is to condemn the politcans or indeed
the bankers. Secondly, and that may explain the first, is that not only were you
all but unanimous in agreeing with the general thrust of what I wrote, but there
were so many new posters. Fond as I am of (most of) my regular posters, it is
always good to hear from new ones.

As I read what you said, a couple of themes emerged very strongly. First of all
as so many of you wrote, and mtc summed'it up, the major party leaders are seen
as clones, whilst steadybarker and several others blamed much of the problem
onto the rise of the professional politicans

Then there were several who fingered the EU, which has taken power away from
Westminster as well as encoraging the rise of that continental thing, "the
political class". Perhaps frankie was particularly hard in saying that our
politicians "learned from the EU to despise us and now we despise them", but
turtlesnapper, gazgpl and RobinsonIF also wrote about impact of the loss of
powers to the EU.

It was bryanstives who said that the Conservative Party of my day no longer
exists and quite a few of you, including flyinthesky and davebould, put the view
that the Conservative Party cannot be changed from within. To that I can only
say that it was changed from within and I am sure it will change again from
within. The question is, who will do the changing and in which direction?

There were a lot, too many to list by name, who thought that the answer may be
to pressure the Tory leadership by tactically voting for UKIP and rather more
who have simply given up on Mr Cameron and gone to UKIP for good.

There was a very shrewd thought (which had not occured to me) from henrietta,
who observed that without public support and trust the politicans will find it
all the harder to resist demands from minority groups such as trades unions and
supporters of Sharia law for privileged concessions.

Laveen Ladharam asked the question which I had expected from someone: "Why did
you (I) close down the Federation of Conservative students when (I) was
chairman?"' The answer is that it had been taken over by a group of extremists
who in several ways were bringing discredit on to the Party and excluding normal
middle-of-the-road members. Then I simply set up a new body open to those rather
more rational students.

I was pleased to hear from gazgpl that his Blue Rosette mugs are still in
service. They were good value!

As one would expect of a socialist, european socialist had an inaccurate ramble
through the past. claiming that I "told people to cycle to work". No, and I
invite him to find the correct quote and post it here before someone else with a
better memory does so.

Hilariously, he added that NuLab were deflected from their task of putting
Britain right by The Daily Mail! As bersher said, so that is why we had
unlimited, uncontrolled, uncounted immigration.

Then mythought had an interesting post on the relationship between the rise and
fall of the spirit of the Protestant Reformation and the rise and fall of
democracy.

Lastly may I thank all of those who not only largely agreed with but were really
rather flattering too. I doubt if that will last too long...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  July 4, 2011
                                 First Edition

Anti-smoking battle hits the quiet streets of Stony Stratford;
TOBACCO

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 500 words


Faced with the chance to join New York City in leading the fight against the
world's major tobacco conglomerates, the little market town of Stony Stratford -
which lies just to the north of Milton Keynes - seems likely to say: "No
thanks."

The proposal for the introduction of a new by-law to ban the practise of smoking
pipes and cigarettes in public in the Buckinghamshire town - which the council
is scheduled to debate at a town hall meeting later this month - would see Stony
Stratford join Manhattan and parts of Australia in having some of the most
restrictive anti-smoking laws in the world.

"It's mindbogglingly ridiculous," complains Richard Chesters, 37, who has
abandoned his drinking buddies momentarily to have a quick cigarette outside The
Old George Inn.

"They brought in the ban stopping us from smoking in pubs and restaurants and,
to be honest, I can see why they did that. But to ban us from town entirely?
Come on."

The individual who is pushing the ban is Paul Bartlett, a 50-year-old town
councillor and governor at Milton Keynes hospital, who has tabled the proposal.
The mere mention of Mr Bartlett's name sent local smokers into apoplexies of
rage, but he remains unapologetic.

He said: "If you look around you, you will see the town is absolutely littered
with people's germs and spittle in the form of cigarette butts. It's very
unsociable.

"We would look with disdain upon someone walking down the high street with a can
of lager in their hand.

"The same should be the case for smoking. My proposal has received a lot of
support."

However, a straw poll of 30 people - including both smokers and nonsmokers - saw
only one person willing to support an outdoor ban.

And the No lobby is building, with outsiders such as the UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage quick to sniff out a publicity opportunity and join the
bandwagon.

"This is about liberty," Farage, left, fumed, puffing on a Rothmans cigarette.
"Liberty that goes all the way back to JS Mill and the freedom to largely do
what you like, as long as it doesn't harm others."

Furthermore, Stony Stratford's business community fears that a townwide smoking
exclusion zone would discourage visitors.

"The town relies enormously on people coming in from the surrounding area," said
Lesa Parker, who is a non-smoker and owner of Chesney hair salon.

"We often have clients puffing away outside while they get their colour done. I
don't want to have to explain to them that they have to put their cigarettes
out. They would end up going elsewhere."

But Councillor Bartlett remains unmoved and believes that, as public opinion
continues to shift against smokers, it will only be a matter of time before
people put health concerns before business interests.

"Stony Stratford is a town that has a conscience," he said. "We have a wonderful
and strong business community and I'm all in favour of that. "But sometimes you
have to look beyond that."

This is about liberty; the freedom to do what you like, as long as it doesn't
harm others

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 4, 2011 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Nicotine addicts of Stony Stratford unite to stub out talk of smoking ban

BYLINE: By Jerome Taylor

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 400 words


Faced with the chance to join New York in leading the fight against the world's
big tobacco companies, the little market town of Stony Stratford, just to the
north of Milton Keynes, seems likely to say no thanks.

The proposal for a by-law to ban smoking in public in Stony Stratford, which the
council will debate at a town hall meeting later this month, would see the
village join Manhattan and parts of Australia in having some of the most
restrictive smoking laws in the world.

"It's mindbogglingly ridiculous," complains Richard Chesters, 37, who has
momentarily abandoned his drinking buddies to have a quick cigarette outside the
The Old George Inn.

"They brought in the ban stopping us from smoking in pubs and restaurants and,
to be honest, I can see why they did that. But to ban us from town entirely?
Come on."

The man pushing the ban is Paul Bartlett, a 50-year-old town councillor and
governor at Milton Keynes hospital, who has tabled the proposal. The mere
mention of Mr Bartlett's name sent local smokers into apoplexies of rage, but he
is unapologetic.

"If you look around you, you'll see the town is absolutely littered with
people's germs and spittle in the form of cigarette butts," he said. "It's very
unsociable. We would look with disdain upon someone walking down the high street
with a can of lager in their hand, the same should be the case for smoking. My
proposal has received a lot of support."

A straw poll of 30 people - smokers and non-smokers - saw only one person
willing to support the ban, and a No campaign is building, with outsiders such
as the UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage quick to sniff out a publicity
opportunity. "This is about liberty," Farage fumed, puffing on a Rothmans.
"Liberty that goes all the way back to JS Mill and the freedom to do what you
like as long as it doesn't harm others."

The business community fears the move would discourage visitors.

Ban plans

* In 2008, Liverpool City Council mooted a ban on McDonald's selling Happy Meals
with toys. The fast-food chain convinced them not to, but last year the council
announced plans to ban the word "obesity" from its literature.

* In 2002, Peterborough Council tried to ban homeless people from selling the
Big Issue on its streets. The ban was eventually defeated.

* In February, Westminster Council unveiled a plan to scrap soup kitchens for
the homeless. The consultation process is ongoing.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 4, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Nicotine addicts of Stony Stratford unite to stub out talk of smoking ban

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 409 words


FACED WITH the chance to join New York in leading the fight against the world's
big tobacco companies, the little market town of Stony Stratford, just to the
north of Milton Keynes, seems likely to say no thanks.

The proposal for a by-law to ban smoking in public in Stony Stratford, which the
council will debate at a town hall meeting later this month, would see the
village join Manhattan and parts of Australia in having some of the most
restrictive smoking laws in the world.

"It's mindbogglingly ridiculous," complains Richard Chesters, 37, who has
momentarily abandoned his drinking buddies to have a quick cigarette outside the
The Old George Inn.

"They brought in the ban stopping us from smoking in pubs and restaurants and,
to be honest, I can see why they did that. But to ban us from town entirely?
Come on."

The man pushing the ban is Paul Bartlett, a 50-year-old town councillor and
governor at Milton Keynes hospital, who has tabled the proposal. The mere
mention of Mr Bartlett's name sent local smokers into apoplexies of rage, but he
is unapologetic.

"If you look around you, you'll see the town is absolutely littered with
people's germs and spittle in the form of cigarette butts," he said. "It's very
unsociable. We would look with disdain upon someone walking down the high street
with a can of lager in their hand, the same should be the case for smoking. My
proposal has received a lot of support."

A straw poll of 30 people - smokers and non-smokers - saw only one person
willing to support the ban, and a No campaign is building, with outsiders such
as the UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage quick to sniff out a publicity
opportunity. "This is about liberty," Farage fumed, puffing on a Rothmans.
"Liberty that goes all the way back to JS Mill and the freedom to do what you
like as long as it doesn't harm others."

The business community fears the move would discourage visitors.

BAN PLANS

* In 2008, Liverpool City Council mooted a ban on McDonald's selling Happy Meals
with toys. The fast-food chain convinced them not to, but last year the council
announced plans to ban the word "obesity" from its literature.

* In 2002, Peterborough Council tried to ban homeless people from selling the
Big Issue on its streets. The ban was eventually defeated.

* In February, Westminster Council unveiled a plan to scrap soup kitchens for
the homeless. The consultation process is ongoing.

Is smoking still defensible?

The Monday Essay, page 10

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 4, 2011 Monday 12:05 PM GMT

This Fourth of July, Britain should bring the American revolution home

BYLINE: By Tim Stanley

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 957 words


Today is the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, and an opportunity
to consider what has happened to Great Britain and America since the July 4,
1776. Toby Harnden, the Telegraph's US editor, reports that the mood in the US
is bleak. Many conservatives feel that their country has departed from the
principles of its founding fathers: that the state has grown too big and the
people have lost faith in the American Way. If they think it's bad over there,
they should visit Britain. America might be piling up debt faster than Elton
John on a flower-buying spree, but it can still teach the mother country a thing
or two about liberty.

The American Revolution was, in many regards, a British civil war. In 18th
century Britain, Parliamentary government was supposed to protect freeborn men
from the threat of absolutist monarchy and excessive taxation. However, the
British refused to extend Parliamentary representation to the American colonies,
creating the unethical paradox of a democratic empire. Edmund Burke, the great
grand-daddy of British conservatism, had every sympathy for the American revolt
against crippling taxes and restrictions on their right to steal Indian land. In
his view "our English brethren in the colonies" were fighting to uphold ancient
Anglo-Saxon rights in the face of brutish imperialism by a German-descended
king, enforced by "the hireling sword of German boors and vassals". When the
Americans rebelled in 1775, there were plenty of Brits who supported them.

Likewise, the cultural bond between the two continents was strong enough for 15
to 20 per cent of the American colonial population to risk reprisals and fight
on the side of the Crown. Popular culture depicts the loyalists as Nazi goons.
In fact they were honest dissenters who feared that home rule would result in
pure popular democracy and, given the passions of the mob, democracy could end
in European-style dictatorship. They rebelled against the rebellion in order to
protect the rights that Parliament theoretically guaranteed. The War of
Independence was a struggle between men equally committed to liberty but divided
as to how best to protect it. The America that emerged from the War of
Independence was not an immaculate birth: it was the next stage in the evolution
of British democracy.

Since the Declaration of Independence, America has necessarily adapted to
changing circumstance. In the 20th century, war and welfare vastly increased the
state's role in society and business. The levels of debt that modern
administrations have racked up would certainly have distressed the Founding
Fathers. In 1816, Thomas Jefferson wrote that for the USA to survive, it had to
choose "between economy and liberty or profusion and servitude." Public debt
leads to taxation, "and in its train wretchedness and oppression." By those
standards, the American Revolution has already run its course.

Yet the gulf between principle and practice can be wide without nullifying the
principle. Thomas Jefferson preached self-reliance, but he died $100,000 in debt
- most of it spent building a lavish plantation that wouldn't look out of place
on the Las Vegas Strip. Modern America has materially drifted from the country
that took arms against King George III, but the spirit of the free man and the
good society lives on (imperfectly) in popular culture and the Republican
primaries. In contrast, Britain has departed so dramatically from the values of
the 18th century that our strain of conservatives can no longer remember them.
Our past is so alien to us that we've forgotten that America - with its vulgar
manners and free market chicanery - is really a part of us.

Men once died for the principle of British parliamentary sovereignty. Today it
is an antiquated joke. Large numbers of our laws are made overseas, while our
debt and inward investment is controlled by hostile nations. Parliament was
erected to resist tax increases but it has become the body that exists to
legitimise them. The 2009 expenses scandal revealed the extent to which the
political establishment of Britain disregards the institutions that it inhabits.
The state has a monolithic, self-aggrandising quality that defies all attempts
to limit it. Ed West recently pointed out that the British public sector has
more employees today than it had in 1979, when it owned half the economy.
Arguably, crucial to the sustenance of individual liberty is the healthy
functioning of civil society. Yet the concept of the Big Society is a joke that
even Archbishops laugh at.

Of course, the USA suffers from many of these maladies. The difference is
America's ability to renew itself generation after generation. In 2008, Barack
Obama's election seemed to prove that the American Dream is still alive. In
2009, the Tea Party provided a conservative response that gave a silent thrill
to historians who once feared that Paul Revere might never be mentioned on
television again. For all its many mistakes and crazy contradictions, the Tea
Party has revived a debate about the founding principles of America - seeking
salvation in values of self-rule and self-reliance that are fundamentally
British in origin.

Sadly, Britain has wandered too far from her ethical foundations to build
anything as radical as the Tea Party. All we can rely upon to rescue us from the
statist Leviathan are a few school chums in Westminster twiddling with the tax
code, or a cheerfully dotty UKIP MEP delivering a blistering attack on
banana-import regulations in the European Parliament. The Fourth of July
provides an uncomfortable reminder of our once radical heritage. Modern Britain
desperately needs a revival of the spirit of the 1700s.  It needs its own
Declaration of Independence - from itself.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  July 3, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'PLUMB' CRAZY;
Polish immigrants hit one million

BYLINE: MATTHEW DAVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 297 words


THE one millionth Polish immigrant will soon be arriving in the UK.

Official figures show that since 2004, 918,000 Poles have moved here and been
granted the National Insurance number they need to get a job.

The "Polish plumber" phenomenon reached its height between 2006 and 2008 when
around 20,000 Poles every month were coming in.

The rate has slowed as the credit crunch made work harder to find but statistics
suggest the one million barrier will be crossed either this year or in 2012.

The rush started in 2004 when labour movement rules were relaxed so Eastern
European nationals could work here. But the influx of Poles has always been much
bigger than that from other former Eastern Bloc countries.

The Czech Republic has seen 66,000 leave for jobs here, Estonia 13,000, the
Slovak Republic 142,000, Hungary 72,000, Lithuania 157,000, Latvia 89,000 and
Slovenia 4,000.

Once a migrant worker from one of the socalled A8 accession nations has worked
here for a year they can claim out-of-work benefits if they lose their job.

They can also claim benefits for children who might never have left their home
country.

The last Labour government reckoned 13,000 migrants a year would want to come
here from Poland - but that figure was soon being outstripped every month.

The coalition Government has said it will try to restrict access to the UK jobs
market for new entrants into the EU such as Turkey, Croatia and Montenegro.

But UK Independence Party Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "What these figures show,
in case anyone was in doubt, is immigration has been uncontrolled and the influx
has been of no benefit to the UK economy.

"It drives wages down and property prices up, while placing added burdens on the
benefits system. This damages mostly those at the bottom end of the economic
scale."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPEN DOOR: Polish passports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              July 3, 2011 Sunday

I TELL BOB HE'S LOONY LEFT AND I'M REALISTIC RIGHT ...

BYLINE: BY ELIZABETH SANDERSON

LENGTH: 2039 words


MEET UNION FIREBRAND BOB CROW'S MOST EMBARRASSING SECRET - HIS CHARMING,
HARD-WORKING, MAGGIE-LOVING BROTHER

WHEN Bob Crow and his big brother Richard threw down jumpers for goal posts for
an impromptu FA Cup Final, or recreated Lord's in the street outside their home,
their games were inevitably fiercely contested. But through the melee, casual
onlookers would have no difficulty in detecting which brother was which. 'Bob
knew all the rules,' Richard recalls. 'Even when we were in primary school, he'd
go down the local sport shop and buy pocket books with all the official rules.
And he'd learn them off by heart.

'Say we were playing cricket and he was bowled out Z he'd know some obscure rule
about the bowler's feet which meant that he wasn't out. If he was caught, he'd
quote chapter and verse about the fielder having one foot over the rope, or
whatever.

'Bob would always be wicket keeper and we'd always have to keep an eye on him
because he'd use his knee to knock the bails off while catching the ball, and
then claim he had stumped you. He was only seven or eight at the time and,
needless to say, he could be quite annoying. But to be honest, I think he'd be
exactly the same now.'

As he grew up, Bob Crow didn't become any less troublesome. Today, as general
secretary of the Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers Union, he is a noisy,
unabashed militant Z some would say a throwback to the days when the British
economy was brought to its knees by the kind of strike action that closed the
country's schools last week.

Bob says his confrontational style of politics, regularly displayed in disputes
involving London's Tube drivers, can be attributed to his father, George Z a
docker who later became a union convenor at Ford's huge Dagenham plant Z and his
working-class upbringing in Hainault, Essex, in the Sixties.

Yet this same background formed Richard, who shares the same stocky features,
but is vastly different to his brother in almost every other regard. While Bob
is a card-carrying communist who rents his house because he disagrees with
private property, Richard, 53, is an investor-trader who lives in a spacious
four-bedroom house in leafy Buckinghamshire. He is as far to the Right as Bob is
to the Left and is anti-trade union, loathing their willingness to strike.

Bob has said they are 'chalk and cheese', and Richard cheerfully agrees when I
visit him at the immaculate home he shares with his wife, Karen, and two Persian
cats, Thomas and Lolly. He is in a wheelchair after breaking his back in a road
accident at the age of 19. At first, he seems strikingly similar to his younger
sibling. It is only when he starts speaking that it becomes clear Richard, a
keen bird-watcher, is much softer than the pugnacious Bob, with an appealing,
ever-present twinkle in his eye.

'If me and Bob get together, we'll talk about football, sport and life in
general,' he explains. 'We get on until it comes to politics and unions.

'As soon as we talk about that, we clash. I don't do unions. I tell him, "You
don't like the boys in the City but they're the ones running your pensions".

'Sometimes I tell him he's talking codswallop. Bob knows I disagree with his
views. The Press always say Bob is loony Left Z I think I'm realistic Right. I
do think he genuinely believes in what he says, but he's extreme. We have heated
debates Z well, he'll be a bit loud Z but we always walk away as friends: after
all, family is family.'

On the face of it, Richard is the more surprising product of what was an
unashamedly political family. George was a committed union activist. 'It was
always unions, unions, unions,' says Richard. 'It used to drive my mum, Lillian,
mad. I think she had a dislike for it all. There'd be a strike going on the TV
and he'd be going on about it and she'd be saying, "I wish you'd belt up."'

Remarkably for such a vocal household, the young Bob barely spoke at first.
Richard says: 'For his first three-and-a-half years he hardly said a word.
Honestly! My mum took him to the doctor's to see if he had something wrong with
him. There wasn't. I could talk and I think I probably talked for him all the
time.'

Richard was the older brother by three years. They had a sister, Ann, who
committed suicide in her 20s, but the Crows had a happy, close-knit household
until Lillian Z who cleaned the local newsagent's shop to help make ends meet Z
contracted bowel cancer. When she died, aged 48, Richard was 11, Bob only eight.

Richard says: 'I was more influenced by my mum and Bob was more influenced by my
dad, probably because I had more time with my mum.'

'After our mum died, Ann Z who was 12 years older than me Z looked after us for
a couple of years. Then Dad married again and we all went to live with them on
the edge of Epping Forest: me, Bob, my dad and Ann, my stepmum, her son and
daughter. And they had a cousin too. There was eight of us all in a
three-bedroom semi.'

The boys never talked about the death of their mother Z they still haven't to
this day Z but Richard was instinctively protective of Bob. Richard says: 'If he
got picked on, it would always be me that would have to go and sort it out. Not
that he ever got in a fight. He's not a violent man at all. For all the bluster
you get on the telly, he's not the sort to go and thump anybody.

'He'd always want to do whatever me and my mates were doing. I was always
business-minded, I collected golf balls, cut hedges, bought a 62 wine-making kit
from Boots and sold the wine to my friends. I could make 64 on a 62 investment.

'I don't remember Bob ever having a Saturday job, but he'd come on the
hedge-cutting rounds with me and my pals. Bob would hold the broom and the bag
for the clippings, so we'd do all the hard work.

'We'd get paid a shilling and we'd all have tuppence each and he'd get his
tuppence. Actually, he'd get a penny and when we got home he'd complain to my
Dad and demand the same pay as everybody else. So that's where it all started,
isn't it? I'd say he hadn't done as much work as everyone else but my dad would
say, "Oh give him another penny."'

As they grew older, Richard began to frame his own political opinions Z and they
were very different to those of George, who died of a heart attack 15 years ago.
He says: 'My dad was very fair, very honest. He was always for social justice.
He was really kind, everyone used to say so.

'But when my dad said something about the union, I could always see the opposite
side. I'd have to defend the sensible side of politics against Bob and my dad. I
disagree with strikes completely, whoever's doing it. I think there are better
ways to change things. Unless members are really being oppressed, I don't think
unions achieve a lot.'

Richard's views were crystallised when he got his first job at a radar factory.
He says: 'I was forced to go on strike there. They'd had a vote when I was on
holiday and I came back and they said you've got to take a day off without pay.
I said "why?" And they said, "Because we were on strike when you were on
holiday."

'I hadn't voted for the strike and suddenly I had to take a day off and not get
paid. I couldn't get my head round that.' He left the job soon afterwards to
work as a milkman.

What Richard really wanted to do was become a soul-music disc jockey. He used to
help former Radio 1 DJ Dave Lee Travis with his equipment and was saving up to
realise his dream. But it was on the way home from a DJ-ing engagement that he
had the accident that was to change his life.

'I was coming home on my motorbike one night when a guy in a car did a U-turn in
front of me. I hit his car and knew straight away I had broken my back. I
couldn't feel my legs. I remember asking the woman ambulance driver and she
said, "You'll be all right, we'll just get you to the hospital." But I knew.'

He was taken to the Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel, East London. 'The
worst thing was having nightmares about breaking my back in a motorbike
accident. And I'd wake up and realise it wasn't a nightmare, it was for real.
That's the one thing that stays with me to this day.'

Yet after a short time in Richard's company, you barely notice his wheelchair.
There isn't a hint of self-pity, instead he jokes about how his accident led to
him meeting Karen, a bright, vivacious woman who has a similar twinkle in her
eye.

She was working at Stoke Mandeville Hospital when Richard spent ten months in
the spinal ward in 1977. 'She was a nurse in there. There was this beautiful,
gorgeous girl wandering around the ward all the time . . . but she didn't like
me so I went out with Karen,' he jokes.

Karen says: 'I remember seeing him when I went for my interview for my job. I
was 17, and it was my first job out of college. He was all pale and his hair was
all stuck up and I just remember seeing him smiling. It was just those eyes. He
was always the clown of the ward.

'One day I said let's go out for a drink, and it blossomed from there, really.
You'd be surprised how often it happens in spinal units Z because people are
there for so long. You don't see the chair, you see the person.'

The couple married in 1980 and moved to a bungalow near Aylesbury in
Buckinghamshire. Richard began breeding tropical fish, which had been a hobby
when he was a child. He edited a magazine for the British Cichlid Association (a
cichlid is a South American tropical perch) and wrote books on them.

He then bought a hand printing press and started printing business cards. He
also designed brochures and logos for companies including Rank Xerox and Hewlett
Packard. Then, in 1999, Richard bought a computer and some share-trading
software.

'Since then, that's what I've done for a living. I invest in and trade small cap
companies [firms valued at under 6100 million]. I might hold shares for ten
minutes or I might keep them for two years. I make a decent living and manage my
own pension Z in eight years it's gone up 6,000 per cent.

'I talk about pensions with Bob because, you know, there's the RMT pension and a
lot of them have got pension deficits, basically. When I say to him how well my
pension's going, he says, "Oh, you know, that's quite good." That's the only
time he's quiet, really.'

The brothers last saw each other in January and meet every summer for dinner in
Essex, where Bob still lives. Richard didn't attend the now infamous 50th
birthday lunch his brother hosted at Scotts, a smart fish restaurant in Mayfair,
when the 6650 bill led to Bob being labelled a 'champagne socialist'. Richard
says: 'I was surprised to see him there.'

He adds: 'I think I see Bob on TV more often than I see him face-to-face. When
he's on, I sit here wincing half the time Z though I think he's quite effective
on Question Time because he tends to play to the crowd and he's got a good sense
of humour.'

Richard watches the show religiously every week and takes a passionate interest
in politics. He's never voted Labour, has voted UKIP once and Conservative a
couple of times. While his brother celebrated the 1997 Election by drinking a
can of beer every time a Tory politician lost their seat, Richard was 'over the
moon' when Margaret Thatcher won power in 1979.

He says: 'I'm not a Tory, but yes I think she was the greatest Prime Minister
we've ever had. I was proud to live through a time with her in power. The unions
needed to be dealt with and I think everyone knew that when she came in.

'I am really politically interested. If I hadn't had my accident, I probably
would have been a councillor.'

When asked if he's proud of his brother, Richard says: 'Much as I disagree with
his politics, I'm proud he's achieved what he wanted to achieve. But not many
people know I'm Bob Crow's brother and I don't really go around telling them. It
wouldn't exactly earn me any free pints down the pub, would it?'

Yet, for all their differences, there is something fundamentally similar about
the two of them. Richard admits: 'We've both got the same sense of social
justice Z we get that from our dad. But we come at it from different angles on
the best way to achieve it. We see things differently and we always will.'

Donations should be sent to Florence Nightingale Hospice, Stoke Mandeville
Hospital, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8AL.

Additional reporting: Tom Hendry and Pamela Owen

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              July 3, 2011 Sunday

TREAD LIGHTLY DAVE, TEACHERS AREN'T MINERS

BYLINE: BY JAMES FORSYTH IN THE CORIDORS OF POWER

LENGTH: 1068 words


One interesting thing about this strike is that when you draw up contingency
plans for dealing with it you realise where, um, efficiencies can be made,' one
Minister said to me on Thursday, using the Coalition's favoured euphemism for
redundancies.

His point was that the fact so many public services had been able to carry on
working pretty much as normal during the unions' day of action demonstrated that
they were over-manned in the first place.

Particularly attracting the Government's attention in this regard is the UK
Border Agency. Despite the unions' grim predictions, immigration lines at
airports were processed with no great delays. As one Government source says: 'It
reassures us that we can make the cuts we need to make to it.'

But don't expect to hear anyone from the Government say anything like this in
public. The Coalition remains determined not to give the unions anything they
can use to claim they are being provoked. Ministers do not want to look as if
they are spoiling for a fight.

One Minister stresses that 'this isn't the miners' strike. We're not facing a
group that brings with it the whiff of physical intimidation.' Rather, the
strikers are teachers and civil servants, and the Government doesn't want to
appear to be bullying them.

The level of support for Thursday's strike was not huge. Three-quarters of civil
servants turned up to work, meaning that the business of government could carry
on. But in schools it was another story. More than half of all schools were hit
by the walkouts Z and that was with none of the head teachers' unions joining in
the action and one of the classroom unions also refusing to participate.

But these unions' reasons for not going out were more to do with tactics than
anything else; they didn't agree with taking action before the negotiations were
concluded. For instance, the NASUWT leadership opposed striking now because they
believed that would make it harder for David Cameron to back down in future.

But the bottom lines for these unions are not that different. If the Government
doesn't move its position, a teachers' strike seems inevitable. If all the
teaching unions were to go out on strike and stay out, that would pose a huge
challenge to the Coalition. As the dispute dragged on and more and more families
had to try to find semi-permanent childcare, the public's patience with both
sides in the dispute could snap.

This Z not the public siding with the unions, who don't have much of a case at
all Z is the real risk for Cameron.

The word in Whitehall is that the Government could set out a new negotiating
position before the end of the month designed to avert a public-sector strike
this autumn. But the details of this offer remain clouded in mystery.

Even secretaries of state have little idea of what the Coalition might propose.
All they are aware of is a sense of tension between the Cabinet Office and
Treasury.

Some Ministers feel so out of the loop that they refused to go on television to
defend the Government's position on Thursday as they didn't feel they knew what
it was. This brought their advisers a rebuke from communications director Craig
Oliver at the Friday morning meeting of Government special advisers.

But the Coalition needs to come up with a clear position that it can communicate
to the public if it is going to face down the unions.

The one thing that might stop them declaring 'one out, all out' is a sense that
the public would have no truck with a strike.

WHAT is it with Labour and Plan B? Ed Balls wants George Osborne to have a Plan
B for the economy and Tom Watson is a fan of both that Plan B and Plan B the rap
artist, otherwise known as Ben Drew. I hear that Watson so admires him that at a
recent music industry event he approached Drew Z and urged him to consider
becoming a Labour MP.

GOVERNMENT is having a distinct effect on Tory Ministers: it is making them more
Euro-sceptic. The daily reality of dealing with the Brussels bureaucracy is
having a radicalising influence.

After I wrote in The Spectator last week that two Ministers now favour leaving
the European Union, another told me they also thought membership is more trouble
than it is worth.

There is a growing caucus that hopes the next Tory manifesto will, at the very
least, commit the party to a complete renegotiation of Britain's membership.

Some Tory backbenchers, keen to push this process along, say Z in private Z that
they will vote UKIP, not Conservative, at the next European elections in 2014.

These Tories hope that UKIP topping a national vote the year before the General
Election might jolt their leadership into action.

NOW LABOUR JOINS THE COALITION

OVER the next few days and weeks we'll see if our politicians can build a
coalition across all three main parties.

Tomorrow, a Government-commissioned report addressing how people can pay for the
care they need in their old age without having to sell their home will be
unveiled.

The Liberal Democrats have already persuaded the Conservatives that there must
be all-party talks on the issue. They plan to have the Lib Dem Health Minister
formally approach Labour about this by tomorrow. Meanwhile, Ed Miliband is also
planning to call for all-party talks. So the only question is who gets the
credit for suggesting that everyone sits down together.

But once the talks get going, the Kumbaya atmosphere will quickly dissipate. All
three parties remember how the last set of talks broke down in acrimony, with
the Tories accusing Labour of planning a 'death tax'.

The Tories would quite like this issue to go away. They stress that 'there's a
price tag attached' to doing anything about it and emphasise that 'there'll be
no progress without cross-party consensus' Z in such a way that makes it sound
as if they don't expect there to be any agreement.

But, by contrast, one close Clegg ally says: 'We need to be the ones who try to
make this happen.'

They believe that getting everyone to a common position on this would
demonstrate that they can deal with both parties. The Clegg ally adds: 'Does
anyone think that a Tory Government would be working so hard to achieve
cross-party consensus on this issue?'

The split between the Coalition partners provides quite an opportunity for Ed
Miliband. If he plays his cards right, he could present himself as the man bold
enough to want to deal with the big problems facing the nation Z rather than
kicking them into the long grass.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Star

                              July 3, 2011 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'PLUMB' CRAZY

BYLINE: by MATTHEW DAVIS

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 303 words


Polish immigrants hit one million

THE one millionth Polish immigrant will soon be arriving in the UK.

Official figures show that since 2004, 918,000 Poles have moved here and been
granted the National Insurance number they need to get a job.

The "Polish plumber" phenomenon reached its height between 2006 and 2008 when
around 20,000 Poles every month were coming in.

The rate has slowed as the credit crunch made work harder to find but statistics
suggest the one million barrier will be crossed either this year or in 2012.

The rush started in 2004 when labour movement rules were relaxed so Eastern
European nationals could work here. But the influx of Poles has always been much
bigger than that from other former Eastern Bloc countries.

The Czech Republic has seen 66,000 leave for jobs here, Estonia 13,000, the
Slovak Republic 142,000, Hungary 72,000, Lithuania 157,000, Latvia 89,000 and
Slovenia 4,000.

Once a migrant worker from one of the so-called A8 accession nations has worked
here for a year they can claim out-of-work benefits if they lose their job.

They can also claim benefits for children who might never have left their home
country.

The last Labour government reckoned 13,000 migrants a year would want to come
here from Poland - but that figure was soon being outstripped every month.

The coalition Government has said it will try to restrict access to the UK jobs
market for new entrants into the EU such as Turkey, Croatia and Montenegro.

But UK Independence Party Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "What these figures show,
in case anyone was in doubt, is immigration has been uncontrolled and the influx
has been of no benefit to the UK economy.

"It drives wages down and property prices up, while placing added burdens on the
benefits system. This damages mostly those at the bottom end of the economic
scale."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPEN DOOR: Polish passports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday

CLEGG BLAMED AS LIBDEMS SINK TOPOLL HUMILIATION

BYLINE: BY DANIEL MARTIN WHITEHALL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 458 words


ANGRY Lib Dems blamed leader Nick Clegg yesterday after the party slumped to a
'humiliating' fourth place in a by-election.

Sophie Bridger, their 20-year-old candidate, lost her deposit after garnering
just 627 votes in the Scottish constituency of Inverclyde.

At the general election last year, the party's candidate gained just over 5,000
votes and finished third.

Labour held on to the seat, to the west of Glasgow, despite a strong challenge
by the Scottish National Party.

The result comes just two months after Mr Clegg's party was massacred in the
Scottish parliamentary elections Z and four months after they dropped to an
unprecedented fifth place in the Barnsley Central by-election.

The latest drubbing north of the border will be a concern for many Lib Dem MPs
in Scotland, including high-profile figures such as Danny Alexander, Chief
Secretary to the Treasury.

Last night a former Lib Dem MSP blamed Deputy Prime Minister Mr Clegg and his
conduct as part of the Coalition for the low level of support.

Ross Finnie, who also served as a minister in the Scottish Government, said:
'For Liberals to lose their deposit in the way in which we have and be down to
600 votes Z I'm embarrassed by that.

'I think it is a humiliating result. The public have decided that they didn't
like the offering we made them.

'There were clear issues of trust in the leadership of the Liberal Democrat
party, and there was an issue about whether we were articulating a case for
people to vote for us.

'These are very fundamental issues.'

Lib Dem MP Mike Crockart also piled in, saying that being in coalition with the
Tories had made life 'difficult' for the party in Scotland.

Last night party sources said the seat was 'always going to be a real no-hoper'.

The Inverclyde by-election was called after the sudden death of former Labour
minister David Cairns. The Lib Dems plummeted from 13.3 per cent of the vote at
the last election to just 2.2 per cent this time Z meaning they lost their
deposit.

As was the case in the Scottish parliamentary elections, their voters defected
to the SNP, with candidate Anne McLaughlin seeing her party share of the vote
double to 33 per cent.

The SNP's chances were not helped when one of its MSPs, campaigning in the
constituency during the campaign, later joked he needed 'jabs' to visit the town
of Greenock.

Labour did better than expected, although their majority was down from the
14,416 notched up by Mr Cairns.

Iain McKenzie, the local council leader, won with a majority of 5,838 Z but that
was on a lower turnout.

Their share of the vote fell only slightly to 53 per cent.

The Tory vote fell by around 2 per cent as they came third, and the United
Kingdom Independence Party finished last with 288 votes, and also lost its
deposit.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Poll setback for SNP as Labour holds Inverclyde

BYLINE: Simon Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 531 words


ALEX SALMOND suffered a political setback yesterday after Labour comfortably won
the Inverclyde by-election despite him making seven visits to the seat.

The Scottish Nationalists had been increasingly confident of overhauling a
Labour majority of 14,426 following their landslide Scottish Parliament election
win two months ago.

But Iain McKenzie, the Labour candidate, easily won the Westminster contest
after polling 5,838 votes more than his SNP opponent, Anne McLaughlin.

Delivering his victory speech in the early hours of yesterday morning, Mr
McKenzie said the result marked the start of a Labour "fight back" and stopped
the SNP's "bandwagon".

The Nationalists put a brave face on the result after Mr Salmond had suggested
the by-election would result in a political "earthquake". The result confirmed
the trend that sees them perform much more poorly in Westminster than Holyrood
elections.

However, Douglas Alexander MP, the shadow international development secretary,
suggested the result was a personal humiliation for the First Minister.

"Alex Salmond came to Inverclyde seven times. He was practically running the
Scottish government from Greenock in the last few weeks," the Paisley and
Renfrewshire South MP said. "He was telling his own supporters in a private
email not that the SNP could win this byelection, it will win this by-election."

Despite Labour's majority being more than halved, he said that any party would
be pleased to poll more than 50 per cent of the vote in a by-election.

Mr McKenzie, who is the local council leader, said: "With a result like this I
think we can safely say the SNP bandwagon has ground to a halt. Labour won this
election because we listened hard and took nothing for granted.

"This is the start of Labour's fight back and there will be a lot more listening
to do over the coming months and years."

The by-election was called after the sudden death last month of David Cairns, a
well-respected former minister. Labour feared a repeat of the Glasgow East
byelection three years ago when the SNP overturned a 13,000 majority.

Despite falling far short, the SNP said it had increased its share of the vote
on last year's general election with a nine per cent swing in support away from
Labour.

Joe Fitzpatrick, SNP MSP for Dundee City West, said: "We've seen a very sizeable
swing to the SNP, a swing which would have won the SNP victories in a whole
swath of seats across Scotland had there been by-elections anywhere else.

"But this was a particularly large majority and we've done pretty well to slash
that."

In her concession speech, Miss McLaughlin said her battle for Scottish
separation would continue despite her defeat. "I've been fighting with the SNP
for 23 years, I will never give up until we have independence and after we get
independence we have a country to sort out," she said.

Mr McKenzie polled 15,118 votes, with Miss McLaughlin trailing on 9,280, the
Conservatives' David Wilson on 2,784 and the Liberal Democrats' Sophie Bridger
lost her deposit with only 627 votes. Mitch Sorbie, for Ukip, was fifth with 288
votes.

However, turnout was only 45.5 per cent, down more than 17 per cent compared
with last year's general election.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Relief for Labour as Lib Dems humiliated

BYLINE: Lorraine Davidson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 770 words


Senior Scottish Liberal Democrats insisted yesterday that the UK coalition could
still win votes in Scotland despite their humiliation in the Inverclyde
by-election.

The Lib Dems polled just 627 votes, leading them to lose their deposit and
record one of the party's worst postwar election results.

The Scottish party leader, Willie Rennie, and the party's Westminster Deputy
Chief Whip, the Orkney and Shetland MP Alistair Carmichael, joined forces to
insist that the only way back for the party was on the back of the Lib Dems'
"successes" in the coalition pact with the Tories.

Despite the Inverclyde result showing that voters appear to be punishing the
Liberal Democrats even more than the Tories for the coalition's policies, Mr
Rennie rejected suggestions that the party had become toxic in Scotland.

"I'm convinced that the coalition deal can be sold in Scotland. Clearly we have
more work to do to convince people that we haven't lost our soul, but I'm
determined to win our voters back and the way to do that is to explain how we
are pulling the Tories back," he said.

The Liberal Democrats' vote was squeezed to just 2.2 per cent in Thursday's
by-election, in which Labour returned with a 5,838 majority after seeing off a
strong SNP challenge.

Mr Carmichael said: "The party at Westminster needs to take the responsibility,
we can't hide from that for a second, but it is incumbent on the whole party to
remind people of the difference we make. There is no future for us in saying we
need to divorce from the party in London."

He added: "If it was left to the Tories, the priority for tax cuts would be
inheritance tax - the richest dead people in the country. Because of our actions
they are going to the low-paid, that's the message we need to get across."

High-profile Scottish Liberal Democrats, including the party's former leaders
Charles Kennedy and Sir Menzies Campbell, failed to turn out to campaign in
Inverclyde on behalf of the party's inexperienced 20-year-old candidate, Sophie
Bridger.

Meanwhile, Labour wheeled out Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and John Prescott, and
the SNP leader Alex Salmond made seven visits to the constituency.

The Liberal Democrats blamed diary commitments and the shortness of the campaign
for absence of its big guns. However, one senior Westminster Liberal Democrat
admitted: "We know this result is a complete embarrassment."

Labour yesterday claimed that a "fightback" was under way after it retained
Inverclyde with the election of Iain McKenzie, the local council leader. He
said: "With a result like this I think we can safely say the SNP bandwagon has
ground to a halt." The result was a relief for Ed Miliband, leader of the UK
party, after pre-poll speculation suggested that the SNP could even overturn his
party's 14,416 strong majority. But the Labour MP Tom Harris warned that the
party must not let up on its planned reforms after the result.

The party's review group, headed by Jim Murphy and Sarah Boyack, which was set
up after Labour's disastrous performance in the Holyrood elections in May, was
due to meet last night.

Mr Harris said: "The review must conclude that the UK party leader can have no
imput in the formation of devolved policies."

Privately, the SNP had hoped to slash Labour's majority to under 1,000 votes and
were left disappointed by the result. The Nationalists increased their share of
the vote on the 2010 general election.

The SNP said that the 9per cent swing in its direction had continued the
momentum that carried it to a resounding victory in the Holyrood elections.

Anne McLaughlin, the party's candidate, insisted that the fight for independence
would continue. She said: "I've been fighting with the SNP for 23 years. I will
never give until we have independence and after we get independence we have a
country to sort out." The by-election was caused by the death of the sitting MP,
David Cairns. A former priest, 44-year-old Mr Cairns became a popular MP and was
a respected figure at Westminster.

Privately Labour believe that it was Mr Cairns' reputation as an assiduous MP
which helped the party to retain the seat in the face of a strong challenge from
the SNP.

An Act of Parliament had to be passed to enable Mr Cairns to stand for
Parliament. Prior to his election priests were not allowed to become MPs.

Mr Cairns held the seat for more than ten years and was made a Minister in the
Scotland Office. However, he resigned from his post in 2008 saying he could no
longer serve in Gordon Brown's government.

Election results Labour 15,118 SNP 9,280 Scottish Conservative 2,784 Liberal
Democrats 627 UKIP 288 Majority 5,838 Turnout 45.53%

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sophie Bridger polled only 627 votes for the Lib Dems. Below, the
victor, Iain McKenzie
GARRY F McHARG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              July 1, 2011 Friday

POPULATION GROWTH IS BIGGEST FOR 50 YEARS

BYLINE: BY STEVE DOUGHTY SOCIAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 723 words


BRITAIN'S population leapt by almost half a million last year, the biggest jump
in half a century.

The 470,000 increase was driven by near-record levels of immigration and a rise
in birthrates that was itself partly a result of growing numbers of immigrant
mothers.

The country is now home to nearly 62.3million, 3.1million more than just nine
years ago.

The accelerating pace of population growth provoked alarm from migration and
environmental groups and fresh promises from Coalition ministers to 'fix the
immigration system'.

If the population keeps growing at the present rate, it will hit the symbolic
level of 70million Z a figure that ministers in the last Labour government said
would never be reached Z in just 15 years.

According to estimates from the Office for National Statistics, the increase in
the year to the middle of 2010 was the greatest since 1962, when numbers rose by
484,000. Then, it was a result of the post-war baby boom encouraged by peace and
rising prosperity.

Last year's increase added the equivalent of the population of Manchester to the
total.

The 3.1million additional people in the past nine years is a little more than
the population of Wales. Around half the jump was a result of immigration, with
the other half down to what the ONS calls 'natural increase' Z the effect of
births and deaths.

But because increasing birthrates are in large measure a result of recent
immigration, officials accept that around 70 per cent of the population increase
is down to migrants.

Immigration raised the number of women of childbearing age by around 300,000
between 2002 and 2007. Latest records shows that one in four babies is born to a
mother who was born outside Britain.

Ben Humberstone, of the ONS, said: 'Historic migration can have an effect on
natural change because of the increase in the stock of women of childbearing
age.'

There was also an increase in childbearing by British-born women.

Population is also being pushed up by better health and longer life expectancy.
There were 554,000 deaths in the year to the middle of 2010

, a 9 per cent drop since 2001.

Many groups fears population growth is putting too great a burden on housing,
transport and water and energy supplies and is threatening unrest.

Sir Andrew Green, of the MigrationWatch think-tank, said: 'These are astonishing
figures. They are further evidence that the Government must take urgent steps to
get a grip on immigration.

'The alternative is substantial extra investment in public services, for which
there is no money.'

Simon Ross, of the environmental group Population Matters, said: 'Whether we
talk about carbon emissions, protecting the natural habitat, food and energy
security or the provision of housing and services, it is not in our interests
for the population of the UK to keep increasing.'

Immigration Minister Damian Green promised that curbs would bring net migration
back to 1990s levels. 'This is yet more evidence of the impact that a decade of
uncontrolled migration has had on the UK,' he said.

'We are in the process of fixing the immigration system we inherited to ensure
that any migration-related population growth is sustainable and brings benefits
to the UK.

'Net migration has been too high but the controls and reforms we are introducing
will bring it back down to the tens of thousands.' According to the ONS, net
migration, the number coming to Britain minus the number who leave, was 230,000
in the year to the middle of 2010

.

It has only been higher in one year Z 2004/05, when Poles and other Eastern
Europeans were first allowed into the country unchecked after eight Eastern
European nations joined the EU.

Since 2008, the number of people leaving Britain has fallen, most likely because
the recession has cut the availability of jobs abroad and the number of people
able to afford to retire to foreign countries.

Last night Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: 'The Government talks a good game
about addressing the cracks in the current immigration system, however, the
reality is that they are hamstrung by the courts on one side and the Liberal
Democrats on the other.

'The country's infrastructure is buckling under the strain. We need far more
effective immigration controls to ensure population growth is controlled. This
does not mean zero immigration, but introducing a yearly cap and resolutely
sticking to it.'

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Population soars 470,000 a year in migration boom

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 420 words


THE devastating effect of Labour's shambolic immigration policy over the past
decade has helped push Britain's population through the 62-million barrier.

Last year's 470,000 rise is the biggest for nearly half a century, Government
figures revealed yesterday, and is enough people to fill a city the size of
Manchester.

The increase took the UK's population in July 2010 to 62.2 million - 3.1 million
more than nine years earlier.

Campaigners said the shocking figures bore out earlier warnings about Labour's
lax immigration policy.

Yesterday Sir Andrew Green, Chairman of MigrationWatch UK, said: "These are
astonishing figures.

"They are further evidence that the Government must take urgent steps to get a
grip of immigration which is a major factor in this unprecedented population
growth.

"The alternative is substantial extra investment in public services for which
there is no money." Paul Nuttall, MEP and Ukip deputy leader, said: "We have
warned about the results of an open-door immigration policy."

Drastic Government statisticians yesterday said the 0.8 per cent annual rise -
the highest since 1962 - was mainly due to the biggest baby boom in a decade.

In the 12 months to July 2010, there were 797,000 births, around 10,000 more
than the previous year and 134,000 more than in 2001/02 when the country's
population was 59.1 million.

The relatively high birth rate among the growing number of immigrant families
was a signifi-cant factor, the Office of National Statistics said in its
statistical bulletin published yesterday.

Fertility rates of non-UK born females stands at 2.48 children each on average,
compared with 1.94 for those women born here.

One in every four babies born in Britain in 2009 was to a migrant mother - the
highest since the recording of parents' country of birth was introduced in 1969.

The net migration boom was fuelled by a drastic fall in people leaving Britain.

Some 574,000 entered the UK last year, up 12,000 on the previous 12 months. But
those emigrating fell from 386,000 in 2008/09 to 344,000 a year later.

Last night Immigration Minister Damian Green: "This is yet more evidence of the
impact that a decade of uncontrolled migration has had on the UK. Net migration
has been too high but the controls and reforms we are introducing will bring it
back down to the tens of thousands."

David Cameron has said he wants to bring annual net migration down to just "tens
of thousands" by 2015.

But Oxford University's Migration Observatory said last week he was unlikely to
meet his deadline.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rabies fear as UK law is scrapped

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words


FEARS of a deadly rabies outbreak were sparked last night after plans to scrap
Britain's strict quarantine rules were revealed.

The regulations on animals coming from Europe and other "low-risk" areas will be
relaxed.

Pet owners will no longer have to wait six months after vaccination before entry
is granted. They will be asked to produce a "pet passport" proving their animal
has been microchipped and had the anti-rabies jab.

The plans were announced yesterday by Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman,
who said it was time to change "outdated" rules.

She said the changes would make it cheaper and easier for people to travel with
their pets while putting in place "proportionate" controls to enable the UK to
maintain its rabies-free status.

Concern

But critics claimed the changes would put the UK at risk of rabies and other
animal diseases.

Gerard Batten, Ukip spokesman and MEP for London, said: "We want sensible
safeguards that don't inconvenience pet owners but we can't rely on a piece of
paper to prevent the possible introduction of rabies to the UK.

"EU doesn't necessarily mean lowrisk. There is a difference between an animal
coming from France and one that has been running around a forest in eastern
Europe.

" Battersea Dogs & Cats Home expressed concern over the plans, saying it would
be "harder to guarantee that the UK could remain rabies-free". Chief executive
Claire Horton said: "We are not against the free movement of pets across
Europe's borders, but the introduction of the EU pet travel scheme in the UK
does give us cause for concern for our frontline staff and volunteers and the
wider community."

Under the proposals, domestic animals coming into the UK from the EU and other
low-risk areas, including the US and Australia, must be vaccinated 21 days
before entry. The current mandatory blood test will be scrapped.

Travellers coming from high-risk areas, including Africa and Asia, will have to
prove animals have been vaccinated and blood-tested four months before entry.
This differs from the present system which requires all animals from outside the
EU to be held in quarantine in the UK for six months.

Experts say modern vaccinations have removed the need for quarantine by giving
immunity from rabies after 21 days.

The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said the risk of the
disease entering the UK would increase from one in 13,000 years to one in 211,
but it was still "extremely low".

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rules on rabies in Britain are 'outdated'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Rabies fear after UK's quarantine rules axed

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 847  words


FEARS of a deadly rabies outbreak were sparked last night after plans to scrap
Britain's strict quarantine rules were revealed.

The regulations on animals coming from Europe and other "lowrisk" areas will be
relaxed.

Pet owners will no longer have to wait six months after vaccination before entry
is granted. They will simply be asked to produce a "pet passport" proving their
animal has been micro-chipped and had the anti-rabies jab.

The plans were announced yesterday by Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman,
who said it was time to change "outdated" rules.

She said the changes would make it cheaper and easier for people to travel with
their pets while putting in place "proportionate" controls to enable the UK to
maintain its rabiesfree status.

But critics claimed the changes would put the UK at risk of rabies and other
animal diseases.

Gerard Batten, Ukip spokesman and MEP for London, said: "We want sensible
safeguards that don't inconvenience pet owners but we can't rely on a piece of
paper to prevent the possible introduction of rabies to the UK.

"EU doesn't necessarily mean lowrisk. There is a difference between an animal
coming from France and one that has been running around a forest in eastern
Europe."

Although welcoming a change to the present system of quarantine, welfare charity
Dogs Trust said controls needed to be "further strengthened to reduce the risk
of diseases entering the country".

Steve Goody, director of external affairs for animal charity Blue Cross, said:
"The long-term kennelling of pets in quarantine can be detrimental to both
animals and their owners.

However, we seek assurance from the Government to confirm that rigorous enough
measures are in place and there will be enough resources to ensure animals
coming into the country are properly checked and that the new system is not open
to abuse."

Battersea Dogs & Cats Home also expressed concern over the plans, saying it
would be "harder to guarantee that the UK could remain free of rabies".

Chief executive Claire Horton said: "Although we are not against the free
movement of pets across Europe's borders, the introduction of the EU pet travel
scheme in the UK does give us cause for concern for our frontline staff and
volunteers and the wider community."

Under the proposals, domestic animals coming into the UK from the EU and other
low-risk areas, including the US and Australia, must be vaccinated 21 days
before entry. The current mandatory blood test will be scrapped.

Travellers coming from high-risk areas, including Africa and Asia, will have to
prove animals have been vaccinated and blood-tested four months before entry.
This differs from the present system which requires all animals from outside the
EU to be held in quarantine in the UK for six months.

Experts say modern vaccinations have removed the need for quarantine by giving
immunity from rabies after 21 days. The Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs said the risk of the disease entering the UK would increase from
one in 13,000 to one in 211 but it was still "extremely low".

The new system, due to be introduced on January 1, 2012, will save pet owners
around GBP 7million a year in quarantine fees. Defra insisted strict procedures
were in place to ensure all documentation was legitimate.

Chief medical officer Dame Sally Davies said: "Scientific evidence shows there
is a robust alternative to quarantine in preventing rabies incursion and good
reason for changing our very precautionary rules to harmonise with those of the
EU."

Harvey Locke, president of the British Veterinarian Association, said a
successful wildlife vaccination programme in Europe had reduced the incidence of
rabies.

Q&A WHAT are the current laws for animals from the EU and low-risk countries?

The animal must be vaccinated against rabies followed by a three-week wait,
after which a blood test determines whether the vaccine has "taken".

There is then a further six-month delay before a "pet passport" is stamped,
allowing the animal entry into the UK.

What are the requirements for animals entering from high-risk countries?

All animals are held in quarantine for six months in the UK.

What are the proposals for arrivals from the EU and low-risk countries?

Animals must have been vaccinated followed by a threeweek wait before given the
go-ahead for entry.

There will no longer be the requirement for a blood test.

What are the proposals for arrivals from non-EU and high-risk countries?

Animals must have been vaccinated and been blood tested after 30 days. There is
a further three-month wait before the animal is granted entry into the UK.

Do animals have to be micro-chipped to be allowed to enter the UK?

Yes. Under the present system all animals coming into the UK have to be chipped
and this will still be the case.

What about other diseases?

Currently animals must have been treated for ticks 24 to 48 hours before
arriving in the UK. This will no longer be the case as ticks are already present
in Britain.

Also, animals must also have been treated for tapeworms. This is under review
with an intention to make this permanent.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Critics fear a change in the law could increase the risk of disease

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              July 1, 2011 Friday

Front: Labour hold off challenge from SNP in Inverclyde byelection

BYLINE: David Batty and Severin Carrell

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words


Labour held on to the Westminster seat of Inverclyde last night, in the party's
first real test since its defeat in the Scottish parliamentary elections.

Iain McKenzie was elected with 15,118 votes in the byelection, a majority of
5,838, with the Scottish National Party's Anne McLaughlin coming second with
9,280 votes.

Although Labour's majority was down by around 9,000 from last year's general
election, the result was welcomed with relief by the party as the SNP came
within 500 votes of winning the equivalent Holyrood seat in Scottish elections
in May.

The Lib Dems' support collapsed. Their candidate Sophie Bridger won only 627
votes, down from 5,007 in the general election. The Conservative candidate David
Wilson won 2,784, and Ukip's Mitch Sorbie took 288.

The byelection was called after the sudden death of Labour MP and former
minister David Cairns, shortly after the SNP's landslide victory in May's
Scottish parliament elections.

Despite holding the Westminster seat and its near equivalents for some 80 years,
Labour had been struggling to defend its 14,416 vote majority against the SNP.
But the partypressed activists into a surge of campaigning, drafting in
ex-deputy PM Lord Prescott the day before polling.

In his victory speech, McKenzie said: "First can I say this is an election none
of us wanted.

"We would have much preferred that our dear friend, and widely respected MP
David Cairns was still among us and still selflessly serving the people of
Inverclyde as he did for 10 years before he was tragically taken from us.

"Can I say I'm enormously humbled to be elected to succeed David, and continue
his work, standing up for our communities, fighting for fairness and
opportunities for our people?

"Make no mistake. This was a good night for Inverclyde - and a good night for
Labour too.

"I'm proud to be part of the Labour party, renewing itself under the leadership
of Ed Miliband, listening more, working harder and challenging for better, to
get back in touch with those we seek to serve.

"And I'm proud that my community of Inverclyde has paid an important step in
Labour's mission to win back the trust of the people both here in Scotland and
south of the border.

"Remember, only weeks ago the SNP came within 511 votes of winning here, but
tonight the voters of Inverclyde have rejected them - this time giving myself
and the Scottish Labour Party not a 500 majority, but over 5,000 of a majority.

"Labour's fightback has started right here in Inverclyde - my home town."

Captions:

Labour

15,118

53.8%

-2.2 percentage points from 2010 election

SNP

9,280

33%

+15.5

Lib Dems

627 2.2%

-11.1

Conservatives

2,784

9.9%

-2.1

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 1, 2011 Friday 7:52 AM GMT

Tories slump in their strongholds

BYLINE: PA

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 276 words


Tories saw a big swing to Labour in a by-election for their flagship
Wandsworth Council.

The majority was slashed in Thamesfield, Putney - in contrast to earlier
trends in other Conservative strongholds.

This was despite the public sector strike action which might have been
expected to bolster Tory support in such an area.

The party's slump in Wandsworth was mirrored in the the only other contest at
Cheshunt Central, Broxbourne Borough, Hertfordshire.

The Wandsworth by-election is the borough's first for 12 years, the previous
such contest being in the last century.

It was caused by the resignation of former council leader Edward Lister after
his appointment as chief of staff to London Mayor Boris Johnson.

Analysis of 24 comparable results in June suggests a 1.4% projected nationwide
Labour lead over Tories.

A calculation based on 11 wards fought both times by all three major parties
gives a line-up of Labour 38.2%, C 38.1%, Lib Dem 13.7%.

The calculations of projected party leads and vote shares are based on general
election figures for wards last fought in 2010.

The basis for seats previously contested in other years is statistics
published by the BBC after main council polls. These have tended to be close
to other published surveys.

RESULTS

Broxbourne Borough - Cheshunt Central: C 742, Lab 481, Ukip 88, Ind 62, Lib
Dem 24. (May 2011 - C 1175, Lab 495, Ind 206). C hold. Swing 8.7% C to Lab.

Wandsworth London Borough - Thamesfield: C 1497, Lab 1022, Lib Dem 545, Green
202. (May 2010 - Three seats C 4938, 4685, 4654, Lab 1559, 1387, Lib Dem   1479,
1194, Lab 1192, Lib Dem 1043, Green 849). C hold. Swing 13.2% C to Lab.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved
