
                               1 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 29, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cries of foul over who's on which side in AV vote

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 384 words


The Liberal Democrats are the party that dares not speak its name, according to
the final leaflet of the "yes to AV" campaign, which avoids spelling out Nick
Clegg's support.

The leaflet - delivered a week early by mistake yesterday - names Labour, UKIP
and the Green Party as supporting the alternative vote (AV), and includes their
party logos. But the words "Liberal Democrat" are missing from the party's
otherwise unidentified "bird of freedom" emblem.

The "no" campaign cried foul and said the "yes" campaign was embarrassed about
Mr Clegg's support. It also protested about the suggestion that Labour was
backing change, when a majority of its MPs and councillors support the current
first-past-thepost system. The leaflet uses a large Labour logo accompanied, in
much smaller type, with the words "the leadership of" - a reference to the
support of Ed Miliband and a majority of the Shadow Cabinet.

Tom Harris, Labour MP for Glasgow South, said: "This leaflet is a shameful
example of the 'yes' campaign's dirty tricks. The majority of the Labour Party
is voting 'no', but the 'yes' campaign is desperately trying to claim the
backing of Labour while hiding that its is a campaign run from Lib Dem HQ. The
good news is that Labour voters simply aren't buying it."

Tories complained that the BNP was listed alongside the Tories as the only
parties opposing change. Although Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, supports the
"no" campaign, a survey of BNP members in the New Statesman suggested that the
majority would vote "yes". The "yes" campaign defended the leaflet, saying that
it was technically accurate to list the leaderships of the many national parties
as it had done.

Mr Clegg enraged Tories at the weekend by using a similar construct to assert
that David Cameron and Mr Griffin were the only leaders blocking change, while
every other leader, including those of the Scottish and Welsh nationalists,
supported AV.

The "yes" camp will launch a final push with the comedian Eddie Izzard on
Sunday. It insists that the result is still up for grabs, despite polls giving
the "no" camp a lead of up to 20 points. Both sides agree turnout could be
critical.

Some parts of Scotland, where polling is expected to be heavy because of
parliamentary elections that day, have given the "yes" campaign a big lead.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Lib Dems attack 'wicked' Thatcherism: PM accused of clinging to 'indefensible'
voting system: Back change, Johnson urges Labour activists

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words


The Liberal Democrats kept up the rhetorical pressure on the Conservatives
yesterday when party president Tim Farron described Thatcherism as "organised
wickedness" and claimed David Cameron's lasting legacy as prime minister would
be his decision to defend an "indefensible" electoral system.

At a cross-party event organised by the yes campaign in the referendum on the
alternative vote system, Farron said Cameron had turned his back on a long
Conservative tradition, stretching back to Disraeli and Baldwin, in favour of
evolution of the voting system.

He also claimed first past the post had made possible the "organised wickedness"
of unemployment under years of Thatcherism.

His criticism of former prime minister Margaret Thatcher prompted a rebuke from
Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence party, who called on all sides
in the referendum campaign not to resort to personal abuse.

Farron said: "The more shrill and terrified the establishment sound, the more
you know that voting yes is right. I thought he (Cameron) stood for change,
progress and reform - he was the future once."

Farron said the mass unemployment of the 1980s "was organised wickedness given
the veneer of legitimacy by an electoral system that gave the Conservatives 100%
of Britain's power despite being opposed by 60% of the electorate".

In an appeal to wavering voters, he said: "Do we want to be the generation
mocked by our children and grandchildren for bottling this change, or do we want
stand up to the press barons?"

Farage and Farron were sharing the yes platform with former Labour home
secretary Alan Johnson and the leader of the Green party, Caroline Lucas.

The yes event came as campaign organisers said the outcome of the referendum
would turn on whether Labour voters decided to back change and saw the status
quo of first past the post as likely to entrench the Tory party in power.

Johnson acknowledged that Labour was divided over the issue - the natural result
of the fact that the party can win under first past the post.

The Labour no campaign has for weeks claimed a majority of the parliamentary
party. Ed Miliband has said Labour MPs are free to take whatever position they
want.

Johnson said he believed in their hearts most Labour activists supported change,
implying that they were being held back by their contempt for the Liberal
Democrat leadership.

"I cannot imagine anyone joining a radical, progressive party like the Labour
party and thinking the electoral system is absolutely perfect and does not need
change in any way," he said.

He argued that "even though we can win through first past the post, we think it
is a miserably disempowering system that belongs in the past. It is not of this
age."

Captions:

Caroline Lucas (Green), Nigel Farage (Ukip), and Alan Johnson (Labour) on the
platform at the cross-party event backing the yes campaign Photograph: Anna
Gordon

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE;
FILL STORMONT WITH THE PEOPLE YOU WANT RUNNING THE COUNTRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 2719 words


NORTHERN Ireland goes to the polls this day week, with voters facing three
elections - for the Assembly, local councils and a referendum on a new
Westminster voting system. Today is part two of our look, with the help of
Stratagem lobbying experts, at the Assembly constituencies.

NEWRY & ARMAGH

SINN Fein has been on the march in the past decade, securing three MLAs to the
SDLP's one in the 2003 Assembly vote.

Conor Murphy went on to capture his rival's Westminster seat in the 2005 General
Election, and SF retained its three seats in the 2007 Assembly election.

This was despite running only Mr Murphy after outgoing MLA Davy Hyland opted to
run as an Independent.

Sinn Fein will be running its three outgoing MLAs this time around,
strategically managing votes in key parts of the constituency - South Armagh
(Murphy), Newry (Micky Brady), and Armagh city, mid-Armagh and surrounding areas
(Cathal Boylan).

Dominic Bradley will be seeking re-election for the SDLP, as will the Ulster
Unionist's Employment Minister Danny Kennedy.

The DUP will be running William Irwin, too, meaning all six MLAs elected in 2007
return to defend their seats.

CANDIDATES: David Murphy, Alliance; William Irwin, DUP; Dominic Bradley, SDLP;
Thomas O'Hanlon, SDLP; Mickey Brady, Sinn Fein; Cathal Boylan, Sinn Fein; Conor
Murphy, Sinn Fein; Danny Kennedy, UUP; Barry Halliday, TUV; Robert Woods, UKIP;
James Malone, Independent

SITTING MLAs

Cathal Boylan, Sinn Fein Dominic Bradley, SDLP Micky Brady, Sinn Fein William
Irwin, DUP Danny Kennedy, UUP Conor Murphy, Sinn Fein

NORTH ANTRIM

THE home of "Paisleyite unionism" in North Antrim will not see a Paisley running
in an election for the first time since 1966.

Former First Minister Ian Paisley Senior has now "retired" to the House of Lords
and his son who was elected as MP for the constituency last year and will not
contest an Assembly seat. This leaves a rather new-look team standing for the
DUP.

The four candidates, Mervyn Storey, Paul Frew, Ballymena businessman David
McIlveen and Ballymoney councillor Evelyne Robinson, will be battling between
themselves for three reasonably safe seats. The UUP has two candidates, Bill
Kennedy and Robin Swann, arguably competing for one seat, although with boundary
changes they will hope for two. The loss of predominantly nationalist wards to
neighbouring constituencies means either Sinn Fein or SDLP may be under threat.

Sinn Fein will be the more confident with young MLA Daithi McKay returning to
defend the 7,000 first preference votes he won in 2007.

The SDLP's Declan O'Loan polled less than 4,000 first preference votes last
time, putting his seat in jeopardy.

All eyes will be on the TUV Leader Jim Allister. At his peak he polled 66,000
votes in the regionwide European elections in 2009. However, a poor performance
at the 2010 Westminster elections saw his challenge to the DUP fade.

CANDIDATES: Jayne Dunlop, Alliance; Paul Frew, DUP; Mervyn Storey, DUP; Evelyne
Robinson, DUP; David McIlveen, DUP; Declan O'Loan, SDLP; Daithi McKay, Sinn
Fein; Jim Allister, TUV; Audrey Patterson, TUV; Bill Kennedy, UUP; Robin Swann,
UUP

SITTING MLAs

Robert Coulter, UUP Daithi McKay, Sinn Fein Declan O'Loan, SDLP Ian Paisley, DUP
Mervyn Storey, DUP Paul Frew, DUP

NORTH DOWN

FROM Sir James Kilfedder to Robert McCartney and Lady Sylvia Hermon, North Down
has frequently returned MPs from an independent unionist persuasion.

This time Alan McFarland has taken up this mantle. The outgoing MLA resigned
from the UUP over the link-up with the Tories.

In the 2007 Assembly elections, the DUP won the most votes of any party in the
constituency and will hope to capitalise on UUP divisions and take three seats.

This constituency returned the only Green Party MLA in 2007.

Brian Wilson will not be running this time, but instead party leader Steven
Agnew will be taking on the challenge.

However, with only 3.1% of the vote in last year's General Election, he will be
hoping for a fair wind to retain the Assembly seat.

Alliance is standing outgoing MLA Stephen Farry and Anne Wilson in their attempt
to consolidate on Farry's performance in 2007 and build towards a second seat.

CANDIDATES; Stephen Farry, Alliance; Anne Wilson, Alliance; Stephen Agnew,
Green; Liam Logan, SDLP; Conor Keenan, Sinn Fein; Colin Breen, UUP; Leslie Cree,
UUP; Alan Chambers, Independent; Alan McFarland, Independent; Peter Weir, DUP;
Alex Easton, DUP; Gordon Dunne, DUP; Fred McGlade, UKIP

SITTING MLAs

Leslie Cree, UUP Alex Easton, DUP Stephen Farry, Alliance Alan McFarland, Ind
Brian Wilson, Green Peter Weir, DUP

SOUTH DOWN

THIS constituency, which includes most of Down, the eastern part of Newry and
Mourne and a small part of Banbridge District Councils, has traditionally been
an SDLP stronghold.

However, the Sinn Fein vote has been rising in recent years, with Caitriona
Ruane topping the Assembly poll in 2007 and the party coming within a hair's
breadth of securing the most votes overall in that election.

However, Ruane's tenure as Education Minister has appeared to damage Sinn Fein
here, with the party trailing the SDLP by 8,000 votes in the General Election
when Margaret Ritchie successfully retained Eddie McGrady's seat.

Despite this, Assembly elections are different beasts and with a proportional
representation system, "loan votes" to the SDLP from the unionist side of the
community will be less in play.

Nonetheless, the SDLP will seek to capitalise on its 2010 performance, Ruane's
less than easy time as Minister and the fact its party leader hails from the
constituency (and has become MP since the last Assembly election) in an attempt
to win back the third seat it held here until 2003.

On the unionist side, both incumbents have had a high profile recently with the
DUP's Jim Wells appointed chairman of the Assembly's Health Committee and John
McCallister of the UUP chosen as his party's deputy leader.

CANDIDATES: David Griffin, Alliance; Jim Wells, DUP; Cadogan Enright, Green;
Margaret Ritchie, SDLP; Eamonn O'Neill, SDLP; Karen McKevitt, SDLP; Willie
Clarke, Sinn Fein; Caitriona Ruane, Sinn Fein; Naomi Bailie, Sinn Fein; John
McCallister, UUP; Henry Reilly, UKIP

SITTING MLAs

PJ Bradley, SDLP Willie Clarke, Sinn Fein John McCallister, UUP Margaret
Ritchie, SDLP Caitriona Ruane, Sinn Fein Jim Wells, DUP

STRANGFORD

THIS constituency sees significant boundary changes from the last Assembly
election.

Seven Castlereagh wards have been lost to Belfast constituencies in return for
three South Down wards being added.

This effectively makes the electoral area less unionist and also may impact
somewhat on the Alliance vote.

The constituency had the closest result of the 2007 election, with the DUP's
Michelle McIlveen defeating the SDLP's Joe Boyle by 31 votes for the sixth and
final seat.

With the boundary changes tilting the constituency in the SDLP's favour, the
party will rate Strangford as a top priority for making a breakthrough.

Boyle returns again to attempt to win the seat he narrowly missed out on four
years ago. The DUP's fourth seat in the area is perhaps most under threat. The
party swept to a huge result in 2007 led by Iris Robinson, bringing home all
four candidates.

Since her fall from grace, the party must be somewhat weakened. With sitting
MLAs Simon Hamilton, Michelle McIlveen and Jonathan Bell all contesting, it may
be their fourth candidate, William Walker, who faces the biggest challenge.

Alliance's Kieran McCarthy, an MLA since 1998, will also be under pressure,
particularly with the UUP running big-name candidates David McNarry and Mike
Nesbitt.

CANDIDATES: Kieran McCarthy, Alliance; Jonathan Bell, DUP; Michelle McIlveen,
DUP; Simon Hamilton, DUP; William "Billy" Walker, DUP; Joe Boyle, SDLP; Mickey
Coogan, Sinn Fein; Terry Williams, TUV; David McNarry, UUP; Mike Nesbitt, UUP;
Cecil Andrews, UKIP

SITTING MLAs

Simon Hamilton, DUP Kieran McCarthy, Alliance Michelle McIlveen, DUP David
McNarry, UUP Jonathan Bell, DUP Simpson Gibson, DUP

UPPER BANN

UPPER Bann has been a hotbed of unionist competition in recent years.

In 2003, the DUP came very close to overtaking the UUP in terms of the number of
first preferences, and in the 2005 General Election managed to topple sitting MP
and UUP party leader David Trimble.

In the 2007 Assembly election, the DUP pulled well ahead of the UUP and Sinn
Fein became the second largest party in terms of first preference votes,
although the unionist parties secured two seats apiece in that election.

This time, MLA George Savage is not running, nor is DUP MP David Simpson, who
stepped down from the Assembly after successfully defending his Westminster seat
last year.

The UUP is also without Harry Hamilton, the Freddie Mercury impersonator who
posted a respectable 10,639 votes in last year's General Election. He quit the
party after he was not selected to run for the Assembly and is now going forward
as an Alliance candidate alongside Banbridge councillor Sheila McQuaid.

Sinn Fein's vote here has been rising over recent years. The gap between the
party's vote and that of the SDLP widened in the 2010 General Election, with
John O'Dowd securing almost twice as many votes as Dolores Kelly.

Sinn Fein will be hoping that this momentum continues to grow ahead of the
Assembly poll.

CANDIDATES: Sheila McQuaid, Alliance; Harry Hamilton, Alliance; Stephen Moutray,
DUP; Sydney Anderson, DUP; Dolores Kelly, SDLP; John O'Dowd, Sinn Fein; Johnny
McGibbon, Sinn Fein; David Vance, TUV; Jo-Anne Dobson, UUP; Sam Gardiner, UUP;
Colin McCusker, UUP; Barbara Trotter, UKIP

SITTING MLAs

Samuel Gardiner, UUP Dolores Kelly, SDLP Stephen Moutray, DUP John O'Dowd, Sinn
Fein George Savage, UUP Sydney Anderson, DUP

SOUTH BELFAST

SMALL boundary changes appear to make this constituency marginally more
Protestant than previous years.

It also has a relatively high proportion of ethnic minorities as well as a high
student population in the Holylands area.

In 2007, this constituency saw the election of the Alliance's Anna Lo while the
2010 Westminster vote saw the SDLP's Alasdair McDonnell retain his seat with an
increased majority, thanks in part to Sinn Fein's withdrawal from the contest.
The last Assembly election showed Maskey's vote to be enough, but only just, to
secure a seat.

The inclusion of Belfast Media Group owner Mairtin O Muilleoir on the local
Government ballot for Sinn Fein shows they are targeting middle-class Catholic
votes beyond their traditional stronghold.

For the UUP, Health Minister Michael McGimpsey will be aiming to retain his seat
and bring in runningmate Mark Finlay.

Jimmy Spratt's strong base in the constituency should see him elected for the
DUP.

CANDIDATES: Anna Lo, Alliance; Jimmy Spratt, DUP; Ruth Patterson, DUP; Clare
Bailey, Green; Alasdair McDonnell, SDLP; Conall McDevitt, SDLP; Alex Maskey,
Sinn Fein; Michael McGimpsey, UUP; Mark Finlay, UUP; Nicolas Torregrosa, UKIP;
Brian Faloon, People Before Profit; Paddy Meehan, Socialist Party; Paddy Lynn,
The Workers' Party; Samuel Charles Smyth, Procapitalism

SITTING MLAs

Anna Lo, Alliance Alex Maskey, Sinn Fein Alasdair McDonnell, SDLP Michael
McGimpsey, UUP Jimmy Spratt, DUP Conall McDevitt, SDLP

WEST BELFAST

THE heartland of northern republicanism, West Belfast is overwhelmingly Catholic
in its make-up and marked by high unemployment and poverty.

In the 2007 Assembly election, Sinn Fein secured five of the six seats, with
excellent vote management, successfully spreading first preferences across all
of their candidates.

Boundary changes bring predominantly nationalist areas into the constituency
from Lagan Valley, diminishing the likelihood of a unionist taking a seat in the
constituency, as Diane Dodds won for the DUP in 2003.

The SDLP's Social Development Minister Alex Attwood defends the one remaining
non-Sinn Fein seat.

He had a reasonable showing in the 2010 Westminster election when he polled over
5,000 votes, so it is safe to assume the status quo will remain with five Sinn
Fein seats and one SDLP seat.

Possibly the biggest change in the constituency is the departure of Gerry Adams
as an MLA and an MP, who now sits in Dail Eireann.

Arguably, with Adams missing from the ticket this time, Sinn Fein's vote
management could be made easier, as the party seeks to spread first preferences
across all five of its candidates.

No longer will there be a temptation for the Sinn Fein voter to be attracted to
the "big name" at the top of the ballot paper.

CANDIDATES: Dan McGuinness, Alliance; Brian Kingston, DUP; Colin Keenan, SDLP;
Alex Attwood, SDLP; Pat Sheehan, Sinn Fein; Jennifer McCann, Sinn Fein; Paul
Maskey, Sein Fein; Sue Ramsey, Sinn Fein; Fra McCann, Sinn Fein; Bill Manwaring,
UUP; Pat Lawlor, Socialist Party; Gerry Carroll, People Before Profit; John
Terence Lowry, The Workers' Party; Brian Pelan, Independent

SITTING MLAs

Alex Attwood, SDLP Fra McCann, Sinn Fein Jennifer McCann, Sinn Fein Paul Maskey,
Sinn Fein Sue Ramsey, Sinn Fein Pat Sheehan, Sinn Fein

SOUTH ANTRIM

SOUTH Antrim begins north of Belfast and encompasses the whole of Antrim and
parts of the Newtownabbey council areas.

The last Assembly election saw the DUP comfortably take two seats here but
without their MP for the area, William McCrea, any push for a third seat may be
tough going.

The UUP, under the UCUNF banner, ran the DUP close here in 2010 when then leader
Sir Reg Empey parachuted in for an ultimately failed attempt to unseat McCrea.
Arguably the UUP should be pushing for two seats in the constituency on that
performance, up from the single seat they won in 2007.

Sinn Fein's Mitchel McLaughlin should be safe to retain his seat while Alliance
leader and Justice Minister David Ford saw his vote rise in 2007 to make his
election comfortable enough last time.

The SDLP's outgoing MLA for the area, Thomas Burns, is facing a challenge.

He was the last candidate elected in 2007 and any advance by the UUP could make
his defence difficult.

CANDIDATES: David Ford, Alliance; Pam Lewis, DUP; Trevor Clarke, DUP; Paul
Girvan, DUP; Thomas Burns, SDLP; Mitchel McLaughlin, Sinn Fein; Danny Kinahan,
UUP; Adrian Watson, UUP; Mel Lucas, TUV; Stephen Parkes, BNP

SITTING MLAs

Thomas Burns, SDLP Danny Kinahan, UUP Trevor Clarke, DUP David Ford, Alliance
Mitchel McLaughlin, SF Paul Girvan, DUP

FERMANAGH/SOUTH TYRONE

A CONSTITUENCY frequently labelled as "one to watch", this area has consistently
witnessed some of the highest voter turnouts and most memorable election moments
in recent memory.

The 2010 General Election was no different, with several recounts resulting in a
victory for Sinn Fein's Michelle Gildernew by four votes from unionist candidate
Rodney Connor.

Election day arrives on the 30th anniversary of the death of Bobby Sands and
Sinn Fein will be hoping for another strong showing by fielding three candidates
in the constituency once held by the former hunger striker.

The party has consistently topped the polls since 2001, receiving more than 36%
of the vote in the 2007 Assembly elections, but was subsequently left with only
one MLA here after Gerry McHugh's decision to leave the party.

McHugh is not seeking re-election but Sinn Fein will face another Independent in
the form of ex-Sinn Fein councillor Pat Cox.

SF will almost certainly return two MLAs once again, with Agriculture Minister
Michelle Gildernew running alongside Sean Lynch.

With its vote dropping to just 7.6% in 2010, the SDLP will be watching anxiously
as Tommy Gallagher has a task on his hands.

Arlene Foster's strong profile will see her through while Tom Elliott is likely
to maintain his strong vote.

CANDIDATES: Hannah Su, Alliance; Tommy Gallagher, SDLP; Michelle Gildernew, Sinn
Fein; Phil Flanagan, Sinn Fein; Sean Lynch, Sinn Fein; Kenny Donaldson, UUP; Tom
Elliott, UUP; Alex Elliott, TUV; Arlene Foster, DUP; Maurice Morrow, DUP; Pat
Cox, Independent

SITTING MLAs

Tom Elliott, UUP Arlene Foster, DUP Tommy Gallagher, SDLP Michelle Gildernew, SF
Gerry McHugh, Ind Maurice Morrow, DUP

3 POLLS ON 1 DAY..

1. ASSEMBLY: There are 108 seats elected from 18 six-member constituencies using
the single transferable vote - so you vote using 1,2,3 for as many preferences
as you want.

2. COUNCIL: 582 councillors will be elected to our 26 councils, ranging from 15
in Larne to 51 in Belfast. Again, use 1,2,3.

3. REFERENDUM: You will be asked if you want to change the voting system at
Westminster to PR. You will tick either yes or no.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOPEFULS Tom Elliott, Conor Murphy, Margaret Ritchie, David Ford and
Jimmy Spratt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MAGGIE BLAST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 136 words


A TOP Lib Dem was slammed last night for saying Margaret Thatcher presided over
"organised wickedness" as PM.

Party president Tim Farron also claimed the First Past The Post voting system
had helped "sustain slavery".

His comments mark a new low in Lib Dem and Tory relations ahead of next week's
Alternative Vote referendum.

Mr Farron said: "Organised wickedness was given the veneer of legitimacy by an
electoral system that gave 100 per cent of power to a government opposed by 60
per cent of voters."

He also said the electoral system "predates the empire, predates slavery and
helped sustain both".

Tory Philip Davies said: "Under AV, Mrs Thatcher would've won bigger majorities,
so Tim Farron is talking drivel."

UKIP chief Nigel Farage, who BACKS AV, said: "Too many on the "yes" side are
resorting to personal abuse."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Fury over Thatcher AV insult

BYLINE: KEVIN SCHOFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


A TOP Lib Dem was attacked last night for saying Margaret Thatcher presided over
"organised wickedness" as PM.

Party president Tim Farron also claimed the First Past The Post voting system
had helped "sustain slavery".

His comments mark a new low in Lib Dem and Tory relations ahead of next week's
Alternative Vote referendum.

Mr Farron said: "Organised wickedness was given the veneer of legitimacy by an
electoral system that gave 100 per cent of power to a government opposed by 60
per cent of voters."

He also said the electoral system "predates the empire, predates slavery and
helped sustain both". The comments provoked outrage.

Tory Philip Davies said: "Most analysis shows that under AV, Mrs Thatcher would
have won bigger majorities, so Tim Farron is talking drivel."

UKIP chief Nigel Farage, who BACKS AV, said: "Too many on the 'Yes' side are
resorting to personal abuse."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blame ... Thatcher

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Happy Birthday Professor Tim Congdon, 60

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 189 words


The right wing economist Tim Congdon ran unsuccessfully for the leadership of
UKIP in November, but says he will contest the next election as an Independence
Party candidate. His first job was on the economics staff of The Times from
1973-76 before forming his own research company. He is a vocal opponent of the
Euro: "It can't go on; and it won't." He has been married to Dorianne for 23
years and lives in the Forest of Dean. rgt Birthdays today Ann-Margret, actress,
70; Professor Hugh Bentall, cardiac surgeon, 91; Mike Brearley, cricketer and
psychoanalyst, 69; Penelope Cruz, actress, 37; Commandant Elizabeth
Craig-McFeely, director, WRNS, 1979-82, 84; John Daly, golfer, 45; Grenville
Davey, artist, 50; Kenneth Kaunda, President of Zambia, 1964-91, 87; Vernon Kay,
television presenter, 37; Elizabeth LeCompte, theatre director, 67; Harper Lee,
writer, 85; Professor Nicola LeFanu, composer, 64; Sir Terry Pratchett, writer,
63; Ian Rankin, novelist, 51; Professor Vincent Reddish, astronomer, 85; Sir Dai
Rees, chief executive, Medical Research Council, 1987-96, 75; Dr Jeffrey Tate,
conductor, 68; Bradley Wiggins, cyclist, 31.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

First-past-the-post 'helped slavery and Thatcher excesses'

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 382 words


To the list of ills blamed on Britain's first-past-the-post voting system - lazy
MPs, the expenses scandal, illegitimate government - was added a new shortcoming
yesterday: slavery.

Tim Farron MP, the Liberal Democrat president, argued that a different voting
system would have protected Britons from the "organised wickedness" of the
Thatcher era and also ended the slave trade.

Mr Farron was speaking alongside Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, and others at a
"yes" campaign event. He said that the first-past-the-post (FPTP) system had
allowed Mrs Thatcher to pursue extreme policies even though she was supported by
only 40 per cent of the electorate. He cited "the mass sale of council housing
that has led to misery for millions ever since", and "the witless and
devastating sale of our national utilities".

He added: "This was organised wickedness, given the veneer of legitimacy by an
electoral system that gave 100 per cent of government power to a government that
was opposed by 60 per cent of the voters."

Mrs Thatcher was "elected by a corrupt electoral system that predates the
empire, predates slavery and which, incidentally, helped to sustain both". His
remarks are part of a Lib Dem effort to get out the Labour vote for next week's
referendum. However, Mr Farron appeared to leave some of his fellow "yes"
campaigners taken aback.

Mr Farage defended the Thatcher legacy, urging Mr Farron and others to avoid
personal attacks and stick to the issues. Kwasi Kwarteng, Tory MP for
Spelthorne, took Mr Farron to task for his comments on slavery. He said: "It is
an outrageous slur to suggest that our current voting system had anything to do
with a hateful practice which Britain took the lead in abolishing. This latest
attack shows how desperate the "yes" campaign has become."

David Cameron urged all sides to get back to debating the merits of the two
competing electoral systems. He said that FPTP was "simple, fair, effective and
has worked for our country". However, he was challenged by Ian Swales (Lib Dem),
who said that if he really believed in FPTP he should allow David Davis, with
whom Mr Cameron contested the Tory leadership in 2005, to stand at the dispatch
box. Mr Davis won more support among MPs in the first round before Mr Cameron
beat him in a ballot of party members.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New backlog of 25,000 applications for asylum

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 325 words


MORE than 25,000 asylum applications dating back up to five years are lying on
immigration officials' desks waiting to be resolved.

Home Office figures show the backlog includes cases where the applicant has not
even had an initial decision on their claim.

It is separate from the 450,000 "forgotten" asylum cases dating back to the
1990s discovered in 2006.

That will be cleared this summer, but the Home Office admitted that only one in
10 have been removed and 75,000 are missing. Most of the new batch of cases are
people fighting removal through the courts.

The revelations shows a Government target to deal with most new cases within six
months is failing.

It also raises fears that failed asylum seekers may earn the right to stay in
the UK under human rights laws simply for being here so long waiting for their
cases to be decided.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP, said: "The longer people stay here the chances of them
being asked to leave grow smaller. This is made possible by human rights laws
and the EU which controls our asylum criteria."

Sir Andrew Green, of Migration-Watch, said: "This is evidence of the growing
legal difficulties which are being thrown in the way of the rapid resolution of
these cases."

Figures published by the UK Border Agency show that 25,345 new asylum cases are
outstanding - waiting for an initial decision, the outcome of an appeal or
judicial review.

The true figure is likely to be much higher because it does not include
applications between 2006 and 2008 and suggests a second backlog has built up.
Last night immigration minister Damian Green said: "The Government is in the
process of making major changes to the uncontrolled immigration system it
inherited. This includes concluding asylum cases faster, at lower cost, and
improving the quality of the UK Border Agency's decision-making.

"We are committed to ensuring there are no new backlogs, and last year we
removed thousands of people with no right to be here."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Concerned: Andrew Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

War migrants head to Britain

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 595 words


BRITAIN was bracing itself for a fresh wave of immigrants last night as around
1,000 North African refugees set up camps near the Eurostar station in Paris.

The Tunisian and Libyan migrants say they will head to England because of a
crackdown by French authorities.

The unofficial camps are all a short walk from the Gare du Nord, from where
high-speed trains leave for Kent and London.

The news comes as Italy and France moved to tighten European border controls.

With thousands of migrants fleeing unrest across North Africa, the countries
requested an urgent reform of the Schengen border treaty which allows
passport-free travel throughout continental Europe.

Some 26,000 desperate Tunisians have already sought hostage on the tiny Italian
island of Lampedusa while the ongoing crisis in Libya could see the number of
refugees escaping to Europe soar further. In Paris, refugees have set up
temporary homes in squares surrounding the Eurostar rail hub.

Almost all are complaining about harassment from the French authorities, saying
that their hopes of finding accommodation and jobs were next to nil.

Some say they now hope to smuggle themselves to Britain, where they can claim
asylum or disappear into the black economy.

"It may be our only hope," said Hamadi Trikki, a 19-year-old Tunisian who
arrived via boat to Italy and then train.

"Many of us believed that France would offer us a future because we speak French
and have family here, but the French don't want to help.

"We were treated as heroes during the Jasmine Revolution but now we are
unwanted. People are already offering us passages to England."

Mr Trikki was speaking from a makeshift camp on the Jemmapes quay, in Paris's
10th arrondissement, where charity workers were dishing out soup to 400
migrants.

Another camp, at Porte de Villette, in the 19th arrondissement, has Tunisian
flags at the entrance, but some 300 residents complain daily about the lack of
food and threats from the police. Other migrants are seen wandering around
Paris, with police estimating that up to 50 a day are arriving to swell the
numbers.

"They don't want us here at all," said a 22-year-old Tunisian who gave his name
as Mohammed. "Shops and fast food restaurants ask us for papers, but we don't
have any.

"The police threaten to arrest us and there is no financial support available."
France prevented trains carrying immigrants arriving from Italy last week,
claiming they were a risk to public order.

Yesterday, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Italian Prime Minister Silvio
Berlusconi signed a joint letter to the European Union to demand that the
Schengen treaty take into account "exceptional" situations like the flood of
immigrants. The letter asks that the EU strengthen its border control agency
Frontex, step up assistance to North African countries and allow member states
to reimpose frontier controls.

Mr Sarkozy said: "We want Schengen to survive but, to survive, Schengen must be
reformed."

However, it is feared that the end result will be more migrants towards Britain.
Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "This is a clear case of an EU ideal colliding with
reality and once again coming off worse, in this case the European borderless
state.

"The Italians want to ship the Tunisians to France and France will inevitably
pass them on to us."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LIBYA BOMBINGS: PAGE 17

Q Should Britain take in any more migrants?

YES: 0901 030 8342 NO: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWeDYes to 80088 no text DXWeDno to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

New backlog of 25,000 applications for asylum

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 324  words


MORE than 25,000 asylum applications dating back up to five years are lying on
immigration officials' desks waiting to be resolved.

Home Office figures show the backlog includes cases where the applicant has not
even had an initial decision on their claim.

It is separate from the 450,000 "forgotten" asylum cases dating back to the
1990s discovered in 2006.

That will be cleared this summer, but the Home Office admitted that only one in
10 have been removed and 75,000 are missing. Most of the new batch of cases are
people fighting removal through the courts.

The revelations shows a Government target to deal with most new cases within six
months is failing.

It also raises fears that failed asylum seekers may earn the right to stay in
the UK under human rights laws simply for being here so long waiting for their
cases to be decided.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP, said:

"The longer people stay here the chances of them being asked to leave grow
smaller. This is made possible by human rights laws and the EU which controls
our asylum criteria."

Sir Andrew Green, of MigrationWatch, said: "This is evidence of the growing
legal difficulties which are being thrown in the way of the rapid resolution of
these cases."

Figures published by the UK Border Agency show that 25,345 new asylum cases are
outstanding - waiting for an initial decision, the outcome of an appeal or
judicial review.

The true figure is likely to be much higher because it does not include
applications between 2006 and 2008 and suggests a second backlog has built up.
Last night immigration minister Damian Green said: "The Government is in the
process of making major changes to the uncontrolled immigration system it
inherited. This includes concluding asylum cases faster, at lower cost, and
improving the quality of the UK Border Agency's decision-making.

"We are committed to ensuring there are no new backlogs, and last year we
removed thousands of people with no right to be here."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Concerned: Andrew Green

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday

Back AV to hurt Tories, Labour tells supporters

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 526 words


Labour voters will be urged today to kick Cameron not Clegg in the 5 May
referendum on the Commons voting system, as the party's yes campaign steps up
its drive to corral swing Labour voters into backing the alternative vote.

As the latest polling shows a strong lead for the no campaign, a swing to yes
from undecided Labour voters is seen as the last chance for the yes team.

Labour Yes will produce a set of posters showing a happy David Cameron and
George Osborne with the caption: "Wipe the smile off their faces. Hit them twice
on May 5th. Vote Labour in the council elections and yes."

The poster is an admission that the yes campaign is only likely to win if it
turns the referendum into a verdict on the prime minister, and persuades Labour
voters not to see it primarily as a chance to punish the Lib Dems' decision to
form the coalition.

Alan Johnson, the former Labour home secretary, called the no campaign "a Tory
campaign almost exclusively funded by Tory donors". He said: "The no campaign is
not a genuine cross-party campaign. If Labour voters and others are fed up with
the Tory-led coalition, they should send a clear signal by voting yes to AV."
Johnson will today be joined by Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence
party, and Tim Farron, the president of the Liberal Democrats.

But another former Labour home secretary, David Blunkett, said: "The Labour no
campaign now includes over half of Labour's MPs, four out of five councillors,
and thousands of Labour activists."

The renewed efforts to win over the critical undecided Labour supporters came as
another poll suggested the no camp is likely to win, mainly due to a hardening
of Tory voter opinion against change.

An Angus Reid poll published last night showed the no camp leading 41% to 30%, a
13-point increase in the no vote since its last survey in mid-April. The yes
camp has slipped 2 points from the same date. Once the "don't knows" are
removed, the result is 58% to 42%. The pollsters said: "The big jump in support
for the no side is coming from people who voted for the Conservative party in
the May 2010 general election. In January, 30% of these voters were in the no
column. The proportion rose to 43% earlier this month, and has now reached 65
%."

The yes camp is only ahead in London and Scotland, but there is expected to be a
low turnout in the capital.

Putting forward the yes camp's latest argument yesterday, Lord Mandelson said:
"If there's not a no vote successfully obtained, the Tory party will never
forgive David Cameron.

"What I'm saying to my party is, think strategically. How is it best to collapse
the coalition? In my view, you have to pull the rug from under David Cameron
much more significantly than any damage you might inflict on Nick Clegg."

One Labour yes campaigner argued: "Clegg is already down and he is going to stay
down." The same campaigner nevertheless vented fury at the way in which Clegg
had decided to raise his profile in the campaign, saying: "Every time he pops
up, our poll rating goes down."

Captions:

11

The percentage-point lead enjoyed by the no campaign. Getting the Labour vote
out is seen as the yes camp's last chance

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday

AV referendum: Cameron 'defending indefensible electoral system'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 712 words

ABSTRACT

Lib Dem president, speaking at Yes to AV campaign event, says prime minister
'knows first past the post is corrupt'

FULL TEXT

The Liberal Democrat president, Tim Farron, has claimed that David Cameron's
lasting legacy as prime minister will be his decision to defend an
"indefensible" electoral system.

Campaigning for a Yes vote in the referendum on changing to the alternative vote
system, Farron said Cameron had turned his back on a long Conservative
tradition, stretching back to Disraeli and Baldwin, in favour of evolution of
the voting system.

He also claimed first past the post had made possible the "organised wickedness"
of unemployment under years of Thatcherism, as well as preserved slavery and
empire.

His criticism of Thatcher prompted a rebuke from Nigel Farage, the leader of the
UK Independence party, who called on all sides in the referendum campaign not to
resort to personal abuse.

Farron said: "The more shrill and terrified the establishment sound, the more
you know that voting Yes is right.

"I thought he [Cameron] stood for change, progress and reform - he was the
future once.

"Does he really want to be remembered as the last defender of a discredited
system? Whether he wins or loses, his legacy will be defending the
indefensible".

He argued that, historically, the Conservatives have a good record of
understanding when it is time for democracy to evolve.

"Cameron knows the system is corrupt, and he knows he could and should make this
small and vital reform," he said. "He has got eight days to remember the kind of
person he was."

He said the mass unemployment of the 80s "was organised wickedness given the
veneeer of legitimacy by an electoral system that gave the Conservatives 100% of
Britain's power despite being opposed by 60% of the electorate".

First past the post predated the empire and slavery and kept both in existence,
he added.

And he said: "Do we want to be the generation mocked by our children and
grandchildren for bottling this change, or do we want stand up to the press
barons in this most Britsh of weeks to make a very British change, a small
change that will make a big difference?"

Farage and Farron were sharing the Yes platform with the former Labour former
home secretary Alan Johnson and the leader of the Green party, Caroline Lucas.

The Yes event came as campaign organisers said the outcome of the referendum
would turn on whether Labour voters decided to back change and saw the status
quo of first past the post as likely to entrench the Tory party in power for
another century.

Johnson acknowledged that Labour was divided over the issue - an inevitable
result of the fact that the party can win under first past the post.

He said: "I cannot imagine anyone joining a radical progressive party like the
Labour party and thinking the electoral system is absolutely perfect and does
not need change in any way."

He argued that "even though we can win through first past the post, we think it
is a miserably disempowering system that belongs in the past. It is not of this
age".

Johnson said the current system had been devised by a tiny political elite when
most working men and women did not have the vote, and had been designed to suit
the establishment's preference for a two party system.

Labour should not become part of that establishment, he said, adding: "It is
against our history and our principles."

Farage, a supporter of a proportional system, complained: "The second-ever
national referendum has degenerated into a war of abuse. Professional
politicians bickering with one another does nothing to enthuse people to go out
and vote next Thursday."

He said the people to whom he had spoken were completely turned off by the
referendum, adding: "Very bad mistakes have been made on both sides."

He argued: "First past the post is seen by the younger generation as completely
bankrupt. So my feeling is that, if the No campaign wins this, the issue of
electoral reforms will be buried for a couple of decades.

"If Yes wins, then at least people can vote with their conscience at the next
election and can put their first choice against someone they actually believe
in.

"As the European elections [conducted by a form of proportional representation]
have shown, that can produce some really surprising results."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 27, 2011 Wednesday 3:19 PM GMT

Gillian Duffy to decide the AV referendum

BYLINE: By Julian Astle

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 412 words


There has been a lot of movement invoting intention during the AV referendum
campaign, but thingsseem now to have settled down,for the time being at least.

At the outset, Conservative voters were 2:1 against changing the electoral
system for Westminster; today they are roughly 4:1 against. Lib Dem voters
started out in favour and have remained so - also by a margin of4:1. There
hasn't been much polling data for supporters of the SNP and Plaid, but what
information we have suggests they are (or at least were, three weeks ago) at
least 3:1 in favour. It seems reasonable to assume that a majority of UKIP and
Green voters will also be in the YES camp where their party leaders are.

Of course, Conservative voters are by far the biggest of these groups, and it is
the hardening of their opposition over the last three weeks that has delivered a
significant lead for the NO campaign. With a week to go, polls suggest that
nationally the NO camp are leading by around 58 to 42 per cent.

Had the YES campaign not been subcontractedin its entirety toa group
ofmetropolitan liberal luvvies, they might have been able to keep a few more
Conservatives on board. I'm a huge fan of Eddie Izzard and Benjamin Zephania,
but I'm a metropolitan liberal so what do you expect? The fact remains, if you
want to attract support from small 'c' conservatives in the shires, you're
probably better off putting Nigel Farage up as your front man than using a
Labour-supportingtransvestite comedian or adub poet. Anyway, they didn't, and
now they're paying the price.

So the YES campaign has one last chance: if it can turn the1:1 split among
Labour voters into a 2:1 split in favour, they can still win.The challenge here
isn't to win over young left-leaning metropolitan voters (if they can be
bothered to vote, they'll vote YES), it is to win over the party's working class
base - the Gillian Duffys of this world. Hence the decision to plaster the north
of England with posters of a grinning David Cameron and George Osborne under the
message "Wipe the smile off their faces. Hit them twice. Vote Labour and vote
YES on May 5th".

The problem the official Labour campaign has is that there are so many Labour
faces - John Prescott, John Reid, David Blunkett and Margaret Beckett among them
- fronting up the NO campaign. But if Ed Miliband decides he really does want
YES to win and can frame the referendum as a chance to give Cameron, rather than
Clegg, a kicking, we might yet see a YES victory.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Labour split as MPs rebel over voting reform;
Growing opposition to Miliband's AV campaign Labour split on voting reform

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,15

LENGTH: 687 words


The scale of Labour's split over voting reform is laid bare today as more than
half of Ed Miliband's MPs oppose him over the alternative vote.

New recruits to the "No" campaign mean that for the first time a majority of
Labour MPs are publicly opposing the alternative vote, despite Mr Miliband's
lead in favour of change.

They include one Labour MP who has switched sides in disgust at the tactics of
the "Yes" campaign before the referendum on May 5.

Labour's infighting escalated last night when two former Labour home secretaries
took on Lord Mandelson over the direction of the campaign.

After the former Business Secretary entered the fray urging Labour supporters to
back the reform to hurt David Cameron, David Blunkett told him that he was flat
mistaken.

Mr Blunkett said that AV would harm Labour's electoral chances and that the
fight to retain the first-pastthe-post system was as much a Labour fight as a
Tory one. He added that the "No" campaign had the support of four out of five
Labour councillors, thousands of party activists and 131 MPs, a majority of Mr
Miliband's 258-strong parliamentary party.

Today Lord Reid of Cardowan, who has already infuriated some Labour colleagues
by sharing a platform with Mr Cameron, seeks to demolish Lord Mandelson's
argument.

He says that his former Cabinet colleague is wrong on fact, because AV would
disadvantage Labour. "More importantly Peter is wrong in principle," he writes
in The Times. "Our electoral system should not be designed on the basis of
narrow advantage for any political party."

Their intervention, after two days in which the Liberal Democrats raised their
invective against their Tory coalition partners, sets the scene for a
badtempered final week of campaigning.

Downing Street said that it was "business as usual" around the Cabinet table as
ministers met for the first time since campaigning between the coalition parties
turned ugly. Nick Clegg accused David Cameron and others at the weekend of
telling lies through the "No" campaign as he tried to distance himself from the
Prime Minister.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said that there was "good light-hearted banter in the
margins" among ministers.

The "Yes" campaign will seek today to present its cross-party appeal, saying
that despite polls indicating that it is trailing, the result is too close to
call. The former Labour Cabinet minister Alan Johnson will share a platform with
Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat president and leaders of the Green party and
UKIP.

Lord Mandelson urged Labour supporters to "think strategically" and give
ammunition to the Prime Minister's Tory critics. "If David Cameron, having
opened the way to this referendum through his negotiations with the Liberal
Democrats, were to see a 'Yes' vote, his party would never forgive him."

Jim Dowd, a former Labour whip, said that he was going to back AV but now would
not after a "Yes" campaign leaflet suggested that AV was required to end
Westminster corruption. "It was basically saying that MPs are crooks and only a
change in the voting system can do anything about it. I was so angry I threw it
away."

The Labour "No" campaign said that AV would have cost 20 MPs their seats last
May.

Mr Miliband's aides said that Labour was treating AV on its merits. "The Tories
are completely united against because a 'No' result helps them. The Lib Dems are
completely united in favour because a 'Yes' result helps them.

"You can argue whether it would help Labour either way. Ed thinks it will show
Labour at its best, reaching out towards a progressive majority."

John Denham, Tessa Jowell and Peter Hain - veteran detractors of the old voting
system - have all made their voices heard, and the "yes" ranks also include
Douglas Alexander, Yvette Cooper, Sadiq Khan, Liam Byrne, Hilary Benn, Ann
McKechin, Angela Eagle and Baroness Royall.

Those in the "no" camp include Caroline Flint, Maria Eagle, Mary Creagh and
Shaun Woodward.

Some were undecided on the merits of the issue and the benefits for Labour. Meg
Hillier, the climate change spokeswoman, said that she was "not in either camp"
and declined to say whether she would vote at all.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Blunkett, left, and Lord Reid: leading Labour opponents of AV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Labour split as MPs rebel over voting reform;
Growing opposition to Miliband's AV campaign Labour split on voting reform

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 572 words


The scale of Labour's split over voting reform is laid bare today as more than
half of Ed Miliband's MPs oppose him over the alternative vote.

New recruits to the "No" campaign mean that for the first time a majority of
Labour MPs are publicly opposing the alternative vote, despite Mr Miliband's
lead in favour of change. They include one Labour MP who has switched sides in
disgust at the tactics of the "Yes" campaign before the referendum on May 5.

Labour's infighting escalated last night when two former Labour home secretaries
took on Lord Mandelson over the direction of the campaign. After the former
Business Secretary entered the fray urging Labour supporters to back the reform
to hurt David Cameron, David Blunkett told him that he was flat mistaken.

Mr Blunkett said that AV would harm Labour's electoral chances and that the "No"
campaign had the support of four out of five Labour councillors, thousands of
party activists and 131 MPs, a majority of Mr Miliband's 258-strong
parliamentary party.

The AV controversy within his parliamentary party comes at a difficult time for
Mr Miliband. He is due in Scotland soon to campaign in the Holyrood election
campaign, where opinion polls point to an SNP victory. Today Lord Reid of
Cardowan, who has infuriated some Labour colleagues by sharing a platform with
Mr Cameron, seeks to demolish Lord Mandelson's argument. He says that AV would
disadvantage Labour. "More importantly Peter is wrong in principle," he writes
in The Times. "Our electoral system should not be designed on the basis of
narrow advantage for any political party."

Their intervention, after two days in which the Liberal Democrats raised their
invective against their Tory coalition partners, sets the scene for a
badtempered final week of campaigning. Downing Street said that it was "business
as usual" around the Cabinet table as ministers met for the first time since
campaigning between the coalition parties turned ugly. Nick Clegg accused David
Cameron and others at the weekend of telling lies through the "No" campaign as
he tried to distance himself from the Prime Minister.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said that there was "good light-hearted banter in the
margins" among ministers.

The "Yes" campaign will seek today to present its cross-party appeal, saying
that despite polls indicating that it is trailing, the result is too close to
call. The former Labour Cabinet minister Alan Johnson will share a platform with
Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat president, and leaders of the Green party and
UKIP.

Lord Mandelson urged Labour supporters to "think strategically" and give
ammunition to the Prime Minister's Tory critics. "If David Cameron, having
opened the way to this referendum through his negotiations with the Liberal
Democrats, were to see a 'Yes' vote, his party would never forgive him."

Jim Dowd, a former Labour whip, had been going to back AV until a "Yes" campaign
leaflet suggested that AV was needed to end Westminster corruption. "It was
saying that MPs are crooks and only a change in the voting system can do
anything about it."

The Labour "No" campaign said that AV would have cost 20 MPs their seats last
May. Mr Miliband's aides said: "The Tories are completely united against because
a 'No' result helps them. The Lib Dems are completely united in favour because a
'Yes' result helps them. Ed thinks it will show Labour at its best, reaching out
towards a progressive majority."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Blunkett, left, and Lord Reid: leading Labour opponents of AV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 25, 2011 Monday 2:58 PM GMT

Reasons to vote No to AV #7: It makes tactical voting worse

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 862 words


When the Alternative Vote referendum was launched, everyone thought we were in
for a terribly dreary campaign. Instead, it has been a feast of vitriol,
embellishment and exaggeration to eclipse anything British politics has seen in
a good long while.

Of particular note this weekend have been the volcanic eruptions on the Lib Dem
front bench, as they accuse the No campaign of a) lying about the cost of AV and
b) tarring the good name of Nick Clegg. It's a pity, because the media furore
has eclipsed the most lunatic argument made in AV's favour yet, by Tim Farron,
the Lib Dems' president.

Mr Farron told the Times (behind a paywall, so here's a summary) that without
AV, the House of Commons will become a "secondary chamber", less legitimate than
a new House of Lords elected under PR. In other words, you shouldn't oppose this
change, because without it, another change will possibly have malign
consequences - even though that other change is, as yet, nothing more than a
glint in Nick Clegg's eye that may or may not be proposed and may or may not get
through. Oh, and wouldn't be fully in place (and therefore a major concern) for
another 15 years anyway.

A rather better argument in favour of AV is made by Mary Ann Sieghart in today's
Independent (and by commentators on previous blogs in this series) - namely,
that it will reduce tactical voting.

The idea is that under AV, we will at last be free to express our real
preferences. If you live in a constituency where your chosen party has never had
a chance of winning, you might have voted (say) Labour because they were the
only ones with a chance of keeping the Tories out. Now you'd be free to vote Lib
Dem - or Green, or Ukip, or Monster Raving Loony - in the knowledge that a
second or third preference for Labour would probably still do the anti-Tory job.

Of course, under this system, there would still be a tactical element - you'd
still have to put that Labour preference in somewhere, since, while AV increases
the minor parties' vote share, the higher threshold makes it no more likely that
they will actually win the seat. But the preferences you gave would probably be
a pretty good reflection of your actual feelings.

This, then, is a decent reason to support AV. But it's counterbalanced - and, I
would argue, outweighed - by the fact that AV doesn't actually eliminate
tactical voting. It just makes it more complicated.

You see, the kind of voting I described above isn't that sophisticated - I hate
Party A, so I'll swallow my scruples and vote for Party B, who can beat them.
AV, with its cascading chain of preferences, makes things a bit more complex -
and subject to manipulation by the party machines.

Want an example? Let's invent a seat called, say, West Borsetshire. It was held
by the Tories for ages, taken by Labour in 1997, and recaptured in 2010. There
is, however, a strong Lib Dem presence, so any of the three parties could
theoretically win it.

Now, let's assume (taking the minor parties out of the equation) that Tory and
Labour voters would probably tend to put the Lib Dems as their second choice,
and Lib Dem second preferences would divide a bit more evenly. As a Tory
candidate, one of your main priorities, under AV, would be to make sure the Lib
Dems finished third, so that you got enough of their votes to take you over 50
per cent. If Labour were eliminated first, and all their votes given to the Lib
Dems, the chances of keeping your seat would be far lower.

You can change the specifics, and the names of the parties, but the point
remains - under AV, the order in which the candidates are eliminated can matter
hugely, to the extent of determining the result. That turns the ballot into a
species of game theory, in which party strategists come up with freakishly
complicated scenarios that could deliver victory.

The consequence - in Australia, at least - has been the emergence of party
voting cards, in which your chosen party asks/instructs you to list your voting
preferences in a particular order, to maximise its chances in that constituency.
Under AV, such cards would almost certainly become a common sight in British
campaigns - further increasing the sway of politicians over voters.

This phenomenon, incidentally, is why Nick Clegg's other claim - that AV reduces
the number of safe seats - is pretty shaky. Some seats will become safer, but
others less so - it all depends on the nature of the race. Joe Bloggs MP,
sitting on a previously impregnable majority, could suddenly find that his loyal
supporters are outnumbered by the anyone-but-Bloggs faction, whose extra
preferences gradually pool behind a single candidate. But his neighbour, Phil
Smith, might find that the way the party order works out gives him a bundle of
second preferences that take the seat out of play.

I'd love to take the claim that AV will end tactical voting at face value. But
after a little examination, it proves just as misguided as many of the other
arguments for supporting it. AV won't end tactical voting - it will just make it
more complicated. So please - ignore the mud-slinging, and consider the issue of
changing to AV on its merits. And when you've done that, vote No.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 25, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories accused of lies as Clegg decides it's time to keep distance from David
Cameron

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 643 words


Nick Clegg is to rewrite the Liberal Democrat role in the coalition as he seeks
to put clear water between himself and David Cameron on key issues.

The Deputy Prime Minister plans to respond to the lambasting he has received on
the campaign trail by seeking to assert more openly his party's policy
differences with the Conservatives.

In a gear-change for the workings of the coalition, Liberal Democrat ministers
will be encouraged to have their policy rows with Tory colleagues in public and
to make clear which arguments they are winning. The decision paves the way for a
series of spats over plans for the NHS, an elected House of Lords and crime
policy.

The first hint of the re-think came yesterday when Mr Clegg criticised Tory
chiefs, including the Prime Minister, who he accused of spreading lies about the
alternative vote (AV) ahead of the May 5 referendum.

Mr Clegg compared the Tories to the BNP and said that the "No" campaign's
tactics amounted to "the very nastiest reactionary politics" that marked "the
death rattle of a right-wing elite".

His comments were part of a co-ordinated Lib Dem onslaught against their
coalition colleagues. Chris Huhne, the Lib Dem Energy Secretary, demanded that
George Osborne withdraw "untruths" about the cost of AV or have his credibility
as Chancellor damaged.

Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, said that he would report the
Tory-funded No campaign to the elections watchdog for the way it claimed AV
would be much more expensive to run than the current firstpast-the-post system
of electing MPs. Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg plan to stage a show of unity swiftly
after May 5 to insist that the Government has not been damaged by the invective
of the campaign trail. However, their appearance will also mark a new beginning
for the coalition as both sides plan to spend more time stressing their
differences and less on their similarities. "We are entering a different phase,"
said one senior coalition source.

Senior Lib Dems said that it was important for the party to assert its identity,
while leading Tories said that the development amounted to "an understanding".

The decision marks a U-turn for Mr Clegg, who told last year's party conference
that Lib Dems must own every aspect of the coalition or it would not work. It is
also a gamble, given that Mr Cameron will be under pressure from his own party
to minimise any concessions to the Lib Dems.

Senior figures on both sides insist that there remains considerable goodwill
between the governing partners. However, the tone of Mr Clegg's comments raised
questions about how much damage the AV referendum has done to the chemistry
within coalition ranks. The Deputy Prime Minister used a newspaper interview to
put distance between himself and Mr Cameron. "I see all this stuff about how we
are somehow mates. We are not. We are not there to become friends. I didn't come
into this coalition Government to look for friends," he said.

He also suggested that the coalition partners were gulfs apart politically,
using a construct guaranteed to inflame Tory opinion. Mr Clegg, imagining a
leaders' debate on the AV referendum, said: "On one side of the stage, pro-AV,
you'd have me, Ed Miliband, Caroline Lucas [Green], Nigel Farage [Ukip], Alex
Salmond [SNP], Ieuan Wyn Jones [Plaid Cymru]. The other side, you'd have David
Cameron, Nick Griffin [BNP] and whoever leads the Communist Party. Now that
tells you volumes about the very reactionary interests that are defending the
indefensible."

Rhetoric aside, the Lib Dems have seized on No campaign claims that AV would
cost £250 million because it would require electronic counting. The Yes camp
point out that the Electoral Commission, which oversees elections, has made no
such suggestion. William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said it was a "legitimate
issue" to talk about the costs of elections under AV.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Clegg is portrayed as a tragic hero with hip-hop swagger in
Nicked, a new play. It has Jason Langley, left, as Mr Clegg and Sam Hodges as
David Cameron
ANTHONY DEVLIN / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 25, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Clegg decides it's time to keep distance from Cameron as the Tories are accused
of lying

BYLINE: Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 643 words


Nick Clegg is to rewrite the Liberal Democrat role in the coalition as he seeks
to put clear water between himself and David Cameron on key issues. The Deputy
Prime Minister plans to respond to the lambasting he has received on the
campaign trail by seeking to assert more openly his party's policy differences
with the Conservatives. Lib Dem ministers will be encouraged to have policy rows
with Tory colleagues in public. The decision paves the way for a series of spats
over plans for the NHS, an elected House of Lords and crime policy.

The first hint of the rethink came yesterday when Mr Clegg criticised Tory
chiefs, including the Prime Minister, whom he accused of spreading lies about
the alternative vote (AV) ahead of the May 5 referendum.

Mr Clegg compared the Tories to the BNP and said that the "no" campaign's
tactics amounted to "the very nastiest reactionary politics" that marked "the
death rattle of a right-wing elite".

His comments were part of a co-ordinated Lib Dem onslaught against their
coalition colleagues. Chris Huhne, the Lib Dem Energy Secretary, demanded that
George Osborne withdraw "untruths" about the cost of AV or have his credibility
as Chancellor damaged.

The "no" campaign claims AV would cost £250 million because it would require
electronic counting. But the "yes" camp point out that the Electoral Commission
has made no such suggestion. Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, said that
he would report the Tory-funded "no" campaign to the elections watchdog for the
way it claimed AV would be much more expensive to run than the current
firstpast-the-post system of electing MPs.

Mr Huhne did not rule out taking legal action, and told the BBC: "It is frankly
worrying if you have colleagues, who you have respected and who you have worked
well with, who are making claims which have no foundation in truth whatsoever.
If they don't come clean on this I am sure the law courts will."

He added: "That is not good for the coalition. We have a job to do in the
coalition Government to clean up the mess we have inherited at the time of the
last election. It is going to be a lot more difficult if you don't have the same
respect for colleagues because, frankly, they have departed so far from the
foundations of truth in an election campaign."

Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg plan to stage a show of unity swiftly after May 5 to
insist that the Government has not been damaged by the invective of the campaign
trail. However, their appearance will also mark a new beginning for the
coalition as both sides plan to spend more time stressing their differences and
less on their similarities. Senior Lib Dems said that it was important for the
party to assert its identity, while leading Tories said that the development was
"an understanding".

Senior figures on both sides insist that there remains considerable goodwill
between the governing partners. However, the tone of Mr Clegg's comments raised
questions about how much damage the AV referendum has done to the chemistry
within coalition ranks. The Deputy Prime Minister used a newspaper interview to
put distance between himself and Mr Cameron. "I see all this stuff about how we
are somehow mates. We are not. We are not there to become friends. I didn't come
into this coalition Government to look for friends," he said.

He also suggested that the coalition partners were gulfs apart politically,
using a construct guaranteed to inflame Tory opinion. Mr Clegg, imagining a
leaders' debate on the AV referendum, said: "On one side of the stage, pro-AV,
you'd have me, Ed Miliband, Caroline Lucas [Green], Nigel Farage [Ukip], Alex
Salmond [SNP], Ieuan Wyn Jones [Plaid Cymru]. The other side, you'd have David
Cameron, Nick Griffin [BNP] and whoever leads the Communist Party. Now that
tells you volumes about the very reactionary interests that are defending the
indefensible."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Clegg is portrayed as a tragic hero with hip-hop swagger in
Nicked, a new play. It has Jason Langley, left, as Mr Clegg and Sam Hodges as
David Cameron
ANTHONY DEVLIN / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 24, 2011
                                 First Edition

No one escapes the rage of a politician going down fighting;
Exclusive interview The Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg on the attack After
weeks as the target in the bitter AV referendum battle, the Lib Dem leader pulls
no punches in his most outspoken comments yet. Matt Chorley reports

BYLINE: Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1563 words


Nick Clegg is spoiling for a fight with just about everyone - David Cameron,
Andrew Lansley, all Tories, Ed Miliband, John Reid, universities, the Daily
Mail, Germany, even his own MPs.

Rivals will dismiss this as mere pre-election posturing: creating false dividing
lines in a desperate attempt to avert a bloodbath in town halls the length of
the country.

But it seems to go deeper than that. After he has attacked in all but name by
every Tory from the PM down, the rules of engagement have changed. Aides say
Clegg has woken up to pleas from his party to make clear the Liberal Democrat
influence in government, even if that means rocking the coalition boat. As a
final effort to save his own skin, it could be too late. But he is going down
fighting.

The main battleground is over his attempt to ditch first past the post for the
alternative vote in 5 May's referendum. The stakes are high, which explains the
escalation of tensions at the heart of government. The Prime Minister, in
particular, gets both barrels: accused of telling "lies", using big Tory money
to fund "the very nastiest reactionary politics".

Clegg's remarks on the conduct of Cameron and opponents of AV are extraordinary,
condemning the "death rattle of a right-wing elite, a right-wing clique who want
to keep things the way they are". Does he mean the Prime Minister specifically?
"Look, I include all those, and of course it includes the Conservative Party,
who like this nice little racket. They get a job for life and they waft into
power and they don't even need to bother try to get a majority of people
onside."

After emerging victorious from the TV debates last year, Clegg has been
imagining a leaders' broadcast on the referendum. "So, on one side of the stage,
pro-AV, you'd have me, Ed Miliband, (Green) Caroline Lucas, (Ukip) Nigel Farage,
(SNP) Alex Salmond and (Plaid Cymru) Ieuan Wyn Jones. The other side, you'd have
David Cameron, (BNP) Nick Griffin and whoever leads the Communist Party. Now
that tells you volumes about the very reactionary interests that are defending
the indefensible."

He is furious about the way he has been targeted personally by the No campaign
and believes the PM has reneged on a deal that both men would keep a low profile
in the AV debate. Reflecting on Cameron's surprise decision to share a platform
with a former Labour home secretary last week, Clegg remarks: "When
Conservatives team up with a man as reactionary and backward-looking as John
Reid, you know that the old establishment, the old elite, are just thrashing
around."

Both sides of the coalition will "respect" the decision of the British public.
Will he resign if the first-past-the-posters win? "Of course not. The referendum
is a decision by the British people."

The Yes campaign has struggled "against a headwind of lies, misinformation and
deceit", including claims made by Cameron himself that AV will require expensive
counting machines and will favour extremists. Clegg believes AV can yet win the
day. "People have still got, after the expenses scandal, a residual longing for
something better."

This is a familiar riff from the general election trail, casting himself as the
interloper disrupting the red-blue "pendulum" of British politics. "I will get
opprobrium heaped on me from left and right; a vituperative attack from people
who wish that life was different. Well, I'm sorry but it ain't."

The bonhomie of the Rose Garden seems a long time ago. While he and Cameron talk
on a daily basis, the power-sharing deal is an "unsentimental ... transaction".
"I see all this stuff about how we are somehow mates. We are not. We are not
there to become friends. I didn't come into this coalition government to look
for friends."

Which is probably just as well. Poll ratings tumbling, the dream of electoral
reform slipping through his fingers and the faintest outline of rivals
positioning for the party leadership - few would swap places with Nicholas
William Peter Clegg. Yet he seems never happier than when being attacked from
all sides.

It has been a terrible first year in power for the Lib Dem leader, reneging on
promises yet delivering others and committing military forces to Libya, the last
marking a major step in his party's adjustment to the responsibilities of being
in government.

"Liberal Democrats wouldn't support this if I thought what we were embarking on
was some sort of slippery-slope engagement that would lead to some kind of
Afghanistan or Iraq. It is utterly, utterly different." This is, he says, an
example of multilateral liberal interventionism. With China and Russia not
vetoing the move, he says it amounts to a "turning of the page on a long period
of time after the Iraq war when I think a lot of people like me were frankly
pretty pessimistic that the UN system of multilateralism could survive the
battering it had received at the hands of George Bush, Dick Cheney and Tony
Blair."

He says he understands those concerned about Britain's involvement but asks them
to imagine "the slaughter of the lawyers, the students, the architects, the
doctors, the nurses in Benghazi who Gaddafi said he was going to massacre. We
would have been condemned for standing on the sidelines while this bloodbath
continued." However, he claims European allies like Germany made a "mistake" in
deciding "very prematurely to stand aside from what was an international
multilateral effort demanded by the Arab community itself". It will remain a
challenge for the EU for decades. More immediately, the pitch last week for a
4.9 per cent increase in the EU budget the former MEP dismisses as "posturing".
There is "no way that's going to happen".

It is the coalition's more constructive relationship with Brussels that has
angered many on the Tory right. But this is not the only area where the Lib Dems
are said to be steering HMS Coalition.

Having laid claim to an office at the left-leaning IPPR think tank, moments
after giving a hastily arranged speech on AV Clegg is keen to "spell out in
words of one syllable" that the Lib Dems are wielding influence in government -
so much so that the Tory blogosphere is "frothing at the mouth". "If you were a
political expert from Mars and you didn't take your cue from the Daily Mail, you
would conclude that this is, objectively speaking, a quintessentially Liberal
government."

But measures like raising the income tax threshold, taxing North Sea oil firms
and increasing pensions have been "completely obscured" by the political
behemoth of tuition fees, which, having promised to abolish, he voted to treble.
He was, he says, "stuffed politically" during the coalition talks because
Cameron knew Labour would not give an inch on fees either.

He could have put off reform for a couple of years, and allowed pressure to
build from the higher education institutions. "Behind closed doors and slightly
behind their hands lots of vice-chancellors have said: 'ooh, very good, go and
do this that and the other'. Most vice-chancellors have been frankly not the
bravest souls in being straightforward with the public about the pressures that
they themselves are under."

It emerged that 46 of the 70 universities that had published figures by the end
of last week will demand £9,000 a year. "It won't end up like that. It really
won't." The average price will fall once scholarships and increased access for
poorer students are taken into account, Clegg says. Universities that want to
charge "top whack" will have to "pay the consequences".

Having learnt the hard way the perils of being stuck with a politically suicidal
policy, he now claims to be laying down the law to Tory MPs. "We are not going
to just sign up to stuff that falls outside the coalition agreement. I am
probably harder line than anybody ... about making sure that Liberal Democrats
don't get rolled over."

On the NHS reforms in particular, he claims "a lot of the stuff that Andrew
Lansley has sought to propose, where it doesn't fall squarely within the
coalition agreement, has to be subject to a lot of public debate and scrutiny".
There will be "substantive changes" as a result, likely to include delaying
plans to force GP consortia to take over commissioning healthcare from 2013.
Despite the rumour mill claiming Lansley is on his way out, there will be no
major reshuffle after the local elections. "The idea that you change the
political weather by playing musical chairs in Whitehall is something I have
never believed myself."

There are whispers in Westminster that some want to oust him from his seat at
the top table. The veteran Lib Dem MP Adrian Sanders accused Clegg of being an
"opportunistic careerist" who had "irrevocably damaged" his party's image. The
Lib Dem leader doesn't hesitate in slapping him down. "When things are tough in
politics, you don't start turning on yourself. A lot of Lib Dems will be pretty
angry that someone spends all his time blogging about us rather than the things
we offer. What you don't do in the middle of a difficult task is bail out."

So he's not going anywhere. Apart from a weekend break at the seaside, with a
little bit of AV campaigning which will please the troops (and, presumably,
annoy wife Miriam).

"Right, I am going to pick up the kids," and off he strides. A bit of sea air
and sand between his toes could help to calm some of this anger. But don't bank
on it.

The great 'Say Yes to AV' street party

Pages 10-11

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             April 24, 2011 Sunday

THE TROUBLED TRIO IN A FIGHT TO SAVE THE DYING DRAGONS

LENGTH: 904 words


TONY HETHERINGTON

A TRANSSEXUAL BANNED DIRECTOR, A CHAMPAGNE SALESMAN WHO ALSO SERVED A BAN AND AN
EX-MP LINE UP IN A BIZARRE BATTLE FOR DEBT-RIDDEN WREXHAM FC

THEY say football is a funny old game. But at debt-stricken, near-bankrupt
Wrexham FC, the fans feel it has gone from funny to downright bizarre.

The 138-year-old club Z one of the oldest in Britain Z is facing a winding-up
petition from the taxman over an unpaid demand for 6200,000 and has attracted a
trio of potential rescuers with colourful backgrounds.

The frontrunner is Stephanie Booth, a father of three who used to be called
Keith before becoming a transsexual. Booth, who runs hotels and pubs in the
area, served a jail sentence for pornography offences and is currently
disqualified from acting as a company director.

The dark horse is Stephen Cleeve, whose business background includes running
rip-off companies that sold champagne and land as investments. Cleeve, whose
lawyers have tried to sanitise his internet image by threatening legal
proceedings against a website carrying stories about him, has also served a ban
as a company director.

Then there is the local politician, John Marek. He was Labour MP for Wrexham
until 2001 but quit Labour, saying it had moved to the right.

He formed the short-lived left-wing party Cymru Ymlaen (Forward Wales),
providing a political home for his Westminster colleague, former Welsh Secretary
Ron Z 'moment of madness on Clapham Common' Z Davies. Now Marek is the
Conservative candidate for Wrexham in the Welsh Assembly elections.

The fear of many fans of the Dragons Z currently fourth in the Blue Square Bet
League Z is that a change of control could lead to redevelopment of the club's
Racecourse Ground by property speculators.

Booth admits she would form two separate companies, one to own the club and the
other the ground. But she told the supporters' redpassion.co.uk website that
this was to protect the ground.

'If the worst ever happened and Wrexham Football Club went into administration,
you could rescue it, but not if we also lost the venue,' she said.

She has won some support by introducing cheerleaders to matches, but has been
touchy over her appearance in the Companies House list of disqualified
directors. She told Redpassion: 'I am not a banned director but gave an
undertaking not to be director of any franchising company for three years.'

In fact her disqualification, which applies until next February, covers any
company apart from her two private businesses. The disqualification followed her
involvement in Lloyds Sterling Limited, which sold franchises by lying about
potential earnings.

Rob Taylor, who runs the fans' website, said: 'The directorship ban goes as far
as saying you cannot act as a director, or making out that you are in such a
position of power in an organisation. And then you have got the ''fit and
proper'' test that applies to football club directors as well.'

Booth denies trying to conceal the facts. She told fans: 'I am naturally
transparent, hence me posting on Facebook that I had a short career as a nude
model and a high-class hooker'.

Meanwhile, there is doubt over whether Cleeve is a serious contender. He was to
have met supporters ten days ago but pulled out. A few days ago a rescheduled
meeting was still said to be on the cards.

But Cleeve told Financial Mail: 'At the moment I am totally out of Wrexham.
Sadly, the losses are too much for me to handle.' Despite this, Cleeve is
pressing ahead with legal action against wine writer Jim Budd, whose website has
reported Cleeve's business activities since he ran speculative wine investment
firms, including one that sold champagne with the false claim that there was
going to be a world shortage.

He has hired specialist privacy law firm PSB Law to demand that Budd censor his
own website by removing all stories about Cleeve. These include a report that
appeared in Financial Mail when Cleeve attempted to stand for Parliament as a
UKIP candidate.

According to PSB Law, coverage by Budd of Cleeve's activities 'amounts to a
possible invasion of privacy'. It could also be unlawful harassment, PSB adds.
And it is causing Cleeve 'unwarranted distress'.

Budd is refusing to submit to censorship and said: 'It is all in the public
domain. If they went to the High Court, they would presumably be asking for an
injunction to stop what?' The solicitors' demand that he promise never to
mention Cleeve again was 'a grotesque attempt at gagging'.

Asked about what appears to be a bid to quash freedom of speech, PSB Law's Simon
Smith said, in incomprehensible English: 'But whether it be through me or one
other, or himself, the claim is as stated. It remains and is there not at least
an objective argument, that by this continued and persistent approach, it is
entirely reinforced? I think so.' Smith did not explain what he meant.

Predictably, the late intervention of Marek has led to claims of a publicity
stunt. Wrexham FC said: 'John Marek, who has kindly offered to loan us a
substantial amount, is attempting to put together a rescue package with others.'

But local Liberal Democrats said: 'Wrexham FC's troubles are not new, so why
wait until now to offer support?'

Unless the taxman shifts the goalposts, the final whistle will blow on May 11.
If the tax bill is not paid by then, Revenue lawyers will go to court to have
the club wound up. One way or another, an episode more soap opera than soccer
will end.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 24, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

INSIDE POLITICS;
FIGHT AHEAD ON ELECTED LORDS Tim Montgomerie on the week's big topic

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 508 words


Will Britain get an elected House of Lords?

If the Liberal Democrats are battered in the local elections, and lose the AV
referendum, many will want immediate proof that they are getting a good deal
from the Coalition. As this paper reported last week, that could be an offer of
proportional representation in the Lords.

Didn't Cameron promise an elected Upper House?

He voted for a mainly elected Lords in 2007 - and it was in the Coalition
agreement. But the pledge didn't feature prominently in the Tory manifesto,
which buried a weakly worded promise "to build a consensus for a mainly-elected
second chamber" on page 67. Before the election, he called it a "third-term"
priority.

Why isn't Cameron enthusiastic about a democratic Lords?

Cameron understands voters want governments to focus on bread and butter issues,
like the NHS and the economy. Reform of the Lords is going to take a lot of time
and energy - while MPs will vote for it, getting the Lords to do so is like
asking turkeys to vote for Christmas.

What's the plan?

At the end of next month, the Coalition's all-party committee on Lords reform,
chaired by Nick Clegg, will publish a draft Bill. This will recommend that 80
per cent of peers should eventually be replaced by directly elected "senators" -
although the exact title hasn't been decided. The key word, though, is
"eventually": existing peers will retain their seats until, over more than a
decade, Britain moves towards a mainly elected Upper House in three stages. Its
members will serve 15-year terms, with a third being replaced every five years
via elections in the middle of the parliament.

Will the Labour and Tory parties accept it?

Maybe - but the controversial bit is proportional representation. Many Tory and
Labour MPs who support a democratic House of Lords don't want it elected under
PR, as they fear the Lib Dems could forever hold the balance of power. Many
constitutional experts also fear that an elected Lords wouldn't be content with
its existing powers: Tim Farron, president of the Lib Dems, has already claimed
that a Lords elected by PR wouldn't need to "bow down" to "illegitimate" MPs in
battles over policy.

Will a democratic House of Lords be a better one?

Not necessarily: the experienced lawyers, businessmen and scientists who bring
their wisdom to the Lords' scrutiny of legislation would gradually be replaced
by the kind of career politicians who increasingly dominate the Commons. But
supporters of change say we can't go on as we are. The Lords has been accused of
being stuffed with "cronies" - and with 792 peers, many complain it's hard to
contribute to debates and committees.

Would extremists get seats?

Perhaps - but there could be a more profound impact from PR. Britain's big two
parties might split as Left-leaning voters start deserting Labour for the Greens
and Ukip eats into the traditional Tory vote.

Will it happen?

Probably - but only if the Coalition survives for five years, and if Clegg can
offer reform of human rights laws in return.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of ConservativeHome

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 24, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Even Lib Dem leader's heartland set to take revenge for 'betrayal'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 548 words


THEY are deserting Nick Clegg, below, in droves and the reason they give is a
simple one: "He's let us down," writes Tracey Kandohla.

From the party faithful in his own back yard to the first-time Liberal Democrat
voter, the man with the once golden touch is like the famed steelworks in his
Sheffield constituency - fading fast.

Student Robyn Kent, 21, said: "How could I even think about voting for him? He
has let every student in the country down by his appalling U-turn on university
tuition fees."

The second-year architecture student at Sheffield University, who faces huge
fees of up to £45,000, said: "At first I had hope and belief in him but not any
more.

"We will not give him a second chance and I'm echoing the views of all the
students I know. I voted for the Lib Dems last year but never again. I won't
vote Labour so I won't be voting this time."

The Deputy Prime Minister's popularity has sunk so low in his own constituency,
Sheffield Hallam, that Lib Dem councillors have allegedly "airbrushed" him out
of campaign literature for local elections on May 5. Administrator Suzanne
Boudjada, 60, said: "I'm not at all surprised." The life-long Labour supporter,
who had recently been torn between her party and the Lib Dems, added: "I wanted
to give Mr Clegg a chance as my local MP and I thought he was a breath of fresh
air. But he has lied so much, particularly over university fees, how can we ever
trust him? "Although he had good intentions he has backtracked and let us all
down. I have no choice but to vote Labour again. Lots of people feel same way."

Mr Clegg, who once said "Sheffielders should be treated with greater honesty",
has left voters like Hazel Woolley in limbo.

The 68-year-old retired insurance clerk admitted: "I don't have much faith in
him and he's let the people who voted for him down but there's no other choice
really.

"I'm from a working class background but Labour have got us into a terrible
state and they are too complacent.

"I wanted change and I thought the Lib Dems were the answer but I'm not so sure
now. I do agree with some cutbacks that are being made but too many people are
losing their jobs. Sheffield is famous for steel making but now all the forges
are being closed and there seem to be no apprenticeships for the youngsters."

No party holds a majority on Sheffield City Council but the Lib Dems hold the
most seats with 41. Labour hold 40, the Green Party two and there is one
Independent seat. There are no Conservative members.

Retired engineer Trevor Brooks confessed: "I'm sick of all the parties."

Mr Brooks, 68, a campaign co-ordinator who is fighting to stop two local nursing
homes being closed down, said: "Funding of £2.8million for these homes, which
care for 100 residents, has been withdrawn. We've asked Mr Clegg for help but so
far there has been nothing.

"I will be making a protest vote, probably for UKIP, because I cannot bring
myself to vote for the Lib Dems who are carrying out Tory policies and
demolishing local services and jobs."

Company director Mark Staniland, 40, is still undecided who to back but is
considering casting a protest vote.

The former Tory voter said: "I'm not passionate about the Lib Dems and although
they have been forced to make a lot of cuts in local services they are doing an
okay job."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOST TRUST: Suzanne Boudjada
PROTEST VOTE: Trevor Brooks
ANGER AT U-TURN: Robyn Kent
LACK OF FAITH: Hazel Woolley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 24, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour set for poll windfall of 1,300 seats

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 618 words


LABOUR is on course to gain well over 1,000 seats in the local elections on May
5, benefiting from crumbling support for the Liberal Democrats and big losses
for the Tories.

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, will be able to boast of his party's best result
at standalone local elections for 12 years, according to a Sunday Times survey
of local government by-election results. The analysis was carried out by Colin
Rallings and Michael Thrasher of Plymouth University's Elections Centre.

The survey of local byelections across the country each week puts Labour on 38%
- up 12 points compared with the last time the seats up for grabs on May 5 were
contested in 2007. The Tories have 35% - down five points in four years.

The Lib Dems continue to perform better in elections than in the polls, but
their rating of 17% is seven points down on 2007 and is their lowest recorded
local election score for more than 20 years.

If these figures are reflected in votes cast next month, Labour could gain as
many as 1,300 seats, with the Tories down by nearly 1,000.

The Lib Dems would lose about 400 seats, but could do even worse if caught in a
pincer movement by their two rivals.

"It is the Lib Dems, though, who are entering uncharted territory," say Rallings
and Thrasher in their analysis. "They have built an impressive base in local
government by being the party of choice for those disillusioned with whichever
of their rivals was governing at Westminster. "Now they must defend half of all
their council seats in England in a climate where they are inextricably tied to
the Tories at national level."

Labour will take comfort from big gains in 11 days' time, in elections that will
be seen as the first big test of Miliband's leadership.

Although the party is benefiting from the coalition's unpopularity, its
performance will also be flattered by the party's poor showing in 2007.

Then, the country was waiting for an unpopular Tony Blair to stand down in
favour of Gordon Brown, more than 500 seats were lost and Labour only just came
out ahead of the Lib Dems in terms of share of the vote. When the seats were
contested in 2003, it was soon after the invasion of Iraq, which cost Labour 800
seats. If the projection of 1,300 gains is right, the party will merely win back
seats it lost in 2003 and 2007.

The Tories will suffer from the fact that the party did very well in 2007,
gaining more than 900 seats and polling 40% of the vote. They will argue that
next month's losses are the natural consequence of being in government.

The Lib Dems may find it harder to make the same claim.

Labour will seek to prove its electoral credibility by regaining areas where
council losses were the precursor of general election defeat. Kent was a key
battleground last year, with the Tories gaining four constituencies from Labour
on their way to a clean sweep in the county.

Now Tory administrations in Dartford, Dover, Gravesham, Medway and Thanet are
under threat. Outside the southeast, Labour will be looking to win control in
Blackpool, Erewash, Lincoln and North Warwickshire - all constituencies lost to
the Tories a year ago.

Smaller parties will have a significant impact on the May 5 election, although
the British National party has been hit by internal power battles and is
fielding fewer than half the candidates it did four years ago. The Greens may
attract support from environmentally conscious former Lib Dems, while Ukip,
which has candidates in one in seven seats, could attract disgruntled Tories.

Some 150 local groups have registered with the Electoral Commission and will
fight on tickets ranging from halting library closures to protecting the green
belt.

Miliband may win but only by a nose, Editorial, page 24

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday

BNP faces meltdown at local polls after defections and infighting: 450 fewer
candidates to stand than in 2007 Leader under pressure over party's finances

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 607 words


The British National party is facing political meltdown in next month's local
elections after a string of defections and growing concern over its finances.

Dozens of prominent BNP figures have either been suspended or have resigned and
in the past few weeks several former members have announced they are to stand
for rival far-right and nationalist organisations.

The BNP is standing around 250 candidates in next month's elections, compared
with approximately 700 in the equivalent polls in 2007.

The turmoil comes as the Electoral Commission announced this week that the party
had "failed to comply with the legal requirement to keep adequate financial
records" for the second year running, further increasing the pressure on the BNP
leader, Nick Griffin, who fought off a leadership challenge last year.

"The position of the party is extremely dire," said Professor Matthew Goodwin,
from Nottingham University, an expert on far-right politics. "The defections and
rebellions are going strong and we have seen a whole host of key figures leave
to join other far-right groups . . . Nick Griffin is becoming increasingly
isolated."

The BNP says it is focusing on the elections to the Welsh assembly, where it
claims it could secure two seats, but anti-Griffin rebels say the BNP should be
making more progress in England as cuts bite and economic instability increases.

"There is growing anger within the party because there was a period when it
looked like Nick Griffin may have been able to force the BNP into the political
mainstream," said a spokesman for the anti-racist campaign Hope not Hate. "But
it is clear Nick Griffin will himself be the BNP's nemesis. His mismanagement,
arrogance and dictatorial leadership have dragged his own party off a political
cliff."

The BNP's election prospects took a blow earlier this month when it emerged that
around 15 former members, including former Yorkshire organiser Chris Beverley,
had defected and are standing for the English Democrats in next month's
elections. Analysts say BNP infighting has allowed other far-right and
nationalist groups to come to the fore. Organisations such as the English
Defence League, the English Democrats and the British Freedom party are now
challenging the BNP, but perhaps its biggest threat is a resurgent UK
Independence party, which beat both the Conservatives and Lib Dems to come
second in a byelection in Barnsley last month.

BNP spokesman Simon Darby dismissed the defections, saying: "People have gone,
that is it . . . but wait and see about that, I think they are going to regret
that, just wait and see."

He defended Griffin, insisting he was still a popular leader and that it was "a
miracle" the party was still operating following what he said was a relentless
campaign to undermine it by the media and the state. "I am just pleased we are
still here putting up a campaign in seats we may win . . . we are still in the
game and are looking to regroup after all the dust has settled on this
election," he said.

Griffin has come under growing pressure since the BNP's poor showing in last
year's general and council elections, when it lost all but two of the 28
councillors up for re-election and was wiped out in its east London stronghold
of Barking and Dagenham. It now has 23 councillors, compared with 54 a year ago,
and several senior figures, including election co-ordinator Eddie Butler and
London assembly member Richard Barnbrook, have come out against Griffin.

The party is reportedly £500,000 in debt although Darby said that the figure was
"coming down".

Captions:

There are now 23 British National party councillors, compared with 54 last year

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

European unity is an ideal that is being crushed by crude nationalism;
Essay

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1177 words


RIP, the European Dream. Born in Rome March 1957; died at the unlovely
Franco-Italian border railway station of Ventimiglia, April 2011. OK, d'accord,
ist ja gut, bene, the demise of the European adventure has been forecast many
times before. The European Union as an institution will, doubtless, stumble and
rumble on for a little while yet.

But the Great European Idea - the proposition that 400,000,000 Europeans will be
safer, happier and more prosperous if they work together rather than against
each other - has never faced so many overlapping threats to its survival.

And the greatest of these threats may be indifference. To be passionate about
"Europe" these days, you have to detest the whole idea. The voice of pragmatic,
moderate support for the European project is scarcely heard. Even the countries
that invented the idea of "ever closer union" between the peoples of Europe are
now sticking it to each other gleefully like kids in a playground.

France halted all rail travel between Ventimiglia and Menton on the Côte d'Azur
for six hours on Sunday to prevent a "dignity train" of Italian left-wing
activists and a few score Tunisians from entering France. Paris is also imposing
systematic checks on all Tunisians crossing the French land border with Italy.
More than 1,700 have already been sent back.

This shatters the spirit, but not, apparently, the confused and arcane letter of
the Schengen agreement which removed all document checks at continental EU
borders in 1995. The passport-free "Schengen area", one of the greatest
achievements of the EU, has since extended to 25 countries (but not Britain or
Ireland).

More than 25,000, mostly Tunisian, refugees have fled the turmoil in North
Africa. The Italian, Cypriot and Maltese governments complain that they have
been unfairly abandoned by their EU partners to deal with this influx alone.
They have a point. Is this what European solidarity is supposed to be about?

In retaliation, Italy has written thousands of temporary travel papers for the
refugees, which, it says, give them the right to travel anywhere within the
Schengen area. France, Belgium and Germany complain that this amounts to a crude
invitation to the refugees to push off to France, Belgium and Germany and
vanish, illegally, into the local Tunisian communities. They also have a point.

President Nicolas Sarkozy and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, opportunistic
showmen both, will doubtless find a form of words to "solve" the crisis when
they meet in Rome on Tuesday. In the meantime, the Italian interior minister,
Roberto Maroni, is even suggesting that Italy should consider leaving the EU.

Mr Maroni is a member of the populist, xenophobic Northern League, with which Mr
Berlusconi is allied. The Northern League's brand of middle-class intolerance
can now be found, in various guises, all over Europe. (Its nearest British
equivalent is Ukip.)

Marine Le Pen leads some presidential polls in France with a programme that
would, de facto, force her country to leave the EU. The Hungarian government has
drawn up a crudely nationalist constitution, broadly incompatible with EU
membership.

The harmless and traditionally consensual Finns this week became the latest
nation to flirt with smartly packaged populism and gut euro-hostility. One-fifth
of electors voted for a hard right, anti-EU party, the "Real Finns". Meanwhile,
the euro, the most ambitious of all symbols of European unity, stumbles from
crisis to crisis.

Assistance, with painful strings, has been given to debt-choked Greece, Ireland
and Portugal. Such "handouts" have angered the middle-class populists of
northern Europe, from the Daily Mail to the Real Finns.

In truth, the doleful route imposed by the EU, and the IMF, to "save the euro"
and to "help" the debt-afflicted nations seems suspiciously influenced by a
desire to save the bad loans of German, French and, yes, British banks.
Solidarity? Yes, but calculating solidarity.

The crisis in euroland may or may not be more intractable than the "Schengen"
crisis. Both are, symbolically and practically, very dangerous for the EU.

These are not the usual EU quarrels over arcane procedures or financing. The
euro and Schengen are two of the most visible achievements of the EU. To unwind
either or both would be an admission that the whole European project has failed.

All these crises are subtexts of a deeper, more existential crisis of faith in
the European idea. That crisis has generated, or been compounded by, a crisis of
European leadership.

No one - not Angela Merkel, not Nicolas Sarkozy, certainly not Silvio
Berlusconi, not yet at any rate David Cameron, seems to want to do more than
float on the tide of events.

The old federal European dream has been dead for years, whatever Ukip might say.
The idea of a remote bureaucracy which imposes even a limited "Europe" from
above is no longer acceptable. On the other hand, the old British idea of a
looser, inter-governmental Europe - now the broad direction of travel - cannot
replace all the EU treaties and institutions. Without a legal core, the project
would fall apart.

The EU evidently needs to "renewed". It needs a new sense of purpose and more
direct democracy to bring it closer to the people it serves. But any attempt to
make the EU more democratic would rapidly collide with the bedrock
contradictions and hypocrisies at the heart of all European arguments - pro and
anti.

Direct democracy would confer a new level of legitimacy and power on the EU.
National governments, and public opinion, have no appetite for such a step
change. Without legitimacy, the EU will remain remote and disliked.

Muddle and ambivalence are the way of life in the EU because that is the way we
choose to have it. Some form of renewal of European faith, and legitimacy, is
vital all the same. Does it matter if the EU unravels? Yes it does.

It is sometimes argued that the surge of nationalism and populism in Europe is
the fault of the EU. By trying to impose the abstract schemes of a remote elite,
it is suggested, the EU has alienated ordinary Europeans. Far from bringing
Europe's peoples closer together, the EU is pushing them apart.

This is a dishonest argument. It is truer to say that the EU is a victim of
constant disinformation and its achievements are rarely recognised. How would
the transition to democracy and open markets in Eastern Europe (flawed as it has
been) have been managed without the EU to provide the framework? How low would
low air fares be without the EU?

The rise of a new hard nationalism and populism in Europe has many causes:
globalisation; middle-class economic insecurity; immigration; fear of Islam. The
suggestion that the EU is somehow responsible for a revival of nationalism
should be stood on its head. The EU is a child of postwar Europe.

It was created out of the immediate memory of two European wars, both driven by
ancient national hatreds and ambitions.

The rise of a nasty, new, well-spoken, plausible, xenophobic nationalism is
reason not to abandon the EU but to remember why it was created in the first
place.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

PM ought to focus on his own base - not on Clegg;
Comment

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 471 words


After David Cameron has given Samantha her morning kiss, the Prime Minister's
thoughts turn to keeping Nick Clegg happy. Cameron knows he has a good chance of
re-election if he holds his government together until good economic times
return. But it will not survive if the Liberal Demo- crats pull the plug before
George Osborne's medicine has worked.

The Lib Dems will perform incredibly badly in next month's elections. Clegg's
local government base, which sustained his party during the wilderness decades
when it had no power at Westminster, is likely to be devas- tated. The party may
lose half of its vote in Scotland and Wales. It is also likely that voters will
reject electoral reform. Getting AV is the one big thing that could have really
sweetened the Coalition for Lib Dem activists. Clegg's party has long hungered
for a different voting system, and many more Lib Dem MPs would be elected under
AV, transforming the party into routine kingmakers.

In anticipation of these setbacks, Cameron is preparing "Operation Rescue
Clegg", a package of concessions including accelerated reform of the Lords and
diluted changes to the NHS bill. In an effort to force Cameron's hand, senior
Lib Dems are having public tantrums. They want him to fear his government may be
on the brink of dangerous divisions.

Cameron should call their bluff. If the Lib Dems were to force an early election
they would be annihilated. They'd lose their university seats because of Clegg's
"read my lips" U-turn on tuition fees. They'd be wiped out in much of Scotland
and northern England where left-wing voters feel betrayed by the Coalition.
Polls suggest many of their southern seats would return to the Conservatives.
Clegg, Huhne and David Laws could all lose their seats. Cameron must not turn
victory in the AV referendum into a strategic defeat. Ninety-two per cent of
Conservative members say he has yielded enough to Clegg. Whether it is
preventing repatriation of powers from Europe, reducing prison numbers,
protecting the Human Rights Act, delaying renewal of Trident, keeping
inheritance tax or stopping support for married couples, Lib Dems have done far
better in Coalition negotiations than they have been given credit for. This has
led to an increasingly unhappy Conservative Party. The idea that a "cuts"
programme delights Cameron's grassroots is wrong. All Tories know we must live
within our means but austerity does not energise them.

Cameron must stop worrying about Clegg and think more about his own base. Last
week's immigration speech suggests he is starting to. The Lib Dems may have
nowhere to go but the conservative majority doesn't have to vote Tory. It can
drift to Ukip. Middle England's floating voters, not Nick Clegg, should be
Cameron's first thought every morning.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of ConservativeHome

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Britain 'will not take' fleeing migrants

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead; Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 456 words


BRITAIN will not take in any of the migrants fleeing turmoil in north Africa, a
government minister has insisted, as concerns grow that they could head for UK
shores.

; Theresa May, the Home Secretary, has told EU counterparts that Britain was not
prepared to join any "burden sharing" as tens of thousands of people cross into
Europe, The Daily Telegraph can disclose.

; In Italy, refugees are arriving on a daily basis and the country has urged its
EU partners to help ease the pressure by accepting some of the migrants.
However, at a meeting of the EU Justice and Home Affairs Council last week, Mrs
May said Britain would only offer support to Italy to help it deal with the
issue there.

; British MEPs have said that migrants could head for Britain because it is seen
as a soft option, and called for action to stop camps building up at Calais.

; More than 25,000 Tunisians have arrived in Italy since the unrest there and
thousands of Libyans are expected to try to head for Europe. More than 14,000
have crossed into Tunisia in the past two weeks alone. More migrants from
sub-Saharan Africa are also likely to cross the borders because Col Muammar
Gaddafiis no longer halting them in Libya.

; Under the Schengen Agreement, citizens in 25 mainland EU nations are allowed
to travel across borders without having their passports checked.

; However, the scheme is under threat amid growing tensions. A row developed
between France and Italy earlier this week when France stopped a train carrying
Tunisian migrants at the border. The UK and Ireland are not part of the
agreement and control their own borders.

Italy has caused anger among its neighbours by handing temporary permits to more
than 25,000 Tunisians, effectively giving them unobstructed travel around the
union, after other EU countries declined to help accommodate them.

; Gerard Batten, the Ukip MEP for London, said: "People are going to gravitate
to Britain. It is top of the list because we have one of the most generous
welfare benefits systems and we are famous for being a soft touch."

; He added: "The problem here for us is the European borderless state."

; Richard Ashworth, the Conservative MEP for south-east England, said: "The
Calais authorities have recently taken action to remove the immigrants in the
town intending to enter the UK.

; "Both the French and British authorities need to remain vigilant to ensure
this bottleneck does not occur again if large numbers of people from North
Africa enter France." As well as France, Holland, Belgium, Austria and Germany
are understood to be considering reintroducing some border checks.

; A spokesman for the Home Office said: "A common asylum system or new laws will
not resolve the unprecedented influx of migrants."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We won't pay, Britain will tell the EU spenders

BYLINE: Andrew Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 395 words


ATTEMPTS by Brussels to force Britain to pay an extra £682million towards the
European Union budget next year have been dismissed by David Cameron as
"completely for the birds".

The Prime Minister is under pressure to ensure Britain's contribution is far
lower after failing to negotiate a promised freeze last year. The increase would
take Britain's annual contribution to the EU to £10billion, or £400 for every
household.

But the European Commission has ignored concerns from member states about the
budget at a time when nations are having to cut spending at home, and demanded a
4.9 per cent increase for next year.

In an interview with the BBC, Mr Cameron said he was determined to force a much
lower budget contribution.

He said: "The idea that when we're making difficult decisions at home that
Brussels should be immune is completely for the birds. It's not going to happen.
It must be stopped."

Mr Cameron and George Osborne, the Chancellor, are to embark on a round of
diplomacy among other EU leaders in an attempt to halt the plan that was put
forward by Janusz Lewandowski, the EU budget commissioner. Mr Lewandowski said:
"Despite the climate of austerity, we have to grow".

His proposal amounts to a rise of 4.9 per cent, which would take the
commission's total funding for 2012 to £117billion.

Mr Osborne has already said that "the fight will be joined" with Brussels over
the issue which the Chancellor knows concerns many Conservative MPs.

The Prime Minister will try to revive the support he garnered last December when
urging the EU to put in place a realistic budget increase. In the end, a 2.9 per
cent rise was agreed.

Nicolas Sarkozy, the French President, and Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor,
are likely to back Mr Cameron this time, along with the governments of the
Netherlands and Finland.

Yesterday, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said: "The European Commission just
look incredibly arrogant. All over Europe people are saying public finances are
in a hell of a mess and here they want another 4.9 per cent.

"Why should we give any more money to an organisation whose accounts have not
been agreed by the auditors for the last 16 years? The EU is out of touch. Money
is no object for these people. They simply don't seem to care."

£117bn The European Commission's total funding for 2012 after a rise of 4.9 per
cent proposed by the budget commissioner

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

The EU must tighten its belt like everyone else;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 35

LENGTH: 88  words


THE prospect of having to contribute millions of pounds extra to the EU is
appalling. The Commission seems unwilling to tighten its belt just like we are.

David Cameron has huffed and puffed about Britain having to increase our handout
to the out-of control bureaucracy, but it is doubtful if he will refuse to pay
even though the British people would wholeheartedly support him.

It is sad that none of the major political parties seem willing to take on the
EU. A protest vote for UKIP seems more appealing now.

Bob MacDougall, Kippen

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lib Dems the big losers in mid-term discontent;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 436 words


AMID all the hoo-ha about reforming the voting system, it is easy to forget that
there are important elections taking place. As well as the AV referendum on May
5, Scotland is choosing a new parliament and assembly contests are taking place
in Wales and Northern Ireland.

But the polls that are likely to have the most profound impact are in England,
because it is here where the Tories and Lib Dems have most to lose - and Labour
a great deal to gain.

There aren't elections everywhere - London is the big omission - but with 279
councils staging polls, 31million voters will be eligible to take part, though
the turn-out is unlikely to be greater than 35 per cent. More than 120 shire
districts and 30 unitary authorities are electing all their members, even if
only a third of the seats in the big metropolitan areas are being contested.

The parties are always anxious to portray these elections as parochial affairs,
but they do have national ramifications. Governments tend to do badly and a
bruised prime minister often responds with a reshuffle. The Liberal Democrats
have often been the beneficiaries of mid-term discontent, but now that they are
in government, they can expect to take a hit.

Four years ago, the Lib Dems took 26 per cent of the vote, which is three times
greater than their current standing in the opinion polls. This makes them
vulnerable in councils they control and where Labour is the principal
challenger, such as Bristol and Hull. They also face heavy losses in Liverpool,
where the party's leader has called for an end to the Coalition, and in Nick
Clegg's Sheffield power base.

What is less clear is the battle in the shire districts where the Conservatives
and Lib Dems are bitter rivals and Labour has been almost written out of the
script. The Tories are doing better nationally, but will that have any impact?
The Lib Dems are strong in places such as Poole, South Gloucestershire and Bath.
If they end up losing badly to the Tories in such places, discontent among party
activists will grow. Serious questions would then be asked about the advantages
of the Coalition; and they will get louder if the AV vote is a No. However, with
the Tories also unpopular, Ukip and the Greens could be able to pick up seats.

Labour should make substantial gains, but mainly because the party did so badly
in 2007. Ed Miliband will be expecting to take hundreds of seats, especially
from the Lib Dems in places such as Warwick, Chesterfield and Cambridge. But his
party will need to do much better than that if it is to rebuild the broad base
that laid the foundations for election victory in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

£400 per family demanded by EU

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield; Andrew Porter; James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 598 words


DAVID CAMERON was under pressure last night to block a demand from Brussels for
British taxpayers to give an extra £682 million next year to the European Union
budget.

The additional payment would take Britain's annual EU contribution to more than
£10billion in 2012, the equivalent of £400 for every household.

Yesterday's demand from the European Commission started a war of words, with
Downing Street calling the request "ludicrous" and George Osborne, the
Chancellor, accusing EU officials of having lost touch with reality. Last night
the Government refused to say what, if any, increase in Britain's contributions
ministers were prepared to accept, prompting charges that they would eventually
"roll over" and agree to hand over more taxpayers' money.

In 2009, Britons paid £5.3billion to the EU budget, with the payment rising to
£9.2billion in 2010.

Last year, Mr Cameron promised to fight for a "cut or a freeze" in the 2011 EU
budget, but was eventually forced to settle for a rise of 2.9 per cent, costing
Britain another £450 million.

The Commission yesterday made a formal request to members for a £5.5billion
budget rise that would take EU spending next year to £117billion.

Mr Osborne said the demand for more money was "completely unacceptable",
especially at a time when Britain was cutting spending to balance its own
budget. "The European Commission need a reality check," he said. "Europe needs
to get in touch with reality and Brussels needs to look at what is happening in
countries like Britain, and other countries as well in Europe, where we are all
having to live within our means."

British officials said Mr Cameron would seek to form an alliance with leaders
from countries including France, Germany, Holland and Sweden to fight the
planned rise. Last night a Downing Street source said: "The Commission has come
up with a ludicrous figure. We see this is an opening salvo, but we have already
begun reviving the group of leading nations to combat it and demand a lower
figure."

German and French leaders last year backed Mr Cameron's call for a freeze in the
2011 EU budget, but after a power struggle with the Commission and the European
Parliament, the leaders were eventually forced to accept the rise.

Wary of raising false expectations on this year's budget fight, government
spokesmen were yesterday careful not to say what, if any, increase Britain was
prepared to accept. Douglas Carswell, a Conservative MP, said he was concerned
that ministers would ultimately agree to pay more to Brussels: "I fear it's a
question of 'when' and not 'if' they roll over."

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The Commission
have shown they have no respect for the British taxpayer with their latest
demands so it's time for Mr Cameron to stop with the talking and take action."

The Commission demand ignores pleas from Mr Cameron, plus Angela Merkel of
Germany and Nicolas Sarkozy of France for the EU to reduce Brussels' expenditure
in line with national cuts.

Critics of the EU claim it is more interested in enlarging European bureaucracy
than in tackling the economic crisis in eurozone countries. Anger is growing
among Europe's governments over Brussels' rocketing spending, especially with
the creation of new institutions such as the EU foreign service.

Janusz Lewandowski, the EU budget commissioner who announced the increases
yesterday, mocked British comments about austerity measures.

"Someone is criticising us, I have to say the UK budget is growing this year. Is
this austerity?" Mr Lewandowski asked.

Reports: Page 20

Editorial Comment: Page 27

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Massive EU budget hike lands UK with GBP 10bn bill

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 527  words


CHANCELLOR George Osborne led a furious attack on EU bureaucrats last night
after they demanded hard-pressed British families stump up an extra GBP
600million to fund a huge budget hike.

The inflation-busting 4.9 per cent rise will see the UK's overall contribution
to the European Union surge towards a colossal GBP 10billion next year - the
equivalent of almost GBP 400 for every household in the country.

But Mr Osborne branded the move "completely unacceptable" and said those behind
the budget proposal needed "a reality check".

The brazen demand proved that the j uggernaut of EU excess continues regardless
of the financial crisis crippling the eurozone.

UK taxpayers are already facing the prospect of having to fork out a further GBP
6billion to help bail out debt-ridden Portugal, while also dishing out GBP
3billion to help ailing Ireland.

This means Britons could have to pay out GBP 19billion over two years, when many
taxpayers are struggling to make ends meet and facing widespread public service
cutbacks.

Brussels claims it must raise its budget to GBP 117billion because of
commitments to scientific research and economic development, among other
schemes.

But the Treasury vowed to fight the plan by the EU's executive arm, the European
Commission.

Mr Osborne said: "The European Commission need a reality check. Their proposed
budget rise is completely unacceptable, especially at a time when we are asking
the British people to reduce the record budget deficit and pay off the national
credit card.

"Brussels needs to learn from the likes of the UK and other European countries
who are bringing spending under control and living within our means."

A Treasury source sought to pin the blame on Labour, saying: "The taxpayer is
continuing to pay the price of Blair and Brown's 2005 deal." Britain's
contributions to the European Union increased from GBP 5.3billion in 2009 to GBP
9.2billion last year.

The budget demand will stoke the growing war of wills between David Cameron and
EU Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski.

Tensions have simmered since the European Commission called for a nearsix per
cent rise last year.

The Prime Minister called on the EU to embrace austerity measures with a zero
per cent budget freeze.

In the end, Mr Cameron had to team up with Germany and France to force a
compromise that limited the 2011 budget to a 2.9 per cent rise.

The latest round of demands triggered outrage among politicians who have backed
the Daily Express crusade to get Get Us Out Of The EU.

Tory MP Bill Cash said last night: "The British taxpayer should not be expected
to subsidise the bankrupt eurozone, the excess of the European Parliament and
the demands of the European Commission. It must halt."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage called for the Prime Minister to take a firm stand over
the EC which had "no respect for the British taxpayer". He added: "It's time for
Mr Cameron to stop with the talking and take action."

Mats Persson, director of independent think-tank Open Europe, said the EC was
"ignoring the public mood around Europe", adding: "There's very little appetite
for a big increase to a budget that provides limited added value to citizens."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday

Comment: The low politics of AV: I'd vote yes - it resolves a psephological
tussle for me. But Labour has more pragmatic considerations

BYLINE: Tom Clark

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 705 words


If you interrupted a card game and asked players for their take on whether the
ace should be the most or least valuable card, you wouldn't expect disinterested
replies. As in cards, so in politics: views on the rules are entangled with the
desire to win. To stick with the imagery of cards, with the alternative vote
this is true in spades.

The modest reform on offer in May's referendum - on which yesterday's
Guardian/ICM poll suggested the public may now be souring - is one that only
nerds start out with strong opinions on. It is not proportional representation,
which would transform things by necessitating perpetual coalition, but a tweak
to allow voters to deploy second preferences after their favourite candidate has
fallen away.

Its origins lie in the grubby deal that founded the coalition, now known as the
voting system and constituencies bill. In return for their chance of AV, which
the Liberal Democrats initially hoped would hand them 30-odd seats at Tory
expense, the Conservatives demanded the "constituencies" bit, which shrinks the
Commons and could abolish 30-odd Labour seats. Cut out from the trading, Labour
filibustered the legislation, even though its own manifesto had promised a
plebiscite on AV.

Now, I happen to be one of those obsessed with the rules, and as such I see AV
as worthwhile because it resolves the psephological tussle between heart and
head. It would allow stereotypical Guardianistas to vote green, safe in the
knowledge that they could transfer their allegiance as needed to keep the Tories
out; and it would also free up Guardianistas' rightwing counterparts to dabble
with Ukip without fear of letting Labour in. But given the murky origins of the
proposal, most political players will want to judge this trifling rule change by
what it means for their own side.

With the Liberal Democrats (pro) and Conservatives (anti) split along strict
party lines of perceived self-interest, the real question here is for Labour.
For some MPs the way the cards fall on their own patch is pertinent. Emily
Thornberry, not an instinctive stick in the mud, is wielding a megaphone for the
noes - aware, no doubt, that Tory transfers to the Lib Dems under AV would have
finished her off in Islington South last year.

Until recently, however, I would have said that most Labour antis were allowing
their urge to give Nick Clegg a bloody nose to overpower rational judgment. Lib
Dem and Labour voters have usually been closer to one another than the
Conservatives, and over most recent history would have swapped second
preferences for mutual benefit. Transfers between reds and yellows might have
denied John Major's 1992 win, and the great tribalist Gordon Brown embraced AV
to dish the Tories - by lending Labour support to the Lib Dems in southern seats
that his own party could never win.

It might have worked, too, had not the fact of coalition intervened. It has
triggered a mass defection of left liberals, leaving an electoral rump that
leans to the right. The remaining Lib Dems have told recent surveys that they
would prefer Conservative to Labour in a straight choice. As the campaign got
under way, a new YouGov poll found that many Conservatives would transfer to
their coalition partners, and that the many Lib Dems would reciprocate.
Meanwhile, Labour voters are now in such an almighty sulk with Clegg that they
would prefer to transfer to the Greens - or even to Ukip - than do anything to
help him.

Consequently the poll predicts no net Lib Dem gains from a Conservative party
whose overall representation would be unchanged. With Tory help, however, the
Lib Dems would pick up a baker's dozen of seats from Labour, trimming its
currently projected majority from 60 down to 34.

Other polls may refine the picture - having changed once, the electoral facts
could well change again, and Labour also needs to weigh the dangers of setting
its face against political change. Nonetheless, the Guardian/ICM poll found that
the haemorrhaging of reformers is most pronounced among 2010 Labour voters.
Whatever the arguments of high principle, in the immediate scramble to declare
full house against the coalition, the low politics are now pulling the other
way.

Tom Clark is a Guardian leader writer

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday

EUROSCEPTICS' WIN COULD HALT BAILOUTS

LENGTH: 195 words


THE CRISIS gripping the Eurozone deepened yesterday after a hardline eurosceptic
party made sweeping gains in Finland's general election.

In a move that saw the euro slide, the True Finns party vowed to block further
financial bailouts for struggling nations.

Its rise could derail a 670billion rescue package for debt-laden Portugal, which
opened talks with the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission
yesterday.

In a further blow to the single currency, credit agency Moody's yesterday
downgraded the rating of Irish banks to the 'junk' category. This means they
will struggle to raise capital and lend money.

True Finns, previously a fringe party like Ukip in Britain, won nearly 20 per
cent of the vote and is now the third largest party in parliament, giving it a
powerful voice in talks to form a coalition.

Any help for Lisbon would have to be agreed under the 6440billion European
Financial Stability Facility, which requires the unanimous approval of Eurozone
members, of which Finland is one. Timo Soini, who leads the True Finns, last
night pledged to overturn the country's support for the programme, saying: I do
not believe the package will remain.'

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lunch-party trial of the AV system left Winston Churchill out in the cold;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 391 words


SIR - At a recent lunch party, we gave the AV system a trial. We chose five
prime ministers from the last century and ranked them from one to five in terms
of the effectiveness of each one's leadership.

There was no winner with more than 50 per cent of the votes, though Winston
Churchill came top of the poll. There was no clear outcome after the second
round either, with Clement Attlee emerging as the eventual winner on the third
round.

No wonder AV is a Billy-No-Mates choice worldwide.

Rev Haley Dossor Kirton, Suffolk

SIR - I have just received a leaflet outlining the reasons why some "typical"
voters are keen on AV. Apparently this exciting new system will make our MPs
"work harder", though admittedly the leaflet was a little vague as to why this
should be so.

It also points out that if AV had already been in place, then the expenses
scandal "might never have happened". How has democracy in Britain survived so
long without this wondrous system that banishes all laziness and human greed?
Patrick Duggan London W2

SIR - Matthew Elliott (Letters, April 14) writes that, under AV, "Australia's
Rightwing parties have been forced into a permanent coalition".

Yes, just imagine if the Tories and Ukip had joined forces and worked together
at the last election.

Robert Dobson Seal, Kent

SIR - What is fair about those who support the least popular candidates in an
election having their second, third or fourth votes considered while those who
support the two or (in a few cases) three most popular candidates only have one
vote allowed for consideration in choosing the winner? Tom Bliss Fulbeck,
Lincolnshire

SIR - The leader of a party that supports uncritically British membership of the
undemocratic, profligate and self-serving bureaucracy in Brussels, and which,
given the chance, would have taken us into the currency union disaster, thinks
our tried and tested voting system is unfair. Enough said.

Edward Egan Harrietsham, Kent

SIR - Why not adopt the French system? If no candidate achieves 50 per cent,
have a run-off two weeks later for the top two candidates. Electing a government
for five years is important. Why should we attempt to complete the process in
one day? Tom Williams Oxford

SIR - Vince Cable appearing with Ed Miliband to promote the Yes vote. That's
what I call a real boost for the No vote. Alan Newberry Wembley, Middlesex

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Why can't we do that? Australia ships convict back home to Britain

BYLINE: Jo Willey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 493 words


A BRITON who moved to Australia with his family as a boy of six has been
deported back to the UK after committing a string of crimes.

Clifford Tucker was put on a plane to London last night despite having lived in
Australia for more than 40 years.

The case has prompted anger as the swift action by the Australian authorities
flies in the face of the UK's stumbling efforts to deport foreign criminals.

Tucker, 47, served 12 years in jail for three crimes including the attempted
murder of a police officer.

This came to the attention of Australian immigration officers on his return from
a holiday in Bali in 2008.

Character

He declared on his immigration form that he had a criminal record and the
authorities accused him of failing a character test.

Eighteen months later, officials cancelled his visa and put him in a detention
centre in Sydney.

And because he had never applied for Australian citizenship, they could deport
him to his country of birth.

An appeal against deportation failed last month and his visa has been cancelled.

The father of three, who was living in Adelaide, has been in trouble with the
law since the age of 11. In 1983 he was jailed after opening fire on a police
officer, seriously wounding him.

Tucker, who faces the prospect of never seeing his family again, will be given
£2,500 by the Australian government, which has arranged six weeks for him in a
London motel.

After that it is expected the UK taxpayer will be forced to foot the bill until
he gets a job.

The move makes a mockery of Britain's open-door policy which sees foreign
criminals repeatedly flout immigration rules and return here time and time again
to continue their criminal lives.

Even when judges order deportation, they often use human rights laws and claim
they will come to harm in their homeland.

The UK Independence Party's Gerard Batten said last night: "Its absurd that this
man is being sent from Australia after 40 years. But it highlights the absurdity
that we cannot deport foreign criminals who have been here for five minutes."

Stephen Kenny, Tucker's lawyer, argued the order was unjust because his last
conviction was more than 10 years ago. He warned that his client, who suffers
from mental illnesses, could become suicidal if he were separated from his
family.

Before flying out from Sydney to London, Tucker told ABC television he was
"shattered" at the prospect of leaving his children. He said: "I'll be setting
up Skype but it won't be the same as holding them and hugging them. I've done so
much to improve myself - not drinking, doing voluntary work - yet they're trying
to make me out to be some sort of career criminal that's a danger to society."

Chris Bowen, Australia's immigration minister, said Tucker failed the character
test in the country's Migration Act. Over the past decade, 13 Britons have been
sent back from Australia, most on character grounds.'

'I'll be setting up Skype but it won't be the same as holding my children or
hugging them'

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Deported, Tucker
'Absurd,' says Ukip's Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Why can't we do that? Australia ships convict back home to Britain

BYLINE: By Jo Willey

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 477  words


A BRITON who moved to Australia with his family as a boy of six has been
deported back to the UK after committing a string of crimes.

Clifford Tucker was put on a plane to London last night despite having lived in
Australia for more than 40 years.

The case has prompted anger as the swift action by the Australian authorities
flies in the face of the UK's stumbling efforts to deport foreign criminals.

Tucker, 47, served 12 years in jail for three crimes including the attempted
murder of a police officer.

This came to the attention of Australian immigration officers on his return from
a holiday in Bali in 2008.

He declared on his immigration form that he had a criminal record and the
authorities accused him of failing a character test.

Eighteen months later, officials cancelled his visa and put him in a detention
centre in Sydney.

And because he had never applied for Australian citizenship, they could deport
him to his country of birth.

An appeal against deportation failed last month and his visa has been cancelled.

The father of three, who was living in Adelaide, has been in trouble with the
law since the age of 11. In 1983 he was jailed after opening fire on a police
officer, seriously wounding him.

Tucker, who faces the prospect of never seeing his family again, will be given
GBP 2,500 by the Australian government, which has arranged six weeks for him in
a London motel.

After that it is expected the UK taxpayer will be forced to foot the bill until
he gets a job.

The move makes a mockery of Britain's open-door policy which sees foreign
criminals repeatedly flout immigration rules and return here time and time again
to continue their criminal lives.

Even when judges order deportation, they often use human rights laws and claim
they will come to harm in their homeland.

The UK Independence Party's Gerard Batten said last night: "Its absurd that this
man is being sent from Australia after 40 years. But it highlights the absurdity
that we cannot deport foreign criminals who have been here for five minutes."

Stephen Kenny, Tucker's lawyer, argued the order was unjust because his last
conviction was more than 10 years ago. He warned that his client, who suffers
from mental illnesses, could become suicidal if he were separated from his
family.

Before flying out from Sydney to London, Tucker told ABC television he was
"shattered" at the prospect of leaving his children. He said: "I'll be setting
up Skype but it won't be the same as holding them and hugging them. I've done so
much to improve myself - not drinking, doing voluntary work - yet they're trying
to make me out to be some sort of career criminal that's a danger to society."

Chris Bowen, Australia's immigration minister, said Tucker failed the character
test in the country's Migration Act. Over the past decade, 13 Britons have been
sent back from Australia, most on character grounds.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Absurd, ' says Ukip's Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday

5 May elections: Expert view How popular is the coalition?

BYLINE: Tony Travers

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 514 words


It is traditional to use each year's local elections as a real-life opinion poll
about the state of the parties, even though the real purpose of the poll is to
choose the councillors whose services affect our daily lives. This year, two
issues make interpretation of the local elections even more significant. There
is a desire to understand the durability of Britain's first postwar coalition -
and there is the question of Ed Miliband's impact as Labour leader.

Much of England will hold local elections on 5 May, with London being the key
exception. There are also council elections in Northern Ireland's 26 districts.
Leicester will enjoy a carnival of democracy, with separate votes for the
council, a new, directly-elected mayor, the AV referendum and a parliamentary
byelection. In Birmingham, a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition faces a
major challenge, with the outside chance the city will be taken by Labour for
the first time in eight years. It would be impossible not to see the fate of the
three parties here as evidence about the state of national politics.

This set of council elections last took place in 2007, just before Tony Blair
stepped down as prime minister and when Labour was particularly unpopular.
Recent opinion polls show the Conservatives on 35-37%, Labour on 41-43% and the
Lib Dems with 10-11%. Such figures suggest a swing of 10% from the Tories to
Labour and, possibly, a swing from the Lib Dems to both the other parties.
Recent local byelection results imply a smaller shift. Contests between the
Conservatives and Lib Dems in places such as Torbay, Poole, Winchester and East
Cambridgeshire, where there is little or no Labour presence, will be analysed
for evidence of the balance of advantage between the coalition partners: will
the Tories benefit from dissatisfaction with the Lib Dems? The Lib Dems hold
Bristol and are the largest party in Sheffield, though they would be vulnerable
to even a small Labour surge in either.

Labour and the Conservatives will face each other in a number of contests where
Miliband will want to make progress. Walsall requires a loss of only three seats
to go to no overall control, though Trafford would require a bigger swing for
the Tories to lose outright control, with Labour offering the key challenge.
Blackpool, won by the Conservatives in 2007, could move back to Labour in May.
People will almost certainly seek new ways to register a protest vote. The
Greens can expect to pick up support from disenchanted Lib Dems, while Ukip may
nibble away at the Conservative vote.

The Conservatives are expecting to lose many hundreds of seats, though they may
suffer less badly than expected because of Lib Dem weakness. The Lib Dems must
also be braced for the loss of hundreds of seats, taking them to their lowest
total since the early 1990s. To be really comfortable, Labour needs to win 1,000
council seats. It is possible this year's local election outcome might not be
particularly encouraging for any of the major parties.

Tony Travers is director of the Greater London Group, London School of Economics

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Seconds (and thirds) out as the political bruisers slug it out

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 778 words


Laaaadies and gen-tle-men! Please put your hands together for the reigning
British champion, Dave 'Just say No' Cam-er-oooon. And joining him in the blue
corner, which for tonight is also the red corner, is John 'Attack Dog' Reid." It
was tag-team day at the Westminster wrestling arena yesterday and some very odd
fighting partners were limbering up.

"And over in the other red corner, which is also the yellow corner, we have Ed
'Brotherly Love' Miliband and the In-Vince-ible Dr Cable." Sadly, the only
wrestling commentator on hand was in my head.

And the contenders did not appear in the same ring, choosing instead to grapple
with the issue of alternative vote versus first-past-the-post at separate venues
at the same time. A pity. A wrestling bout might be just the way to settle this
argument in a way that would be comprehensible and engage voter interest. As it
is, most of us have been monitoring the run-up to next month's referendum about
as closely as the Finnish timber export market. Allow me to try to clarify
things.

DC was elected leader of his party because the election was a form of AV, not
FPTP, but he doesn't want AV for the GE because he prefers FPTP. Although he is
in a Lib-Con coalition, he jumped into bed with JR (Lab) who shares his dim view
of AV. The Libs and (most of) Lab have fallen for AV. But the Libs don't like Ed
and the Labs don't agree with Nick. So, yesterday, Ed shared a stage with Vince.
Vince is a member of HMG. Vince disagrees with HMG on just about everything.
He's nobody's yes man. Except on AV.

Oh yes, the inhabitants of the Westminster village are enjoying one big glorious
partner-swap. Just like something you might read about in a Sunday tabloid, but
with more acrimony and less class.

Still a bit hazy? Let me hand you over to the party leaders. Appearing on the
same stage as Lord Reid of Cardowan, Mr Cameron said: "I don't think John would
mind if I say we don't agree on much." Don't agree on much? As a Labour Cabinet
minister Mr Reid, he made Cerberus look as puppyish as Mr Clegg on that first
day in the Downing Street garden. If Lord Reid had been chained up outside
Hades, the River Styx would have been choked with the corpses of Tory MPs who
never made it past him into the Underworld.

Yesterday, the attack dog saved his bark for the Lib Dems and slavered over the
Prime Minister and their "common cause". Mr Cameron flushed all the way from his
neck to his cheeks and bit his lip.

Mr Cameron came with a personal medical bulletin. "I just feel it, in my gut,
that AV is wrong." Politics "shouldn't be some mind-bending exercise". He said
that, under AV, people who come third in elections can end up winning. Unlike
the current system, where the people who came third are called things such as
Nick and Clegg. The bad thing about AV, said the leader of the coalition, was
that it would make coalitions more likely.

The Prime Minister rattled through his speech as if he were eager to hop out of
the ring and hand over to his new partner. JR performed like an old pro,
whipping up his audience with jabs at his opponents and even invoking the name
of the greatest powerbomber of all, Sir Winston Churchill, who warned that if AV
were introduced, respect for Parliament would decline even further.

Mr Cameron studied the floor at this point and gave his chin a little scratch.
When he raised his head, he had a faraway look in his eyes as if he were
struggling to conjure up a picture of what it would be like for Parliament to
command less respect than it already has.

Lord Reid bragged that they had other Labour heavyweights on their side,
including John Prescott. Mr Cameron, who had returned to looking at JR steadily,
with his brow furrowed, suddenly started scanning the room as if seeking a way
to escape. Perhaps the image in my head - of Prezza, in figure-hugging shorts
and singlet, high-fiving the Prime Minister as he stood on the ropes and
launched himself, belly down, on to Nick Clegg - had also intruded on the PM's
thoughts.

Over in the "yes" camp, meanwhile, further evidence of the shakiness of the
Con-Vince coalition was presented in the shape of the Business Secretary and
Labour leader sharing a platform. The purple colour scheme made the event look
like a UKIP rally. Vince explained earnestly that if Strictly Come Dancing were
settled by FPTP, Ann Widdecombe would have won.

Perhaps I shouldn't have mentioned that. If you start thinking this has anything
to do with ballroom dancing, you'll never get to grips with it. This is about
the AVs and the AV-nots, locked in a grim and sweaty struggle for SmackDown
victory. There can only be one winner. At least I think that's right.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In the "no" corner: Cameron and Reid; fighting for "yes: Miliband and
Cable

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tory diehards warn Cameron of 'bedlam' if AV goes through on a low turnout;
Politics

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Sam Coates; Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1463 words


Conservatives MPs are plotting a guerrilla campaign against the alternative vote
even if Britain says "yes" to changing the system in the May 5 referendum. Some
die-hard Tories are even prepared to bring down the coalition with the Liberal
Democrats to stop a voting system that they oppose.

The threats offer David Cameron an indication of the pent-up anger on the
Conservative back benches ready to be unleashed if the "no" campaign against the
alternative vote (AV) fails.

The Prime Minister yesterday stepped up his campaign for retaining the
first-past-the-post (FPTP) system as he shared a platform with the Labour
stalwart, Lord Reid of Cardowan.

Mr Cameron risked incensing his Lib Dem partners by attacking the notion of
coalition government.

The "no" supporters received a boost from a new poll that gave them a 16-point
lead over the "yes" campaign. The ICM findings for The Guardian represent an
18-point swing to "no" in the past two months. While the poll may give some
relief to Mr Cameron, he was left in no doubt of the high stakes in play. One
Tory MP said that there would be "bedlam" on Conservative benches, particularly
if the "yes" campaign won on a low turnout.

Another said that the instinct of many Tory MPs was to respond to a "yes" vote
by trying to force an early election under FPTP and current constituency
boundaries. A "yes" vote would be "an enormous additional pressure on the
coalition, which could be a fatal pressure", they added. Julian Lewis, the
former Tory frontbencher, said that a "yes" vote carried on a low turnout,
particularly if the result were swung by higher turnouts in Scotland and Wales,
which hold parliamentary and assembly elections on the same day, would be a call
to arms for some of his colleagues. He said: "I would be prepared to consider
any legitimate means available to find a way of either reversing or
circumventing the outcome." One date Tory renegades are ready to exploit is the
parliamentary vote required in 2013 to approve the new boundaries that cut the
number of MPs by 50 to 600, which is a Tory priority.

As part of the Lib-Con deal, the 2015 general election can be held under AV only
if it is also held on the redrawn boundaries, which ensured neither partner
could rat on the other's key constitutional change. Rejecting the new boundaries
would therefore halt AV despite a "yes" vote next month.

Labour indicated last night that it was ready to exploit the coalition's
referendum agony by siding with Tory rebels in the Commons and overriding a
"yes" vote, blocking the 2015 general election from taking place under AV.

Ed Miliband's office said last night that the situation was "hypothetical".
However, one Labour source said that a free vote was a strong possibility, given
the range of views of AV in Labour ranks. Peter Bone, the Tory MP and coalition
sceptic, said that a "yes" vote was "another part of the equation that would
make it likely that we would have an early election".

Mr Cameron argued yesterday that the prospect of regular coalitions would make
politicians behave less honestly. "They may start to put things in their
manifestos that sound good but they can't deliver, because they know that in a
coalition they will not have to answer for them," he said.

"For me, politics shouldn't be some mind-bending exercise. It's about what you
feel in your gut - about the values you hold dear and the beliefs you
instinctively have. And I just feel it, in my gut, that AV is wrong."

At a parallel event in Westminster by the pro-AV campaign, Mr Miliband conceded
that other issues mattered more than AV. He was standing alongside Vince Cable,
the Lib Dem Business Secretary, who watched as Mr Miliband attacked Nick Clegg
as a "vote loser" for the campaign.

Asked about the absence of Mr Clegg from the event, Mr Miliband said: "I will
share a platform with anybody I think can help us win the referendum."

At the event, Alan Johnson, the former Shadow Chancellor, shared a platform with
Mr Miliband for the first time since resigning in January. He argued that if
France used first-pastthe-post in its forthcoming presidential elections it
could lead to Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-Right Front National party,
entering the Élysée Palace.

The event illustrated a failure to secure cross-party representation in support
of AV, with no figures appearing on the platform from the Conservatives or other
centre-right parties.

Follow the money

The No to AV campaign has received £1.8 million in donations, most of it from
individuals

Top of the list is the philanthropist Peter Cruddas, the founder of the
spread-betting company CMC Markets, who has given £400,000

There are a number of major Conservative donors, including Lord Sainsbury of
Preston Candover and Michael Farmer, who both gave £100,000. The GMB trade union
has made a donation of £10,000

The Yes to Fairer Votes campaign has raised £2.6 million from 2,725 donors,
eight of whom have given more than £7,500

The largest donation, £951,000, was from the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust. The
next largest, from the Electoral Reform Society (ERS), has caused controversy.
The "no" campaign claims ERS has a subsidiary company that would benefit
financially from a change to AV

Ballot box Boundary changes Constituencies are also being redrawn to make them
more equal in size 76,000 target population size of a redrawn parliamentary
consituency 79,800 maximum permitted number of voters per constituency 72,200
minimum permitted number of voters per constituency Two island constituencies
are exempt: l Orkney & Shetland (32,181) l Western Isles (21,884) But no
constituency shall be larger than 12,000 sq km, the size of Ross, Skye &
Lochaber - bigger than Belgium Savings £12m a year from having 50 fewer MPs £30m
one-off saving by holding the AV referendum on the same day as elections in
Scotland, Wales and some English councils 45,420,000 registered voters
39,000,000 people can vote in other elections on May 5 3.5m people missing from
the register How AV would have changed recent election results 2010 general
election Shaves 12 seats off Margaret Thatcher's 144 majority Adds 12 to
Thatcher's 100 majority Reduces from 21 to 5 John Major's majority 1983 1987
1992 397 209 23 21 391 (-6) 190 (-19) 48 (+25) 21 other 375 229 22 24 381 (+6)
202 (-27) 44 (+22) 24 336 271 20 24 328 (-8) 268 (-3) 31 (+11) 24 MPs would have
to aim to receive more than 50 per cent of the vote in any constituency Ranking
candidates gives voters more say. If their favourite doesn't win, they can still
have an influence AV leads to more hung Parliaments and therefore more backroom
deals Under AV the candidate who comes second or third among first preferences
can be elected People who put minority parties such as the BNP as first
preference will receive "more than one vote" It makes it harder for MPs to have
"safe seats" because they have to command a majority of constituents
Conservative Candidate Votes 340 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 UKIP 20
Conservative Candidate Votes 380 Lib Dem 380 Labour 240 Conservative Candidate
Votes 360 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 Voters rank some (or all) candidates
the ballot in order of preference. A candidate getting above 50 per cent
first-preference votes is elected. one wins a majority on the first count, the
last-placed candidate is eliminated and his or her second preference votes are
allocated to the survivors. If there is still no winner, the process is
repeated, and re-repeated, until a victor is identified. In the last tally, a
candidate who originally topped the vote can fall to second or third in the
final calculations Lib Dem Candidate Votes 510 Conservative 490 ative 50%+
Winner! AV works 2 4 MPs elected under first-past-the-post 258 307 57 seats 28
2010 election remodelled under AV 262 281 79 seats 28 Latest polling The
referendum question reads as follows: "At present, the UK uses the 'first past
the post' system to elect MPs to the House of Commons. Should the 'alternative
vote' system be used instead?" ele Peopl partie pr 42% yes 58% no AV Increases
Tony Blair's majority from 177 to 231 1997 165 418 46 30 70 (-95) 445 (+27) 115
(+69) 30 Increases Mr Blair's majority from 165 to 187 2001 166 412 52 29 140
(-26) 423 (+11) 68 (+16) 29 Increases Mr Blair's majority from 64 to 108 2005
198 355 62 31 171 (-27) 377 (+22) 68 (+6) 31 e Lib Dem Lab Tory Clockwise from
top left: Joanna Lumley, Helena Bonham-Carter, Stephen Fry, Colin Firth, John
Cleese, Diane Abbott, Vince Cable, Tony Robinson, Nick Clegg Clockwise from top
left: David Gower, Margaret Beckett, Tony Hadley, David Blunkett, John Reid,
Julian Fellowes, Richard Wilson, John Prescott, David Cameron Firstpastthepost
Research for The Guardian: random sample of 1,033 adults across the UK between
April 15 and 17

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "You got 47% of the thumbs down on the first count, Pusillanimus"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tory diehards warn Cameron of 'bedlam' if AV goes through on a low turnout;
Politics

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Sam Coates; Anushka Asthana

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1442 words


Conservatives MPs are plotting a guerrilla campaign against the alternative vote
even if Britain says "yes" to changing the system in the May 5 referendum.

Some die-hard Tories are even prepared to bring down the coalition with the
Liberal Democrats to stop a voting system that they oppose.

The threats offer David Cameron an indication of the pent-up anger on the
Conservative back benches ready to be unleashed if the "no" campaign against the
alternative vote (AV) fails.

The Prime Minister yesterday stepped up his campaign for retaining the
first-past-the-post (FPTP) system as he shared a platform with the Labour
stalwart, Lord Reid of Cardowan.

Mr Cameron risked incensing his Lib Dem partners by attacking the notion of
coalition government.

The "no" supporters received a boost from a new poll that gave them a 16-point
lead over the "yes" campaign. The ICM findings for The Guardian represent an
18-point swing to "no" in the past two months.

While the poll may give some relief to Mr Cameron, he was left in no doubt of
the high stakes in play. One Tory MP said that there would be "bedlam" on
Conservative benches, particularly if the "yes" campaign won on a low turnout.

Another said that the instinct of many Tory MPs was to respond to a "yes" vote
by trying to force an early election under FPTP and current constituency
boundaries. A "yes" vote would be "an enormous additional pressure on the
coalition, which could be a fatal pressure", they added.

Julian Lewis, the former Tory frontbencher, said that a "yes" vote carried on a
low turnout, particularly if the result were swung by higher turnouts in
Scotland and Wales, which hold parliamentary and assembly elections on the same
day, would be a call to arms for some of his colleagues. He said: "I would be
prepared to consider any legitimate means available to find a way of either
reversing or circumventing the outcome."

One date Tory renegades are ready to exploit is the parliamentary vote required
in 2013 to approve the new boundaries that cut the number of MPs by 50 to 600,
which is a Tory priority.

As part of the Lib-Con deal, the 2015 general election can be held under AV only
if it is also held on the redrawn boundaries, which ensured neither partner
could rat on the other's key constitutional change. Rejecting the new boundaries
would therefore halt AV despite a "yes" vote next month.

Labour indicated last night that it was ready to exploit the coalition's
referendum agony by siding with Tory rebels in the Commons and overriding a
"yes" vote, blocking the 2015 general election from taking place under AV.

Ed Miliband's office said last night that the situation was "hypothetical".

However, one Labour source said that a free vote was a strong possibility, given
the range of views of AV in Labour ranks. Peter Bone, the Tory MP and coalition
sceptic, said that a "yes" vote was "another part of the equation that would
make it likely that we would have an early election".

Mr Cameron argued yesterday that the prospect of regular coalitions would make
politicians behave less honestly. "They may start to put things in their
manifestos that sound good but they can't deliver, because they know that in a
coalition they will not have to answer for them," he said.

"For me, politics shouldn't be some mind-bending exercise. It's about what you
feel in your gut - about the values you hold dear and the beliefs you
instinctively have. And I just feel it, in my gut, that AV is wrong."

At a parallel event in Westminster by the pro-AV campaign, Mr Miliband conceded
that other issues mattered more than AV. He was standing alongside Vince Cable,
the Lib Dem Business Secretary, who watched as Mr Miliband attacked Nick Clegg
as a "vote loser" for the campaign.

Asked about the absence of Mr Clegg from the event, Mr Miliband said: "I will
share a platform with anybody I think can help us win the referendum."

At the event, Alan Johnson, the former Shadow Chancellor, shared a platform with
Mr Miliband for the first time since resigning in January. He argued that if
France used first-pastthe-post in its forthcoming presidential elections it
could lead to Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-Right Front National party,
entering the Élysée Palace.

The event illustrated a failure to secure cross-party representation in support
of AV, with no figures appearing on the platform from the Conservatives or other
centre-right parties.

Follow the money

The No to AV campaign has received £1.8 million in donations, most of it from
individuals

Top of the list is the philanthropist Peter Cruddas, the founder of the
spread-betting company CMC Markets, who has given £400,000

There are a number of major Conservative donors, including Lord Sainsbury of
Preston Candover and Michael Farmer, who both gave £100,000. The GMB trade union
has made a donation of £10,000

The Yes to Fairer Votes campaign has raised £2.6 million from 2,725 donors,
eight of whom have given more than £7,500

The largest donation, £951,000, was from the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust. The
next largest, from the Electoral Reform Society (ERS), has caused controversy.
The "no" campaign claims ERS has a subsidiary company that would benefit
financially from a change to AV

"You got 47% of the thumbs down on the first count, Pusillanimus"

Ballot box

MPs would have to aim to receive more than 50 per cent of the vote in any
constituency

Ranking candidates gives voters more say. If their favourite doesn't win, they
can still have an influence

It makes it harder for MPs to have "safe seats" because they have to command a
majority of constituents

AV leads to more hung Parliaments and therefore more backroom deals

Under AV the candidate who comes second or third among first preferences can be
elected

People who put minority parties such as the BNP as first preference will receive
"more than one vote"

Clockwise from top left: Joanna Lumley, Helena Bonham-Carter, Stephen Fry, Colin
Firth, John Cleese, Diane Abbott, Vince Cable, Tony Robinson, Nick Clegg

Latest polling

The referendum question reads as follows: "At present, the UK uses the 'first
past the post' system to elect MPs to the House of Commons. Should the
'alternative vote' system be used instead?"

ICM Research for The Guardian: random sample of 1,033 adults across the UK
between April 15 and 17

How AV works

Voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of preference. A
candidate getting above 50 per cent of all first-preference votes is elected. If
no one wins a majority on the first count, the last-placed candidate is
eliminated and his or her second preference votes are allocated to the
survivors. If there is still no winner, the process is repeated, and
re-repeated, until a victor is identified. In the last tally, a candidate who
originally topped the vote can fall to second or third in the final calculations

Boundary changes

Constituencies are also being redrawn to make them more equal in size

76,000 target population size of a redrawn parliamentary consituency

79,800 maximum permitted number of voters per constituency

72,200 minimum permitted number of voters per constituency Two island
constituencies are exempt:

Orkney & Shetland (32,181)

Western Isles (21,884)

But no constituency shall be larger than 12,000 sq km, the size of Ross, Skye &
Lochaber - bigger than Belgium

Savings

£12m a year from having 50 fewer MPs

£30m one-off saving by holding the AV referendum on the same day as elections in
Scotland, Wales and some English councils

45,420,000 registered voters

39,000,000 people can vote in other elections on May 5

3.5m people missing from the register

How AV would have changed recent election results Shaves 12 seats off Margaret
Thatcher's 144 majority Adds 12 to Thatcher's 100 majority Reduces from 21 to 5
John Major's majority 1983 1987 1992 397 209 23 21 391 (-6) 190 (-19) 48 (+25)
21 other 375 229 22 24 381 (+6) 202 (-27) 44 (+22) 24 336 271 20 24 328 (-8) 268
(-3) 31 (+11) 24 AV Increases Tony Blair's majority from 177 to 231 1997 165 418
46 30 70 (-95) 445 (+27) 115 (+69) 30 Increases Mr Blair's majority from 165 to
187 2001 166 412 52 29 140 (-26) 423 (+11) 68 (+16) 29 Increases Mr Blair's
majority from 64 to 108 2005 198 355 62 31 171 (-27) 377 (+22) 68 (+6) 31 Lib
Dem Lab Tory Firstpastthepost

2010 general election MPs elected under first-past-the-post 258 307 57 seats 28
2010 election remodelled under AV 262 281 79 seats 28

42% yes 58% no

Conservative Candidate Votes 340 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 UKIP 20
Conservative Candidate Votes 380 Lib Dem 380 Labour 240 Conservative Candidate
Votes 360 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 Lib Dem Candidate Votes 510
Conservative 490 ative 50%+ Winner! 1 2 3 4

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

DANCE LESSONS IN AFRICA, JETS FOR TYRANTS, DERELICT OFFICES ... HOW EU WASTES
AID BILLIONS

BYLINE: BY GERRI PEEV POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 659 words


BILLIONS of taxpayer cash is being spent on spurious aid projects through the
EU, including giving dance lessons to Africans who earn less than 70p a day.

Britons pay £1.4billion towards the EU's £10bn aid budget, but much of the money
is going to corrupt regimes or projects where no checks are being made that it
is properly spent.

Meanwhile, relatively wealthy Turkey is the EU's main recipient of aid, raking
in £500million a year.

The Court of Auditors has criticised Brussels for failing to measure the impact
of the aid. It said the EU commission randomly selected projects without
assessing a country's needs, and corrupt regimes were getting vast handouts just
by filling out paperwork.

In Burkina Faso, where half the population earns less than 70p a day, Belgian
instructors are teaching people how to dance through the 'I Dance Therefore I
am' project. Organisers say: 'If its music moves, Africa will also move.'

The EU has given £8.8million to an immigration advisory centre in Mali, which
tells people how to find jobs in Europe. The centre has so far found work for
six people in three years.

A medical store built through aid funds in Sierra Leone, to house pharmacists
and distribute free drugs, has been left derelict and is used as a urinal.

Hard-line regimes are also getting EU taxpayer funds, allowing their governments
to be propped up.

Malawi Ð which recently outlawed flatulence in public and ruled that gays could
face 14 years' jail Ð will get £450million in aid money over five years.
Malawi's president Bingu Mutharika bought a jet shortly after receiving the
latest tranche of EU cash.

Uganda is getting £407million over five years. President Yoweri Museni, 67, who
fought an election with posters depicting him as Rambo, bought a Gulfstream G550
jet. He has also built a lavish £100million residence while most of his people
live in poverty.

Other funds dished out by the EU are swallowed up by bureaucracy and spin
doctors. The Tipik Communications Agency in Brussels was given £442,000 for aid
campaigns. This included £80,000 to organise an 'I Fight Poverty' music contest
where entrants were encouraged to 'join our fight with music'.

International Development Secretary Andrew Mitchell said the controversy
'underlines the reason why we are pressing for strong reforms of the way the EU
spends aid'.

'The EU's aid needs to be far more transparent, results-focussed and targeted at
the poorest people, and we are now working with Brussels to help achieve this.'

A UKIP spokesman said British taxpayers' were 'subsidising French guilt over
their colonial past'.

He added: 'EU aid money is focused on countries that are former French colonies.
When we joined Europe, it was made clear to us that no money would be going to
countries with British ties, like India, Bangladesh or Pakistan.'

Chris Heaton-Harris, a Tory MP and former MEP, said: 'EU aid has always been
bedevilled by corruption and waste but lessons have not been learnt. They
continue to support questionable projects and corrupt regimes at a time when
national governments are tightening their belts.'

Robert Lugolobi, the Uganda director of anti-corruption watchdog Transparency
International said: 'Throwing money into a highly corrupt system and pretending
you are helping citizens is a waste of public resources.' Britain gives £1.4bn Ð
or 18 per cent Ð of its protected £7.7billion aid budget to the EU. Think-tank
Open Europe scrutinised EU aid spending and warned the funds were often not
going to poor countries.

Stephen Booth, Open Europe's research director, said: 'While development aid can
have a real impact, the EU's aid budget suffers from poor accountability,
unnecessary bureaucracy and, most critically, less than half the money spent
actually goes to the world's poorest people.

'Old colonial links and regional proximity, rather than fighting global poverty,
continue to determine the destination of most EU aid.'

Comment Ð Page 14

g.peev@dailymail.co.ukÊ

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Finns turn Right in bail-out protest;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 87 words


Finland has become the latest European country to lurch to the Right after
voters protested at eurozone bailouts for EU "squanderers".

The True Finns party, a Eurosceptic and anti-immigrant group aligned with Ukip,
quadrupled its vote to 19 per cent.

While the National Coalition Party won a narrow victory over the Centre Party,
the rise of the nationalists could derail an EU bail-out to Portugal.

Finland has liabilities of £7.8billion in loan guarantees to eurozone bail-out
funds - which amounts to £584 for every household.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

SOARING COSTS OF CRIME TALK

BYLINE: by STEPHEN WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 326 words


Courts get GBP 1.25M bill for translation

FOREIGN crime suspects who cannot speak English have cost Scotland's courts more
than GBP 1.25million.

Translators have to be brought in every time a migrant or tourist is nicked by
cops.

And the cost of providing interpreters has almost doubled over the past four
years as more incomers break our laws.

Figures released under freedom of information laws revealed that the cost of
translating legal proceedings reached more than GBP 1.25m in 2009/2010 -
compared to GBP 686,000 in 2006/07.

Politicians and consumer groups yesterday slammed the soaring costs as
"unacceptable".

A number of high-profile cases have seen translators spend weeks explaining
proceedings to killers.

They include Aleksandras Skirda and Vitas Plytnykas who attacked fellow
Lithuanian Jolanta Bledaite and cut off her head and limbs in 2009.

Spanish waiter Juan Crispin, found guilty of murdering pizzeria boss Eleni
Pachou and jailed for 20 years in 2009, also needed an interpreter.

And Slovakian sex killer Marek Harcar, jailed for 25 years for the rape and
murder of Glasgow woman Moira Jones, also needed help.

Christopher Monckton, leader of UKIP Scotland, said costs were soaring because
of the number of immigrants coming to the UK.

He said: "A doubling of the costs of translation in Scotland's courts in a short
four years is a shocking consequence of our country's inability to control its
own borders.

"Worse still with most of those convicted we cannot even deport them to their
home nation under EU rules meaning that we will continue to bear these costs."

Human rights lawyer John Scott said the costs were needed to ensure justice was
carried out fairly.

He said: "These costs will not just apply to suspects or accused but to
witnesses and victims too and it's a necessary cost when you have a justice
system which involves people from other countries.

"These are necessary costs that a country has to bear as part of a fair justice
system."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Reply: Letter: Opening the door on the immigration debate

BYLINE: N Croxley

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 232 words


*I was disappointed by Mehdi Hasan's article (So MPs want to talk about
immigration? Bring it on, 16 April). While regurgitating tired arguments about
the benefits of past immigration on our economy, politics, the NHS, higher
education, football and food etc, he fails to move the debate forward.

There have undoubtedly been positives (as well as, presumably, negatives) from
past patterns of immigration. Now, however, we must focus, without the
left/right prisms, on agreeing future economic migration policy. Politicians, in
preparing the ground for debate, must put aside party politics. We need to
assess how many people can live sustainably in the UK, and turn our conclusions
into policy. We have a finite resource: land. It is about that, and about
housing, infrastructure, public services, water, the effects of climate change,
communities and government's responsibilities to its citizens. It is definitely
not just about the last government's mantras of boosting economic growth (ad
infinitum?) and the perceived need for enhanced numbers of taxpayers and carers
for our ageing population.

Only Margaret Hodge tried to open up debate on this during Labour's tenure; I
can imagine her colleagues' eyes sliding away. If the mainstream parties remain
too unsophisticated to work out a mature approach to this debate, they risk the
loss of core voters to Ukip.

N Croxley

Falmouth, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Support for AV collapsing, according to Guardian/ICM poll

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Latest opinion poll, carried out three weeks before AV referendum, suggests
opinion against alternative vote system is hardening

FULL TEXT

Support for a change to the way in which MPs are elected is collapsing,
according to a new Guardian/ICM poll.

The figures give the No campaign a 16-point lead, compared with a two-point lead
for the Yes campaign in the equivalent Guardian/ICM poll, carried out in
February.

Conducted less than three weeks before the UK votes, the poll suggests opinion
against the alternative vote is hardening as both sides squabble over the
implications of change.

The poll is the first for two months to be carried out by telephone using a
random sample rather than an online panel, and the results have been adjusted to
take account of turnout.

Uniquely for the Guardian, the poll also includes a sample of voters from
Northern Ireland, which is included in the UK-wide referendum.

ICM posed the same question that will be asked in the referendum: "At present,
the UK uses the first past the post system to elect MPs to the House of Commons.
Should the alternative vote system be used instead?"

The results will make depressing reading for Yes campaigners, who began the year
with high hopes. A December Guardian/ICM poll last year put the Yes vote six
points ahead before adjusting for likely turnout.

In February, the two camps were neck and neck on the same measure, and now -
again before turnout is taken into account - the No vote is 11 points ahead.

Pro-AV campaigners had hoped people who wanted change would be more likely to
turn out on polling day. Instead, once people are asked how likely they are to
vote, the lead for the Nos increases.

Among people who say they are likely to vote and have made up their minds, the
No lead is now 16 points, with 42% saying yes and 58% no.

Three-quarters of Conservatives are planning to vote will vote against, as will
a small majority of Labour supporters. Only Lib Dem voters are firmly in favour,
with more than two-thirds saying they will vote for the change.

The Yes camp could still turn things around by winning over the 23% who say they
do not know how they will vote, but this includes many people who say they may
not turn out at all.

Young people are more than twice as likely to favour AV as pensioners, but
pensioners are more than twice as likely to vote as the young. Increasing youth
turnout could determine the outcome.

Ahead of the elections, which will take place in Scotland and Wales for devolved
administrations and in England for many local councils, Labour has also regained
a narrow lead over the Conservatives.

The estimated national voting intentions put Labour on 37%, up one. The
Conservatives are on 35%, down two, and the Lib Dems on 15%, down one but still
higher than in most online polls.

Support for other parties stands at a combined 13%, a recent high in ICM
surveys. That includes 3% each for the Greens and Ukip and a combined 5% for the
Welsh and Scottish nationalists.

· ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,033 adults across the United
Kingdom aged 18+ by telephone on 15-17 April 2011.

Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have been weighted
to the profile of all adults. Voting intention based on British sample of 1,003
people.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Winston knew it was duff;
my View

BYLINE: WILLIAM SHAWCROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 250 words


A FAMOUS commentator from the BBC was contemptuous when I recently told him I
would be voting against AV on May 5.

"If you're against AV, you're an enemy of progress," he said. "An enemy of
progress."

What arrogant nonsense!

This referendum was forced on Cameron by Nick Clegg as the price of the
Coalition.

The Lib Dems have been trying for decades to get first-past-thepost abolished.

They want elections to be indecisive so they can make backroom deals for power.

If only ten per cent of the electorate turn out and if only one more than half
of them vote for AV, then we will be stuck with it. A huge change to our
constitution, impossible to change again.

Would that be so bad? Yes.

Here's what happens under AV.

You're in a fiercely marginal seat. The Conservatives get 30,000 votes, Labour
29,000 and the others, including Lib Dems, 14,000 between them.

Bottom is the BNP who are eliminated and the second choices of its voters are
distributed.

Still no party over the 50% mark.

Then UKIP is eliminated and the BNP's 3rd preferences go forward.

Then the Greens lose and the BNP's 4th choices go up.

Then the Lib Dems are eliminated and the Tories and Labour are running equal
with 33,000 votes each. There are still 200 BNP 5th preferences to be
distributed and they will decide who wins.

If that's democracy, I'm fish and chips.

No wonder the great PM Winston Churchill described AV as "worthless votes being
given to the most worthless candidates".

Vote with Churchill not with Clegg. Vote No on May 5.

Choices

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Critic ... Churchill

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

No wasted votes;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 250 words


Sir, It is true that, in a strongly contested seat, the votes given for minor
parties may be counted four, five or six times as Lord Fellowes points out
(Opinion, April 16); but it is untrue that the votes cast for the major parties
are counted only once. They are counted every time.

Otherwise, no party could ever obtain more than 50 per cent of the votes cast.
AV does not hand power to the parties that the public wants least, whether they
are minorities or not. The candidate elected is, ex hypothesi, the candidate who
is preferred to the other candidates by more than half the voters in the
constituency. While AV is far from perfect, it is the only alternative system on
offer in the referendum. It may be used by only three countries but, according
to David Cameron, fewer than half the world's electors now use First Past The
Post (FPTP). AV eliminates the need for tactical voting, which gave such a false
impression of the reduction in conservative support in the Oldham East
by-election. If, for example, I support UKIP, I can give my first preference to
UKIP secure in the knowledge that if, in the likely event my preferred candidate
is not elected, my vote will not be wasted since I can give my second preference
to whichever of the larger parties I prefer. That is a real advantage to those
who, under FPTP, often have to consider whether to waste their vote or, if not,
for which party with a realistic chance of success they should cast it.

edward nugee QC Lincoln's Inn, London WC2

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 18, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No wasted votes;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 250 words


Sir, It is true that, in a strongly contested seat, the votes given for minor
parties may be counted four, five or six times as Lord Fellowes points out
(Opinion, April 16); but it is untrue that the votes cast for the major parties
are counted only once. They are counted every time.

Otherwise, no party could ever obtain more than 50 per cent of the votes cast.
AV does not hand power to the parties that the public wants least, whether they
are minorities or not. The candidate elected is, ex hypothesi, the candidate who
is preferred to the other candidates by more than half the voters in the
constituency. While AV is far from perfect, it is the only alternative system on
offer in the referendum. It may be used by only three countries but, according
to David Cameron, fewer than half the world's electors now use First Past The
Post (FPTP). AV eliminates the need for tactical voting, which gave such a false
impression of the reduction in conservative support in the Oldham East
by-election. If, for example, I support UKIP, I can give my first preference to
UKIP secure in the knowledge that if, in the likely event my preferred candidate
is not elected, my vote will not be wasted since I can give my second preference
to whichever of the larger parties I prefer. That is a real advantage to those
who, under FPTP, often have to consider whether to waste their vote or, if not,
for which party with a realistic chance of success they should cast it.

edward nugee QC Lincoln's Inn, London WC2

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 17, 2011
                                 First Edition

Why Churchill is hardly the font of all knowledge;
To combat the No camp's propaganda, Matt Chorley and John Rentoul trawl through
the arguments to offer a guide to electoral reform

BYLINE: Matt Chorley and John Rentoul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1106 words


With only 18 days to go, and volatile polls suggesting the outcome is far from
certain, both sides in the debate about changing the voting system have stepped
up the rhetoric. On 5 May, voters across the UK will decide whether to replace
first past the post with the alternative vote to elect MPs to Parliament. It
would mean instead of putting a cross next to one name, voters would rank
candidates in order of preference. Low-scoring candidates would be eliminated
and their second and, later, third preferences redistributed until the winner
had secured more than 50 per cent of votes cast. Those who favour keeping first
past the post have made numerous claims about the failings of AV. But are they
true? From sporting metaphors to whether we should listen to Winston Churchill,
here are some myths explained and propaganda unravelled.

1 "The AV referendum on 5 May is going to cost the taxpayer up to £250m."

Andrew Bridgen, MP for North-west Leicestershire, Daily Mail, 14 April

Staging the referendum will cost about £80m, which would have been more if it
had not been held on the same day as the local elections. That cost will be felt
regardless of the outcome. Opponents of AV say £130m will need to be spent on
electronic counting machines - but they are not needed and are not used in AV
elections in Australia.

2 "The alternative vote is so complicated that it will put people off voting."

James Cracknell, Olympic rower, 14 April

Most people can count beyond the number one. A lot of people go into the polling
booth having thought tactically about whom to support. Under AV, voters can rank
the candidates in order of preference, without having to sideline their
preferred party "because they can't win here".

3 "In sport, as in elections, you have a winner and a loser."

David Gower, cricketer, The Sun, 14 April

Except when it's a draw, obviously. And you would still have a winner under AV,
except they would have to gain the support of half the voters. Sporting
metaphors and politics don't mix, particularly when describing electoral reform
as a "googly".

4 "If the last election had been under AV, there would be the chance, right now,
that Gordon Brown would still be Prime Minister."

David Cameron, speech, 18 February

Unlikely. Even if the result had been closer and a Lib-Lab coalition had been
mathematically possible, the Lib Dems would have been forced to choose. Nick
Clegg had made clear that Brown would have to fall on his sword. The only recent
election that might have had a different result was 1992, which might have been
a hung parliament instead of a Tory majority of 21.

5 "Here in Britain, we have a clear, decisive and effective system."

Lord Howard, BBC The Daily Politics, 5 April

Except that first past the post gave us a hung parliament last year. All the
doom and gloom warnings - yes, Mr Cameron, we mean you - have not turned out to
be true. It is claimed AV will lead to more hung parliaments but Australia had a
hung parliament last year for the first time in 100 years. There have been more
in Britain in the same period.

6 "An electoral system that is not used anywhere in the world apart from Fiji,
Papua New Guinea and Australia."

GMB general secretary Paul Kenny, BBC, 11 March

It is also used for Scottish local councils, in Northern Ireland and the
Republic of Ireland. (They all have multi-member constituencies, but
by-elections for a single vacancy are held under what is, in effect, AV.) Also,
in several US cities to elect mayors. Moreover, AV is like the French two-ballot
system in one go. Most of the world drives on the right, but no one is
suggesting there is anything wrong with our left-leaning motoring.

7 "If in doubt, trust Winston."

David Cameron, Daily Mail, 4 April

The Prime Minister invoked Churchill, who opposed AV in 1931 because it meant
results being "determined by the most worthless votes given for the most
worthless candidates". While we are not seeking to denigrate the wartime PM, his
views on electoral reform might not chime with 21st-century Britain. He once
remarked in 1910: "I do not believe that the great mass of women want a vote."
Oh, and actually Churchill supported proportional representation, not first past
the post.

8 "Under AV, people who back the likes of the BNP and Ukip would have several
bites of the cherry, transferring their votes between candidates."

John Healey, Labour MP, The Independent, 16 March

The British National Party opposes AV, which would force mainstream parties to
appeal to a wider section of public opinion. This could mean candidates
addressing the legitimate concerns that are exploited by extremist groups in
some areas. Oh, and we live in a democracy. Voting for the BNP isn't illegal.

9 "It would mean candidates who finish third winning elections, and an end to
the principle of one person, one vote."

William Hague, campaign email, 31 March

The democratic principle is one person, one vote. Everyone gets one vote in each
round of counting; it would just mean the "big parties" getting a wake-up call
that their constituents do not think they represent all of their concerns, hopes
and fears. The candidate who came third on the basis of first preferences could
go on to win, but it would be rare and would mean the top two had failed to
broaden their appeal.

10 "When the Australians introduced AV, turnout nose-dived. They had to make
voting compulsory."

Baroness Warsi, The Sun, 16 April

Not strictly true. In the first federal election after AV was introduced in
1919, turnout was 71 per cent, down slightly from 77.7 per cent in 1917. Both
were up from 50 per cent in 1906 and significantly higher than the 65 per cent
in the British general election last year. Turnout in Australia later fell to 58
per cent in 1922, before compulsory voting was introduced.

And, finally, a Yes myth debunked:

"Do you remember how it felt when you heard about MPs spending your money on
duck houses and having their moat cleaned? First past the post doesn't work any
more. The Alternative Vote is better, fairer. It puts you back in charge and
makes MPs work harder for your vote."

Nick Clegg, speech, 23 February

The Yes campaign hasn't helped itself by suggesting that because AV will lead to
fewer safe seats, it would therefore have prevented the expenses scandal.
Douglas Hogg, who claimed the cost of moat cleaning, had secured more than 50
per cent of the vote under first past the post so is unlikely to have been
affected by AV. MPs would have to work harder to persuade a broader base to
support them at election time. A threat of jail is more likely to affect their
behaviour between polling days.

COMMENT PAGE 39

LEADING ARTICLE PAGE 41

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 17, 2011

FDSFDSFDSFDSFDS: WHO'S FOR, WHO'S AGAINST... AND WHAT DOES IT MEAN ANYWAY? BY
RAFAEL BEHR

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 701 words


So what exactly is the alternative vote?

Instead of putting a cross in the box next to the name of your favourite
candidate, you rank your preferred candidates in numerical order. 1 next to your
favourite, then 2, 3, 4 etc.

Right, yes, I know how to count. But what if I only want to vote for one person?

You don't have to rank all of them, you just put down as many or as few as you
like.

Then what happens?

If one candidate gets more than 50% of first preferences, he or she is elected.
If not, whoever came last is eliminated and that candidate's second preferences
are counted. That process continues until one candidate has crossed the 50%
support threshold.

Why not just elect the person who got the most first preferences?

That's essentially how the current system works. The problem is that often a
majority of people in a constituency didn't vote for the winner. So you get a
parliament full of MPs that most people hate

Go AV! Where's the catch?

It isn't proportional representation (PR), which is what most serious electoral
reformers want. Meanwhile, fans of first past the post say it is better to have
an MP who was enthusiastically endorsed by a decent minority than one who was
half-heartedly endorsed - as only the second or third preference - by a
majority.

Is that their only objection?

Oh no! They also say AV is too complicated, that it would favour small parties,
leading to endless coalitions, which is like putting Nick Clegg in charge of
everything for ever.

They don't actually say that, do they?

Not quite, but they like to remind people that Clegg wants AV, in the hope that
people will vote against it just to spite the Lib Dems.

Will they?

Polls aren't very reliable on this one because a lot of people don't know there
is a referendum, don't know what AV is and don't know what they think if they
do.

What the confused, benighted masses need are some celebrities to tell them what
to think!

Exactly. Joanna Lumley and Colin Firth say yes to AV. So does Eddie Izzard.

Who famous says "No"?

Darren Gough. In cricket, he says, the team with the most runs wins.

Profound. Didn't he also win Strictly Come Dancing?

Yes, but that's a bit more like AV, in the sense that the bottom candidates are
eliminated until it comes down to a two-horse race, so the winner always has
more than 50% of the final score.

What would happen in Strictly. . . under first- past-the-post?

It would be over in the first episode and Ann Widdecombe would have won.

No wonder Tories like it.

They do indeed and they'll be very cross with David Cameron if there is a yes
vote. They think it was a mistake to allow the referendum in the first place.

And the Lib Dems will be equally cross if there is a no vote?

Well, no one does cross like rightwing Tories, but, yes, it will be very tricky
for Clegg if this flagship policy goes down.

So he storms out of the coalition

in a huff?

Not likely. Lib Dem poll ratings are appalling, so they won't risk a general
election.

Where does Labour stand on all of this?

Ed Miliband is pro-AV, but a lot of Labour MPs are anti. It's a real dilemma: a
yes vote hurts Cameron, a no vote slaps Clegg. AV might favour Labour, but, then
again, it might not and there's always the possibility that it can deliver weird
results where someone who wins

clearly in the first round gets nudged

aside once second preferences are

counted.

What, like when Ed Miliband snatched the Labour leadership from under the nose
of big brother David? Well, Ed can't really be against it then, can he? So who
are the key figures on Labour's no campaign?

John Prescott is probably the biggest beast. But some shadow cabinet people too.

What about other parties?

The Scottish Nationalists, Plaid Cymru, Ukip and Greens say yes; the BNP says
no.

None of this is very sexy is it?

The no campaign are in a lather over some nonsense about people who sell
vote-counting machines funding the yes campaign. The yes side say it's fishy
that the no side don't even say who is funding them.

I said sexy.

Did I mention Colin Firth?

Bottom line, please. Will AV be fairer?

Maybe. Probably. A bit.

Captions:

Eddie Izzard, left, wants AV, while

the BNP say no,

as do the Tories,

whose new poster, below left, was unveiled last week.

Photograph by

Teri Pengilley


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 17, 2011

INTERVIEW: 'I'm not interested in heritage: this stuff is alive': Martin Carthy,
an influence on Dylan and a dynamic figure in English music for half a century,
turns 70 next month. He talks to Ed Vulliamy about tradition, family - and why
subversion is at the heart of folk's continuing good health

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW ARTS PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1929 words


The cliff walk along North Yorkshire's wild, wonderful coastline is at last
lined with primroses and blossom again, and Martin Carthy - the sage, mentor and
political conscience of English folk music - has news to match the resurrection
of the land as he approaches his 70th birthday.

"Norma walked for the first time since her illness yesterday," he reports,
making coffee in his homely kitchen right at the entrance to the blooming
Cleveland Way. That would be his wife, Norma Waterson, as renowned as Carthy
himself, for this is a dynasty of musicians. "She fell ill just as the clocks
went back," says Carthy, "and asked me the other day: 'Have they gone forward
yet?' So she's missed the whole winter, which she hates anyway - but that's not
the point." No, the point is that the Mercury-nominated singer, who had been in
intensive care as far away as Warrington, is now back in Whitby hospital up the
road and will soon be homeward bound.

And there are further welcome tidings: Eliza, their daughter, and the family's
third renowned solo performer, is returning to the beauty of Robin Hood's Bay
with her two children, so that the most accomplished family ensemble in English
folk music becomes a homestead once again. Toys compete with Carthy's guitar
cases for space by the sitting-room hearth - including a soft, cuddly guitar. In
the Waterson-Carthy family, you learn young: "Eliza first appeared with us on
stage when she was six," says Carthy. "The point came when she knew all the
songs and she joined in." Now she plays the fiddle as well - like her father's
longtime musical partner Dave Swarbrick - and like him is a leader in the field.

But this is Martin Carthy's moment too: all Watersons and Carthys have
trajectories in music together and in their own right, and next month Carthy
turns 70. He does so three days before his friend Bob Dylan, who has never
failed to acknowledge his debt to Carthy's "Lord Franklin" for "Bob Dylan's
Dream", nor "Scarborough Fair" for "Girl from the North Country". Although
Carthy insists that folk should be played at point-blank range, preferably in
caverns and cellars, there will be a special birthday concert at the Queen
Elizabeth Hall in London.

Carthy has been described as the "godfather" and "elder statesman" of English
folk, but neither term feels right. Too regal, they omit the mischief, wit,
fascination with the macabre; they discount that very special balance between
humility towards people and certainty over his craft, and that crucial word
Carthy loves: "subversion". "Folk music is by definition subversive," he says,
and this, as well as the excavation of a trove of songs, is the bedrock of
Carthy's immeasurable contribution to English music over half a century. It is
also a heretical philosophy of great and guiding cogency.

"I regard tradition as progressive," he says, "and a traditional song as a
progressive force, because it is concerned with the continuity of things." The
word "radical" is derived from "radix", a root, and this is Carthy's radicalism:
"You come from somewhere, for Christ's sake. Good folk music is like me holding
my grandchildren and wanting to know more about my great, great, great uncle -
I've got a picture of him - Tom Carthy from Ballybunion, County Kerry. I see his
fingers on the uilleann pipes, and I see my father's hands and my grandfather's
hands. The continuity of folk music is similar, because it is also our
continuity."

The term "nostalgia" is pointless in a conversation with Martin Carthy; the past
is a propulsion, a well of riches, and folk songs are the history of its common
people, the expressions of their struggles, tribulations and superstitions,
their guile, humour, love, lust and violence - and their "subversion", often in
its subtlest form.

Carthy reflects: "The older I have got, the more the songs have become
three-dimensional. They're not words set to pretty tunes. You are being told
something about people. Things that are wicked, naughty, true, funny. About what
human beings do to each other, and it never changes. Folk music, says Carthy,
"is not an archive. If you see it as that, it becomes like a butterfly in a
glass case. Folk music has to live and breathe. I'm not interested in heritage -
this stuff is alive, we must claim it, use it."

Martin Carthy was born in Hertfordshire, son of a trade unionist of Irish
descent, and grew up in the 1950s as a diligent schoolboy and choirboy, but also
conjoined to a generation in north London with a rapacious appetite for musical
exploration: playing American skiffle in coffee bars, but also hypnotised by Big
Bill Broonzy and Ravi Shankar. Then, one night at Ewan McColl's club on Edgware
Road, Carthy heard a Norfolk fisherman called Sam Larner sing a song called
"Lofty Tall Ship" - "And I thought: 'What kind of song is that?!' I walked away
that night stunned by the words, the sound. Whatever it was, I wanted more."
Captivated by American folk, blues and bluegrass, Carthy followed their roots
back to the British Isles whence many of the songs came - and, specifically, to
England.

Interviewed by the local paper from Hull, Norma's home town, on the eve of his
60th birthday, Carthy said, talking about folk: "If you want to control people,
you control what they read and hear. They [those in power] tried to do it with
the Welsh, the Scots and the Irish, but they only succeeded with the English."

It is a fascinating point. Irish, Scottish and Welsh folk songs are - among many
things - inherently rebel music, because they are propelled by a history of
uprising against occupation and repression. Which puts English folk music
somewhere else, somewhere harder to define.

"In England, people lived in a society that had been oppressed for so much
longer. And so with English folk songs, you have to lift the lid to find out
what is going on, and think about what is implied. This is why, for instance,
there are so many songs about poaching, after the laws suddenly created
criminals out of almost everyone - their way of life became a crime for which
they would be hanged or deported. So poaching became a metaphor, and often the
meaning wasn't too deeply hidden - look at that song 'The Gallant Poacher', it
goes: 'Our goods were gone/ Our money spent/ We'd nothing left to try.' You
don't have to dig very far to work that one out."

But the subversion of folk is more complicated - darker and deeper - than that.
It is rage and laughter at the appalling state of things, and it still is:
during a concert of political songs for Richard Thompson's Meltdown last year,
Carthy elected to sing his hallmark "Prince Heathen", a story of murder, rape,
childbirth and savagery in the most flamboyant traditions of the English folk
macabre. "These are dangerous songs to sing," says Carthy. "Some of them are
very, very cruel and confront people with their very worst fears."

But if there is a distinctive macabre in English folk, Carthy is quick to
insist: "I must say this: folk music has no border checkpoints. In the end, it
has - it can have - no country." Not only because it deals with primal
narrative, but because of the way its protagonists, tunes and stories travel,
hear, teach, learn and sing. "The Irish will make a song, and it gets to America
or anywhere and it becomes a song of that place. There's a song called 'Loch
Maben Harper', a Scottish subversive song that had been collected but hadn't
been sung since the late 18th century. Now I've sung it a thousand times as
though it were an English folk song, so what does that make it?

"You're talking about a maritime identity with a maritime culture and music,"
says Carthy, coming up with this irresistible notion: "Actually, I think there
probably is some kind of Atlantic country which connects the west coast of the
British Isles and the American eastern seaboard - and if there is, it certainly
has its music." This discourse leads inevitably towards the tendency to view the
English folk tradition as soundtrack to the sentiment of the UK Independence
Party, or worse. Indeed, there was an illuminating exchange last year on the
pages of the Guardian, which brought the "Englishness" of English folk music
into harsh relief. An article by Christian Koch said of the British National
Party leader, Nick Griffin: "No prizes for guessing the BNP chief's favourite
type of music. Yes, it's that most arthritically white of genres, English folk."

A retort from a reader was published: "These words offend me in their ignorance
and prejudice. Ancestral music is blameless in this, constantly evolving, and
what does my ancestors being white have to do with anything if us civilised
people know that race is irrelevant?" The author signed off: Eliza Carthy.

Good folk music in general, and Martin Carthy's songs in particular, are the
antidote to, the diametric opposite of, our postmodern world of digital
cacophony, crisis in concentration, library closures and hyper-materialist
phantasmagoria. It makes sense that Carthy lives in a corner of England cut off
from the nightmare by a sturdy buffer zone of heather and dry-stone walling.

"I think some people are ready for a revival of narrative," says Carthy. "It
happened during the 1990s, when we started to have younger performers at folk
clubs, and then younger audiences too. Thank God! It's been a long time coming.
I remember Swarb and I playing to fourth-form kids in Bromsgrove and it didn't
work at all; then we played to the sixth form and they were agog, hanging on to
the narrative. I think there are more young people fed up with being told by
some DJ that this is cool or that is cool."

Carthy recalls "another time, in Manchester, these kids came up and said:
'You're Martin Carthy, aren't you?' I said yeah and they said: 'You must sing
"Famous Flower of Serving Men"', and I said OK, but it'll have to wait until
after the interval." The song's title is a play on the name of the ship that
sailed from Plymouth to Massachusetts in 1620, in turn "named after the flower
of bad luck and mischief", says Carthy. "And there they were, sitting right in
front of me on the floor, listening. It amazed some of the older people there,
but the song galvanised them, and they certainly galvanised me."

The mention of that song raises a question: who wrote that giddy tune to "Famous
Flower of Serving Men" which also drives the far more famous instrumental at the
end of Fairport Convention's "Matty Groves"? One does not need to know the song
to savour the story: "Well, it was 1966, Swarb and I were in Skopje, doing a
festival to say thank you to countries which had supported Yugoslavia. And Hedy
West, whom Bob Dylan cites among his influences, was there, messing around with
the tune of a song called 'Kate and the Cowhide' from Utah, written in 3/4 time.
She sang a version in 9/8, and Swarb and I were flabbergasted. Well, I went on
to use it in an arrangement of 'Famous Flowers' and Swarb joined Fairport and
added it to 'Matty Groves'. That's what folk music is: the intuitive nature of
the whole thing among people who love messing about with stuff and coming up
with something else to keep the continuity going; people who aren't intimidated
by how venerable it is. A song cannot survive if it is not being played - it is
either played or it perishes."

Martin Carthy's 70th Birthday Concert with special guests is at the Queen
Elizabeth Hall, London on 14 May. His "best of" double CD, Essential, is
released by Topic Records on 9 May

Captions:

Martin Carthy in Robin Hood's Bay, North Yorkshire this month. Photographed by
Gary Calton for the Observer


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 17, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Finnish bear mauling EU;
Leader of Eurosceptic party opposes any more bail-outs and is determined that no
more of his country's money will be 'burned in the fire." Interview

BYLINE: HARRIET ALEXANDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1272 words


AS HIS train rolls through Finland, passing log cabins nestled among snowy pine
forests, Timo Soini concludes that his country has not got much in common with
Greece or Portugal.

They might be good for sunny holidays, to escape Finland's eight weeks of solid
winter darkness, but their way of life is a world away from this most northern
point of the EU.

And when their leaders come knocking for a bail-out that could cost Finnish
taxpayers a billion euros, as a result of excessive state spending, the cautious
Finns feel understandably aggrieved.

Mr Soini, 48, however, is in the unusual position of being able to do something
about it.

As Finns go to the polls today, and the EU is debating an (EURO)80billion
(£71billion) bailout of Portugal, Mr Soini's Eurosceptic True Finns party is
promising to derail the deal if it wins a stake in Finland's coalition
government.

"The party is over," he said.

"Why should Finland bail anyone out? We won't allow Finnish cows to be milked by
other hands."

Finland, unlike the other 16 euro zone members, puts requests for major EU
decisions - such as rulings on bail-out funds - to a majority vote in
parliament.

And with the True Finns tipped to gain up to 20 per cent of the ballot, the
small Nordic nation could become an unlikely headache for the European Union.

The bail-out may eventually be passed, but Mr Soini's party could delay the
proceedings for many months - causing further uncertainty about the euro-project
and illustrating the bitter divisions that the rescue package has exposed.

Support for Mr Soini's stance has risen fourfold since the last election in
2007, when his party got just four per cent of the poll. Coupled with rising
opposition to the bail-out among other Finnish minority blocs, Mr Soini could -
with a spot of post-election horsetrading - make a majority vote for the
bail-out difficult.

An amiable figure who is rarely spotted without his Millwall FC football scarf,
he has already performed the near-miracle of making Finland's normally
lacklustre elections exciting - and, in the process, has earned Helsinki the ire
of the top Eurocrats in Brussels.

Only a week ago, the country got a headmasterly warning from Olli Rehn, the EU's
commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, and a native of Finland himself.
"I trust that Finland will show its responsibility and support this conditional
financial assistance programme for Portugal," scolded Mr Rehn, who is the EU's
most senior economic official.

Finland's backing of the bail-out was essential, he argued, "for the sake of
safeguarding financial stability in Europe and Finland, and for the sake of
protecting the economic recovery, growth and employment."

His intervention was greeted with amusement by Mr Soini.

"That is typical Eurocrat speech," he told The Sunday Telegraph last week. "Olli
Rehn should do his job in Brussels and let Finnish people vote as they like.

I will go to Brussels and say 'Let's renegotiate.' We won't hand over more
Finnish money to be burned in the fire."

A thickset, bear of a man, Mr Soini thrives on challenging the established
political parties and as an MEP has found a close ally in Nigel Farage, the
leader of Britain's Ukip. Mr Soini spoke at the party's conference in Southport
in 2009; Mr Farage repaid the visit in February.

His party, with its rejection of European integration, dislike of the euro and
antiimmigration rhetoric, has certainly attracted a smattering of unsavoury
hard-Right extremists.

However, he portrays himself as simply a "rank and file man from the suburbs",
in contrast to the earnest, greysuited politicians who dominate the Finnish
political mainstream.

"My opponents say we must be in Europe, at the big table, making those
decisions," he said. "I say we must not be at that table and paying all the
bills."

Since Finland joined the EU in 1995 - following a referendum in which 57 per
cent voted to join - the country has been staunchly pro-European, although its
fiscally prudent politicians insisted on referring big decisions to the national
parliament.

With centuries of foreign domination - first by the Swedish, then the Russians -
Helsinki initially relished being part of a central European group that
protected it from its wild, unpredictable Russian neighbour.

But the country at the tip of Europe's far north is now realising that it has
little in common with its cousins in the south.

"Here in the Nordic nations we draw a line between the decent, hard-working
countries of the north, and the easy-going, relaxed southern states," said Erkki
Havansi, 69, a retired law professor who is running for election for the True
Finns.

"For us, it is a matter of honour to pay your debts on time. When we had our own
recession, from 1991-4, we suffered a lot, but we sorted out our problems
ourselves.

"We feel very strongly against the bail-out - it has been one of the most
important issues in the final debates."

It is an argument that is gaining currency on the streets of Helsinki, where the
True Finns are gradually creeping up on the established political order
dominated by the Centre Party of the prime minister, Mari Kiviniemi, the
opposition Social Democrats and the Right-leaning National Coalition party,
which are all traditionally pro-European. "I'm not ready to put my hand in my
pocket and help out messed-up EU countries," said Petri Gronlund, 53, a
construction firm manager, in the central shopping boulevards of Helsinki. "We
are part of the EU, and that is fine. But we shouldn't have to pay for their
mistakes."

Admittedly, many younger residents of this remote corner of Europe are reluctant
to support Mr Soini's anti-Brussels stance, associating it with a narrow-minded,
xenophobic mindset that EU membership has done much to eradicate.

"My generation is very pro-Europe," said Jaana Haurinen, 32, a medical
recruitment specialist.

"Helsinki is much better now that it is multicultural and open. We don't like
the bail-out, of course, but we just hope it won't happen again."

However, recent opinion polls suggest that more than 60 per cent of Finns oppose
a bail-out, and whether or not the True Finns gain a controlling seat in the new
coalition, any new government will have to heed the growing sense of unease.

"Even in a scenario of the current coalition continuing, the parties will need
to take some note of the public mood, and so the rhetoric will probably be more
prone to dissatisfaction over the bail-out packages," observed Juha Jokela of
the Finnish Institute of International Affairs.

It makes Finland the latest member of a growing "awkward squad" of nation states
within the Brussels club, which includes both bankrollers and beneficiaries of
the bail-out deals. Last year, Slovakia's government temporarily blocked aid for
Greece for several weeks, relenting only after heavy diplomatic pressure.

In Dublin, meanwhile, a new administration elected in February won much of it  s
support by promising to refuse the austerity terms dictated by Brussels for the
planned Irish bail-out.

Such hot-headedness does not come quickly in Finland, and both Mrs Kiviniemi and
the finance minister, Jyrki Katainen, have warned voters that blocking a
bail-out could trigger a renewed financial crisis, which they say could
ultimately hurt the country more than any bail-out.

For the likes of Professor Havansi, though, it is too late.

Finland, he argues, could benefit from being in the bad boys' club for a while.

"Finns were seen as the perfect pupils, always obeying the teacher," he said,
clenching his fists. "But we want to have our own will, and rebel."

The party's over. We won't allow Finnish cows to "be milked by other hands

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Timo Soini's party has growing support in Finland, allowing it a major
say in the bail-out debate
TUOMAS UUSHEIMO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Euro billions wasted on African failures;
Aid cash is being spent on a dance project, empty medical centre, jets for
despots and palaces, Bojan Pancevski and Dan MacDougall report

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski; Dan MacDougall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1836 words


BRITAIN is pouring more than £1.4 billion a year into a European Union aid
programme that funds "white elephant" projects and gives billions to corrupt
governments without checking how the money is spent.

A Sunday Times investigation has revealed that the European commission has used
some of its £10 billion annual development budget to fund a huge medical store
that has been left largely empty, an immigration and job centre that has
arranged six jobs in three years and a Belgian group that teaches Africans how
to dance.

A damning report by the European Court of Auditors, which monitors EU spending,
has accused commission officials in Brussels of failing to manage the risks of
waste, mismanagement and corruption.

The British government, which donates 18% of its ringfenced £7.7billion aid
budget through the EU, said this weekend that the commission's programme lacked
accountability and did not focus enough on poverty.

Turkey, for example, is the biggest recipient of EU aid - about £500m a year -
even though it is a developed middle-income country with a vibrant economy.

Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, said: "The EU's aid
needs to be far more transparent, results-focused and targeted at the poorest
people and we are now working with Brussels to help achieve this."

Projects uncovered by The Sunday Times include the Central Medical Stores, a
flagship foreign aid project in Freetown, Sierra Leone, which was built a year
ago to house pharmacists and distribution teams in charge of vital drugs.

Most of the offices are empty or are used to store damp paperwork. The poorly
constructed foundations are sinking into the mud. Hundreds of hospital beds
donated by the United Nations and intended for the stores have been left outside
to rot in the humidity.

To add to the ignominy, the caretakers have had to daub graffiti in the local
patois on the perimeter wall, asking people not to use it as a urinal. "Nor Piss
Yah," it says.

This complex was created with part of a £238m tranche of aid being paid to
Sierra Leone over five years by the commission. Officials claimed this weekend
that part of the complex was operational and providing "great support to the
people" although it was "not in great shape".

Sierra Leone, impoverished by a civil war in the 1990s when 50,000 people died,
is also the site of an EU-funded Peace Park wildlife project that straddles its
border with Liberia. The park cost £2.7m.

Other EU-funded projects in Africa include an institution in Bamako, the capital
of Mali, that is supposed to help locals find legal jobs in Europe and to warn
them against trying to enter illegally. But until recently the Centre for
Migration Information and Management, which has so far cost £8.8m, had found
work for only six people in three years and provided "counselling" for a few
others.

Cecilia Malmstrom, the European commissioner for migration, admitted the project
had "not turned out the way we hoped it would".

Other officials conceded that the centre had failed in its other purpose of
informing Malians about the dangers of illegal migration. "People say: we know,
but we'll still take the risk," said an official at the EU's delegation in Mali.
MEPs specialising in development denounced the project, saying it had provided
no relevant support to the local population.

EU taxpayers' money is even paying for Belgians to teach Africans how to dance
in neighbouring Burkina Faso, where more than half the population lives on 70p a
day. The "I dance therefore I am" project is run by Africalia, a Belgian
cultural organisation, which said: "If its music moves, Africa will also move."

"EU aid has always been bedevilled by corruption and waste but lessons have not
been learnt after all these years," said Chris Heaton-Harris, a Tory MP and
former MEP. "They continue to support questionable projects and corrupt regimes
at a time when national governments are reconsidering their policies and
tightening their belts."

The European commission's method of giving much of its aid through so-called
"budget support" is particularly controversial. It means transferring billions
of pounds to governments in developing countries, some of which are corrupt and
authoritarian, without earmarking the money for specific purposes.

While this method is regarded as useful in well-run countries because it gives
governments the means to help themselves, experts challenge budget support for
regimes that have been accused of spending millions on private jets and lavish
palaces for their leaders.

About £10 billion has been set aside by the commission for governments of
developing countries to spend almost as they please in the years 2008-13.

The Court of Auditors says the commission sometimes randomly allocates funds
without properly assessing a country's needs and cannot control the spending or
even measure the impact of the aid.

Officials do not set out what they expect to achieve, do not tackle extensive
corruption and do not justify supporting some areas rather than others, the
court says. In Paraguay, it says, they failed to take into account rampant
corruption and waste. The commission eventually stopped direct handouts to
Nicaragua.

In theory, the commission gives budget support only to countries with a clear
national policy and sound financial management. In practice, the watchdogs say,
corrupt countries need supply only the appropriate paperwork to receive generous
funding. "Nothing the commission has got comes even close to a reliable estimate
of the impact of budget support," said a source close to the Court of Auditors.

Some of the commission's generosity is directed towards governments whose
policies provoke dismay in Europe.

The southern African country of Malawi is receiving £450m over five years. Its
government has recently drafted a law that will criminalise flatulence in public
places and has also restricted media freedom. Homosexuality is already
punishable by up to 14 years' imprisonment with hard labour.

Bingu Mutharika, Malawi's president, was widely criticised for buying a
multi-millionpound presidential jet after a transfer of EU aid. More than 60% of
Malawians cannot afford to spend even £1 a day.

"Our funding is not aligned with core EU values and there is no confirmation
that the funds are properly used," said Marta Andreasen, a UKIP MEP and member
of the European parliament's budget control committee.

Uganda is another country that receives direct payments into its budgets. Of
£407m allocated to Kampala for 2008-13, £164m goes directly to the government.

Yoweri Museveni, 67, the president of 25 years, has recently tightened his grip
on power by winning an election amid allegations that he used state budget money
for campaigning and bribes. Museveni, who campaigned with election posters
depicting him as Rambo from the Hollywood blockbuster, bought a Gulfstream G550
jet. Another of his jets was used to fly his daughter to Germany to give birth.
He has also built a lavish official residence, at a cost of up to £100m, while
the population struggles with poverty.

Local activists oppose the EU's funding of the regime, saying it is becoming
increasingly authoritarian. Last Thursday Kizza Besigye, Uganda's opposition
leader, was hit by a rubber bullet fired by police during a demonstration over
fuel and food prices.

Robert Lugolobi, the Uganda director of Transparency International, the
anti-corruption watchdog, said: "Throwing money into a highly corrupt system and
pretending you are helping citizens is a waste of public resources."

Some EU-funded projects have also had mixed success in Uganda: a 20km bypass
outside Kampala that cost more than £30m is said to be the most expensive road
in sub-Saharan Africa. It took more than five years to complete but the quality
of the work is so poor that it is already crumbling.

"The EU aid, generous as it is, creates a culture of dependency and stifles
sustainable democratic and economic development as the vast funds are used to
prop up dictatorships and corrupt regimes," said Nirj Deva, Tory MEP and
vice-chairman of the European parliament's development committee.

"We give with one hand and take with the other: 80% of Africans are farmers but
they cannot export their produce to the EU because of trade barriers and
agriculture subsides in Europe, so they are condemned to poverty perpetuated by
our aid handouts."

Some of the aid is swallowed by bureaucracy and never leaves Brussels. The Tipik
Communications Agency, based in Brussels, received an EU grant of nearly
£442,000 for aid-related campaigns. This included more than £100,000 to design
an annual report on EU aid and £80,000 to co-ordinate an "I fight poverty" music
contest, aimed at boosting "development awareness".

Entrants were encouraged to "join our fight with music" and the winners were
selected to record their songs in a studio and perform at an EU Development Days
conference, which also included a fashion show.

The overall administration costs of EU aid are 5.4%, compared with 4% for
Britain's Department for International Development, which aims to cut this to 2%
by 2014.

Andris Piebalgs, the Latvian development commissioner, is understood to have
expressed private criticism of wasteful practices and scepticism about the
benefits of budget support, which was championed by his Belgian predecessor,
Louis Michel. Piebalgs has said the commission should use budget support "more
selectively and with far greater determination" to deliver "identifiable,
measurable and tangible results".

Commission officials say more than 31m people have been connected to drinking
water and 9m to sanitation as a result of EU support since 2004. In the same
period, they say, more than 9m were helped into primary school education.

When Britain's coalition government took office last year, it ringfenced aid
from spending cuts but announced a new focus on transparency and "value for
money".

Critics say its substantial contribution to the EU development budget avoids the
scrutiny to which other funding is subjected.

Open Europe, the Londonbased think tank, has published a critical review of EU
development spending today, urging a thorough overhaul.

"The government's promise, that every single penny of aid funding is well spent,
must also apply to EU funds," said Stephen Booth, Open Europe's research
director.

A spokeswoman for Piebalgs said: "Aid is a risky business. The commission has
internationally recognised strict control mechanisms."

Aid row

The government was urged yesterday to reconsider the scale of contribution to EU
aid.

Philip Davies, a Conservative MP, said ringfencing aid when other spending was
being cut back could no longer be justified.

Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, stands by the
ringfencing and says providing overseas aid is both morally right and in the
national interest.

A commitment to raise UK aid spending to 0.7% of GDP by 2013 was enshrined in
law by the previous government. David Cameron, as opposition leader, pledged to
stick to that target.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Taxpayers' money is being used by a Belgian group to give dance lessons
in Burkina Faso, where more than half the population lives on 70p a day
An EU Development Days conference in Brussels included a fashion show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Euro billions wasted on African failures;
British aid cash is being spent on a dance project, empty medical centre, jets
for despots and palaces, Bojan Pancevski and Dan MacDougall report

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski , Dan MacDougall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1894 words


BRITAIN is pouring more than £1.4 billion a year into a European Union aid
programme that funds "white elephant" projects and gives billions to corrupt
governments without checking how the money is spent.

A Sunday Times investigation has revealed that the European commission has used
some of its £10 billion annual development budget to fund a huge medical store
that has been left largely empty, an immigration and job centre that has
arranged six jobs in three years and a Belgian group that teaches Africans how
to dance.

A damning report by the European Court of Auditors, which monitors EU spending,
has accused commission officials in Brussels of failing to manage the risks of
waste, mismanagement and corruption. The British government, which donates 18%
of its ringfenced £7.7billion aid budget through the EU, said this weekend that
the commission's programme lacked accountability and did not focus enough on
poverty.

Turkey, for example, is the biggest recipient of EU aid - about £500m a year -
even though it is a developed middle-income country with a vibrant economy.

Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, said: "The EU's aid
needs to be far more transparent, results-focused and targeted at the poorest
people and we are now working with Brussels to help achieve this."

Projects uncovered by The Sunday Times include the Central Medical Stores, a
flagship foreign aid project in Freetown, Sierra Leone, which was built a year
ago to house pharmacists and distribution teams in charge of vital drugs.

Most of the offices are empty or are used to store damp paperwork.

The poorly constructed foundations are sinking into the mud. Hundreds of
hospital beds donated by the United Nations and intended for the stores have
been left outside to rot in the humidity.

To add to the ignominy, the caretakers have had to daub graffiti in the local
patois on the perimeter wall, asking people not to use it as a urinal. "Nor Piss
Yah," it says.

This complex was created with part of a £238m tranche of aid being paid to
Sierra Leone over five years by the commission.

Officials claimed this weekend that part of the complex was operational and
providing "great support to the people" although it was "not in great shape".

Sierra Leone, impoverished by a civil war in the 1990s when 50,000 people died,
is also the site of an EU-funded Peace Park wildlife project that straddles its
border with Liberia. The park cost £2.7m.

Other EU-funded projects in Africa include an institution in Bamako, the capital
of Mali, that is supposed to help locals find legal jobs in Europe and to warn
them against trying to enter illegally. But until recently the Centre for
Migration Information and Management, which has so far cost £8.8m, had found
work for only six people in three years and provided "counselling" for a few
others.

Cecilia Malmstrom, the European commissioner for migration, admitted the project
had "not turned out the way we hoped it would".

Other officials conceded that the centre had failed in its other purpose of
informing Malians about the dangers of illegal migration. "People say: we know,
but we'll still take the risk," said an official at the EU's delegation in Mali.
MEPs specialising in development denounced the project, saying it had provided
no relevant support to the local population. EU taxpayers' money is even paying
for Belgians to teach Africans how to dance in neighbouring Burkina Faso, where
more than half the population lives on 70p a day. The "I dance therefore I am"
project is run by Africalia, a Belgian cultural organisation, which said: "If
its music moves, Africa will also move."

"EU aid has always been bedevilled by corruption and waste but lessons have not
been learnt after all these years," said Chris Heaton-Harris, a Tory MP and
former MEP. "They continue to support questionable projects and corrupt regimes
at a time when national governments are reconsidering their policies and
tightening their belts."

The European commission's method of giving much of its aid through so-called
"budget support" is particularly controversial.

It means transferring billions of pounds to governments in developing countries,
some of which are corrupt and authoritarian, without earmarking the money for
specific purposes.

While this method is regarded as useful in well-run countries because it gives
governments the means to help themselves, experts challenge budget support for
regimes that have been accused of spending millions on private jets and lavish
palaces for their leaders.

About £10 billion has been set aside by the commission for governments of
developing countries to spend almost as they please in the years 2008-13.

The Court of Auditors says the commission sometimes randomly allocates funds
without properly assessing a country's needs and cannot control the spending or
even measure the impact of the aid.

Officials do not set out what they expect to achieve, do not tackle extensive
corruption and do not justify supporting some areas rather than others, the
court says. In Paraguay, it says, they failed to take into account rampant
corruption and waste. The commission eventually stopped direct handouts to
Nicaragua.

In theory, the commission gives budget support only to countries with a clear
national policy and sound financial management. In practice, the watchdogs say,
corrupt countries need supply only the appropriate paperwork to receive generous
funding. "Nothing the commission has got comes even close to a reliable estimate
of the impact of budget support," said a source close to the Court of Auditors.

Some of the commission's generosity is directed towards governments whose
policies provoke dismay in Europe.

The southern African country of Malawi is receiving £450m over five years. Its
government has recently drafted a law that will criminalise flatulence in public
places and has also restricted media freedom. Homosexuality is already
punishable by up to 14 years' imprisonment with hard labour.

Bingu Mutharika, Malawi's president, was widely criticised for buying a
multi-millionpound presidential jet after a transfer of EU aid. More than 60% of
Malawians cannot afford to spend even £1 a day.

"Our funding is not aligned with core EU values and there is no confirmation
that the funds are properly used," said Marta Andreasen, a UKIP MEP and member
of the European parliament's budget control committee.

Uganda is another country that receives direct payments into its budgets. Of
£407m allocated to Kampala for 2008-13, £164m goes directly to the government.

Yoweri Museveni, 67, the president of 25 years, has recently tightened his grip
on power by winning an election amid allegations that he used state budget money
for campaigning and bribes. Museveni, who campaigned with election posters
depicting him as Rambo from the Hollywood blockbuster, bought a Gulfstream G550
jet. Another of his jets was used to fly his daughter to Germany to give birth.
He has also built a lavish official residence, at a cost of up to £100m, while
the population struggles with poverty.

Local activists oppose the EU's funding of the regime, saying it is becoming
increasingly authoritarian. Last Thursday Kizza Besigye, Uganda's opposition
leader, was hit by a rubber bullet fired by police during a demonstration over
fuel and food prices. Robert Lugolobi, the Uganda director of Transparency
International, the anti-corruption watchdog, said: "Throwing money into a highly
corrupt system and pretending you are helping citizens is a waste of public
resources."

Some EU-funded projects have also had mixed success in Uganda: a 20km bypass
outside Kampala that cost more than £30m is said to be the most expensive road
in sub-Saharan Africa. It took more than five years to complete but the quality
of the work is so poor that it is already crumbling.

"The EU aid, generous as it is, creates a culture of dependency and stifles
sustainable democratic and economic development as the vast funds are used to
prop up dictatorships and corrupt regimes," said Nirj Deva, Tory MEP and
vice-chairman of the European parliament's development committee.

"We give with one hand and take with the other: 80% of Africans are farmers but
they cannot export their produce to the EU because of trade barriers and
agriculture subsides in Europe, so they are condemned to poverty perpetuated by
our aid handouts."

Some of the aid is swallowed by bureaucracy and never leaves Brussels. The Tipik
Communications Agency, based in Brussels, received an EU grant of nearly
£442,000 for aid-related campaigns. This included more than £100,000 to design
an annual report on EU aid and £80,000 to co-ordinate an "I fight poverty" music
contest, aimed at boosting "development awareness".

Entrants were encouraged to "join our fight with music" and the winners were
selected to record their songs in a studio and perform at an EU Development Days
conference, which also included a fashion show.

The overall administration costs of EU aid are 5.4%, compared with 4% for
Britain's Department for International Development, which aims to cut this to 2%
by 2014.

Andris Piebalgs, the Latvian development commissioner, is understood to have
expressed private criticism of wasteful practices and scepticism about the
benefits of budget support, which was championed by his Belgian predecessor,
Louis Michel. Piebalgs has said the commission should use budget support "more
selectively and with far greater determination" to deliver "identifiable,
measurable and tangible results". Commission officials say more than 31m people
have been connected to drinking water and 9m to sanitation as a result of EU
support since 2004. In the same period, they say, more than 9m were helped into
primary school education.

When Britain's coalition government took office last year, it ringfenced aid
from spending cuts but announced a new focus on transparency and "value for
money".

Critics say its substantial contribution to the EU development budget avoids the
scrutiny to which other funding is subjected.

Open Europe, the Londonbased think tank, has published a critical review of EU
development spending today, urging a thorough overhaul.

"The government's promise, that every single penny of aid funding is well spent,
must also apply to EU funds," said Stephen Booth, Open Europe's research
director.

A spokeswoman for Piebalgs said: "Aid is a risky business. The commission has
internationally recognised strict control mechanisms."

Aid row

The government was urged yesterday to reconsider the scale of contribution to EU
aid.

Philip Davies, a Conservative MP, said ringfencing aid when other spending was
being cut back could no longer be justified.

Andrew Mitchell, the international development secretary, stands by the
ringfencing and says providing overseas aid is both morally right and in the
national interest.

A commitment to raise UK aid spending to 0.7% of GDP by 2013 was enshrined in
law by the previous government. David Cameron, as opposition leader, pledged to
stick to that target.

£178m Morocco 500 £129m Mozambique £143m Sudan £129m Egypt Turkey Top 10
recipients of EU aid (2009) in £m £178m £129m £143m £129m Top 10 recipients of
EU aid (2009) in £m Brussels London £250m Afghanistan £500m £185m Serbia £200m
£147m Congo, Democratic Republic of the 3 1 UK aid: £1.4bn EU aid: £10bn 2 £100m
Mali £48m Sierra Leone £28m Liberia

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Taxpayers' money is being used by a Belgian group to give dance lessons
in Burkina Faso, where more than half the population lives on 70p a day
An EU Development Days conference in Brussels included a fashion show

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's moment to question the EU;
Simon Heffer on SATURDAY

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 597 words


Although the pretence that the euro can survive in its present form continues,
the pretence itself continues to unravel. Ireland is now one step above having
its bonds classified as junk. Greece looks unable to pay its debts. Spain is
tottering and deemed likely to be the next victim of "contagion". So just how
deep are Germany's pockets, and how unlimited is the beneficence of its
electorate?

The problem with the unelected, unaccountable people who run the European dream
is that they are used to bending the rules to accommodate any little difficulty
they might have with reality. You can do that among yourselves, however unjust
it might be: but when what you do has a global impact, it won't work in quite
the same way. As Mrs Thatcher once said, you can't buck the markets. Certain
European economies are basket cases. The recent rise in the European Central
Bank's interest rates will help ensure more go that way. The markets will soon
see the euro as utterly ripe for shorting, and that will be that.

She stood for this is not, though, merely an economic problem, vast though that
is. It is a huge political one too. As Europe's leaders have frequently said,
without a single currency there can be no European Union of the sort they - or
rather the eurocrats who dictate strategy - have always planned. The currency
was supposed to prove the cohesion of a federation, rather as the dollar does
for the 50 disparate states that form the USA. Once the cultural and economic
diversities of the EU have been exposed as being so irreconcilable that such a
currency is not feasible, the European dream becomes somewhat different.

Our Prime Minister needs to be alert to this. Europe continues to humiliate him.
He thought he could unpick the Treaty of Lisbon when he took office, but was
informed he couldn't - his bellicose rhetoric about doing so only made him look
foolish. He is still being told by our masters in Europe to give criminals in
prison the vote. Although he seems to have only a loose grasp of the immigration
statistics, he leads a country at the mercy of border laws set by a foreign
power. Our food prices are higher than they should be because of the pernicious
effect of the Common Agricultural Policy. If Mr Cameron cannot assert himself
about Europe, he will watch his support haemorrhage away to Ukip.

The collapse of the euro gives him an opportunity. The whole basis on which the
future of the EU was predicated would disappear if the currency system changed.
It would be the right moment for Mr Cameron to say that the strains exposed by
the failure of the euro - strains of nationalism, sovereignty, culture and
democracy - have to be addressed. And that means sitting down and discussing,
this time with an injection of realism, what the future of the EU really is.

have this Mr Cameron will always lack the guts to do what is really necessary,
and offer the British people a simple referendum on whether we stay in or get
out of this overpriced, anti-democratic cartel whose rigidities and waste make
it increasingly at odds with the rest of the world. If project euro came badly
unstuck, however, he could at least take the lead in demanding that discussions
for the future be conducted on a basis of what it is, rather than on what the
eurocrats would like things to be.

He could argue that just as the euro has been found wanting, so has the attempt
by the centre to dictate laws, regulations and homogeneity on all 27 member
states, and that it should stop. Even he must see that Europe cannot go on like
this, and that we should do nothing to help it.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: She wouldn't have stood for this

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP'S FARAGE PROVES EU MEMBERSHIP IS LINKED TO PRISONER VOTES

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 389 words


THE lying Left claims that Britain's subservience to the European Court of Human
Rights has nothing to do with our membership of the European Union. In their bid
to insulate Brussels from the backlash against the prisoner votes ruling, the
Euro-federalists point out that this court falls under the supervision of the
Council of Europe and not the EU.

But that is only half the story. This week UKIP leader Nigel Farage received
written confirmation from the European Commission that subservience to the ECHR
and the Convention on Human Rights it enforces is a condition of our EU
membership. Defying the court's repeated edicts to give the vote to prisoners
would therefore place us in contravention of EU law as well.

The Commission told Mr Farage: "Respect for fundamental rights as guaranteed by
the European Convention on Human Rights is an explicit obligation for the Union
under Article 6(3) of the Treaty on European Union.

"The Court of Justice of the European Commission has held that the Convention is
of special importance for determining the fundamental rights that must be
respected by the Member States as general principles of law when they act within
the scope of Union law."

It added: "The rights secured by the Convention are... guaranteed by the Charter
of Fundamental Rights of the European Union which are likewise addressed to
Member States when they implement Union law. In the negotiations for the
accession of new Union members, respect for the Convention and the case-law of
the European Court of Human Rights is treated as part of the Union acquis (the
accumulated body of EU law)."

As Mr Farage told me, there is now "not a shred of doubt" that our EU membership
is an obligation that prevents us resisting the barmy rulings of the ECHR on
matters such as prisoner voting rights. Something else to note in the
Commission's answers is its habitual use of the term "Member States". States are
what America has and are components of a single nation. They possess autonomy
rather than independence. We were told we would remain a sovereign nation when
we joined the "Common Market".

The market is now the "Union" and its bureaucracy, the Commission, views nations
as Member States, obliged to do as they are told and represented by stars on its
flag. Do you want any further part in this? Because I certainly don't.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP'S FARAGE PROVES EU MEMBERSHIP IS LINKED TO PRISONER VOTES

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 389  words


THE lying Left claims that Britain's subservience to the European Court of Human
Rights has nothing to do with our membership of the European Union. In their bid
to insulate Brussels from the backlash against the prisoner votes ruling, the
Euro-federalists point out that this court falls under the supervision of the
Council of Europe and not the EU.

But that is only half the story. This week UKIP leader Nigel Farage received
written confirmation from the European Commission that subservience to the ECHR
and the Convention on Human Rights it enforces is a condition of our EU
membership. Defying the court's repeated edicts to give the vote to prisoners
would therefore place us in contravention of EU law as well.

The Commission told Mr Farage: "Respect for fundamental rights as guaranteed by
the European Convention on Human Rights is an explicit obligation for the Union
under Article 6(3) of the Treaty on European Union.

"The Court of Justice of the European Commission has held that the Convention is
of special importance for determining the fundamental rights that must be
respected by the Member States as general principles of law when they act within
the scope of Union law."

It added: "The rights secured by the Convention are. . . guaranteed by the
Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union which are likewise addressed
to Member States when they implement Union law. In the negotiations for the
accession of new Union members, respect for the Convention and the case-law of
the European Court of Human Rights is treated as part of the Union acquis (the
accumulated body of EU law)."

As Mr Farage told me, there is now "not a shred of doubt" that our EU membership
is an obligation that prevents us resisting the barmy rulings of the ECHR on
matters such as prisoner voting rights. Something else to note in the
Commission's answers is its habitual use of the term "Member States". States are
what America has and are components of a single nation. They possess autonomy
rather than independence. We were told we would remain a sovereign nation when
we joined the "Common Market".

The market is now the "Union" and its bureaucracy, the Commission, views nations
as Member States, obliged to do as they are told and represented by stars on its
flag. Do you want any further part in this? Because I certainly don't.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Ukip attracts anti-immigrant vote as polite alternative to BNP

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 601 words


THE UK Independence Party is picking up wide support from voters who are hostile
to immigration but regard it as a "polite alternative" to the far-Right British
National Party, new research concludes. Ukip is at pains to stress it is not a
racist party, but fresh academic research suggests it will benefit from
Islamophobic and xenophobic sentiments within the electorate.

It argues that Ukip appeals to similar groups of voters as the BNP, but manages
to capture their support because many people are deterred from backing Nick
Griffin's party because of its "stigmatised" image. Almost half of Ukip's core
support is female, unlike the male-dominated BNP, suggesting it is attracting
women sensitive to "party reputations for racism and intolerance".

At last year's general election, Ukip stood on a platform of slashing migration
levels and deporting illegal immigrants, while the party has also called for
restrictions on the burka being worn in public.

One of the study's authors, Matthew Goodwin of Nottingham University, said
yesterday: "It is not an out-and-out far-right party. It's more subtle than
that. But underneath the gentlemanly Euroscepticism, there is no doubt they are
picking up voters who are concerned about immigration."

Dr Goodwin added: "On immigration and racism, Ukip voters fall between the BNP
and the Conservatives. We find that xenophobia and political dissatisfaction are
significantly correlated with Ukip support.

"Hostility to immigrants and disaffection with mainstream parties are associated
with significantly higher Ukip support. This is evidence that Ukip is mobilising
voters anxious over immigration and rising diversity, and that some voters
consider Ukip a 'polite alternative' to the BNP."

Senior Tories are worried that Ukip, which is fielding a record 1,250 candidates
in next month's local elections, could exploit disenchantment among traditional
Tory supporters over the coalition with the Liberal Democrats.

David Cameron's speech this week, in which he warned high immigration levels had
harmed some communities, was seen by Tory MPs as an attempt to head off a "Ukip
effect" in the polls on 5 May. Recent polls have suggested the party is picking
up support of up to 5 per cent.

The research, carried out by academics from the Universities of Nottingham and
Manchester, was based on interviews with Ukip voters following its stunning
success in the 2009 European elections, when it came second in the popular vote.

It discovered that the party's supporters were not just intensely Eurosceptic,
but also had strong feelings about issues closer to home.

Ukip succeeds at European elections in attracting Tory sympathisers keen to
register a protest vote about Brussels, the survey found. But it wins over a
different group of electors in parliamentary by-elections, where its populist
messages on immigration resonate with disaffected working-class voters.

The party is expected to pursue the same tactics in this year's local elections.

A Ukip spokesman dismissed the survey's findings as "out of date" and said other
academic research had reached different conclusions. He acknowledged there was
"some cross-over in votes" with the BNP, but that the party was also picking up
support from across the political spectrum, including the backing of
disillusioned former Liberal Democrat sympathisers. He said: "Ukip and the BNP
aren't the same thing. We are free-trading globalists and they are nationalists
and socialists. People from the left-of-centre want to demonise us."

From Saint Nick to Calamity Clegg: what a difference a year makes

Inside Westminster, page 20

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 16, 2011 Saturday 10:37 AM GMT

Something to watch for as the BBC's election coverage gets under way

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 260 words


Listen out for a throwaway phrase from BBC correspondents: "minority parties
such as UKIP and the BNP". On past form, I reckon we'll be hearing it quite
often. What we won't be hearing very much is "minority parties such as the
Greens and the BNP". Which is odd, really, because, in psephological terms, the
Greens and the BNP are fairly close, registering at around four per cent each in
most opinion polls and fighting comparable numbers of seats. UKIP, by contrast,
is scoring seven or eight per cent in the polls, only a couple of points behind
the Lib Dems.

At the 2009 European election, the Greens won 8.6 per cent of the vote, the BNP
6.2 per cent. Each party took two seats. UKIP won 16.5 per cent, beating both
Labour and the Lib Dems and coming second. At the most recent parliamentary
by-election, UKIP again came second, with 12.2 per cent. The BNP came fourth and
the Greens didn't put up a candidate. Why, then, do television correspondents
bracket the BNP, verbally, with UKIP rather than the Greens?

Which brings me to another phrase I don't expect to hear on our state
broadcaster: "small-to-medium parties such as the Lib Dems and UKIP".

I hold no brief for UKIP, the BNP, the Lib Dems or the Greens. But I do care
about the impartiality of the Beeb. Is its categorisation really based on its
assessment of the relative party strengths? Or is it prompted, perhaps
subliminally, by the sense that the Greens and the Lib Dems are decent sorts
whodeserve a fair crack of the whip, whereas "minority parties like UKIP and the
BNP" are beyond the pale?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

One in 8 people living in UK born abroad;
Tories seek big fall in net immigration

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 1145 words


ALMOST one in eight people living in Britain was born abroad, official figures
show, in the wake of the largest wave of immigration in history. The proportion
of the population born overseas almost doubled in two decades to more than 11
per cent, according to data seen by The Daily Telegraph. It meant that just
under seven million people living in Britain were immigrants - enough to fill a
city the size of London.

; The rise was largely down to Labour's "open door" immigration policy, under
which three million foreigners were added to the population during the party's
13 years in power.

; The figures, which were compiled by the Office for National Statistics, were
disclosed amid a renewed debate on immigration.

; David Cameron warned yesterday that uncontrolled immigration had undermined
some British communities and led to "discomfort and disjointedness" in
neighbourhoods.

; 'I've got Lib Dems, I should try He said he wanted to reduce it from its
current level of more than 200,000 a year to the "tens of thousands" before the
next election.

His comments led to a split in the Coalition, with Vince Cable, the Liberal
Democrat Business Secretary, saying they were "very unwise" and risked inflaming
racial tensions.

; National statisticians estimated that, on current patterns, the population
would pass the 70million mark in less than two decades and twothirds of that
rise would be driven by immigration.

; The population stood at 61.14million as of last June, the most recent
estimate. Of that, 6.97million were people who were born overseas - 11.4 per
cent, the highest proportion on record. About a third of those had been given
British citizenship since arriving.

; The proportion had been rising steadily year on year and was almost double the
6.7 per cent recorded in 1991 when the foreign-born population stood at
3.85million.

Some 762,000 of those now in Britain came from those eastern European nations
admitted to the European Union in 2004, which gave them access to the jobs
market. The majority, 4.7million, were people born outside Europe.

; Britain now had a higher proportion of foreign-born residents than European
neighbours such as France and Italy.

; One in four babies was now born to a foreign mother, another record. In 1998,
less than 14 per cent of babies were to a mother who had been born overseas.

; Nicholas Soames, the Tory co-chairman of the Cross-Party Group on Balanced
Migration, said Labour's "spineless and futile" attempts to control immigration
had left a "grave situation".

; against think they integrate' "This is the whole point of the problem and why
it has got to be dealt with," he said. "I m m i g r a t i o n under the last
government became completely out of control and it led, down the years, to what
the Prime Minister has referred to as an imbalance."

; Edwards p19 In 2009, Andrew Neather, a former adviser to Tony Blair, claimed
that the sharp increase in migrants over the previous 10 years was partly due to
a politically motivated attempt to boost multi-culturalism.

; p21 He said Labour's relaxation of controls in 2000-01 was a deliberate plan
to "open up the UK to mass migration" but ministers were reluctant to discuss
such a move publicly for fear it would alienate its "core working-class vote".

; Cabinet ministers at the time denied any suggestions of "secret plots".

; The Labour government claimed that immigrants brought economic benefits and
had the net effect of boosting gross domestic product by £6billion a year.

; However, in 2008, an inquiry by the Lords' economic affairs committee, which
included two former chancellors and a Labour economist, said such a measure was
meaningless because it gave no indication of the benefit to each member of the
population.

; Evidence by Home Office officials to the inquiry estimated that the annual
benefit of migration to the native population, which was known as gross domestic
product per capita, was £30 a year or 58p a week in 2006.

; David Coleman, an Oxford University academic, estimated in 2007 that
immigrants cost the taxpayer £8.8billion a year, when social costs such as
pressure on public services, running the asylum system and teaching English were
taken into account.

; Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said free movement within the EU would hamper
any Coalition attempts to cut immigration. "It is clear that we cannot have our
own immigration policy while we remain in the European Union," he said.

; Damian Green, the immigration minister, said: "As the Prime Minister made
clear today, the last 10 years have seen record levels of immigration, and the
British public quite rightly want to see these levels drastically reduced.

; "That is why the Government is committed to reforming the immigration system,
bringing net migration back down to the tens of thousands and clamping down on
any abuses. We have introduced a new limit on economic migrants from outside the
EU, major changes to the student route, and will soon unveil our proposals to
reform both the family and settlement routes to the UK."

; Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of Migration Watch UK, said: "These numbers
illustrate the huge impact on all aspects of our society as a result of the mass
immigration that took place under Labour. The churn is enormous, with real and
serious consequences for the cohesion of our society."

; Speaking out Reaction to immigration row

; Simon Darby, BMP spokesman

"It's almost like a ceremonial adoption of our policy about two weeks before any
major vote. In other words, he [David Cameron] knows what ordinary British
people are thinking. It's a farce, it's a con, and if we had copyright on our
manifesto we'd have our lawyers round his office within hours."

; Ed Miliband, Labour leader

"It is hard to have a government policy that is clear and coherent if your
Business Secretary, who is in charge of your student visa policy... is going out
of his way to attack the Prime Minister. The next time he makes a speech, why
don't they get a grip, have a proper discussion, get an agreed policy."

; Sir Andrew Green, chairman of Migration Watch UK

"This is welcome confirmation of the PM's commitment to getting immigration down
to sensible levels."

; Yvette Cooper, shadow home secretary

"The Tory-led Government's immigration policy is in chaos. And now the Business
Secretary has said he doesn't even agree with the policy in the first place.
David Cameron said 'no ifs, no buts' he would deliver on his target to cut net
migration to the tens of thousands, yet Vince Cable said that it isn't Coalition
policy. The Government needs to tell us urgently what their policy actually is."

; Damian Green, Conservative immigration minister

"The immigration limit on work visas was actually in the Coalition agreement.
This is an item that people really care about and if mainstream politicians
don't talk about it, we leave the field open to the extremists"

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

One in 8 people living in UK born abroad;
Tories seek big fall in net immigration

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 1120 words


ALMOST one in eight people living in Britain was born abroad, official figures
show, in the wake of the largest wave of immigration in history.

The proportion of the population born overseas almost doubled in two decades to
more than 11 per cent, according to data seen by The Daily Telegraph. It meant
that just under seven million people living in Britain were immigrants - enough
to fill a city the size of London.

The rise was largely down to Labour's "open door" immigration policy, under
which three million foreigners were added to the population during the party's
13 years in power.

The figures, which were compiled by the Office for National Statistics, were
disclosed amid a renewed debate on immigration.

David Cameron warned yesterday that uncontrolled immigration had undermined some
British communities and led to "discomfort and dis-jointedness" in
neighbourhoods.

He said he wanted to reduce it from its current level of more than 200,000 a
year to the "tens of thousands" before the next election.

His comments led to a split in the Coalition, with Vince Cable, the Liberal
Democrat Business Secretary, saying they were "very unwise" and risked inflaming
racial tensions.

National statisticians estimated that, on current patterns, the population would
pass the 70million mark in less than two decades and twothirds of that rise
would be driven by immigration.

The population stood at 61.14million as of last June, the most recent estimate.
Of that, 6.97million were people who were born overseas - 11.4 per cent, the
highest proportion on record. About a third of those had been given British
citizenship since arriving.

The proportion had been rising steadily year on year and was almost double the
6.7 per cent recorded in 1991 when the foreign-born population stood at
3.85million. Some 762,000 of those now in Britain came from those eastern
European nations admitted to the European Union in 2004, which gave them access
to the jobs market. The majority, 4.7million, were people born outside Europe.

Britain now had a higher proportion of foreign-born residents than European
neighbours such as France and Italy.

One in four babies was now born to a foreign mother, another record. In 1998,
less than 14 per cent of babies were to a mother who had been born overseas.

Nicholas Soames, the Tory co-chairman of the Cross-Party Group on Balanced
Migration, said Labour's "spineless and futile" attempts to control immigration
had left a "grave situation".

"This is the whole point of the problem and why it has got to be dealt with," he
said. "Immigration under the last government became completely out of control
and it led, down the years, to what the Prime Minister has referred to as an
imbalance."

In 2009, Andrew Neather, a former adviser to Tony Blair, claimed that the sharp
increase in migrants over the previous 10 years was partly due to a politically
motivated attempt to boost multi-culturalism.

He said Labour's relaxation of controls in 2000-01 was a deliberate plan to
"open up the UK to mass migration" but ministers were reluctant to discuss such
a move publicly for fear it would alienate its "core working-class vote".

Cabinet ministers at the time denied any suggestions of "secret plots".

The Labour government claimed that immigrants brought economic benefits and had
the net effect of boosting gross domestic product by £6billion a year.

However, in 2008, an inquiry by the Lords' economic affairs committee, which
included two former chancellors and a Labour economist, said such a measure was
meaningless because it gave no indication of the benefit to each member of the
population.

Evidence by Home Office officials to the inquiry estimated that the annual
benefit of migration to the native population, which was known as gross domestic
product per capita, was £30 a year or 58p a week in 2006.

David Coleman, an Oxford University academic, estimated in 2007 that immigrants
cost the taxpayer £8.8billion a year, when social costs such as pressure on
public services, running the asylum system and teaching English were accounted
for.

Nigel Farage the Ukip leader, said free movement within the EU would hamper any
Coalition attempts to cut immigration. "It is clear that we cannot have our own
immigration policy while we remain in the European Union," he said.

Damian Green, the immigration minister, said: "As the Prime Minister made clear
today, the last 10 years have seen record levels of immigration, and the British
public quite rightly want to see these levels drastically reduced.

"That is why the Government is committed to reforming the immigration system,
bringing net migration back down to the tens of thousands and clamping down on
any abuses. We have introduced a new limit on economic migrants from outside the
EU, major changes to the student route, and will soon unveil our proposals to
reform both the family and settlement routes to the UK."

Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of Migration Watch UK, said: "These numbers
illustrate the huge impact on all aspects of our society as a result of the mass
immigration that took place under Labour. The churn is enormous, with real and
serious consequences for the cohesion of our society."

Speaking out Reaction to immigration row

Simon Darby, BMP spokesma

"It's almost like a ceremonial adoption of our policy about two weeks before any
major vote. In other words, he [David Cameron] knows what ordinary British
people are thinking. It's a farce, it's a con, and if we had copyright on our
manifesto we'd have our lawyers round his office within hours."

Ed Miliband, Labour leader

"It is hard to have a government policy that is clear and coherent if your
Business Secretary, who is in charge of your student visa policy ... is going
out of his way to attack the Prime Minister. The next time he makes a speech,
why don't they get a grip, have a proper discussion, get an agreed policy."Sir
Andrew Green, chairman of Migration Watch UK"?This is welcome confirmation of
the PM's commitment to getting immigration down to sensible levels."

Yvette Cooper, shadow home secretary

"The Tory-led Government's immigration policy is in chaos. And now the Business
Secretary has said he doesn't even agree with the policy in the first place.
David Cameron said 'no ifs, no buts' he would deliver on his target to cut net
migration to the tens of thousands, yet Vince Cable said that it isn't Coalition
policy. The Government needs to tell us urgently what their policy actually is."

Damian Green, Conservative immigration minister

"The immigration limit on work visas was actually in the Coalition agreement.
This is an item that people really care about and if mainstream politicians
don't talk about it, we leave the field open to the extremists."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2011



CORRECTION: Immigration costs We reported (April 15) that David Coleman, an
Oxford academic, had "estimated in 2007 that immigrants cost the taxpayer £8.8bn
a year". We would like to make clear that this figure was a sum of estimates
provided by Professor Coleman in different categories (which may have included
some overlap) and, in fact, should have been £7.8bn. Daily Telegraph 13 May 2011


PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Pilot made death threats against UKIP leader;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


The pilot of a plane which crashed and injured Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader,
during an election day stunt was yesterday convicted of making threats to kill
the politician.

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was found guilty by a jury at
Oxford Crown Court of five counts of making death threats against Mr Farage and
Martin James, a Civil Aviation Authority crash investigator.

The crash on May 6 last year, in which the light aircraft nose-dived to the
ground while towing a campaign banner, left Adams and Mr Farage in hospital.

Mr Justice Saunders adjourned sentencing and said Adams was "clearly extremely
disturbed" at the time the offences happened.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Outrage as EC calls for £7bn budget rise

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1626 words


Wales: Rather cloudy with a few mainly light showers. Turning brighter from the
west later. High 14C (57F).

BRUSSELS bureaucrats will deliver a fresh insult to hardpressed British
taxpayers next week by demanding an inflation-busting six per cent rise in the
European Union's annual budget.

UK Outlook tomorrow: six-day forEcasT iN min max min max Despite austerity cuts
across Europe, the European Commission is expected to request an extra £7billion
to take its total budget for 2012 to a colossal £132billion.

London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich Plymouth
SaT Sun 7 17 7 18 6 6 14 15 5 4 16 17 7 9 17 17 5 7 12 14 5 6 15 17 5 5 15 16 5
6 15 15 7 8 14 15 The increase will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of
Eurocrats in Brussels and Strasbourg. And it comes on top of around £10billion
in emergency loans expected to be given by the UK to debtladen Ireland and
Portugal. The audacious demand comes despite the refusal of official auditors to
endorse the fraud-ridden EU budget.

24 hours SUN RAIN TEMP to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) Britain Aberdeen 2.6 0.00
7 14 Aberporth 1.1 0.00 8 11 Alnwick 3.1 0.00 6 14 Belfast 0.0 0.01 8 13
Birmingham 0.0 0.00 7 14 B'mouth 0.0 0.01 8 12 Bristol 0.0 0.01 8 13 Cardiff 5.0
0.00 8 14 It triggered fresh anger last night at the Brussels Glasgow Hull
Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London Manchester Oxford gravy train and renewed calls for
the UK to quit the EU.

CRUSADE Amsterdam Fair 14C/57F Brussels Fair 15C/59F Dublin Fair 15C/59F
Frankfurt Fair 15C/59F Geneva Sunny 15C/59F Lisbon Sunny 29C/84F Madrid Sunny
23C/73F Paris Fair 17C/63F Rome Drizzle 16C/61F GET US OUT Matthew Sinclair,
director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Families here in Britain are
suffering and just about every area of spending is facing cuts except the money
we send to Brussels while the Eurocrats demand more and more of our cash.

OF THE EU CRUSADE "Anything but a sharp cut in our contributions would be an
insult to taxpayers after the incredible rise over the last few years.

around the CF Amsterdam. Cloudy 11 52 Athens.....Sunny 17 63 Barcelona... Fair
17 63 Berlin......Rain 7 45 Budapest... Cloudy 9 48 Cairo.......Sunny 24 75
CapeTown..Sunny 25 77 Casablanca. Fair 22 72 Corfu......Sunny 15 59 Dublin......
Cloudy 12 54 Dubrovnik...Fair 13 55 GET US OUT OF THE EU Hong Kong. Istanbul..
.. Jersey.. ... Larnaca... Las Palmas Los Angeles. Luxor. .. .. Malaga. ...
Mallorca... Malta. .. .. Melbourne .

"If the Government once again goes along with a rise, and doesn't simply refuse
to pay, then ministers will be showing they put a warm reception at Brussels
cocktail Faro.......Sunny 24 75 Florence....Sunny 15 59 Gibraltar. ... Sunny 21
70 Miami. .. .. Moscow... Nairobi ...

MOON rises: 5.01pm, sets: 4.37am SUN rises Madrid: 6.36am, sets: 7.52pm
Manchester rises: 6.10am, sets: 8.08pm OUT ON THE parties above the needs of the
people they were elected to represent."

Full Moon 18 April 0.2 0.01 8 12 1.3 0.00 4 14 1.3 0.00 6 12 0.2 0.00 6 14 0.5
0.00 6 14 0.0 0.00 7 13 0.0 0.01 7 12 0.0 0.03 7 13 0.0 0.01 8 14 2.2 0.00 8 16
Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The greed of
the European Union knows no bounds. They just don't get it.

HIGH TIDE London B'ge (-), (12.15pm) Liverpool (9.27am), (10.01pm) Greenock
(10.40am), (11.41pm) Dover (9.29am), (9.54pm) DON'T MISS Lighting-up times
Glasgow 8.21pm-6.11am London 7.56pm-6.04am Manchester 8.08pm-6.08am Newcastle
8.08pm-6.02am Belfast 8.24pm-6.19am Birmingham 8.04pm-6.08am Bristol
8.05pm-6.13am OUT ON THE forecast Tomorrow "There is no more money, not in
Britain and certainly not in Portugal or Greece. Have we got to the point where
we are now being asked to bail out the European Commission?" A six per cent
increase would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly £10billion a
year, equivalent to more than £400 for every household in the country.

Amsterdam Fair 15C/59F Brussels Fair 17C/63F Dublin Cloudy 13C/55F Frankfurt
Fair 17C/63F Geneva Sunny 16C/61F Lisbon Sunny 26C/79F Madrid Sunny 23C/73F
Paris Fair 17C/63F Rome Sunny 19C/66F If you're having difficulty getting hold
of your Daily Express, then we want to know. Get in touch on 020 8612 7644 or
email us at sellouts@express.co.uk For all other enquiries please call our
switchboard on 020 8612 7000 It will put intense pressure on David Cameron to
stand world yesterday to 5pm (hrs) (ins) (min) (max) know. Get in touch on 020
8612 7644 or email us at sellouts@express.co.uk For all other enquiries please
call our switchboard on 020 8612 7000 up to Brussels. Last year the European
Commission made a similar demand, asking for a 5.9 per cent budget increase.

Aberdeen 2.6 0.00 714 Aberporth 1.1 0.00 8 11 Alnwick 3.1 0.00 6 14 Belfast 0.0
0.01 8 13 Birmingham 0.0 0.00 714 B'mouth 0.0 0.01 8 12 Bristol 0.0 0.01 8 13
Cardiff 5.0 0.00 8 14 Durham ** 0.00 5 15 Edinburgh 0.4 0.00 9 14 Mr Cameron
wanted a freeze in the budget to reflect the harsh economic climate across
Europe, but national leaders eventually settled for a 2.9 per cent rise. Glasgow
Hull Ipswich Leeds Lincoln London Manchester Oxford S'hampton St Andrews Britain
Extremes: (24 hours to 2pm yesterday) Warmest: Aboyne 15C (59F). Coldest:
Fylingdales 2C (36F) Wettest: Plymouth 0.26in. Sunniest: St. Athan 4.0hr.

Any increase in cash for Brussels is bound to ignite fury across Britain given
the squeeze in living standards, widespread pay freezes and cuts in public
services.

Today Europe Amsterdam Fair 14C/Brussels Fair 15C/Dublin Fair 15C/Frankfurt Fair
15C/Geneva Sunny 15C/Lisbon Sunny 29C/Madrid Sunny 23C/Paris Fair 17C/Rome
Drizzle 16C/ Tory Euro-MP Daniel Hannan said: "All the Government cuts put
together will save about £6.2billion but our net contribution to the EU rose by
74 per cent last year to £9.2billion. Why aren't protesters marching on the
around the streets about that?' Sources in Brussels suggested the six per cent
figure was just a gambit to open negotiations.

Scotland: Fairly cloudy with the odd shower, mainly in the south. A few brighter
spells though. High 15C (59F). mainly the Ireland: After a bright start with
sunny spells, rain will gradually edge east, mainly light. High 16C (61F).

Rather cloudy with scattered showers Janusz Lewandowski, EU budget commissioner,
is due to submit the demand to the European Parliament in Brussels next
Wednesday. He has already insisted the EU will need considerably more than last
year's 2.9 per cent.

iN BriTaiN Temperatures in Centigrade max min max min max min max Mon Tue Wed
Thu 88 7 818 18 18 17 656 7 15 15 11 13 746 7 17 17 17 16 978 9 17 17 16 16 868
714 15 12 13 657 8 17 17 15 15 646 6 16 16 14 14 766 7 15 16 14 14 867 7 15 15
14 13 Stephen Booth, of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "The Commission, along
with MEPs, will push for a huge budget increase for 2012, as they did last year.
It will then be up to the UK to find allies across Europe to limit or freeze the
budget.

"The Brussels institutions seem incapable of understanding that the tough
economic climate means that national governments have less money to send to
Brussels each year."

Britain yesterday Moon, sun and tides MOON rises: 3.09pm, sets: 2.47am SUN rises
Athens: 4.53am, sets: Manchester rises: 6.10am, sets: Plunging 0.2 0.01 8 12 1.3
0.00 4 14 1.3 0.00 6 12 0.2 0.00 6 14 0.5 0.00 6 14 0.0 0.00 7 13 0.0 0.01 7 12
0.0 0.03 7 13 0.0 0.01 8 14 Andrews 2.2 0.00 8 16 Full Moon 18 April HIGH TIDE
London B'ge (-), (12.15pm) Liverpool (9.27am), (10.01pm) Greenock (10.40am),
(Dover (9.29am), (9.54pm) Brussels officials argue that the expansion of the EU
into eastern Europe is creating huge financial pressures because of the support
needed by struggling former Communist economies.

Lighting-up times Glasgow 8.21pm-London 7.56pm-Manchester 8.08pm-Newcastle
8.08pm-Belfast 8.24pm-6.19am Birmingham 8.04pm-6.08am Bristol 8.05pm-6.13am They
admit the expected entry of Croatia into the EU next year will substantially
increase costs.

Europe forecast Tomorrow 57F 59F 59F 59F 59F 84F 73F 63F 61F Amsterdam Fair
15C/Brussels Fair 17C/Dublin Cloudy 13C/Frankfurt Fair 17C/Geneva Sunny
16C/Lisbon Sunny 26C/Madrid Sunny 23C/Paris Fair 17C/Rome Sunny 19C/ Sidonia
Jedrzejewska, a Polish Euro-MP involved in last year's budget wrangle, said:
"The negotiations will be even more difficult than last year because this is the
second-to-last year of the current financial programme, which means many of the
big bills will be coming in."

the world yesterday C CF Kong.. Fair 28 82. ... Shwrs 8 46 Mr Cameron is already
NewYork...Mist Nice.......Sunny understood to be seeking allies in his battle to
ensure any increase is kept to a minimum.

But many socialist Euro-MPs insist the EU's budget must not be cut for fear of
plunging the continent back into recession.

.. ... Cloudy 12 54. ... Sunny 20 68 Palmas. Sunny 21 70 Angeles. Fair 16 61. ..
... Sunny 27 81. .. .. Sunny 24 75. ... Sunny 20 68. .. ... Cloudy 17 63
Melbourne. . Cloudy 17 63. .. ... Cloudy 28 82. ... Rain 4 39. .. .. Cloudy 24
75 OPINION: PAGE 12 Nicosia.....Fair Perth.......Sunny Prague.....Rain
Singapore... Fair Stockholm. . Sunny Sydney.....Sunny TelAviv.....Sunny
Tenerife. ... Sunny Toronto.....Rain Tunis.......Sunny Venice.....Sunny
Vienna.....Rain

'Our net west. Light winds. High 16C (61F). Wales: Rather cloudy with a few
light showers. Turning brighter from west later. High 14C (57F). contribution to
the EU UK Outlook tomorrow: rose by 74% six-day forEcasT last year. Why min max
aren't protesters SaT Sun 7 17 6 14 5 16 7 17 5 12 5 15 5 15 5 15 714 marching
on London Belfast Birmingham Cardiff Glasgow Manchester newcastle norwich
Plymouth you're having difficulty getting hold your Daily Express, then we want
to the streets about that?' - EURO-MP DANIEL HANNAN

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Time to say no to Brussels

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 144 words


IRELAND is broke, Greece is skint and Portugal is on its uppers. Across Europe
governments are having to cut spending even at the risk of causing civil
disorder. But the European Union gravy train keeps rolling along.

It is staggering that Eurocrats are about to table a demand for a budget
increase of almost six per cent.

So insulated from economic reality and unaccountable to the citizens of Europe
is the Brussels elite that it always feels able to ask for more. UKIP leader
Nigel Farage is right to say that the greed of the EU knows no bounds.

Britain would be expected to contribute several hundred million pounds to a rise
of this order of magnitude.

But far from being drawn into negotiations about how much extra money the EU
should get the time has come to put it on a financial diet. The Government must
tell the greedy burghers of Brussels to get stuffed.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man jailed for council tax evasion may win £50k from Euro court

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 428 words


A MAN wrongly jailed for council tax evasion could pocket tens of thousands of
pounds in compensation after taking his case to the European Court of Human
Rights.

Stephen Wandless was jailed for 90 days three years ago for not paying more than
£4,000 in council tax dating back to 1995.

His conviction was quashed in 2009 by a High Court judge who said he had been
jailed "unlawfully" because magistrates "failed to properly investigate the
applicant's means". He also said the exact amount owed had not been investigated
properly and magistrates did not look at "alternatives to imprisonment". His
lawyers took his case to Europe as under UK law no action can be taken against a
magistrate who acts in the course of his duty.

Prompted It could mean the Government and the council that took the action
having to pay up to £50,000 compensation under human rights laws.

The case has prompted anger from UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage who
said it should not be decided by "ranks of foreign judges". He said: "This is
something that should be dealt with by Westminster.

"The fault here lies solely at the door of the British justice system. Our
Government needs to change the law, and it should not require the intervention
of Europe. It highlights how our Government has under-trained and undermined the
justices of the peace who are fundamental to our legal system."

In 1992 Mr Wandless, 44, was injured at work. After becoming depressed, he
claimed industrial injuries disablement benefit.

He applied for housing and council tax benefit thinking it covered liability for
council tax. But in 2008 he received a summons for non-payment of £4,516.2
between 1995 and 2006.

Calderdale Council in West Yorkshire claimed he had deliberately refused to pay.
He offered £10 a month towards arrears but was given the maximum 90 days in
jail.

He spent 34 days in Leeds Prison before being released in January 2009. His
lawyers claim that in jailing him magistrates breached his human rights and
argue he should be entitled to compensation.

Mr Wandless said he had no legal representation at his hearing after being told
by a duty solicitor that he was a criminal lawyer and could not help him. The
European Court of Human Rights found for Mr Wandless. It is now up to the
Government to respond before compensation is set.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is very clear
that this case has been managed extremely poorly, to the extent of jailing
someone unlawfully. It would be extremely disappointing if that led to taxpayers
picking up a hefty bill."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ukip's Nigel Farage said the case should not be decided by 'ranks of
foreign judges'
Matthew Sinclair of the TaxPayers' Alliance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday

Outrage as EC calls for £7bn budget rise

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats will deliver a fresh insult to hardpressed British
taxpayers next week by demanding an inflation-busting six per cent rise in the
European Union's annual budget.

Despite austerity cuts across Europe, the European Commission is expected to
request an extra £7billion to take its total budget for 2012 to a colossal
£132billion.

The increase will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels
and Strasbourg.

And it comes on top of around £10billion in emergency loans expected to be given
by the UK to debtladen Ireland and Portugal.

The audacious demand comes despite the refusal of official auditors to endorse
the fraud-ridden EU budget.

It triggered fresh anger last night at the Brussels

gravy train and renewed calls for the UK to quit the EU.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Families here in
Britain are suffering and just about every area of spending is facing cuts
except the money we send to Brussels.

"Anything but a sharp cut in our contributions would be an insult to taxpayers.

"If the Government doesn't simply refuse to pay, ministers will be showing they
put a warm reception at Brussels cocktail parties above the needs of the people
they were elected to represent."

EU Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The greed
of the EU knows no bounds.

They just don't get it. There is no more money, not in Britain and certainly not
in Portugal or Greece."

A six per cent increase would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly
£10billion a year, equivalent to more than £400 for every household in the
country.

It will put intense pressure on Prime Minister David Cameron to stand up to
Brussels. Last year the European Commission made a similar demand, asking for a
5.9 per cent increase.

Mr Cameron wanted a freeze in the budget but national leaders eventually settled
for a 2.9 per cent rise.

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said: "Our net contribution to the EU rose by 74 per cent
last year to £9.2billion. Why aren't protesters marching on the streets about
that?"

Sources in Brussels suggested the six per cent figure was just a gambit to open
negotiations.

Janusz Lewandowski, EU budget commissioner, is due to submit the demand to the
European Parliament in Brussels next Wednesday. He has already insisted the EU
will need considerably more than last year's 2.9 per cent.

Stephen Booth, of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "The Commission, along with
MEPs, will push for a huge budget increase for 2012, as they did last year. It
will then be up to the UK to find allies across Europe to limit or freeze the
budget.

The Brussels institutions seem incapable of understanding that the tough
economic climate means that national governments have less money to send to
Brussels each year."

Brussels officials argue that the expansion of the EU into eastern Europe is
creating huge financial pressures because of the support needed by struggling
former Communist economies.

Plunging

They admit the expected entry of Croatia into the EU next year will
substantially increase costs.

Sidonia Jedrzejewska, a Polish MEP involved in last year's budget wrangle, said:
"The negotiations will be even more difficult this year."

Mr Cameron is said to be seeking allies in his battle to ensure any increase is
kept to a minimum. But many socialist Euro-MPs insist the EU's budget must not
be cut for fear of plunging the continent back into recession.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Time to say no to Brussels;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 144  words


IRELAND is broke, Greece is skint and Portugal is on its uppers. Across Europe
governments are having to cut spending even at the risk of causing civil
disorder. But the European Union gravy train keeps rolling along.

It is staggering that Eurocrats are about to table a demand for a budget
increase of almost six per cent.

So insulated from economic reality and unaccountable to the citizens of Europe
is the Brussels elite that it always feels able to ask for more. UKIP leader
Nigel Farage is right to say that the greed of the EU knows no bounds.

Britain would be expected to contribute several hundred million pounds to a rise
of this order of magnitude.

But far from being drawn into negotiations about how much extra money the EU
should get the time has come to put it on a financial diet. The Government must
tell the greedy burghers of Brussels to get stuffed.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Man jailed for council tax evasion may win GBP 50k from Euro court

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 428  words


A MAN wrongly jailed for council tax evasion could pocket tens of thousands of
pounds in compensation after taking his case to the European Court of Human
Rights.

Stephen Wandless was jailed for 90 days three years ago for not paying more than
GBP 4,000 in council tax dating back to 1995.

His conviction was quashed in 2009 by a High Court judge who said he had been
jailed "unlawfully" because magistrates "failed to properly investigate the
applicant's means".

He also said the exact amount owed had not been investigated properly and
magistrates did not look at "alternatives to imprisonment".

His lawyers took his case to Europe as under UK law no action can be taken
against a magistrate who acts in the course of his duty.

It could mean the Government and the council that took the action having to pay
up to GBP 50,000 compensation under human rights laws.

The case has prompted anger from UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage who
said it should not be decided by "ranks of foreign judges".

He said: "This is something that should be dealt with by Westminster.

"The fault here lies solely at the door of the British justice system. Our
Government needs to change the law, and it should not require the intervention
of Europe. It highlights how our Government has under-trained and undermined the
justices of the peace who are fundamental to our legal system."

In 1992 Mr Wandless, 44, was injured at work. After becoming depressed, he
claimed industrial injuries disablement benefit.

He applied for housing and council tax benefit thinking it covered liability for
council tax. But in 2008 he received a summons for non-payment of GBP 4,516.2
between 1995 and 2006.

Calderdale Council in West Yorkshire claimed he had deliberately refused to pay.
He offered GBP 10 a month towards arrears but was given the maximum 90 days in
jail.

He spent 34 days in Leeds Prison before being released in January 2009. His
lawyers claim that in jailing him magistrates breached his human rights and
argue he should be entitled to compensation.

Mr Wandless said he had no legal representation at his hearing after being told
by a duty solicitor that he was a criminal lawyer and could not help him. The
European Court of Human Rights found for Mr Wandless. It is now up to the
Government to respond before compensation is set.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is very clear
that this case has been managed extremely poorly, to the extent of jailing
someone unlawfully. It would be extremely disappointing if that led to taxpayers
picking up a hefty bill."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ukip's Nigel Farage said the case should not be decided by 'ranks of
foreign judges'
Matthew Sinclair of the TaxPayers' Alliance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Outrage as EC calls for GBP 7bn budget rise

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 572  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats will deliver a fresh insult to hard pressed British
taxpayers next week by demanding an inflation-busting six per cent rise in the
European Union's annual budget.

Despite austerity cuts across Europe, the European Commission is expected to
request an extra GBP 7billion to take its total budget for 2012 to a colossal
GBP 132billion.

The increase will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels
and Strasbourg.

And it comes on top of around GBP 10billion in emergency loans expected to be
given by the UK to debt laden Ireland and Portugal.

The audacious demand comes despite the refusal of official auditors to endorse
the fraud-ridden EU budget.

It triggered fresh anger last night at the Brussels gravy train and renewed
calls for the UK to quit the EU.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Families here in
Britain are suffering and just about every area of spending is facing cuts
except the money we send to Brussels.

"Anything but a sharp cut in our contributions would be an insult to taxpayers.

"If the Government doesn't simply refuse to pay, ministers will be showing they
put a warm reception at Brussels cocktail parties above the needs of the people
they were elected to represent."

Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The greed of
the EU knows no bounds.

They just don't get it. There is no more money, not in Britain and certainly not
in Portugal or Greece."

A six per cent increase would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly
GBP 10billion a year, equivalent to more than GBP 400 for every household in the
country.

It will put intense pressure on Prime Minister David Cameron to stand up to
Brussels. Last year the European Commission made a similar demand, asking for a
5.9 per cent increase.

Mr Cameron wanted a freeze in the budget but national leaders eventually settled
for a 2.9 per cent rise.

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said: "Our net contribution to the EU rose by 74 per cent
last year to GBP 9.2billion. Why aren't protesters marching on the streets about
that?"

Sources in Brussels suggested the six per cent figure was just a gambit to open
negotiations.

Janusz Lewandowski, EU budget commissioner, is due to submit the demand to the
European Parliament in Brussels next Wednesday. He has already insisted the EU
will need considerably more than last year's 2.9 per cent.

Stephen Booth, of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "The Commission, along with
MEPs, will push for a huge budget increase for 2012, as they did last year.

It will then be up to the UK to find allies across Europe to limit or freeze the
budget.

The Brussels institutions seem incapable of understanding that the tough
economic climate means that national governments have less money to send to
Brussels each year."

Brussels officials argue that the expansion of the EU into eastern Europe is
creating huge financial pressures because of the support needed by struggling
former Communist economies.

They admit the expected entry of Croatia into the EU next year will
substantially increase costs.

Sidonia Jedrzejewska, a Polish MEP involved in last year's budget wrangle, said:

"The negotiations will be even more difficult this year."

Mr Cameron is said to be seeking allies in his battle to ensure any increase is
kept to a minimum. But many socialist Euro-MPs insist the EU's budget must not
be cut for fear of plunging the continent back into recession.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Outrage as EC calls for GBP 7bn budget rise

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 687  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats will deliver a fresh insult to hard-pressed British
taxpayers next week by demanding an inflation-busting six per cent rise in the
European Union's annual budget.

Despite austerity cuts across Europe, the European Commission is expected to
request an extra GBP 7billion to take its total budget for 2012 to a colossal
GBP 132billion.

The increase will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels
and Strasbourg.

And it comes on top of around GBP 10billion in emergency loans expected to be
given by the UK to debt laden Ireland and Portugal.

The audacious demand comes despite the refusal of official auditors to endorse
the fraud-ridden EU budget.

It triggered fresh anger last night at the Brussels gravy train and renewed
calls for the UK to quit the EU.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Families here in
Britain are suffering and just about every area of spending is facing cuts
except the money we send to Brussels while the Eurocrats demand more and more of
our cash.

"Anything but a sharp cut in our contributions would be an insult to taxpayers
after the incredible rise over the last few years.

"If the Government once again goes along with a rise, and doesn't simply refuse
to pay, then ministers will be showing they put a warm reception at Brussels
cocktail parties above the needs of the people they were elected to represent."

Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The greed of
the European Union knows no bounds. They just don't get it.

"There is no more money, not in Britain and certainly not in Portugal or Greece.

Have we got to the point where we are now being asked to bail out the European
Commission?"

A six per cent increase would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly
GBP 10billion a year, equivalent to more than GBP 400 for every household in the
country.

It will put intense pressure on David Cameron to stand up to Brussels. Last year
the European Commission made a similar demand, asking for a 5.9 per cent budget
increase.

Mr Cameron wanted a freeze in the budget to reflect the harsh economic climate
across Europe, but national leaders eventually settled for a 2.9 per cent rise.

Any increase in cash for Brussels is bound to ignite fury across Britain given
the squeeze in living standards, widespread pay freezes and cuts in public
services.

Tory Euro-MP Daniel Hannan said: "All the Government cuts put together will save
about GBP 6.2billion but our net contribution to the EU rose by 74 per cent last
year to GBP 9.2billion. Why aren't protesters marching on the streets about
that?" Sources in Brussels suggested the six per cent figure was just a gambit
to open negotiations.

Janusz Lewandowski, EU budget commissioner, is due to submit the demand to the
European Parliament in Brussels next Wednesday. He has already insisted the EU
will need considerably more than last year's 2.9 per cent.

Stephen Booth, of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "The Commission, along with
MEPs, will push for a huge budget increase for 2012, as they did last year.

It will then be up to the UK to find allies across Europe to limit or freeze the
budget.

"The Brussels institutions seem incapable of understanding that the tough
economic climate means that national governments have less money to send to
Brussels each year."

Brussels officials argue that the expansion of the EU into eastern Europe is
creating huge financial pressures because of the support needed by struggling
former Communist economies.

They admit the expected entry of Croatia into the EU next year will
substantially increase costs.

Sidonia Jedrzejewska, a Polish Euro-MP involved in last year's budget wrangle,
said: "The negotiations will be even more difficult than last year because this
is the second-to-last year of the current financial programme, which means many
of the bi g bills will be coming in."

Mr Cameron is already understood to be seeking allies in his battle to ensure
any increase is kept to a minimum. But many socialist Euro-MPs insist the EU's
budget must not be cut for fear of plunging the continent back into recession.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Brussels demands 6% increase in its budget

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 476  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats will deliver a fresh insult to hard pressed British
taxpayers next week by demanding an inflation busting six per cent rise in the
European Union's annual budget.

Despite austerity cuts across Europe, the European Commission is expected to
request an extra GBP 7billion to take its total budget for 2012 to a colossal
GBP 132billion.

The increase will mean bumper pay rises for thousands of Eurocrats in Brussels
and Strasbourg.

And it comes on top of around GBP 10billion in emergency loans expected to be
given by the UK to debt-laden Ireland and Portugal.

The audacious demand comes despite the refusal of official auditors to endorse
the fraud-ridden EU budget.

It triggered fresh anger last night at the Brussels gravy train and renewed
calls for the UK to quit the EU.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Families here in
Britain are suffering and just about every area of spending is facing cuts
except the money we send to Brussels while the Eurocrats demand more and more of
our cash."

Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said:

"The greed of the European Union knows no bounds. They just don't get it. There
is no more money, not in Britain and certainly not in Portugal or Greece. Have
we got to the point where we are now being asked to bail out the European
Commission?"

A six per cent increase would raise the UK's annual EU contribution to nearly
GBP 10billion a year, equivalent to more than GBP 400 for every household in the
country.

It will put intense pressure on David Cameron to stand up to Brussels. Last year
the European Commission made a similar demand, asking for a 5.9 per cent budget
increase.

Mr Cameron wanted a freeze in the budget to reflect the harsh economic climate
across Europe, but national leaders eventually settled for a 2.9 per cent rise.

Any increase in cash for Brussels is bound to ignite fury across Britain given
the squeeze in living standards, widespread pay freezes and cuts in public
services.

Tory Euro-MP Daniel Hannan said: "All the Government cuts put together will save
about GBP 6.2billion but our net contribution to the EU rose by 74 per cent last
year to GBP 9.2billion. Why aren't protesters marching on the streets about
that?"

Sources in Brussels suggested the six per cent figure was just a gambit to open
negotiations.

Janusz Lewandowski, EU budget commissioner, is due to submit the demand to the
European Parliament in Brussels next Wednesday.

He has already insisted the EU will need considerably more than last year's 2.9
per cent. The entry of Croatia into the EU next year will substantially increase
costs.

Mr Cameron is understood to be seeking allies in his battle to ensure any
increase is kept to a minimum. But many socialist Euro-MPs insist the EU's
budget must not be cut for fear of plunging the continent back into recession.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Strasbourg Eurocrats are demanding more cash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 15, 2011 Friday

Leading Article: Immigration: Living with diversity

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 650 words


It was the first speech of the local election campaign, so perhaps it is not
surprising that David Cameron's claim yesterday that immigration has damaged
social cohesion so comprehensively captured the front pages. In its content and
its timing it had all the hallmarks of the kind of smooth strategic planning
that the Conservative party has often done so effectively but which Downing
Street has struggled to reproduce in the past year. The party machine has
wrested back control of the political message with predictable results and some
collateral damage to the coalition.

Conservatives complain that their critics never allow them a right time to talk
about migration. But that is because there is a long history of deploying it as
an issue just at the point when the party needs to restore the confidence of its
core supporters. And there is no doubt that Mr Cameron has vociferous critics on
his own backbenches. The more outspoken ponder openly whether the party leader
is really a Conservative at all. And while tracking polls never suggest much
support for alternative parties of the right such as the UK Independence party,
at last month's Barnsley byelection Ukip beat both of the coalition parties. The
start of a local election campaign which will be difficult for the Conservatives
and possibly disastrous for the Lib Dems seems too needy a moment for a speech
on immigration to be treated as anything more serious than a piece of
politicking.

Of course, Mr Cameron is anxious to signal that he understands voters' concerns,
that there is something that can be done about them, and that he is doing it.
His tone was generally moderate, and it is true that immigration worries people
in a way that the last government was slow to appreciate. It is also the case,
however, that migration from other EU countries is not something the UK
government can directly affect, although making sure that British people have
the right skills for whatever jobs are locally available would be one way of
reducing the appeal of the UK as a destination. Most migrants last year -
two-thirds, according to the Office for National Statistics - came from outside
the EU, and they came to work or to study. Many of those who came to work will
have taken seasonal jobs, although they have in places (some of which, like
North Lincolnshire, have local elections in three weeks' time) put very heavy
burdens on community infrastructure. That makes it even more curious that the
government has cut the cash for the migration impacts fund that Labour
introduced and abandoned the citizenship survey which sought to monitor the
impact of new migrants. And the axe - curiously, since in his speech Mr Cameron
also complained that not enough migrants speak English - has fallen too on the
budget for English language teaching. But most importantly, neither immigration
nor ethnicity is the primary predictor of a lack of social cohesion. Instead, as
the most recent research has shown, it is the level of economic deprivation.
Neighbourliness and extreme poverty tend not to go together.

Meanwhile, Mr Cameron appeared to be playing fast and loose with the coalition
agreement. That was certainly what the business secretary, Vince Cable, thought.
It is true that the half page of the agreement in which migration appears avoids
all mention of targets. That has not prevented the government making a clear
commitment to halve net migration to 100,000 in this parliament. Mr Cable argued
strongly against limiting highly skilled workers and the graduate students who
make such a large contribution to university budgets, but he won only a partial
victory. That may explain his initial denunciation of Mr Cameron for inflaming
extremism, and his subsequent recantation. The next three weeks will be a severe
test as the parties establish the load-bearing capacity of a coalition in an
election. Expect more of the same.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 15, 2011 Friday

Reply: Letter: Straw poll on the alternative vote

BYLINE: Roger Oliver

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 245 words


What an extraordinary article by Vernon Bogdanor (The weapon of choice, 12
April). He refers to a simulation of the 2010 election but with AV as the voting
system. Sorry, Vernon, it don't mean nothing. Human psychology is not an exact
science and no one can know how being able to rank candidates would have
affected choices. And trying to make "predictions" on what would have happened
in elections held over 50 years ago is ambitious to say the least.

Or let's take the opinion about AV and safe seats: "It will make no difference
in a constituency where an MP wins over 50% of the vote". Well of course not, by
definition! But how often will this occur under AV? Who knows? Try telling all
those voters in safe Tory seats just itching to put Ukip in slot 1, and the
Conservatives second, that nothing will change. And imagine what might have
happened to the structure of the UK political scene if AV had been the voting
system in place when the SDP broke away from Labour.

If predicting elections was so easy we could dispense with them and have a few
wise research professors tell us what the result would have been, and save us
all a lot of trouble. But not unless they've all got a qualification in Isaac
Asimov's psychohistory, of course!

Prof Bogdanor reminds me of an elderly man I met on Eastbourne promenade who,
when accosted by me with my Vote Yes leaflet, said: "I've seen it all, it won't
make any difference, it's all rubbish!"

Roger Oliver

East Dean, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 15, 2011 Friday 8:21 AM GMT

Farage pilot guilty of death threats

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Barrett

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 117 words


The pilot of a plane that crashed and injured the Ukip leader Nigel Farage on
election day has been convicted of making threats to kill.

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was found guilty by a jury at
Oxford Crown Court of five counts of making threats to kill relating to Mr
Farage and Civil Aviation Authority crash investigator Martin James.

The crash on 6 May 2010, in which the aircraft nose-dived to the ground while
towing a campaign banner, left Adams and Mr Farage in hospital.

Adams called Thames Valley Police six months after the crash and said: "I'm
going to kill somebody or two. I know where they live, they destroyed my life."

Sentencing was adjourned until the week commencing 9 May.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Farage pilot guilty of death threats;
COURTS

BYLINE: Elizabeth Barrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 117 words


THE PILOT of a plane that crashed and injured the Ukip leader Nigel Farage on
election day has been convicted of making threats to kill.

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was found guilty by a jury at
Oxford Crown Court of five counts of making threats to kill relating to Mr
Farage and Civil Aviation Authority crash investigator Martin James.

The crash on 6 May 2010, in which the aircraft nose-dived to the ground while
towing a campaign banner, left Adams and Mr Farage in hospital.

Adams called Thames Valley Police six months after the crash and said: "I'm
going to kill somebody or two. I know where they live, they destroyed my life."

Sentencing was adjourned until the week commencing 9 May.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

A PRE-ELECTION BUST-UP OVER IMMIGRATION [...];
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 198 words


A PRE-election bust-up over immigration suits both David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

For the first time since their power-sharing pact, the Tories and Lib Dems go
head to head in polls across the UK on May 5.

Public anger over cuts and broken election promises mean both parties face a
grim night.

And the referendum on electoral reform, which has pitched Coalition partners
against each other, means there is even more at stake than council seats.

Vince Cable's anger over Tory anti-immigration policies is the result of
personal experience.

The Business Secretary's father took against his Indian first wife, sparking a
rift that saw them not talk for four years.

So Mr Cable speaks from the heart when he voices fears that the PM's speech will
stir hatred.

But the row offers the two parties a chance to reassure their supporters, many
of whom are still appalled by the coalition.

Mr Cameron can put clear blue water between him and the Lib Dems as he seeks to
fight off the anti-EU UK Independence Party.

Mr Clegg can make it clear that he can still pick his fights.

But pursuing "core vote" strategies is a clear sign of that they fear a drubbing
and that voters will see the Government as divided.

s

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

DIVIDED THEY FALL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 136 words


THE issue of immigration has Conservatives and Liberal Democrats at each other's
throats.

David Cameron and Nick Clegg both sense a chance to boost support at next
month's local elections when they face a drubbing.

The Prime Minister is keen to talk tough and stop Tory voters defecting to the
anti-European UK Independence Party.

Mr Clegg is desperate to repair his liberal credentials shredded by support for
Tory policies including savage spending cuts.

The two parties may get short term gain from taking lumps out of each other in
the run up to the May 5 poll.

But weeks of fighting means it won't be easy to make up after a battle that must
end in defeat over electoral reform for one side.

The vicious opening skirmish shows how little they have in common - their
unprincipled marriage of convenience is built on sand.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

FARAGE FLIER GUILTY OVER KILL THREATS;
POLITICS

BYLINE: ANDREW GREGORY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 133 words


THE pilot of a plane that crashed injuring UKIP leader Nigel Farage was
yesterday convicted of making death threats to the politician.

Justin Adams was found guilty of threatening to kill Farage, 47, and Civil
Aviation Authority investigator Martin James on five occasions.

In one case he said he would shoot the pair and take his own life.

Adams, 46, was cleared of blame after the light aircraft nose-dived into a
Northants field on General Election day last year.

But Oxford crown court heard he was angry that the crash inquiry took so long,
meaning his firm went bust while he could not claim insurance for his wrecked
plane.

Adams, of Buckland, Oxon, was also furious that Mr Farage could talk to the
press but he had to stay silent and missed out on selling his story. He will be
sentenced next month.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGER Justin Adams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Farage's pilot guilty of threats to kill him

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 128 words


A PILOT who crashed in a field injuring UKIP leader Nigel Farage was yesterday
convicted of threatening to kill him.

Justin Adams, 46, was found guilty of making death threats against Mr Farage,
47, and Civil Aviation Authority investigator Martin James a total of FIVE
times.

He told a 999 operator: "I'm going to kill somebody or two. I know where they
live, they destroyed my life."

Adams, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was flying the light aircraft which nose-dived
into a field on General Election day last year during a stunt.

Both men escaped with minor injuries.

He was cleared of blame, but became angry that the CAA investigation had taken
so long. Mr Justice Saunders adjourned sentencing at Oxford Crown Court until
next month.

He said: "He is a man who does need help."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Injured. .. Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Farage pilot guilty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 82 words


The pilot of a light plane that crashed, injuring Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader,
during an election day stunt was convicted yesterday of making death threats.

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was found guilty at Oxford Crown
Court of five charges of making threats to kill relating to Mr Farage and Martin
James, a Civil Aviation Authority crash investigator. The crash, on May 6 last
year, left Adams and Mr Farage needing hospital treatment. Sentencing was
adjourned pending reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage pilot guilty of making death threats

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 114 words


The pilot of a light plane that crashed injuring Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader,
during an election day stunt was convicted yesterday of making death threats..

Justin Adams, 46, of Faringdon, Oxfordshire, was found guilty at Oxford Crown
Court of five charges of making threats to kill relating to Mr Farage and Martin
James, a Civil Aviation Authority crash investigator. The crash on May 6 last
year, in which the aircraft nose-dived while towing a campaign banner, left
Adams and Mr Farage needing hospital treatment. Remanding Adams in custody, Mr
Justice Saunders said that he was "clearly extremely disturbed" at the time of
the offences. Sentencing was adjourned pending reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Don't blame outsiders. Look closer to home;
Honest discussion about immigration is not about culture but about who finds the
jobs

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 892 words


'Your country is going to the dogs," a quite angry old white Zimbabwean once
told me. "You let people in who have no stake in your culture, who make no
effort to integrate and don't even bother to speak your language." And we sat
there, in his home in Bulawayo, looking out over a manicured lawn, possibly
eating roast beef and certainly not speaking Ndebele, and all I could do was
blink.

I wish I'd been braver. When people raise the alarm over immigration, you see, a
part of me instinctively worries that they're raising the alarm over me. On
almost any level, this is madness; my family have been thriving in Britain for
more than a century. And yet, when I hear politicians criticising ethnic
minorities for their failure to integrate, I think about the time the tiny
Jewish cemetery in Edinburgh was vandalised, or the way that we'd leave our
prayer books face down in the car, so that nobody saw the Hebrew writing and
smashed the windows. And I'm pretty sure I know which side I'm on.

Everybody loves a good immigration spat. Engage your top, self-righteous gear,
whoever you are, and you're off. "My Ghanaian friend sailed here in a barrel and
now she's a merchant banker!" people want to say. Or: "My grandmother ran a pub
in Bradford all her life, but then the Muslims bought it and now it's a mosque!"
Or whatever.

And yet, listening to David Cameron's speech on immigration yesterday, it struck
me that the things that feel like bravery on this subject are actually the
really easy bits. Anybody can thump a tub.

Mr Cameron gave a good speech, but it was disguised, quite heavily, as a bad
one. He had impressive points, but had clearly felt the need to hide them,
artfully, behind the usual guff about sham marriages, swamped communities and
compulsory English lessons. It feels brave, fighting these culture wars. It
isn't, though. It's phoney. The real bravery comes in talking about immigration
without mentioning culture at all.

Sure, culture matters, a lot. But it's not all that matters. If your area has
undergone an influx of aliens, then the first thing you might notice is that the
people who are suddenly soaking up the local services - hanging out at the
doctors' surgery, running shops, moving into houses, dominating the schools -
talk funny, look funny, act funny and eat funny. But even if they didn't, your
situation would not be entirely improved. Sure, it might be a little improved
(schools might be better, shops might stock fewer baffling yams) but you'd still
have new people to deal with, taking over your streets and competing for your
jobs.

Or, to put it another way, in urban areas with high immigration, there are
reasons why the working classes tend to mind, while the middle classes tend to
shriek at each other about how lovely it is to be able to visit an Ethiopian
restaurant. It's not because the poor are intrinsically racist. It's because
they're the ones who feel the squeeze.

Integration, is my point, is not the whole answer. Stamp out phoney marriages,
if you like, and enforce compulsory English lessons. Ban the burka, muzzle the
mosques, torch the temples, gut the gurdwaras. Even if these things could be
done (and they can't, and shouldn't; rhetorical point, don't picket my house),
the problems of immigration would not cease. True bravery involves acknowledging
this. It involves an honest debate, not about skin tone, race or language, but
about numbers.

Although not numbers of immigrants. That number is a symptom, not a cause. Try
these numbers instead: 173,000 - that's the number of immigrants who found jobs
in the UK in the past three months of 2010; 39,000 - that's the number of Brits
who did. Those are numbers from the Office for National Statistics. Other
numbers from the ONS (regional characteristics of foreign-born people living in
the United Kingdom, by Miller and Reid, if you're bored) show that immigrants
are less likely to have health problems, more likely to be married and less
likely to claim welfare. So they're not coming here and taking our women or our
benefits. But they are, undeniably, coming here and taking our jobs.

Feeling uncomfortable yet? That's because we're almost being brave. True
bravery, though, means not stopping there. It means navigating the treacherous
path between the BNP-inspired, Gordon Brown-adopted slogan of "British jobs for
British workers", and a consideration about just why it is that those same
British workers are, for many employers, quite an unattractive prospect. And it
means ending up, quite possibly, in a place where you have to accept that at
least some of the problems that we like to pretend arrive with immigration are
actually deep-rooted problems of our very own, to do with a paralysed
underclass, outperformed at every turn by even the moderately capable from
anywhere else.

This genuinely brave point was there in Mr Cameron's speech. It was in the
boring section, though, buried among the dog whistles. Dogs hardly hear anything
else. So instead of a sensible debate, we had Vince Cable and Yvette Cooper on
one side, and UKIP and the BNP on the other, all charging with glee on to the
old, comfortable battlegrounds of caps and extremism and community tensions. All
doubtless feeling brave, and occasionally even sounding it, but getting nowhere
at all.

A paralysed underclass is outperformed by the moderately capable

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Of 212,000 jobs filled at the end of 2010, the British took only 39,000

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday

FARAGE PILOT FOUND GUILTY

LENGTH: 112 words


THE pilot of a plane which crashed injuring Nigel Farage was convicted yesterday
of threatening to kill the UKIP leader.

Justin Adams made five death threats to Mr Farage and Civil Aviation Authority
investigator Martin James for 'ruining' his life.

His light aircraft crashed on General Election day last year when a
banner-flying stunt went wrong. He was cleared of being at fault but blamed the
length of the inquiry for the break-up of his marriage and failure of his
business.

The jury at Oxford Crown Court heard how Adams, 46, from Buckland, Oxfordshire,
suffered mental health issues after the crash. He said the threats were a cry
for help. Sentencing was adjourned.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEW EU PLOT TO TAX OUR FOOD

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1181 words


THE threat of a double tax raid on millions of Britons by the European Union
caused uproar last night.

Business leaders condemned moves by Brussels to seize control of VAT on
thousands of everyday items.

It could send prices soaring - and even allow the EU to decide whether to slap
VAT on essential foods and children's clothes.

In a second money-grabbing proposal, the European Commission yesterday announced
plans to overhaul "green" fuel tax, which could mean a new eight per cent duty
on diesel.

The Daily Express is campaigning to free Britain from EU rule, and 373,000
readers backed a petition delivered to Downing Street on the issue. There was
outrage last night at the latest EU bid to squeeze more cash from British
taxpayers.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "Let's hope that Chancellor George Osborne is a
bit more

Belfast 8.22pm-6.22am Today From Page one vigorous in stopping this initiative
than he was when allowing the UK to join the euro bail-outs.

"This Government must stop the EU taking control of taxation." Europe forecast
If you're hold of your want to 8612 sellouts@For all other our switchboard
Amsterdam Cloudy 12C/54F Brussels Cloudy 13C/55F Dublin Cloudy 14C/57F Frankfurt
Fair 14C/57F Geneva Fair 13C/55F Lisbon Sunny 28C/82F Madrid Sunny 27C/81F Paris
Fair 15C/59F Rome Fair 17C/63F The Institute of Directors, one of Britain's
leading business organisations, warned that proposals to harmonise VAT rules
across Europe's 25 member states could mean the end of Britain's VAT exemption
on food, children's clothes, books and newspapers. Amsterdam Brussels Dublin
Frankfurt Geneva Lisbon Madrid Paris Rome around the world It may also mean tax
decisions being taken by majority voting in EU meetings, stripping Britain of a
veto over any meddling in domestic taxation.

CF CF Amsterdam . Sunny 12 54 Athens.....Sunny 19 66 Barcelona... Cloudy 19 66
Berlin......Rain 6 43 Budapest ... Fair 10 50 Cairo.......Sunny 20 68
CapeTown..Sunny 23 73 Casablanca . Sunny 25 77 Corfu......Fair 18 64
Dublin......Rain 11 52 Dubrovnik...Rain 6 43 Faro.......Sunny 26 79
Florence....Sunny 16 61 Gibraltar ... Cloudy 18 64 Guernsey ... Cloudy 9 48
Richard Baron, head of taxation at the IoD, said: "It is sensible for the
Commission to take a long, hard look at the way VAT operates. It is a massive
burden on businesses, and prone to fraud, so improvements are always welcome.
HongKong..Sunny 26 79 Istanbul. .. . Cloudy 15 59 Jersey. ... . . Cloudy 9 48
Larnaca ... Sunny 20 68 Las Palmas . Sunny 22 72 LosAngeles.Cloudy 18 64
Luxor......Sunny 28 82 Malaga.....Sunny 20 68 Mallorca ... Sunny 19 66
Malta......Cloudy 18 64 Melbourne . . Cloudy 16 61 Miami......Cloudy 32 90
Moscow....Shwrs 3 37 Nairobi.....Fair 25 77 New Delhi... Fair 30 86 "But we must
beware of any assault on national tax powers."

In a separate move, the EU Commission unveiled plans for an overhaul of energy
tax. Options included introducing new taxes on carbon dioxide and fuel use to
help the EU meet climate change targets by 2020. One measure would force EU
states to set a tax of £18 per ton of carbon emissions for transport and heating
fuel from 2013. It would be automatically linked to inflation.

Stockholm . . Cloudy 6 43 Sydney.....Fair 22 72 TelAviv..... Cloudy 19 66
Tenerife ... Sunny 21 70 Toronto .. . . Sunny 12 54 Tunis.......Sunny 22 72
Venice.....Sunny 16 61 Vienna.....Shwrs 7 45 Warsaw ... Cloudy 7 45 Under
proposals to deter the use of high-carbon vehicles, a litre of diesel would be
taxed at eight per cent more than a litre of petrol. C Amsterdam. Sunny 12
Athens.....Sunny 19 Barcelona... Cloudy 19 Berlin......Rain Budapest... Fair 10
Cairo.......Sunny 20 CapeTown..Sunny 23 Casablanca. Sunny 25 Corfu......Fair 18
Dublin......Rain 11 Dubrovnik...Rain Faro.......Sunny 26 Florence....Sunny 16
Gibraltar. ... Cloudy 18 UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This
is just more EU madness.

Fuel prices are already at record 6 10 5 ** 6 11 Liverpool (8.26am), (Greenock
(9.27am), (Dover (8.32am), ( highs, and the EU now wants to slap another tax on
top.

Oxford 3.0 0.00 3 11 S'hampton 2.3 0.00 6 12 St Andrews 3.7 0.00 4 11 Ballykelly
14C (57F) Downham -1C (27F) Killowen 0.94in.

"What they should do is immediately cut the EU budget and stop wasting our
money. The British people will continue to be subject to stupidity like this
until we vote to withdraw from the EU."

Lighting-up times Glasgow 8.19pm-London 7.54pm-Manchester 8.07pm-Newcastle
8.06pm-Church Fenton 10.0hr. Belfast 8.22pm-6.22am Birmingham 8.02pm-6.10am
Bristol 8.03pm-6.15am Europe forecast Tomorrow Jacqueline Foster, Conservative
transport spokesman in the European Parliament, said: "We all want to reduce CO2
emissions from vehicles but it should be done by placing incentives on people,
not by clobbering them. This could increase the cost of flights and ferries."

Cloudy 12C/54F Cloudy 13C/55F Cloudy 14C/57F 14C/57F 13C/55F 28C/82F 27C/81F
15C/59F 17C/63F Amsterdam Fair 15C/Brussels Fair 16C/Dublin Cloudy 14C/Frankfurt
Sunny 15C/Geneva Sunny 13C/Lisbon Sunny 28C/Madrid Sunny 24C/Paris Cloudy
16C/Rome Rain 15C/ Algirdas Semeta, EU tax commissioner, said: "Our objective is
less about introducing a new tax than about restructuring energy taxation so as
to meet the EU's high priority goals of climate change, energy efficiency and
fair competition."

Senior Whitehall officials last night indicated that the Government will seek to
block both tax plans, which are to be debated by the European Parliament.

around the world yesterday F CF 54 66 6 43 50 68 73 77 64 52 43 79 61 64
HongKong..Sunny 26 79 Istanbul.. ... Cloudy 15 59 Jersey.. . .. Cloudy 9 48
Larnaca. ... Sunny 20 68 Las Palmas. Sunny 22 72 LosAngeles.Cloudy 18 64
Luxor......Sunny 28 82 Malaga.....Sunny 20 68 Mallorca. ... Sunny 19 66
Malta......Cloudy 18 64 Melbourne. . Cloudy 16 61 Miami......Cloudy 32 90
Moscow....Shwrs 3 37 Nairobi.....Fair 25 77 One diplomat said: "Without saying
that we will definitely kill this thing before it is born, I think it is highly
likely that we will block it." NewYork...Rain Nice.......Sunny Nicosia. . ..
Sunny Perth.......Fair Prague.....Rain Singapore... Fair Stockholm. . Cloudy
Sydney.....Fair TelAviv..... Cloudy Tenerife. ... Sunny Toronto. . .. Sunny
Tunis.......Sunny Venice.....Sunny Vienna.....Shwrs oPinion: Page 12

Manchester rises: 6.12am, sets: DON'T MISS Cardiff 5.2 0.09 6 10 Durham ** 0.01
5 ** Edinburgh 2.4 0.01 6 11 Oxford 3.0 0.00 3 11 S'hampton 2.3 0.00 6 12 St
Andrews 3.7 0.00 4 11 Full Moon 18 April Aberporth 3.5 0.13 5 8 Alnwick 3.6 0.00
5 11 Belfast 0.7 0.24 5 12 Birmingham 2.1 0.00 2 11 B'mouth 2.1 0.01 1 11
Bristol 1.7 0.03 5 11 Hull 6.5 0.00 3 11 Ipswich 2.1 0.00 1 11 Leeds 5.8 0.00 3
11 Lincoln 3.4 0.00 4 11 London 2.6 0.00 5 12 Manchester 4.4 0.00 2 10 'EU must
not control our taxation' Cobh (2.26am), (3.02pm) Dublin (9.00am), (9.39pm)
Belfast (8.19am), (9.03pm) Lighting-up times Birmingham 8.02pm-6.10am Bristol
8.03pm-6.15am Glasgow 8.19pm-6.13am OUT ON THE HIGH TIDE London B'ge (11.03am),
London 7.54pm-6.06am Manchester 8.07pm-6.10am Newcastle 8.06pm-6.04am

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NEW EU PLOT TO TAX OUR FOOD

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 598  words


THE threat of a double tax raid on millions of Britons by the European Union
caused uproar last night.

Business leaders condemned moves by Brussels to seize control of VAT on
thousands of everyday items.

It could send prices soaring - and even allow the EU to decide whether to slap
VAT on essential foods and children's clothes.

In a second money-grabbing proposal, the European Commission yesterday announced
plans to overhaul "green" fuel tax, which could mean a new eight per cent duty
on diesel.

The Daily Express is campaigning to free Britain from EU rule, and 373,000
readers backed a petition delivered to Downing Street on the issue.

There was outrage last night at the latest EU bid to squeeze more cash from
British taxpayers.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "Let's hope that Chancellor George Osborne is a
bit more vigorous in stopping this initiative than he was when allowing the UK
to join the euro bail-outs.

"This Government must stop the EU taking control of taxation."

The Institute of Directors, one of Britain's leading business organisations,
warned that proposals to harmonise VAT rules across Europe's 25 member states
could mean the end of Britain's VAT exemption on food, children's clothes, books
and newspapers.

It may also mean tax decisions being taken by majority voting in EU meetings,
stripping Britain of a veto over any meddling in domestic taxation.

Richard Baron, head of taxation at the IoD, said: "It is sensible for the
Commission to take a long, hard look at the way VAT operates. It is a massive
burden on businesses, and prone to fraud, so improvements are always welcome.

"But we must beware of any assault on national tax powers."

In a separate move, the EU Commission unveiled plans for an overhaul of energy
tax. Options included introducing new taxes on carbon dioxide and fuel use to
help the EU meet climate change targets by 2020. One measure would force EU
states to set a tax of GBP 18 per ton of carbon emissions for transport and
heating fuel from 2013. It would be automatically linked to inflation.

Under proposals to deter the use of high-carbon vehicles, a litre of diesel
would be taxed at eight per cent more than a litre of petrol.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This is just more EU madness.
Fuel prices are already at record highs, and the EU now wants to slap another
tax on top.

"What they should do is immediately cut the EU budget and stop wasting our
money. The British people will continue to be subject to stupidity like this
until we vote to withdraw from the EU."

Jacqueline Foster, Conservative transport spokesman in the European Parliament,
said: "We all want to reduce CO2 emissions from vehicles but it should be done
by placing incentives on people, not by clobbering them. This could increase the
cost of flights and ferries."

Algirdas Semeta, EU tax commissioner, said: "Our objective is less about
introducing a new tax than about restructuring energy taxation so as to meet the
EU's high priority goals of climate change, energy efficiency and fair
competition."

Senior Whitehall officials last night indicated that the Government will seek to
block both tax plans, which are to be debated by the European Parliament. One
diplomat said: "Without saying that we will definitely kill this thing before it
is born, I think it is highly likely that we will block it."

Q Should Britons pay taxes directly to Europe?

YES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088 No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Anger as EU tries new cash grab raid

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 266  words


ANGER erupted last night at the threat of a crippling double tax raid on UK
households by the European Union.

Business leaders condemned moves by Brussels bureaucrats to seize control of VAT
on thousands of everyday consumer items.

It could mean prices soaring and even giving the EU ultimate say over whether to
slap sales tax on essential food products and children's clothes.

And in a second cashgrabbing proposal, the European Commission yesterday
announced plans for a "green" fuel tax overhaul that could slap a new 8% duty on
diesel.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "Let's hope Chancellor George Osborne is a bit
more vigorous in stopping this initiative than he was when it came to allowing
the UK to join the euro bail outs."

The Institute of Directors yesterday published a scathing response to the ideas
for harmonising VAT rules across the EU. It warned the overhaul could abolish
Britain's VAT exemption on food, children's clothes, books and newspapers.

It may also mean tax decisions being taken by majority voting in EU meetings.

In a separate move, the EU Commission unveiled plans for an overhaul of its
energy tax directive.

One measure would force member states to set tax rates of GBP 18 per tonne of
carbon emissions for fuel used for the purposes of transport and heating, from
2013.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This is more EU madness."

Whitehall officials last night indicated that the Government will seek to block
both plans, to be debated by the European Parliament.

One said: "Without saying we'll kill it before it is born, it's highly likely we
will block it."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brussels bureaucrats' plan could mean prices hike

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

We all hate EU but why don't more vote UKIP?;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 48

LENGTH: 111  words


PLANET politics is a laughable place. The Daily Express petition against EU
membership has hundreds of thousands of signatories but these same petitioners
refuse to vote UKIP, the only party that will revoke membership.

The same petitioners will, however, absurdly vote for Labour warmongers and
ConDem cuts and vote for pro-nuclear parties.

The ConDem coalition and their multi-millionaire cabinet are implementing
two-tier torture on pensioners who gave us the NHS, nationalised energy and
nationalised railways.

We repay them with penury?

Every single penny is a prisoner, subjected to rendition and torture.

If you're cross, use your cross on May 5.

Alex Walker, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday

Immigrants who fail to integrate have created 'discomfort', says Cameron

BYLINE: Nicholas Wattguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1342 words

ABSTRACT

Prime minister will blame Labour for allowing immigration to become 'too high'
and adopting approach that enabled BNP flourish

FULL TEXT

David Cameron will warn that immigrants unable to speak English or unwilling to
integrate have created a "kind of discomfort and disjointedness" that has
disrupted communities across Britain.

In his most outspoken speech on immigration since becoming prime minister, he
will blame Labour for allowing immigration to become "too high" and adopting an
approach that enabled the British National party to flourish.

The speech could add to coalition tensions after the Liberal Democrats distanced
themselves from Cameron's language. Nick Clegg saw the speech, which he "noted
rather than approved".

One Lib Dem source said: "We use different language. But we all work in
government to strike a balance to ensure Britain has a system people have
confidence in."

The BNP accused Cameron of adopting its own policies for "cynical opportunism"
in the run-up to next month's local and devolved elections.

The UK Independence party (Ukip) said the prime minister's comments were an
acknowledgment that "mass immigration has caused division within society".

Cameron will open his speech, being delivered in Hampshire, by saying
immigration is a hugely emotive subject that must be handled with sensitivity.

But he will then say Labour presided over the "largest influx" of immigration in
British history, which saw 2.2 million more people settling in Britain between
1997 and 2009 than leaving to live abroad.

He will say this has placed serious pressure on schools, housing and the NHS,
and has also created social pressures.

"Real communities are bound by common experiences forged by friendship and
conversation, knitted together by all the rituals of the neighbourhood, from the
school run to the chat down the pub. And these bonds can take time," he will
tell his audience.

"So real integration takes time. That's why, when there have been significant
numbers of new people arriving in neighbourhoods, perhaps not able to speak the
same language as those living there, on occasions not really wanting or even
willing to integrate, that has created a kind of discomfort and disjointedness
in some neighbourhoods.

"This has been the experience for many people in our country, and I believe it
is untruthful and unfair not to speak about it and address it."

The prime minister will accuse Labour of helping to stoke an uncertain climate
over immigration. He believes Labour inflamed the issue by accusing critics of
racism while at the same time pandering to the hard right.

He will say: "I believe the role of politicians is to cut through the extremes
of this debate and approach the subject sensibly and reasonably.

"The last government, in contrast, actually helped to inflame the debate. On the
one hand, there were Labour ministers who closed down discussion, giving the
impression that concerns about immigration were somehow racist.

"On the other, there were ministers hell bent on burnishing their hardline
credentials by talking tough but doing nothing to bring the numbers down.

"This had damaging consequences in terms of controlling immigration and in terms
of public debate. It created the space for extremist parties to flourish, as
they could tell people that mainstream politicians weren't listening to their
concerns or doing anything about them."

Speaking prior to Cameron's speech, the immigration minister, Damian Green,
insisted the prime minister's comments were not "anti-immigration", but that
Britain could only benefit from immigration under a more "selective" policy.

Green told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the pace of immigration could lead
to friction because community ties grow over time. "If they're changed too fast
then that's when you get the tensions," he said.

"The contribution immigration policy can make and should make to this country is
that we are open for business, we do want not just our fair share, but more than
our fair share of the brightest and the best.

"But if you have unthinking mass immigration at too high a level, then what you
get are those stresses and strains that mean that the ties of community are much
more difficult to build up, and that's the point the prime minister's making
today."

Green pointed out that the immigration limit on work visas was in the coalition
agreement. "This is an item that people really care about and, if mainstream
politicians don't talk about it, we leave the field open to the extremists," he
added.

Tom Brake, the Lib Dem MP for Carshalton and Wallington, said that while the
issue was "very emotive", not least in the middle of an election campaign, it
should be something that people were free to debate.

Calling for a "balanced approach", he said Cameron's speech "clearly recognised"
the benefits of immigration, but added that it was important to listen to the
voices of business and universities.

But Cameron's speech was seized on by the far right British National party,
which accused the prime minister of hiving off its manifesto.

The BNP spokesman, Simon Darby, told Today: "It's cynical opportunism, isn't it?
It's almost like a ceremonial adoption of our policy about two weeks before any
major vote.

"In other words, he knows what ordinary British people are thinking. He
completely ignores that until two weeks before a major poll, and then all of a
sudden starts pressing a few buttons to try and make people believe he's
actually doing something about immigration.

"It's a farce, it's a con, and if we had copyright on our manifesto we'd have
our lawyers round his office within hours."

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said he welcomed the fact that Cameron had
acknowledged that "mass immigration has caused division within society".

But he added: "Sadly, there isn't much he can do about it because the elephant
in the room is the European Union, and we have a total open border with all of
them. We cannot have our own immigration policy and be part of the European
Union."

No 10 insisted that the speech did not mark a return to the era of the former
Tory leader William Hague, who used the issue as part of a "core votes"
strategy.

On the eve of the 2001 election, Hague warned that Britain was in danger of
turning into a "foreign land" in remarks that technically referred to the EU.

Cameron will say Britain has benefited from immigration, telling his audience:
"Go into any hospital and you'll find people from Uganda, India and Pakistan who
are caring for our sick and vulnerable. Go into schools and universities and
you'll find teachers from all over the world, inspiring our young people."

But the prime minister will use his speech to challenge those who say:

· Immigration cannot be controlled because Britain is a member of the EU.
Cameron will say future EU member states will be subject to tougher transitional
controls and the UK can address immigration from outside the EU through the cap
on non-EU immigration.

· Immigration can be controlled - but to do so would inflict serious damage on
the economy. Cameron will say the government is thinking "incredibly carefully"
about which workers should come.

But he will make clear that immigration cannot be controlled until Britain's
welfare system is reformed.

"Put simply, we will never control immigration properly unless we tackle welfare
dependency," he will say. "That's another powerful reason why this government is
undertaking the biggest shake-up of the welfare system for generations, making
sure that work willalways pay and ending the option of living a life on the dole
when a life in work is possible."

He will also condemn forced marriages and those who say they should be
tolerated. "There are forced marriages taking place in our country, and overseas
as a means of gaining entry to the UK," he will say.

"This is the practice where some young British girls are bullied and threatened
into marrying someone they don't want to.

"I've got no time for those who say this is a culturally relative issue - it is
wrong, full stop, and we've got to stamp it out."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 14, 2011 Thursday

Vince Cable attacks Cameron's 'very unwise' immigration remarks

BYLINE: Helene Mulhollandguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1136 words

ABSTRACT

Tensions within cabinet revealed as business secretary says prime minister's
immigration speech risks 'inflaming extremism'

FULL TEXT

Cabinet tensions over the government's immigration policy burst into the open
after the business secretary, Vince Cable, attacked David Cameron for making
"very unwise" comments about immigration which he warned "risked inflaming
extremism".

The prime minister hit back with a thinly-veiled attack on the Liberal Democrat
minister, accusing his critics of being "off beam".

But he also sought to play down the rift by insisting the "very robust policy"
had been agreed "across government".

Cameron delivered the trailed comments of the speech that provoked Cable's
criticism unaltered, outlining measures to secure "good immigration, not mass
immigration".

He concluded: "[It was] an important attempt to explain why we are doing what we
are doing, why it's right and why some of the critics of it, actually, are off
beam."

Insisting he was dealing with an issue of high public importance in a "sensible,
measured, serious tone", the prime minister outlined a number of steps being
taken by government.

He said the government was attempting to deal with "all the different avenues of
migration, legal and illegal", to help return the levels to where they were
under the last Conservative government, when "immigration was not a front rank
political issue".

He criticised Labour for allowing immigration to become "too high" and for
adopting an approach that enabled the British National party (BNP) to flourish,
and vowed to cut net migration to the UK to "tens of thousands".

And he said immigrants unable to speak English or unwilling to integrate had
created a "kind of discomfort and disjointedness" that has disrupted communities
across Britain.

The Liberal Democrats had already distanced themselves from Cameron's language,
saying the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg, had "noted rather than approved"
the speech when he saw it.

But Cable made his distaste public when he suggested Cameron was electioneering
ahead of local and devolved elections on 5 May and was about to make "very
unwise" comments.

"I do understand there is an election coming, but talk of mass immigration risks
inflaming extremism, to which he and I are both strongly opposed," the business
secretary said.

Cable - who has previously spoken out about the economic dangers of a cap on
immigration - went on to stress that the promise to reduce net immigration to
tens of thousands a year was Conservative policy, not coalition policy.

"Much of the remaining immigration from outside the EU is crucial to British
recovery and growth," he said.

Cameron rejected Cable's claims of electioneering when questioned on the issue
at the end of his speech, saying he had never shied away from addressing
immigration since becoming Tory leader.

"The country elected a government wanting us to roll up our sleeves and deal
with some of these issues. This speech is, I think, a very good explanation of
how we are dealing with them," he said.

Cameron acknowledged that there had been "some really serious arguments" within
the government over the impact of his action to reduce the number of new
entrants, but insisted that all those points had been answered.

Cameron opened his speech, in Romsey, Hampshire by saying immigration was a
hugely emotive subject that must be handled with sensitivity.

But he went on to say that Labour had presided over the "largest influx" of
immigration in British history, which saw 2.2 million more people settling in
Britain between 1997 and 2009 than leaving to live abroad.

This had placed serious pressure on schools, housing and the NHS, and had also
created social pressures," he said.

"Real communities are bound by common experiences forged by friendship and
conversation, knitted together by all the rituals of the neighbourhood, from the
school run to the chat down the pub. And these bonds can take time," he added.

"So real integration takes time. That's why, when there have been significant
numbers of new people arriving in neighbourhoods, perhaps not able to speak the
same language as those living there, on occasions not really wanting or even
willing to integrate, that has created a kind of discomfort and disjointedness
in some neighbourhoods."

The prime minister accused Labour of helping to stoke an uncertain climate over
immigration by accusing critics of racism while at the same time pandering to
the hard right.

"I believe the role of politicians is to cut through the extremes of this debate
and approach the subject sensibly and reasonably," he said.

"The last government, in contrast, actually helped to inflame the debate. On the
one hand, there were Labour ministers who closed down discussion, giving the
impression that concerns about immigration were somehow racist.

"On the other, there were ministers hell-bent on burnishing their hardline
credentials by talking tough but doing nothing to bring the numbers down.""

No 10 insisted that the speech did not mark a return to the era of the former
Tory leader William Hague, who used the issue as part of a "core votes"
strategy. On the eve of the 2001 election, Hague warned that Britain was in
danger of turning into a "foreign land"..

The British National party accused the prime minister of poaching one of its own
policies in the election build-up.

The BNP spokesman, Simon Darby, told Today: "It's cynical opportunism, isn't it?
It's almost like a ceremonial adoption of our policy ... he knows what ordinary
British people are thinking. He completely ignores that until two weeks before a
major poll, and then all of a sudden starts pressing a few buttons to try and
make people believe he's actually doing something about immigration."

The UK Independence party (Ukip) said the prime minister's comments were an
acknowledgment that "mass immigration has caused division within society".

The cross-party parliamentary group on balanced migration said the speech marked
a "key change" in the debate.

A joint statement, issued by Labour's Frank Field and Nicholas Soames, the Tory
MP for Mid Sussex, said: "It accepts that a whole range of policies is needed if
we are to meet the crucial target of bringing immigration down to the low tens
of thousands.

The cross-party group knows that this necessary goal cannot be achieved without
splitting the right to come here to work from automatically gaining citizenship.
The prime minister has put this policy into place: it is a move the whole
country will support."

Cameron said Britain had benefited from immigration, telling his audience: "Go
into any hospital and you'll find people from Uganda, India and Pakistan who are
caring for our sick and vulnerable. Go into schools and universities and you'll
find teachers from all over the world, inspiring our young people."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 14, 2011 Thursday 2:54 PM GMT

Reasons to vote No to AV #5: It's not actually fairer

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 963 words


Blimey. The debate over the Alternative Vote referendum was already a bit
rough-and-tumble, but it seems to be turning into the British equivalent of the
Swift Boat saga. The Yes and No campaigns are each accusing the other (PDF) of
taking the BNP's name in vain; George Osborne is highlighting the Electoral
Reform Society's gratuitous conflict of interest (which it still refuses even to
acknowledge); the Independent is continuing its specious, partisan smear
campaign; and Andrew Pierce in the Mail is giving a duffing-up to the Yes
campaign's other big supporter, the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust, which seems to
have drifted an awfully long way from its original mission to promote a "fair,
democratic and peaceful society".

Tempting as it is to join in the bunfight (as I did yesterday), all this rather
obscures the issues that are actually at stake. For instance, will adopting the
AV voting method make British politics any fairer?

The main complaint here is that the current voting system, first past the post,
is unrepresentative: in other words, there is not enough of a correlation
between votes and seats. In 2010, the Tories got 36 per cent of the votes (to
the nearest whole number) but 47 per cent of the seats; Labour got 29 per cent
of the votes but 40 per cent of the seats, and the poor old Lib Dems got 23 per
cent of the votes but only 9 per cent of the seats. Even worse off were Ukip and
the BNP, who got 3 per cent and 2 per cent of the votes, but not a single seat.

The only way to fully redress this would be to move to full PR, in which the
number of seats each party receives in the Commons precisely reflects its share
of the vote. That's probably a non-starter, since it would break the connection
between MPs and constituencies, create a new class of "top-up" MPs, chosen from
party lists rather than voted for by the public, or involve some other very
un-British fudge. (Plus, it could make for extraordinarily unwieldy government,
as any Israeli will tell you.)

AV works by redistributing second, third, fourth preferences within a
constituency until one candidate reaches a majority, or only two candidates are
left. So it isn't fair in the proper sense of the word, because like FPTP, it's
not proportional: it still requires MPs to get large numbers of votes in
individual constituencies, it's just that it counts them in a different way .

So the question isn't "Is AV fair?", but "Is it fairer than FPTP?" If so, that
would be a good reason to vote for it. But actually, the claim doesn't stand up
that well.

AV certainly addresses one imbalance - it bumps up the Lib Dems' share of the
vote to something nearer their actual total (Coalition-induced meltdowns
permitting). As John Curtice said on the Today programme this morning, they can
expect to receive around 20 seats more each time.

But there's a reason that Nick Griffin plans to vote No: AV is no fairer to the
smaller parties. In fact, it's less fair. Despite the Greens' success in the
BBC's mock election - which PeteH flagged up in the comments on two of my
previous blogs, and to which I plan to return - they could find it harder to
actually get into power, since, as Channel 4 News' FactCheck blog points out,
the bar for an insurgent candidate is raised from 30-odd per cent of the vote to
something nearer 50, once extra preferences are stirred in. In Australia, where
they've had AV for decades, it's been relatively rare for independent candidates
to make it into parliament without having been members of one of the big two
first.

The people AV can really be unfair to, however, are Labour and the Tories (not
that they'll get much sympathy...). As Prof Curtice says, voters' second
preferences - especially Lib Dems' second preferences - tend to swing with the
political tide. The result is that popular sentiment can be massively
exaggerated - so Labour would have received even fewer seats in 1983 and 1987,
and the Conservatives would have been absolutely obliterated in 1997, as St Tony
gobbled up the second preferences of all but the Tory diehards.

So what, you may say - didn't Major, Foot and Kinnock deserve it? Well, no, they
didn't. John Major's Tories, while hated and reviled by many, still got 31 per
cent of first-preference votes. As it was, Blair got 63 per cent of the seats on
43 per cent of the vote - which is manifestly unfair. But as the contemporary
polling shows, under AV, the Tories would have ended up with just 10 per cent of
the seats - an even greater distortion than the Lib Dems suffer at the moment.
To add insult to injury, the projections show that Paddy Ashdown's troops would
have ended up with 45 more seats than the Tories, on almost half of the share of
first-preference votes.

Whatever your feelings about the Tory party, it's impossible to argue that this
would be any more democratic, or any more fair, than the current system - and
that's without considering how much less accountable these exaggerated
majorities would have made the governments concerned, which weren't exactly
noted for their tolerance of opposition viewpoints in the first place.

As long as we stick to single-member, constituency-based elections, the voting
system will always be unfair to someone. At the moment, it's the Lib Dems. But
while AV compensates somewhat for this, it doesn't make things fairer for anyone
else - and by giving second, third and fourth preferences the same weight as
first choices as the candidates are winnowed down, it opens the door to even
greater distortions of the electorate's wishes, and far less representative
government. First past the post isn't perfect, by any means - but claiming that
AV is any fairer is an argument that just doesn't wash.

For previous posts in the series, see here

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Here's how to vote if you want to quit EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 49

LENGTH: 83  words


CONGRATULATIONS on your campaign to persuade the Westminster Government to
honour its promise to allow the people to decide, through a referendum, whether
we wish to remain a member of the EU.

That this is wanted is obvious from the number of readers' letters in the Daily
Express. Let me reassure them that, in the Scottish Parliament elections, they
will be able to vote for UKIP, which has, since 1993, campaigned on such a
policy.

George Cormack, UKIP Parliamentary Candidate, Mid Scotland and Fife

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

PROTESTERS' DEFIANCE AS FRENCH BURKA BAN BEGINS

LENGTH: 474 words


From Peter Allen in Paris

TWO Muslim women wearing full face veils yesterday became the first to be
arrested following France's introduction of a ban on burkas.

Both were taking part in a demonstration against the measure in front of Notre
Dame in Paris.

Technically, they should now face fines of 150 euros (6132) as well as
citizenship lessons.

But officers involved in the arrest on the ban's first day said they were likely
to be released shortly after being questioned about an illegal gathering.

Alexis Marsan, a public order official, confirmed that the rally was
unauthorised, and that others taking part had also been arrested.

'Today was not about arresting people because of wearing the veil. It was for
not having respected the requirement to declare a demonstration,' she said.

Rachid Nekkaz, a Muslim activist who organised the protest, said it was held to
oppose the ban.

The property dealer is urging women to engage in 'civil disobedience' by
continuing to wear the veil if they so desire and called on supporters to hold a
silent prayer in protest in front of Notre Dame.

Mr Nekkaz said he would help pay fines and was putting a property worth
61.76million up for sale to fund his campaign.

Among the protesters was 32-year-old Muslim convert Kenza Drider, who said she
would be prepared to contest the legislation at the European Court of Human
Rights.

'This law is an attack on my European rights,' said Mrs Drider, the daughter of
Moroccan immigrants.

Police admitted they were enforcing the ban 'extremely cautiously' because of
fears of provoking violence. They fear Muslim extremists will use the law to
provoke fights with officers.

Police have already been warned not to arrest women in or around mosques, and
de-veilings by citizens are also banned. The strict instructions, from interior
minister Claude Guent, are contained in a nine-page circular issued to officers.

With tensions running high within the country's six million-strong Muslim
community, officers have been told to look out for members of the public taking
the law into their own hands.

Instead they will have to call the police, who will in turn have four hours to
consider whether an offender should be fined. France is the second country in
Europe, after Belgium, to introduce a full ban on a garment which immigration
minister Eric Besson has called a walking coffin.

While French women face fines and civic duty guidance if they break the law, men
who force wives or daughters to wear burkas will face up to a year in prison and
fines of up to 625,000. Belgium introduced a full ban last year, although it has
not been enforced with any vigour.

A ban also looks likely in Holland, Spain and Switzerland.

There are no plans to introduce a similar measure in Britain, although
politicians from the UK Independence Party and some Tory backbenchers have
suggested one.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

CRASH PILOT THREATENED TO KILL ME, SAYS UKIP LEADER

LENGTH: 316 words


Daily Mail Reporter

THE pilot of a plane which crashed injuring the leader of the UK Independence
Party made death threats to the politician afterwards because he believed he was
making money out of the accident, a jury heard yesterday.

Nigel Farage feared for his life after Justin Adams said he had ordered a gun
and threatened to 'slot' him.

The jury heard that Adams felt the MEP profited through speaking to the media
while he was unable to talk publicly or even communicate with the Ukip leader
directly until the investigation had concluded.

Adams was flying the light aircraft which nose-dived into a field on General
Election day last year with Mr Farage on board after a publicity stunt went
wrong.

The 45-year-old pilot was cleared of being at fault for the crash, but a court
was yesterday told he was angry that the investigation had led to the break-up
of his marriage and his business failing.

He said it left him battling mental health problems as well as the injuries he
sustained in the accident. When the pair met up after Adams was cleared of blame
by the Civil Aviation Authority, the pilot told Mr Farage that he had intended
to kill him and could not be sure that he would not kill him in the future.

'He said "I used to be in the special forces and no-one is safe, do you
understand me?",' Mr Farage told a jury at Oxford Crown Court.

'Then there was a comment about "I know people and I can get gadgets and
weapons".'

Mr Farage added: 'He said "I know this may not be rational, but I have lost
everything and if I kill you I will then kill myself".

'He believed I had made money. He believed I had profited out of the accident
and that was simply untrue,' said Mr Farage.

The evening after Mr Farage met with Adams, on November 26 last year, the pilot
called the MEP's secretary and told her he had ordered a gun.

Adams denies making a total of five threats to kill. The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip chief's 'death threat' fears

BYLINE: Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 262 words


THE pilot of a plane that crashed injuring Ukip leader Nigel Farage made death
threats to the politician because he believed he was making money out of the
accident, a jury heard yesterday.

Mr Farage said he feared for his life after Justin Adams threatened to kill him
because he felt the politician profited through speaking about their plane crash
while he was forced to stay silent.

Adams was flying the light aircraft which nose-dived into a field on general
election day last year with the Ukip leader on board after a publicity stunt
went wrong. The 45-year-old pilot was cleared of blame for the crash, but the
jury heard he was angry the investigation led to the break-up of his marriage
and his business failing.

He said it also left him battling mental health problems as well as the injuries
he sustained.

When the pair met up after Adams was cleared by the Civil Aviation Authority,
the pilot told Mr Farage that he had intended to kill him at this meeting and
could not be sure that he would not kill him in the future, the jury heard.

Mr Farage told Oxford Crown Court: "He said 'I used to be in the special forces
and no one is safe, do you understand me?'."

Mr Farage said Adams was angry he was free to talk to the media about the crash
but the pilot could not until the inquiry had concluded.

Mr Farage said: "He believed I had profited out of the accident and that was
simply untrue."

Mental nurse Paul Lazarus said: "Justin felt he was badly portrayed in the press
and on the internet."

Adams denies making five threats to kill. The trial was adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rescuer helps pull Nigel Farage from the wreckage
Crash pilot Justin Adams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ukip chief's 'death threat' fears

BYLINE: By Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 262  words


THE pilot of a plane that crashed injuring Ukip leader Nigel Farage made death
threats to the politician because he believed he was making money out of the
accident, a jury heard yesterday.

Mr Farage said he feared for his life after Justin Adams threatened to kill him
because he felt the politician profited through speaking about their plane crash
while he was forced to stay silent.

Adams was flying the light aircraft which nose-dived into a field on general
election day last year with the Ukip leader on board after a publicity stunt
went wrong. The 45-year-old pilot was cleared of blame for the crash, but the
jury heard he was angry the investigation led to the break-up of his marriage
and his business failing.

He said it also left him battling mental health problems as well as the injuries
he sustained.

When the pair met up after Adams was cleared by the Civil Aviation Authority,
the pilot told Mr Farage that he had intended to kill him at this meeting and
could not be sure that he would not kill him in the future, the jury heard.

Mr Farage told Oxford Crown Court: "He said 'I used to be in the special forces
and no one is safe, do you understand me?'."

Mr Farage said Adams was angry he was free to talk to the media about the crash
but the pilot could not until the inquiry had concluded.

Mr Farage said: "He believed I had profited out of the accident and that was
simply untrue."

Mental nurse Paul Lazarus said:

"Justin felt he was badly portrayed in the press and on the internet."

Adams denies making five threats to kill. The trial was adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rescuer helps pull Nigel Farage from the wreckage Crash pilot Justin
Adams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Fury as EU migrants carry out 500 crimes every week in Britain

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 419  words


CRIMINALS from other European Union nations are being convicted of more than 500
offences a week in the UK, disturbing police figures showed yesterday.

Poles and Romanians were among the worst cases, raising fresh concerns about the
wisdom of expanding the EU eastwards.

The overwhelming majority of the foreign crooks could not be sent home after
serving prison sentences because their deportation has been forbidden under
Brussels freedom of-movement laws.

Last night, the revelation of the EU crime wave ignited fresh anger at the
collapse of border controls caused by laws from Brussels.

Paul Nuttall, a UK Independence Party Euro-MP, said: "A sovereign nation should
be able to decide who is allowed to live within its borders and who is not.

"If somebody commits a crime here, they should be booted out."

Figures released by the Association of Chief Police Officers following a Freedom
of Information request show that more than 54,000 criminals from EU countries
have been convicted in the last two ears.

Senior police officers complain that the influx of lawbreakers, often with poor
or no English, is putting a massive strain on their resources.

A spokeswoman from ACPO said:

"The growing number of new communities has certainly brought greater complexity
to the pattern of crime and have contributed to already stretched resources. We
have to adapt all the time to deal with new and emerging problems."

The figures were compiled as part of a system between EU police forces where
officers must notify their counterparts in another EU member state if one of its
citizens is convicted of a crime.

ACPO's statistics show that a total of 27,056 notifications were made during
2010 and 27,379 in 2009 - equivalent to 520 crimes a week.

During 2010, 6,777 Poles and 4,343 Romanians - by far the largest immigrant
communities - were convicted in the UK. Two years ago, Slovakian Marek Harcar
was jailed for life for the rape and murder of businesswoman Moira Jones, 40, in
Glasgow's Queens Park.

Ms Jones was walking from her car to her house when she was attacked on May 28,
2008.

The Slovakian had 13 previous convictions, four involving violence.

And two Lithuanians were sentenced to life for the murder of Jolanta Bledaite.

Vitas Plytnykas, 41, was told he must spend at least 28 years in jail for
murdering and dismembering Ms Bledaite, 35, also from Lithuania. His accomplice,
Aleksandras Skirda, 20, will have to serve at least 20 years. They suffocated
their victim at the flat she shared with Skirda in Brechin, Angus.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury as EU migrants carry out 500 crimes every week in Britain

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 421  words


CRIMINALS from other European Union nations are being convicted of more than 500
offences a week in the UK, disturbing police figures showed yesterday.

Poles and Romanians were among the worst cases, raising fresh concerns about the
wisdom of expanding the EU eastwards.

The overwhelming majority of the foreign crooks could not be sent home after
serving prison sentences because their deportation has been forbidden under
Brussels freedom of-movement laws.

Last night, the revelation of the EU crime wave ignited fresh anger at the
collapse of border controls caused by laws from Brussels.

Paul Nuttall, a UK Independence Party Euro-MP, said: "A sovereign nation should
be able to decide who is allowed to live within its borders and who is not.

"If somebody commits a crime here, they should be booted out."

Figures released by the Association of Chief Police Officers following a Freedom
of Information request show that more than 54,000 criminals from EU countries
have been convicted in the last two ears.

Senior police officers complain that the influx of lawbreakers, often with poor
or no English, is putting a massive strain on their resources.

One said even cautioning a foreign criminal could take six hours.

A spokeswoman from ACPO said:

"The growing number of new communities has certainly brought greater complexity
to the pattern of crime and have contributed to already stretched resources.

"We have to adapt all the time to deal with new and emerging problems. However
we pride ourselves on our strong relationships with our local communities and
the way we deal with the issues that emerge."

The figures were compiled as part of a system between EU police forces where
officers must notify their counterparts in another EU member state if one of its
citizens is convicted of a crime.

ACPO's statistics show that a total of 26,956 notifications were made during
2010 and 27,379 in 2009 - equivalent to 520 crimes a week.

During 2010, 6777 Poles and 4,343 Romanians - by far the largest immigrant
communities - were convicted in the UK.

In the list was Pole Piotr Zasada, 33, jailed for life last year after he
stabbed his ex-girlfriend and threw her out of a second-floor window in
Bournemouth.

A further 4,176 offenders were from Lithuania and 2,423 from Ireland. Excluding
Ireland, the largest numbers of offenders all came from nations that joined the
EU between 2004 and 2007.

A Home Office spokesman said:

"We are committed to removing foreign lawbreakers from the UK.

We removed 5,235 foreign national prisoners in 2010."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Call for UK burka ban grows after arrests in France

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 426  words


POLICE made the first arrests yesterday of women flouting France's new burka ban
amid fresh calls to outlaw them in Britain too.

Anyone who appears veiled in public in France can now be fined GBP 130 under a
law that came into effect yesterday.

The move sparked calls for a similar approach in this country, with surveys
showing there was widespread public support for a law that would make it illegal
for anyone to cover their face in public.

Tory MP Philip Hollobone has tabled a private member's bill that would ban veils
in public, while UKIP has won public support for its policy on outlawing the
burka.

Mr Hollobone announced his bill last year, saying: "This is Britain. We are not
a Muslim country. Covering your face in public is strange, and to many people
both intimidating and offensive.

"We are never going to get along with having a fully integrated society if a
substantial minority insist on concealing their identity from everyone else."

Last night, UKIP's Gerard Batten said: "UKIP is opposed to the burka because it
is a physical manifestation of extremist Islam which is intolerant and
incompatible with Western liberal democracy.

"UKIP policy is to ban it from all public institutions, buildings and public
transport; private organisations and buildings must have a blanket ban on all
facecoverings or no policy at all."

In Paris, two women were arrested at a small-scale demonstration outside Notre
Dame Cathedral, while British militants staged a much larger protest outside the
French Embassy in London.

The first to be arrested in Paris was Kenza Drider, a 32-year-old Muslim convert
and a staunch opponent of the ban on "concealing the face in a public space",
who was led away by police officers as the protest began.

Only about a dozen people, including three women in burkas, were involved in the
protest in central Paris.

The ban affects women who wear the niqab, which has just a slit for the eyes,
and the burka, which has a mesh screen over the eyes.

Both are quite rare in France, whose five million Muslims are largely moderate.

Police said they were enforcing the ban "extremely cautiously" because of fears
of provoking violence.

While French women face fines if they break the law, men who force their wives
or daughters to wear burkas will face up to a year in prison and fines of up to
GBP 25,000.

Should the burka be banned in Britain too?

NO: 0901 030 8341

No text DXTUENO to 80088

YES: 0901 030 8340

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drider was the first to be arrested While only a handful of people
protested in France, fundamentalists were out in force in London yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Islamophobia and the media - a timely book

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 344 words

ABSTRACT

How press myths feed prejudice about Muslims in Britain

FULL TEXT

France's ban on women wearing the burqa and niqab in public was reported in
today's Daily Express with the headline, .

The "call" amounted to a quote from a UKIP MEP, merely restating that party's
long-standing policy, and a mention of a private member's bill tabled by a Tory
MP a year ago ().

In other words, the only "call" came from the paper itself. By Express standards
when reporting on matters Muslim, this was a minor indiscretion.

Consider these gems: Hogwash: Now the PC brigade bans piggy banks in case they
upset Muslims (); Christmas is banned: it offends Muslims (); Now Christ is
banned ().

These examples are taken from a book that was published this week, *, edited by
Julian Petley and Robin Richardson .

It is a timely and important book, as another author who has written widely on
the same subject, Elizabeth Poole, points out.

There are terrific contributions from several media academics and a key chapter
- "Keeping your integrity - and your job: voices from the newsroom" - was
written by The Guardian columnist Hugh Muir and fellow journalist Laura Smith.

Few topics are as controversial as the media treatment of Muslims, and too few
journalists take it seriously. They should, because they are responsible for the
stories people retell.

It is press-generated myths about Islam that fuel misunderstandings and feed
prejudice, and thus bedevil rational discussion.

I was therefore delighted to take part in a feature on the subject that is set
to be screened on ITV'sLondon Tonight on Thursday (though, of course, it should
have a national screening).

Too often, this kind of media scrutiny of the media is confined to universities.
The Petley-Richardson book should be read by every journalist.

*Published by Oneworld (RRP, £19.199)

Sources:///

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

PILOT CLAIM;
FARAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 71 words


THE pilot of a plane that crashed injuring UKIP leader Nigel Farage later made
death threats to the politician, a jury heard yesterday.

After Justin Adams, 45, was cleared of blame for the crash, he allegedly told Mr
Farage, 47, he had intended to kill him as he thought he was making cash out of
the disaster. Mr Farage refuted this.

Adams, of Buckland, denies five threats to kill.

The trial resumes today at Oxford crown court.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Crashed pilot trial: 'I will kill Farage'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 148 words


THE pilot of a light aircraft that crashed, injuring UKIP leader Nigel Farage,
later made death threats to the politician, a court heard yesterday.

Justin Adams, 45, was cleared of fault over the crash, which happened during a
publicity stunt on Election Day last year.

But jurors were told he grew angry as he believed Mr Farage, 47, was making
money from media coverage of the episode.

A CAA probe into the crash sparked the failure of Adams' marriage and business,
the court heard.

Mr Farage said he was threatened when they met.

The politician said: "He told me, 'I was in the special forces. No one is safe.
I can get weapons'.

"He said, 'I was going to kill you today. I can't preclude that happening in the
future. I've lost everything. If I kill you I will then kill myself'."

Adams, of Buckland, Oxfordshire, denies making five threats to kill. The trial
continues at Oxford Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Farage ... plane crash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'Kill threat' to Farage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 99 words


THE pilot of a light aircraft that crashed, injuring UKIP leader Nigel Farage,
later made death threats to the politician, a court heard yesterday.

Justin Adams, 45, was cleared of fault over the crash last Election Day.

But jurors were told he grew angry as he believed Mr Farage, 47, was making
money from media coverage of the episode.

A CAA probe into the crash sparked the failure of Adams' marriage and business.
Mr Farage said: "He told me, 'If I kill you I will then kill myself'."

Adams, of Buckland, Oxfordshire, denies making five threats to kill. The trial
continues at Oxford Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Coalitions fail from the bottom, not the top;
If party leaders want an electoral pact, AV offers them the best chance of
making it stick

BYLINE: Vernon Bogdanor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 883 words


'England", Disraeli declared, "does not love coalitions." Between 1918 and 2010
Britain had only two peacetime coalitions. The first was a continuation of Lloyd
George's wartime Government and ended in 1922. The second was the 1931 National
Government. Both were dominated by Conservatives but supported by Liberals, with
some MPs from other parties. But, by contrast with the Cameron-Clegg Government,
both were formed before, not after, general elections. Both appealed to the
country as coalitions and were enthusiastically endorsed by voters, winning
landslide victories in the general elections of 1918 and 1931.

Disraeli also claimed that coalitions "though successful, have always found
this, that their triumph has been brief". The two coalitions proved
insufficiently resilient to survive fluctuations in political opinion; and both
split the Liberals.

"He can be Prime Minister for life if he likes," the Conservative leader Andrew
Bonar Law declared in 1918 of the war hero Lloyd George. Yet in 1922 Lloyd
George was repudiated by the Conservatives and never held office again, while
the Liberal split caused by forming the coalition never really healed. In 1932,
a year after the National Government's landslide victory, the Liberals split
once more. One group resigned from the Government, the other, the Liberal
Nationals, remained, merging with the Conservatives in 1968.

Some Conservatives, including the former Prime Minister Sir John Major, believe
that the Cameron-Clegg coalition could be prolonged via an electoral pact. But,
under first-past-the-post, the only way to achieve that is through mutual
withdrawal by the coalition partners. There would be, in each constituency, only
one official coalition candidate. That was what occurred in the "coupon"
election of 1918.

But the "coupon" caused much toil and trouble. For parties are not disciplined
armies that can command their constituency organisations, whose fundamental
purpose, after all, is to fight elections. A constituency party will stand aside
for a rival only when there is genuine warmth at local level. Even then, a John
the Baptist figure might come forward, calling himself "independent
Conservative" or "independent Liberal Democrat", to siphon off the votes that
have been so laboriously bargained away. That happened to Asquith in 1918 when,
despite receiving the coupon, he was rejected in East Fife, which he had held
since 1885, in favour of an independent, uncouponed Conservative.

The alternative vote, however, could facilitate an electoral pact. Its effect on
representation is unlikely to be marked. Even in Australia, where it is
compulsory to mark all preferences, fewer than 10 per cent of those elected win
through second or later preferences. But AV makes it easier for parties working
together in government to co-operate at elections. No party would have to
withdraw its candidate; instead, the coalition partners would simply ask voters
to give their second preferences to each other.

The unspoken issue in the referendum, therefore, is whether voters like
coalitions. If they do, they should vote "yes"; if not, they should vote "no".
But even under AV, parties would not own the votes of their supporters. Liberal
Democrats might prefer to transfer to the Greens or Labour than the
Conservatives; Tories might transfer to UKIP rather than to the Lib Dems.
Continuation of the coalition, therefore, depends more on opinion in the
constituencies than on agreement among the leaders.

Both the Lloyd George coalition and the National Government were undermined from
below, not from above. In 1922, the great men in the Government, Lloyd George,
Churchill, the Conservative leader Austen Chamberlain and the Lord Chancellor
Lord Birkenhead - "the glittering birds of paradise" in Lord Beaverbrook's words
- all favoured coalition. Only two obscure Cabinet ministers disagreed.

But Conservatives at constituency level were determined to reject coalition. By
1922, 180 Conservative constituency associations had chosen candidates opposed
to it. When Conservative MPs met at the Carlton Club to decide on the future of
the Government, the outcome was predetermined. One Conservative predicted there
would be "a slice off the top", since, if the leaders ignored constituency
opinion, as in fact happened, they would be repudiated.

In 1932 the National Liberal Federation persuaded Liberal ministers to leave the
Government, condemning the "agreement to differ" that allowed free-traders to
remain in an administration committed to tariff reform. Lloyd George compared
the party's undignified position to that of a cat that "has pushed its head into
a cream jug and cannot get it out without either breaking the jug or having
someone pull it out by the tail".

The current coalition undoubtedly benefits from good relations between David
Cameron and Nick Clegg. But its future depends less upon whether the leaders
continue to lead than on whether the followers continue to follow. When the
followers cease to do so, they will force the cat out, even if the coalition jug
breaks in the process.

Vernon Bogdanor is a research professor at the Institute of Contemporary
History, King''s College London, and author of The Coalition and the
Constitution (Hart)

A John the Baptist figure might appear to siphon off votes

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lloyd George and Churchill: two of "the glittering birds of paradise"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEPs reject move to freeze their pay

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 482 words


MEPS have voted against measures that would have frozen or reduced their
salaries and parliamentary allowances to bring the European Parliament more in
line with national governments' spending cuts.

European politicians were branded "shameful" for rejecting three cost-cutting
proposals.

The first amendment to be voted down called for MEPs and senior European Union
staff to fly economy class for journeys shorter than four hours, instead of
business class, which would have saved an estimated £20 million a year. They
also rejected an amendment which recommended that "savings in the parliament
should start by its own members", and called for no increases in MEPs' salaries
and parliamentary allowances in 2012.

Finally, they rejected a third amendment, which stated that MEPs should not be
paid for both being in the parliament and travelling to or from it. MEPs receive
an average flat rate allowance of £168 to cover the cost of travelling from
their homes to either Brussels or Strasbourg, where the parliament sits.

MEPs are paid an average of £83,000 a year, more than MPs in the Commons, who
have an annual salary of £65,738. They also receive a daily "subsistence
allowance" of £265, can claim back up to £3,600 a year for foreign travel, and
can be reimbursed for up to 24 domestic return journeys. Members also receive up
to £242,000 annually in staff salaries and office expenses and benefit from a
generous health care and pension system.

It is estimated that an MEP can cost European taxpayers £400,000 a year.

Conservative and UK Independence Party MEPs voted for the cost-saving proposals
but Labour and Liberal Democrats either voted against or abstained. Marta
Andreasen, a former chief accountant at the European Commission and a Ukip MEP,
said that in rejecting the measures at a time of severe cuts across Europe, MEPs
had shown their "true colours".

"This proves categorically and unambiguously that when the European Parliament
speaks of austerity measures, it applies to everybody else except the
institution itself," she said.

"MEPs were given the opportunity to lead by example and save millions of pounds
in the budget for 2012. Instead they chose to show their true colours to
taxpayers across Europe. I am appalled that Labour and Liberal MEPs voted to fly
in the lap of luxury at taxpayers' expense while ordinary people are taking cuts
in services and paying more tax."

A Tory spokesman said the failure of Labour and Lib Dem MEPs to back the
proposals was "shameful".

Derek Vaughan, a Labour MEP and party spokesman on the budget committee, said:
"Labour MEPs abstained on these proposals because to support them would have
been a misleading exercise in political posturing."

MEPs also gave their blessing to the House of European History museum, which
will cost up to £136.5million, and approved a 2.3 per cent increase in next
year's parliament's budget to £1.5billion.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 11, 2011 Monday

Illegals human rights farce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 164 words


THOUSANDS of foreign criminals and bogus asylum seekers are walking free due to
human rights laws.

Home Office figures reveal 8,000 a year go free because of fears that they will
sue if they are detained.

Last week it emerged one Algerian migrant received £15,000 for "distress"
suffered in jail, while in October a Somali criminal got £16,000 because he was
"wrongly" put in a detention centre.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "The Human Rights Act and European Convention on
Human Rights are a charter for foreign criminals and asylum seekers to get
access to the UK.

"Granting release to people awaiting deportation is giving them a chance to
evade deportation.

It is a farce. The system is descending into chaos because we are obliged to
follow laws created by foreign courts."

In the second half of last year, 3,685 asylum seekers, criminals, illegal
workers and visa overstayers received temporary release. The Home Office said:
"The courts will not allow us to hold people indefinitely."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

Human rights scandal of illegals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 299 words


THOUSANDS of foreign criminals and bogus asylum seekers are walking free due to
human rights laws.

Corfu......Sunny 22 72 Dublin......Sunny 17 63 Dubrovnik...Sunny 18 64
Faro.......Sunny 23 73 Florence....Sunny 20 68 Gibraltar ... Sunny 22 72
Guernsey ... Sunny 18 64 Mallorca. . Malta. ... Melbourne Miami. ... Moscow. .
Nairobi... New Delhi.

Home Office figures reveal 8,000 a year go free because of fears that they will
sue if they are detained.

Last week it emerged one Algerian migrant received £15,000 for "distress"
suffered in jail, while in October a Somali criminal got £16,000 because he was
"wrongly" put in a detention centre.

.. Sunny 26 79. . Sunny 23 73. . Cloudy 14 57. . Fair 31 88. . Fair 3 37. .
Cloudy 24 75. . Drizzle 26 79 TelAviv.....Sunny 22 Tenerife. ... Sunny 22
Toronto. . .. Sunny 11 Tunis.......Sunny 26 Venice.....Sunny 19 Vienna.....Sunny
14 Warsaw. ... Cloudy 9 Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "The Human Rights Act and
European Convention on Human Rights are a charter for foreign criminals and
asylum seekers to get access to the UK. Granting 72 72 52 79 66 57 48 release to
people awaiting deportation is giving them a chance to evade deportation.

Amsterdam. Sunny 15 59 Athens.....Sunny 23 73 Barcelona... Sunny 22 72
Berlin......Sunny 15 59 Budapest... Fair 13 55 Cairo.......Sunny 27 81
CapeTown..Sunny 30 86 Casablanca. Fair 20 68 Corfu......Sunny 22 72
Dublin......Sunny 17 63 Dubrovnik...Sunny 18 64 Faro.......Sunny 23 73
Florence....Sunny 20 68 Gibraltar. ... Sunny 22 72 It is a farce. The system is
descending into chaos because we are obliged to follow laws created by foreign
courts." Hong Istanbul. Jersey. Larnaca Las Los Luxor Malaga Mallorca Malta
Miami Moscow Nairobi The Home Office said: "The courts will not allow us to hold
people indefinitely."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Human rights scandal of illegals

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 143  words


THOUSANDS of foreign criminals and bogus asylum seekers are walking free due to
human rights laws.

Home Office figures reveal 8,000 a year go free because of fears that they will
sue if they are detained.

Last week it emerged one Algerian migrant received GBP 15,000 for "distress"
suffered in jail, while in October a Somali criminal got GBP 16,000 because he
was "wrongly" put in a detention centre.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "The Human Rights Act and European Convention on
Human Rights are a charter for foreign criminals and asylum seekers to get
access to the UK. Granting release to people awaiting deportation is giving them
a chance to evade deportation. It is a farce. The system is descending into
chaos because we are obliged to follow laws created by foreign courts."

The Home Office said:

"The courts will not allow us to hold people indefinitely."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Illegals human rights farce Dare 'game' kills banker

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 165  words


THOUSANDS of foreign criminals and bogus asylum seekers are walking free due to
human rights laws.

Home Office figures reveal 8,000 a year go free because of fears that they will
sue if they are detained.

Last week it emerged one Algerian migrant received GBP 15,000 for "distress"
suffered in jail, while in October a Somali criminal got GBP 16,000 because he
was "wrongly" put in a detention centre.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said:

"The Human Rights Act and European Convention on Human Rights are a charter for
foreign criminals and asylum seekers to get access to the UK.

"Granting release to people awaiting deportation is giving them a chance to
evade deportation. It is a farce. The system is descending into chaos because we
are obliged to follow laws created by foreign courts."

In the second half of last year, 3,685 asylum seekers, criminals, illegal
workers and visa overstayers received temporary release.

The Home Office said: "The courts will not allow us to hold people
indefinitely."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

May rules out similar move in Britain

BYLINE: Nigel Morris and Sarah Morrison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 199 words


The prospect of any attempt to ban the Islamic full veil in public in Britain
has been firmly ruled out by Theresa May, the Home Secretary.

Ministers believe there is little pressure, either politically or among the
public, for the UK to follow the French lead and outlaw the use of face-covering
veils such as the niqab or burka.

Although David Cameron has warned of "different cultures" being encouraged by
"state multiculturalism" to live separate lives, the Government is adamant that
to impose a ban on the veil would run contrary to British instincts. Calls for a
ban have been limited so far to one Tory MP, Philip Hollobone, and the UK
Independence Party. Mr Hollobone attempted last year to champion a Commons bill
outlawing face coverings, but received no public declarations of support from
any other MP.

The Home Office said yesterday: "It is not for government to say what people can
and cannot wear. Such a proscriptive approach would be out of keeping with our
nation's longstanding record of tolerance. Accordingly we do not support a ban
on wearing the burka."

Baroness Warsi, the first woman Muslim Cabinet minister, has also defended the
right of women to choose to wear a face veil.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 10, 2011

Liberte, egalite, fraternite - unless, of course, you would like to wear a
burqa: France's controversial ban on traditional Islamic dress strikes at the
very freedoms Europeans should cherish

BYLINE: Viv Groskop

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1136 words


There was a time when Shazia Mirza, stand-up comic and British Asian Muslim,
performed as a character who wore a hijab. She doesn't now. But she still has a
good line on the full-body veil. "All my cousins in France wear the burqa. Which
is great. Because they all use the same bus pass."

Not any more. Tomorrow, France launches a full-scale ban. For Sarkozy and his
friends, the burqa is no joke. It's dangerous and illegal. Women wearing the
burqa and the niqab (the more common facial veil) will not exactly be arrested
on sight. But if they wear a veil over their face in a public place, anyone can
ask them to uncover their face - or leave. Not quite stop and search. Just stop
and unmask. If a woman refuses to co-operate, citizens are advised to call the
police. The fine is euros 150.

Does this sound a little unfriendly to you? If so, be very worried. Because this
trend is spreading. A ban is already in operation in Belgium and under
discussion in Canada, Denmark and Spain. It is likely to become law in the
Netherlands this year or next. There have been calls in Sweden for the niqab to
be prohibited in schools and universities.

A de facto ban already exists in Italy (where a 1975 antiterrorism law forbids
the covering of the face) and Berlusconi's party has drafted a new, more
specific ruling. Last year, a Tunisian woman was fined euros 500 for wearing a
burqa in Italy's Piedmont region.

What a lot of fuss over a piece of cloth. And we haven't seen the last of this
debate in the UK. Last year, Conservative MP Philip Hollobone introduced a
private members' bill proposing a ban. Its supporters include Nigel Farage of
Ukip and, more surprisingly, Saira Khan, the entrepreneur and one-time
Apprentice contestant, a British Muslim. They all parrot the French argument.
Khan says a ban is "not racist, it's common sense". They claim the veil is a
symbol of a "divided Britain", that it's a potential security threat and
oppressive to women.

But the women's rights defence is a ridiculous excuse for something very close
to racism. As Ed Balls, then schools secretary, put it last year: "I wouldn't
want to be part of a religion myself where we said to women and girls, 'You have
to wear a veil.' But I also would not want to be in the kind of society where
people were told how to dress when they walked down the streets."

In France, the feminist campaigning group Ni Putes Ni Soumises has argued that
some niqab wearers will welcome tomorrow's ban because they wear the facial veil
unwillingly, at the instigation of their husbands. Perhaps. But in greater
numbers women are speaking out about having made their own decision. As
Chrystelle Khedrouche, a 36-year-old French-born Muslim convert, interviewed by
the BBC's Gavin Hewitt, puts it: "The French like the idea of everyone being of
the same mould and that mould must be ideal. I have made the choice not to be
unveiled. . . so to force me to unveil - that's not freedom."

Anti-burqa campaigners all over Europe suggest that this is an issue of personal
safety and basic trust. In reality, it's just a form of Islamophobia. In France,
the ban already feels unworkable, fatally divisive and, frankly, pathetic. Even
the law itself is a strange beast, which goes by the catchy name of The Bill
Prohibiting Facial Dissimulation in a Public Place. Note, no reference to Islam.

If the French were not so cowardly - and were being transparent about what they
are doing - they would actually outlaw the burqa and the niqab by name, instead
of coyly banning "the covering of the face". Presumably, it's now against the
law in France to attend a fancy dress party dressed as Zorro or Catwoman.
Because if there's one rule for one set of people who cover their face, that
same rule should surely apply to anyone whose face is not immediately visible.
Non

Indeed, if the French are going to do this, let's hope they do it properly. Le
Figaro has already expressed distress that it is technically against the law to
wear a ski mask in a public place. Bad news for the black run at Val d'Isere.
Aren't there some rampant beards that might sprout dangerously in the direction
of facial dissimulation? What happens if you make your living as Papa Noel at
Nouvelles Galeries' answer to Santa's grotto?

It's when you realise this is the sort of idiocy in play that this law falls
apart. It's not a public safety issue or even a misguided attempt to liberate
oppressed women. It's a law designed to appeal to anti-immigration sentiment
and, in France in particular, to stake a claim on the (resurgent) Front
National's territory. Over here, the fact that Ukip shouts the loudest about
this subject gives you some idea of the sort of company you would be keeping.

The fact is that in all these countries the niqab is worn by such a minority
that this feels like a witch hunt. In Belgium, where the ban is operational, it
is estimated there are 30 women who wear it. Yes, you read that correctly: 30.
You might as well just visit their house and just ask them to leave the country.
Although, why do that when you can introduce legislation that will make their
lives a misery and/or make them prisoners in their own homes?

Even in France, the number is thought to be fewer than 2,000. But still the
authorities have printed 100,000 posters and 400,000 leaflets with the smug
slogan: "The republic lives with its face uncovered." This a PR exercise that
has nothing to do with the veil and everything to do with rallying nationalistic
sentiment.

Will it work? Not necessarily. On YouTube, the anti-ban "Niqabitch" video
("bitches in niqabs") has gone viral again. This footage first appeared last
year. It shows two women wearing the niqab with mini-shorts and high heels,
strutting the streets of Paris to the Piaf-like strains of Colette Renard
purring Les Nuits d'Une Demoiselle. They pose for mobile phone photos as cabbies
toot their horns appreciatively. "We need more of this kind of thing," one
shouts. A policewoman says: "I love your outfit. Can I take a picture?" From
tomorrow, she'll have to ask them to uncover their faces or take them to the
nearest magistrate.

Jean-Francois Cope, leader of Sarkozy's UMP party, says the ban has the support
of 74% of the population. But if you read the comment threads on French news
websites, France is divided. Granted, many support the ban. As one commentator
writes: "This is France. Live by French laws." But equal numbers voice the idea
that this ban violates "the basic French principle of liberty".

Exactement. Because liberty means allowing others to get on with their lives,
even if you don't approve of their wardrobe choices. In the meantime, anyone
planning a trip to the Alps might want to select their winter headgear very
carefully.

Captions:

A Muslim couple by the Grande Arche de La Defense, Paris.

Mark Henley/PANOS


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday

Politics: Cuts: Organiser of London anti-debt rally ready to brave 'anarchists
with smelly armpits'

BYLINE: David Sharrock

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 538 words


It started as a tweet, quickly became a Facebook group and now hopes to grow
into a fully fledged alternative to last month's anti-cuts demonstration, which
brought more than a quarter of a million people on to the streets of London.

Next month the Rally Against Debt will strut its stuff in central London. They
say that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, but will a loose
collective of the libertarian conservative fringe prove able to match the
organising muscle of the TUC when they demonstrate in support of the
government's drastic national debt reduction policies?

"It'll take more than a few anarchists with placards and smelly armpits to
frighten me," said Annabelle Fuller, the Rally Against Debt founder and former
adviser to Nigel Farage, the UK Independence party leader. Fuller, a former
Territorial Army member, has received threats but is undeterred.

"Yes, the rally could become a target of the loony left but we are working with
the police and I think it will reflect very badly on them if they decide to
hijack our peaceful demonstration," she said. Fuller, who studied economics and
international law at Royal Holloway, University of London, called her response
to last month's union-sponsored anti-cuts rally an "organic, grassroots movement
representing the quiet majority" which sprang from a spontaneous reaction to
what she saw in London that day. Although the rally was overwhelmingly peaceful
a few hundred violent protesters grabbed the headlines by running amok in
central London while UK Uncut, an anti-tax avoidance group, occupied Fortnum &
Mason. "My friend tweeted 'Let's do our own rally' and I said 'Yeah, let's do
it'. So I set up a Facebook group and lots of people turned up."

She claims that there is no prime organisational brain behind the rally but
admits that the Taxpayers' Alliance, which is backed by Tory funders, is playing
a big role, including handling the legal side of applying for permission to
stage the rally and liaising with the police. Fuller said she was realistic
about the numbers the Rally Against Debt might attract. So far some 1,600 people
have registered to attend via the Rally Against Debt website.

So far one group which took part in last month's anti-cuts rally has confirmed
that it will organise a counter-demonstration, while others are still
considering what to do. Chris Banbery, national secretary of Right to Work,
said: "We are not prepared to allow them to hold a rally without there being a
counter-protest. We will be there and they will never be able to mobilise more
numbers than us."

Nigel Stanley, from the TUC, said: "It's hard to imagine a protest march in
favour of cuts to disability living allowance and child benefit, jobs cuts for
nurses, doctors and police officers, and library and youth centre closures will
encourage more than a handful of people to turn out."

Danni Wright, speaking for UK Uncut, said: "It's great that other people are
expressing their democratic right to protest, which is a vital and healthy part
of our democracy. We fundamentally disagree with the message that they are
putting across."

Captions:

1,600

The number of people that have signed up to attend the Rally Against Debt
demonstration in London

next month

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 9, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PORTUGAL THREAT TO MPs' HOLIDAYS;
Tories demand vote on £4bn bail-out deal

BYLINE: KEVIN SCHOFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


LAZY MPs must be hauled back to Parliament before Britain agrees to help bail
out Portugal, angry Tories demanded yesterday.

They say the Commons - shut for a three-week Easter break - should vote on the
proposals.

Chancellor George Osborne flew to Hungary yesterday to thrash out the deal with
European finance ministers. Portugal wants up to £80billion to stop it going
bust and our share of the rescue deal - is set to be at least £4.4billion.

The Treasury says we must cough up because of an agreement signed by Labour.

But Eurosceptic MPs say we should refuse to pay because of our financial woes.

The Sun revealed earlier this week that the Commons is sitting for just 17 days
over the next two months.

Tory backbencher Bill Cash demanded MPs cancel their holidays and get back to
debate the issue.

He stormed: "There's a very powerful case for a recall.

"If George Osborne had said he had agreed to underwrite £4 billion-worth of
guarantees, that would have seriously changed his Budget."

Colleague Peter Bone said: "There is a very strong case for a recall. We
shouldn't contribute to any bailout without full approval from Parliament."

With the euro heading for the rocks there was fury last night over Brussels
plans for a giant karaoke event to promote the European Union.

UKIP Euro MP Paul Nuttall said: "Words fail me when confronted with idiocy like
this."

Meanwhile, senior MPs have backed George Osborne's determination to cut spending
and bring down the deficit. The Treasury Select Committee said he was right not
to have a "Plan B" because it would spook world money markets.

The Sun Says - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Meeting . . George Osborne Big break ... Wednesday's Sun

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 8, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury over vote by MEPs 'to fly in lap of luxury'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 124  words


EURO-MPs have rejected a move to save GBP 20million a year which would have
banned them from flying business class at taxpayers' expense.

They also voted themselves a 2.3 per cent increase in their staff and
administration budget to GBP 1.5billion - despite the worsening financial
squeeze across the European Union.

The decision by the European Parliament to carry on spending - taken in
Strasbourg earlier this week - sparked outrage last night.

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Marta Andreasen said MEPs had chosen to show their
true colours to taxpayers across Europe.

Derek Clark, another Ukip Euro-MP, added: "I am appalled that while ordinary
people are taking cuts in services and paying more tax, MEPs have voted to fly
in the lap of luxury."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 8, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Rulings on human rights can be ignored'

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 452  words


ONE of the country's most senior judges has won widespread political support
after saying the Government has the right to ignore controversial Human Rights
rulings from Europe.

Lord Neuberger said the decision not to implement judgments was "ultimately a
matter for Parliament".

The Master of the Rolls said the domination of the European Court of Human
Rights over the UK would only last as long as "Parliament wants it to endure".
Lord Neuberger won praise for his words which come at a time of high tension
between Westminster and the court in Strasbourg over the right of prisoners to
vote.

In February MPs voted to reject a demand by European human rights judges that
prisoners should have the vote. They insisted that it was a matter for
Parliament, but Justice Secretary Ken Clarke has said he will comply with the
ruling. Lord Neuberger's opinion will pile pressure on David Cameron to find a
compromise.

Yesterday, Douglas Carswell, Conservative MP for Clacton, said: "It is
refreshing to hear such a senior legal figure confirming that British people
have supremacy through their parliament. Power unexercised is power lost. Again
and again we discover that we are being governed by foreign courts and
technocrats.

Lord Neuberger has made that clear with these words."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "The Master of the Rolls is absolutely correct,
Britain has the right to ignore these judgments, but he is also right that to do
so we would have to choose to leave the EU. David Cameron should listen and
allow the people of this country to make that choice."

Lord Neuberger made his comments at an annual lecture to the Bar Council and Law
Society on Wednesday night in a speech entitled Who Are The Masters Now?

He argued the implementation of judgments from the European court was ultimately
"a matter for Parliament" that British courts could not challenge, adding: "If
it chose not to implement a Strasbourg judgment, it might place the United
Kingdom in breach of its treaty obligations, but as a matter of domestic law
there would be nothing objectionable in such a course.

It would be a political decision, with which the courts could not interfere."

He went on to say: "Whatever limit membership imposes on legal sovereignty, it
is a fetter which endures only whilst our membership endures - that is, only
while Parliament wants it to endure."

His comments come as the case for a Bill of Rights is being considered by legal
experts advising the Government on ways to reform the European Convention on
Human Rights so British law is not pushed aside. One former Lord Chief Justice,
Lord Woolf, has said the UK may have to leave the convention because its judges
may not be able to balance opposing rights.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 696 words


&#10002;It seems that Tory MP Richard Drax is unlikely to want to appear on the
popular BBC series Who Do You Think You Are? any time soon. The honourable
member for South Dorset declined the chance to attend this week's launch of a
book that features extraordinary details of his family's Barbadian history. The
Sugar Barons, by Matthew Parker, includes the story of James Drax, whose new
model of slave-worked sugar plantations transformed the wealth of England and of
his family, but led to miserable slavery for very many. Richard is a direct
descendent and heir to the very same Barbados plantation. Perhaps Richard was
tied up on launch night, which was a shame for he might surely have provided
valuable insights. Especially as the scion of one of the other major West Indian
slave-owning families of the time did make an appearance. On the other hand,
it's not the ideal background for someone trying to make an impression in Big
Dave's not-so-nasty Tory party. So if Richard had somewhere else to go, maybe
it's just as well.

&#10002;Gaddafi is hiding out in his bunker. In Ivory Coast, Laurent Gbagbo is
cowering in his. Could either make room for Nick Griffin? Because things are
getting pretty bad for the BNP: money worries, legal problems, and now the
threat of criminal prosecution. The latest problem arises from the fact that the
party appears to have broken election law after Nick's attempt to oust Margaret
Hodge from Barking. It said there were no debts, as all candidates are obliged
to do under the Representation of the People Act. In fact there was an
outstanding printer's bill of £10,000 for election literature. Fearful of
prosecution, Griffin's agent, Richard Barnbrook, went to the high court seeking
a declaration that he was not to blame. Events have been closely followed by
Dominic Carman, Griffin's Lib Dem competitor in Barking; and we learn that at
the recent hearing, Mr Justice Tugendhat accepted that Barnbrook probably acted
in good faith. That could shift the problem to Griffin, who may himself have to
seek legal absolution at the high court if he is not to be prosecuted. But it's
worse than that. For Mr Justice Tugendhat also referred the whole thing to the
director of public prosecutions. This electoral transgression can bring a
one-year prison sentence or unlimited fines. Have a care Nick. A warm bunker
beats a drafty cell any day.

&#10002;Oh yes it's open season on local councils. Eric Pickles has unleashed
the dogs of war. Prepare for hostilities unceasing. But it won't necessarily be
a fair fight, as we see from this week's report by Big Brother Watch, which
takes councils to task for using bailiffs to collect in lieu of unpaid parking
fines and council tax. Spotting a corpse to kick, local government minister
Grant Shapps embraced the report, despite describing the non-collection of
council tax as an example of "breathtaking incompetence" just two weeks ago. And
what can we say about the accuracy of this report. Well on page 7, where the
methodology is explained, it states there are 36 London boroughs, when there
are, in fact, 33 (32 plus the Corporation of London). It says there are 26
English metropolitan councils: there are 36. And it refers to 26 Welsh unitary
authorities - in fact there are 22. And the rest? Who can tell?

&#10002;Royal wedding news now, and wasn't it kind of Alton Towers to give the
Duchess of Fergie the chance to compere its wedding coverage on April 29,
especially as pointedly, and poignantly, she hasn't been invited to the much
awaited love-in? Wasn't it churlish of her to turn the offer down, harrumphing
that she will be abroad. The gig would have been worth £10,000. And goodness
knows, she needs the money. But what price reputation?

&#10002;Finally, we hoped to be an influence for good concerning Godfrey Bloom,
the constantly embattled Ukip MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire. Others
jumped ship when he referred to a German MEP as a Nazi. But he has got no
better, and has now been reported to the Equalities Commission for calling
Robert Mugabe "a homicidal baboon". Seems impossible to criticise Mugabe and yet
cede the moral high ground? But then, that's Godfrey.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 8, 2011 Friday

Lib Dems fight fewer seats in 'uphill' local election battle

BYLINE: Polly Curtis, Whitehall correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 494 words


The proportion of council seats that the Liberal Democrats are contesting at the
local elections next month has fallen to its lowest point since 1999, with some
senior figures in the party now acknowledging that they face an uphill battle
because of their unpopularity in government.

Figures compiled by the Conservative and Labour parties, which have aggregated
all the official candidate declarations received by yesterday's deadline, reveal
that Labour is increasing the number of seats it is contesting fastest and that
the Conservatives have also added more candidates, but that the Lib Dems have
withdrawn from some parts of the battlefield.

Labour is contesting 11.5% more seats compared with the 2007 elections, the
Tories are contesting 4.6% more and the Lib Dems 4.6% fewer. The number of seats
in which Ukip is fielding candidates has increased by 3.9% and Green by 3.4%.
The BNP has decreased by 4.3%.

The Labour analysis shows it making big advances into traditionally Lib Dem
areas in the east and south-west of England. The Lib Dems have made their
sharpest withdrawals in the south-east and north-west.

Overall, the Tories are contesting the most seats - according to their
compilation of the figures, 93.4% of all seats compared with 72.1% for Labour
and 59.1% for the Lib Dems. At the moment the Conservatives control 211
councils, Labour 65 and the Lib Dems 32. There are 82 with no one party in
control, 12 with independent councillors and three SNP-controlled councils.

Lady Eaton, the Conservative chair of the Local Government Association,
suggested last week that Labour could become the biggest party in local
government over the next two or three years if the surge some are predicting
comes about.

A lot of focus on election night will be on Sheffield, which is Lib
Dem-controlled and includes Nick Clegg's Hallam constituency. Newcastle city
council, like Sheffield a Lib Dem northern outpost, is also vulnerable to a
Labour resurgence.

Lady Warsi, co-chairman of the Tories, said: "Labour councils charge more and
deliver worse services. The message is clear - don't let Labour do to your
council what they've done to the country."

Harriet Harman, the deputy leader of the Labour party, said: "The fifth of May
is the chance for people to show the government that they have got it wrong with
their unfair, savage and unnecessary cuts, the job losses and the risk that is
being taken with the economy."

Tim Pickstone, chief executive of the Association of Liberal Democrat
Councillors, said that he did not contest the figures the Tories and Labour had
compiled. "I suspect they are accurate. We won't lose any sleep over those
figures. We are going to emphasise our local record - very often we have strong
track records as local councillors. It's also about stressing the distinctive
things we're doing in government."

Captions:

4.6%

The percentage reduction in the number of seats being contested by the Lib Dems
compared with the 2007 elections

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              April 8, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Big drop in Lib Dem candidates for council elections leaves Labour rubbing its
hands

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 598 words


The Liberal Democrats have failed to put up candidates in hundreds of council
seats because of a shortage of activists to fight the elections on May 5, it
emerged yesterday.

The party is contesting fewer seats than past elections even in traditional
strongholds in the South and South West in the council ballot next month. A full
breakdown of candidates standing across England shows that Nick Clegg's party
will contest fewer than six out of every ten seats available.

Labour, the Conservatives, the Greens, and the UK Independence Party are
increasing the number of candidates compared with similar elections in 2007.
However, the Lib Dems will fight 59.6 per cent of seats, down more than 4 per
cent on 2007.

The pattern of dwindling candidates becomes even starker in the North where the
Lib Dems are contesting less than 48 per cent of seats. The trend will worry the
party's leadership. They are preparing themselves for a disappointing result.

A senior party source said: "It does look like it will be tough, but we always
knew that this was going to be the time - after joining the coalition and making
difficult decisions - that was going to be the toughest period for us."

In some councils such as North Warwickshire, Rossendale, South Staffordshire,
Wyre, and Tameside, Mr Clegg's party is fielding no candidates at all. The main
reason appears to be a collapse in grassroots activists though shrinking
finances at national and local level have played a part.

The party insisted that it was not absenting itself to boost the chances of its
coalition partners. But where there are no other challengers, the Tory
incumbents are expected to retain their seats without having to be re-elected.
In other seats, the lack of Lib Dem candidates could boost Labour's chances,
particularly in areas where it did badly in last year's general election.

In four councils in Devon, the Lib Dem challenge has dropped markedly since
2007. In East Devon the number of Lib Dem candidates has fallen from 35 to 27,
in North Devon from 43 to 39, in South Hams from 34 to 28 and in West Devon from
24 to 17.

Labour said the "collapse" in candidates showed that Lib Dem party activists
could not bear to defend the coalition's cuts on the doorstep. A Labour source
said: "This reflects a serious reluctance of people to come forward and carry
the can for Nick Clegg's fatal decision to go into a Conservative-led
government."

Labour is set to win up to 1,000 seats next month while the Tories could lose
more than 800 and the Lib Dems more than 300, election experts say.

Rob Hayward, a polling expert, said: "I am surprised at the marked drop in
Liberal Democrat nominations, particularly in areas where they have previously
been very strong. This could be part of a long-term decline in membership."

The inability of the Lib Dems to find enough local activists to contest seats
could indicate an even tougher night for Mr Clegg's party - more than 8,500
seats are up for grabs in 280 councils on the same day as the alternative vote
referendum.

But Mr Hayward suggested that the rise in uncontested seats could scupper the
Tories "no" campaign. Where Tory councillors are not challenged there will be
little incentive for them to go out on doorsteps defending the
firstpast-the-post system.

Lib Dem sources admitted that there were fewer candidates to contest unwinnable
seats due to a shortage of activists, but denied that the problem was linked to
financial problems nationally.

"None of our candidates is funded by the national party. We have to rely on
local donations and support," said one party source.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Lib Dem gusto at the general election appears to have evaporated

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Berlusconi to give visas for refugees to reach UK

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 423 words


BRITAIN could be inundated with migrants fleeing north Africa after Italy's
prime minister Silvio Berlusconi announced plans to give refugees permits to
live anywhere in the EU.

The permits would officially give the deluge of refugees who have poured ashore
in Italy only the right to travel within the Schengen countries such as France,
Germany and Holland. They, unlike Britain, do not have border controls.

But campaigners fear the move will make it easy for migrants from strife-torn
Tunisia and Libya to cross into the UK.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "The problem here is the European borderless state.

"Obviously these people are going to gravitate to those countries with the best
welfare and housing like the UK. There is a human crisis, but this approach
would make things permanent, rather than encourage people to return home when
peace in Libya and the whole of north Africa finally returns."

Alp Mehmet, of campaign group MigrationWatchUK, said: "Given that we are
devoting huge resources to making these countries in north Africa and the Middle
East better places to live, the last thing we want is for the people to come
over here."

Mr Berlusconi revealed his plans to grant EU residency to the migrants after the
tiny Italian island of Lampedusa found itself inundated with more than 20,000
north Africans, mostly Tunisians but some Libyans and others, who have arrived
in packed boats since unrest began in January.

Refugees have been ferried away from Lampedusa to holding centres around Italy
but the flood has continued unabated.

Mr Berlusconi met Tunisian President Foued Mbazza this week and has offered
Tunisia £70million to stem the tide but changed course and announced the plan to
issue EU visas instead after France turned back refugees at the Italian border.

"Repatriation is the main solution but many immigrants have expressed a desire
to join family and friends in France, Germany and other countries. We could
grant temporary permits to stay that would allow them to circulate freely in
Europe," he said. A spokesman for Europe's Home Affairs commissioner Cecilia
Malmstrom said yesterday: "Member states have the right to authorise the stay of
whoever they want on their territory."

Yesterday Italian coastguards mounted a rescue off Lampedusa after a boat
carrying 300 Libyan refugees capsized. Rescuers picked up 47 people, including a
pregnant woman. Up to 250 were still missing last night.

?A British air strike killed three guards and damaged a pipeline at the Sarir
oilfield yesterday, Libyan officials claimed.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Italy's Berlusconi meeting Tunisian President Foued Mbazza this week

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Britain to give £3bn bailout to Portugal

BYLINE: Sally Guyoncourt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 247 words


BRITISH taxpayers now face a bill running into billions after Portugal became
the third European nation to request a bailout.

Portugal's caretaker government asked the European Union for help last night
after months of trying to stave off its deteriorating situation from mounting
debts.

The request comes after rescue packages have already been given to Greece and
Ireland.

This latest bailout is expected to cost British taxpayers £3billion at a time
when the Daily Express is crusading for Britain to leave the EU.

Portugal's Prime Minister Jose Socrates said last night: "I tried everything but
in conscience we have reached a moment when not taking this decision would imply
risks the country shouldn't take."

Portugal's government collapsed last month after its parliament rejected
austerity measures. Euro zone officials claim Lisbon is likely to need between
£52billion and £72billion in European and International Monetary loans over
three years.

The European Commission's top economic official Olli Rehn called Portugal's
decision a "responsible move". But Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said: "Britain
should not contribute a single penny to their bailout."

Britain is not a member of the euro zone but is liable to help because former
Chancellor Alistair Darling signed the UK up as a contributor to the bailout
fund.

Last month Raoul Ruparel of think-tank Open Europe warned UK taxpayers could
face an estimated bailout bill of £3.2billion for Portugal.

CRUSADE GET US OUT OF THE EU

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Socrates begged for help

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blow for green energy as wind farms are exposed as unreliable

BYLINE: By John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 561  words


THE unreliability of wind power in Britain was exposed yesterday in a shock
report issued by environmentalists.

Over the past two years UK wind turbines metered by the National Grid ran at
just 10 per cent of capacity for more than one-third of the time.

And they ran at less than 20 per cent of their capacity for more than half the
time, it was claimed. Yet the Government is committed to building thousands more
taxpayer-subsidised wind turbines in the quest for greener energy.

The report, carried out by consultant Stuart Young for conservation charity the
John Muir Trust, said wind power "cannot be relied on" when electricity is most
needed.

It said that once a week on average the wind dropped so low that the turbines
produced enough energy for "a mere 6,667 households to boil their kettles for a
cup of tea".

During the four highest peak demands last year, the best wind could manage was
5.5 per cent of capacity.

There were 124 separate occasions from November 2008 till December 2010 when
total generation from wind farms metered by the National Grid was less than 1.25
per cent of nominal capacity.

The report, entitled Analysis Of UK Wind Generation, also rejected the industry
claim that wind farms generate on average 30 per cent of capacity.

It found that average output from wind was 27.1 per cent of metered capacity in
2009 and 21.1 per cent last year.

It concluded: "It is clear from this analysis that wind cannot be relied upon to
provide any significant level of generation at any defined time in the future.

"There is an urgent need to reevaluate the implications of reliance on wind for
any significant proportion of our energy requirement." The John Muir Trust was
founded in 1983 to safeguard wild lands against development and has fought wind
farm schemes in sensitive areas. Mr Young said: "The intermittent nature of wind
also gives rise to low wind coinciding with high energy demand.

"Sadly, wind power is not what it's cracked up to be."

Helen McDade, head of policy at the John Muir Trust, called the report "a real
eye-opener" particularly as a "fleet of wind turbines has taken over many of our
most beautiful mountains and hillsides".

Michael Hird, for anti-wind farm campaigners Country Guardian, said: "The
countryside is being industrialised for a technology that doesn't work.

"If we rely on wind power for energy we are living in cloud cuckoo land." Ukip's
energy spokesman Lord Monckton said:

"The report must be the beginning of the end for these ugly, bird-slicing,
batkilling leviathans.

"Their sinister march across our land is destroying the remote and beautiful
landscapes and the wild creatures of the UK." But energy association Renewable
UK described the report as "partial, confused and misleading".

A spokesman said: "The wind farms it has looked at are overwhelmingly from one
part of the country, Scotland, so the picture is distorted.

"All energy forms are intermittent. Wind should be part of a broad energy mix.
We should have wind, gas, clean coal and nuclear supporting each other."

A Department of Energy and Climate Change spokesman said:

"Wind power provides a homegrown source of electricity that doesn't produce
carbon dioxide.

"The electricity system always has more generating capacity available than the
expected demand. By having a diverse energy mix, we can manage the fact that
some technologies are intermittent."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wind turbines are accused of destroying wildlife

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Britain to give GBP 3bn bailout to Portugal

BYLINE: By Sally Guyoncourt

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 244  words


BRITISH taxpayers now face a bill running into billions after Portugal became
the third European nation to request a bailout.

Portugal's caretaker government asked the European Union for help last night
after months of trying to stave off its deteriorating situation from mounting
debts.

The request comes after rescue packages have already been given to Greece and
Ireland.

This latest bailout is expected to cost British taxpayers GBP 3billion at a time
when the Daily Express is crusading for Britain to leave the EU.

Portugal's Prime Minister Jose Socrates said last night: "I tried everything but
in conscience we have reached a moment when not taking this decision would imply
risks the country shouldn't take."

Portugal's government collapsed last month after its parliament rejected
austerity measures. Euro zone officials claim Lisbon is likely to need between
GBP 52billion and GBP 72billion in European and International Monetary loans
over three years.

The European Commission's top economic official Olli Rehn called Portugal's
decision a "responsible move". But Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said:

"Britain should not contribute a single penny to their bailout."

Britain is not a member of the euro zone but is liable to help because former
Chancellor Alistair Darling signed the UK up as a contributor to the bailout
fund.

Last month Raoul Ruparel of think-tank Open Europe warned UK taxpayers could
face an estimated bailout bill of GBP 3.2billion for Portugal.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Socrates begged for help

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Massacre in Libya 'averted by EU'

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 242  words


TOP eurocrat Herman Van Rompuy faced ridicule last night after claiming the
European Union had saved Libya from a bloodbath.

The European Council President insisted allied military action to protect Libyan
civilians from attacks by Colonel Gaddafi's forces had been a victory for
Brussels diplomacy.

But his claim provoked astonishment at Westminster yesterday.

Critics pointed out that intervention was launched only after a United Nations
resolution initially proposed by Britain.

His remarks will also surprise RAF crews and other personnel policing the no-fly
zone.

In a speech to Euro-MPs in Brussels, Belgian Mr Van Rompuy said: "A massive
bloodbath has been avoided.

"From the beginning, the European Union was at the forefront. Without European
leadership there would have been massacres. We acted in time and without Europe
nothing would have been done at the global level or at the UN level."

But Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "At every stage, Baroness Ashton [EU foreign
affairs supremo] and the EU have frustrated robust action."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said the EU had been mired in
confusion.

Italian coastguards mounted a huge air and sea rescue operation after a boat
carrying around 300 Libyan refugees capsized off Sicily early yesterday.

Rescuers picked up 47 people including a pregnant woman after the overloaded
boat sank off the isle of Lampedusa. Up to 250 were still missing last night. At
least 15 were believed dead.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU boss Van Rompuy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Berlusconi to give visas to north African refugees so they can come to UK

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 444  words


BRITAIN could be inundated with migrants fleeing north Africa after Italy's
prime minister Silvio Berlusconi announced plans to give refugees permits to
live anywhere in the EU.

The permits would officially give the deluge of refugees who have poured ashore
in Italy only the right to travel within the 'Schengen' countries such as
France, Germany and Holland.

They, unlike Britain, do not have border controls.

But campaigners fear the move will make it easy for migrants from strife-torn
Tunisia and Libya to cross into the UK. Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "The
problem here is the European borderless state.

"Obviously these people are going to gravitate to those countries with the best
welfare and housing like the UK. There is a human crisis, but this approach
would make things permanent, rather than encourage people to return home when
peace in Libya and the whole of north Africa finally returns."

Alp Mehmet of campaign group MigrationWatch said: "Given that we are devoting
huge resources to making these countries in north Africa and the Middle East
better places to live, the last thing we want is for the people to come over
here. There is no reason to waive border controls because of this. What Italy
does is a matter for Italy but if it results in there being an open-door policy
in Europe, that's totally wrong."

Mr Berlusconi revealed his plans to grant EU residency to the migrants after the
tiny Italian island of Lampedusa found itself inundated with more than 20,000
north Africans, mostly Tunisians but some Libyans and others, who have arrived
in packed boats since unrest began in January.

Refugees have been ferried away from Lampedusa to holding centres around Italy
but the flood has continued unabated and there are regular breakouts from the
tented camps they stay in.

Mr Berlusconi met Tunisian President Foued Mbazza earlier this week and has
offered Tunisa GBP 70million to stem the tide but changed course and announced
the plan to issue EU visas instead after France turned back refugees at the
Italian border.

He said: "Repatriation is the main solution but many immigrants have expressed a
desire to join family and friends in France, Germany and other countries.

"We could grant temporary permits to stay that would allow them to circulate
freely in Europe."

A spokesman for Europe's Home Affairs commissioner, Cecilia Malmstrom, said
yesterday: "Member states have the right to authorise the stay of whoever they
want on their territory. If it is the wish of a member state, it is possible."

Last year Colonel Gaddafi was accused of "extortion" after demanding GBP
4.1billion a year from the EU to stop immigration "turning Europe black".

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Italy's Berlusconi meeting Tunisian President Foued Mbazza this week

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Comment: This bauble of an immigration cap should be sent back home: The
coalition may gain a shortlived uplift from this sop to the right - but where's
the data on its likely economic effect?

BYLINE: Zoe Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 862 words


From yesterday there was a new cap on immigration: this is a longstanding Tory
promise. Indeed I thought I remembered it from the televised debates, but what I
was actually remembering was Michael Howard's ill-fated, handwritten "My mum
wrote a shopping list and then put me a little policy at the bottom" poster
campaign, which read: "It's not racist to impose limits on immigration."
(Someone defaced this with a simple, "Yes it is, Tory scum!")

If you take the polls and you marry them to any precept of democracy, imposing
limits on immigration is exactly what should be done. Three-quarters of British
people, according to recent surveys, want to reduce immigration. So it must be
reduced, particularly since this public desire is no recent development; in fact
it has been simmering for the last 15 years.

However, those figures are more vexed than they look. Indeed, amble around
Oxford's Migration Observatory: it's a number-crunching organisation trying to
bring some clarity to the issue by presenting readable data, as clean as they
can get it - which is "not very". Almost no statistic in migration is without
caveat. People may be against migration in theory but that alters with the
wording of the question: specifically, it depends how you define "migrants". The
public tends to be against illegal migration (which no government can cap, since
it all happens informally). Yet other migrants - those staying on after a
student visa, those on a working visa who have come to work for the NHS - are
pretty popular. Despite this much-mentioned 75% opposition, people don't connect
their opposition to the migrants they know personally.

But if those figures are incomplete, that is nothing compared to the patchiness
of the data on numbers of migrants themselves: there's such limited information
on emigrants that net migration is way off. The three data sources on immigrants
never agree with each other.

Local area statistics are so poor that there's a council in Devon that cites
4,000 migrants with a margin of error of 4,000. That's not the fault of this
government but it is their reality. The fact is that they do not know enough to
make the promises they're making. They know that, but they're relying on the
fact that we don't know enough to notice. It would be melodramatic to call the
cap a disaster: more accurately, it's a waste of time, a bauble; the sort of
thing that one week in power should have persuaded them to abandon.

First, the immigration cap only applies to the inflow of non-European Union
residents. And it doesn't so far apply to non-EU student immigrants, or those
whose eligibility is based on family ties. It only applies to labour
applications, themselves only 20% of the non-EU inflow - which in turn is a drop
in the ocean of total inflow. These working visas are estimated to account for
5% of net migration, and that is a generous estimate: some studies put them at
1%. Then there are the exemptions: intercompany transfers are exempt, and those
are historically the biggest share of workforce immigration from outside Europe.

OK, let's say they ended all exemptions. Even if they shut down any movement at
all from the labour force outside the EU, it wouldn't produce a fall in net
migration that would hit even tens of thousands. This cohort is just too small,
and capping it changes nothing unless you count the vexation to the people so
arbitrarily refused entry and the reassurance to a few Ukip voters who couldn't
be arsed to look at the figures.

In order to make any real difference to the figures the government has to go
after student entry, which accounts for 60% of non-EU migration. Theresa May
claims already to have cut the numbers by 80,000 just by raising the standard of
English requirement and axing the two-year post-study period when students would
previously have been allowed to work.

Statisticians are sceptical about how these modifications could deliver such a
reduction, but even if it were true there would still be big trouble ahead.
Non-EU postgraduates pay very high fees: in many universities they're
cross-subsidising British undergraduates.

At a lower level non-EU students who come to the UK to learn English contribute
a huge amount to the economy, as raised by Brighton Pavilion MP Caroline Lucas
last year when she noted that in Brighton and Hove alone, they brought in £105m
a year. No impact assessment on student inflow has been sought by the government
from the agencies dealing with net migration, presumably because they don't
intend to limit student visas. The area is too important to the economy, and the
numbers are great. Cap them? You may as well cap tourism.

Where does that leave the coalition in its bold promise to reduce immigration?
It could secede from the EU altogether and boot out Europeans; it could rip up
the rules on migration for family reasons, which would most likely involve
ducking out of all human rights legislation; or it could find more accurate
information on immigration to start with. Soon enough it would be clear that
"cap it", never mind the similarity of tone, is as nonsensical, meaningless and
impracticable as "Send 'em back".

mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Reply: Letter: Neighsayers

BYLINE: Claude Moraes MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 122 words


Your report on the conviction of John Sweeney should be essential reading for
some of my colleagues in the European parliament who have consistently argued
against the very programme that brought this murderer to justice (Report, 4
April). Last year the Guardian reported that the UK requested Eurojust's help in
more cases than any other EU country. Yet time and again, the Conservatives and
Ukip in Brussels have refused to support the organisation, a body set up to help
the police work more effectively with their colleagues in other EU countries.
Perhaps they don't see the link between abstract agreements in Brussels and the
reality of fighting crime.

Claude Moraes MEP

Labour's European spokesperson on justice and home affairs

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TAX BLOW FOR MIDDLE BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 570  words


But YOU are forced to give GBP 650m in aid to Pakistan

DAVID Cameron faced mounting anger last night after giving away hundreds of
millions more in overseas aid just as the latest raft of tax rises hammers
British households.

The Prime Minister announced an extra GBP 650million for school projects in
Pakistan during a visit to Islamabad yesterday.

But the pledge provoked fury at home, given the growing financial pressure on
middleincome families. The squeeze will tighten today for millions of households
when a National Insurance hike and other tax and benefit changes come into force
with the start of the new tax year.

Today is being branded "Worse Off Wednesday" with the tax burden set to rise by
a crippling GBP 500million a year. And it is families in Middle Britain who will
be punished the most.

Critics last night hit out at Mr Cameron's decision to boost the aid budget to
Pakistan over the next four years. Charlotte Linacre, campaign manager at the
TaxPayers' Alliance said: "It defies belief that Cameron admits money is tight
at home and he's hitting Brits with higher taxes, yet in the same breath he's
pledging huge handouts on our behalf.

"Pakistan needs to take more responsibility for its own education system and not
keep expecting handouts and subsidies from UK taxpayers while wasting money
elsewhere.

"Pakistan already gets millions from the UK. It's ludicrous that our PM
acknowledges that so much of that is squandered while promising more."

And Euro MP Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said:
"There are two Whitehall budgets that seem to buck the trend when it comes to
cuts - the EU and overseas aid.

Both are designed to make Cameron look good abroad. When is he going to do
something for people at home?"

Mr Cameron conceded that the extra aid for Pakistan would be questioned by
British taxpayers.

In a speech at the Islamabad Institute of Information Technology, he said: "Back
in the UK, we are taking some incredibly tough economic decisions. We are
cutting some public spending and increasing some taxes.

"Understandably, the British people want to know every penny we spend is going
to the right places. I need to convince them that it is. But my job is made more
difficult when people in Britain look at Pakistan, a country that receives
millions of our aid money, and see weaknesses in terms of government capacity
and waste."

The cash will come on top of Britain's existing annual aid commitment to the
country, which is already more than GBP 140million.

It means Britain will be sending around GBP 350million a year over the next four
years. Just two months ago, the Government announced an extra GBP 1billion for
India over the same period.

Mr Cameron insisted the expenditure would be closely monitored and halted if
there were evidence of waste or corruption. He also urged the Pakistani
government to overhaul its tax system to improve the country's investment in its
public services.

The aid is earmarked to train 90,000 teachers, build or refurbish 8,000 schools
and provide six million textbooks.

At a news conference with Pakistani premier Yusuf Raza Gilani, Mr Cameron faced
a string of hostile questions from local reporters. One branded his comments in
India last year as "obnoxious" while others raised concerns about controls on
student visas.

Mr Cameron and Mr Gilani signed a co-operation deal including a pledge to
increase trade to GBP 2.5billion by 2015.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with the Pakistan premier Yusuf Gilani last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday

G2: Shortcuts: Politics: Anyone for a Cream Tea Party?

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 406 words


Historian-turned-Labour MP Tristram Hunt can still claim the best one-liner
explaining what the Tea Party is all about. It's the same in 2011 as it was in
1776 when a Boston mob was incited to throw a cargo of tea into the city's
harbour: a bunch of rich folk getting poor folk to help them avoid paying their
fair share of tax. Nowadays they don't even have to get their feet wet. It's all
done on junk TV.

Never mind, with Sarah Palin for a cheerleader, the modern Tea Party remains as
irony-free a zone as it was when Sam Adams and John Hancock were payrolling
Boston mobs, Tripoli-style. What's more, the copycat UK media is trying to
volunteer other people to start a British version.

A year ago "Desperate Dan" Hannan, the libertarian Conservative MEP, announced
"the inaugural British Tea Party" at the Tory spring conference.

There was another attempt at the October conference in Brum. A third was
reported in Boston (geddit?), Lincs. But er, that's it. Barely enough tea bags
used to block a single drain.

Potential leaders? Motormouth red-top columnists such as Jon Gaunt, Rod Liddle
and Richard Littlejohn are routinely touted, with Jeremy Clarkson as their
non-executive patron saint. But, like Boston merchant Adams, they're too rich
and smart for that. So is Boris Johnson, occasionally promoted as the British
Berlusconi: rogue-ish, lovable, priapic.

The English Defence League is sometimes dubbed the nearest thing we have to the
Tea Party's bewildered cry of pain. The Freedom Association gingerly dips its
toe in tea. More plausibly, the label is also stuck on Ukip. But, let's be
frank: its leader, Nigel Farage MEP lacks the sassy good looks of a Palin or
Christine O'Donnell, the TP witch-woman who lost Delaware.

The whole process starts again next month when the Tax payers Alliance joins
forces with serial attention-seekers such as Toby Young and Annabelle Fuller, a
former Farage aide, to stage a Rally Against Debt in reply to the TUC's March
for the Alternative last month.

It promises to be a peaceful affair, though presumably the breakaway Blue Bloc
faction (ex-rowdies from Oxford's

Bullingdon Club perhaps?) will attack Fortnum & Mason's soup kitchen and the
Piccadilly branch of the Co-op, before setting fire to bicycles in Pall Mall and
monstering pensioners caught making claims on the NHS.

Is Libya's Moussa Koussa free?

He has the skillset.

Captions:

Jeremy Clarkson: the patron saint of a British Tea Party?

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday

Nick Clegg's leg-up admission brings hypocrisy police rushing to crime scene

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 960 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Just because the deputy prime minister had a privileged
upbringing doesn't mean he is insincere about helping others

FULL TEXT

Dear, oh dear - the charge of hypocrisy is all over the media again. How wearily
predictable. Most of us are guilty of some form of hypocrisy in the way we live
and behave.

It's sensible to be aware of failure always to practise what we may or may not
preach. But the self-appointed hypocrisy police are often the worst of the lot.

I'd be tempted to say here that "it's no wonder that newspapers are struggling
to stay viable" except that the joys of the (mostly) free-to-access internet
both explain their economic decline and demonstrate that many readers are just
as eager to be hypocrisy's equivalent of community support officers.

The overnight excitement arises from the not-exactly-new revelation that Nick
Clegg, coalition champion of social mobility, had a series of career leg-ups
(we'll ignore his famous "up to 30" legovers here) as a result of affluent
family connections.

.

But the same story is page one news in the Murdoch family's Times (paywall) and
in the , calmly tucked away on page 4 by the FT (paywall) which I also take at
home.

The FT concentrates on the substance of the story: that Whitehall officials are
to be required to open up internships beyond the informal network currently
operating.

Good. I also see the Guardian has signed up to a "business compact" to make such
opportunities fairer, though I have a vague notion (I do not work at HQ) that it
has long ago installed elaborate fairness procedures to offset the usual
informal networking.

As I , networking operates at most levels of society, including Only Fools and
Horses.

Of course, it matters most at the top. To its credit, the FT set out the bald
facts. Some 70% of high court judges were privately educated, 68% of senior
barristers, 62% of lords (is that real lords or lifers, I wonder?), 32% of MPs
(up since the last election), 54% of FTSE CEOs and - let's not forget this one -
a similar proportion of senior journalists.

Redtop celeb Piers Morgan spent some time in the (7%) private sector. So did
Kelvin McKenzie, 80s zeitgeist editor of the Sun. When I first met Kelvin, it
was much as I had feared. I really liked him.

Anyway, it's a reminder that we still have a long way to go if we are to create
a proper meritocracy - do we REALLY want one? - where talent, hard work and
commitment get their just deserts.

Do we agree that, as a society, we've slipped back these past 20 years or so?
After all, three Tory PMs in a row went to grammar school. Eton is now back at
No 10.

The Americans used to be so much better at this, though there is evidence there
too that inequality is getting so badly out of kilter that the fabled American
Dream of Clegg-ish upward mobility is in real trouble.

I suspect that's not true for the rising demographic groups, Indian, Chinese and
- especially - Hispanic (no longer just confined to the south and west) but it
is for the white working class.

Hence the Tea Party's cry of economic pain, the call of a declining force. Hence
the BNP's bloke-ish appeal, Ukip's and the English Defence League's too?

But any fool can shout "hypocrite!" Today's Mail carries  - sketchwriter, drama
critic, diarist, pundit, family man.

It denounces the left's unelected grip on many British cultural institutions
(BBC, Arts Council, etc) and contrasting it with the robust 19th century when
elected parliamentarians ruled the roost.

Ignoring his preposterously sentimental view of our Victorian ancestors (who
elected the squire, parson and workhouse master), the thesis sidesteps the
dominant fact of our lives in 2011.

The left may have won the culture wars of the past half century, but the right
dominates economic practice at almost any level.

It's not as if the Daily Mail itself is a spent force in our popular culture
either - more influential at the BBC, for instance, than either the BBC or the
Mail would care to admit.

Even the Guardian, the secret arbiter of all evil that appears on TV in the
Mail's view, is occasionally guilty of hypocrisy, so they tell me.

But hey, here I am falling into the trap I complained of.

Flicking through Wednesday's edition I find it the usual bundle of
contradictions which make it such a successful newspaper. Hypocrisy? Well, I
suppose so, but live and let live.

Just because Nick Clegg had a privileged upbringing doesn't mean he's not
sincere about trying to spread the benefits, hard though it will prove in
practice, as Labour - whose policies he is borrowing - discovered.

He might have been wiser to place an article in the Mail last week setting out
his past in almost as much detail as the Mail does.

"Look, I know what I'm talking about, I am a product of these privileges," he
might have said.

Who knows, the Mail's editor, Not-Sir-Paul Dacre, who sent his own boys to Eton
but is Britain's top hypocrisy policeman, might have been kinder.

But those of us who are not saints (very tiresome people, saints) fall by the
wayside.

Did I not read that militant leftwing trade union leader, Bob Crow, still lives
in subsidised social housing despite taking a £145,000 a year salary from the
RMT? I did - in last weekend's Sunday Times.

Does that make him a hypocrite or a man loyal to his working class roots and
community, scornful of faddish talk of upward mobility?

A bit of both, I'd say. But he's not as bad as hellfire preachers who make a fat
living from the sweat of the poor or ambitious cardinals who close their eyes to
paedophile priests.

And wasn't Steptoe & Son a family rag and bone firm?

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Scrap MSPs, says Ukip manifesto;
Ukip launch

BYLINE: Peter Hutchison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 251 words


UKIP published its Holyrood election manifesto yesterday, in which it called for
members of the Scottish Parliament to be scrapped.

The UK Independence Party, which is fielding a full list of regional candidates
in next month's election, said MSPs should be replaced at Holyrood by
Westminster MPs with constituencies in Scotland.

Unveiling its manifesto in Edinburgh, the party also said it planned to restrict
immigration, repeal the Human Rights Act, scrap the smoking ban and end
subsidies for "monstrous, climate-irrelevant, cost-ineffective wind farms".

Nigel Farage, the party's leader, said: "Scotland's democratic spirit now has no
champions but the UK Independence Party.

"Ukip alone, among the serious political parties, says no one but we, the people
of Scotland, or those we elect, should make our laws or tax us."

Ukip also said it supported an end to what it calls ineffectual sentencing.

The manifesto read: "Sentences will mean what they say. Life will mean life. Six
months will not mean six weeks.

"No more early release for the likes of Megrahi."

Ukip would also introduce a "three strikes and you're out" rule for habitual
criminals, and young offenders would be sent to boot camps.

On education, it said it would let pupils leave school early to enter training
schemes or apprenticeships, similar to what the Scottish Conservatives are
planning.

The party would also allow universities to select students on merit and scrap
loans while restoring full grants for all Scottish university students.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, with Lord Christopher Monckton, the
candidate for Mid Scotland & Fife, at Holyrood yesterday
FRASER BREMNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU in stew to save our hotpot

BYLINE: Chris Riches

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 190 words


LANCASHIRE hotpot could be granted protected status under EU law.

A campaign has been launched to stop cooks outside the county from copying the
world-famous dish. The hotpot is even a favourite on TV's Coronation Street.

Supporters want it to be given Protected Geographical Indication status. This
would mean only cooks who make the dish in Lancashire, and in accordance with
the age-old recipe, would be able to sell it as a genuine Lancashire hotpot.

Last month the EU granted Cumberland sausage protected status.

Forty-two other UK foods, including the Cornish pasty, Stilton cheese and Melton
Mowbray pork pies also have the EU honour. Paul Nuttall, Ukip MEP for the
North-West, said: "I am pressing the EU Parliament to ensure Lancashire hotpot
becomes the latest and must only be made in the county.

"Following PGI status being granted any other stew produced in future must be
called stew or casserole but never Lancashire hotpot."

Traditionally, a Lancashire hotpot is made of lamb, carrots, turnips, potatoes
and onions and topped with sliced potatoes. TV chef Nigel Haworth, said:
"Lancashire hotpot should be protected for posterity."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Uproar over our GBP 19m bill for Euro museum

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 483  words


TAXPAYERS in Britain will have to fork out GBP 19million towards the spiralling
bill for an EU museum, it emerged yesterday.

The cost of the controversial House Of European History has doubled before work
has even begun on it.

Seen as a vanity project and dubbed the House of Horrors by critics, it is
expected to cost almost GBP 137million compared with an initial estimate of GBP
58million, according to documents.

The costs of leasing a building, renovation works and starting the exhibition
have soared to GBP 112.5million. Running expenses of GBP 12million a year, more
than 80 per cent higher than forecast, will take the estimated total to GBP
136.5million by the end of 2015.

The contribution of British taxpayers to the project, created by MEPs to foster
a "common historical memory" for the EU, will be a colossal GBP 18.6million.

The museum has sparked further controversy by beginning with an EU "year zero"
of 1946 because MEPs cannot agree on the fundamentals of history, such as Second
World War events.

Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen, who voted against the museum, said: "It defies both
belief and logic that in this age of austerity MEPs have the vast sums of money
to fund this grossly narcissistic project. Worst of all is that the chairman of
the committee responsible for giving the goahead to the project sits on its
board of trustees.

"In any other parliament such a clear conflict of interests would not be
tolerated."

The museum is expected to open in Brussels in 2014.

Meanwhile, meddling Eurocrats sparked dismay yesterday over "harebrained" plans
to set up a Formula One racing championship for electric cars.

The European Commission has asked F1's governing body to launch the series to
increase public awareness and excitement about new-technology vehicles.

Jean Todt, president of the FIA, motor racing's governing body, has discussed
the idea with Antonio Tajani, EU industry commissioner, who wants member
countries to increase public use of electric cars.

Mr Todt, who has set up an electric-car unit within the FIA, said the new
electric-car, go-kart and single-seater categories could race on Grand Prix
circuits.

He suggested that a first season for electric-car racing could be as early as
2013: "As much as we can do it all over the world, we will do it."

However, Winston McKenzie, Ukip's sports spokesman, said:

"I'm not sure that taxpayers would appreciate part-funding this harebrained
endeavour."

Paul Nuttall, Ukip MEP and deputy leader of the party, said:

"This is EU paternalism gone nuts.

"Half the thrill of motor racing is the roar of the engines and the heady whiff
of petrol.

"The EU Commission's decision to interfere in what is a private enterprise and
sport will make electric motor racing as unpopular as the EU itself.

"With arcane bureaucracy, the EU bores people into submission.

Now they want to transfer their game-plan to motor racing as well. Absolutely
bonkers."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marta Andreasen opposes project

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Coming soon: the rally against too much borrowing;
LEADER

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 888  words


DURING the 1983 general election campaign Michael Foot became convinced that his
Labour Party was on course for victory.

He felt that way because he had travelled the length and breadth of the land and
everywhere had encountered halls full of cheering supporters.

But he was totally deluded.

While there were indeed many enthusiastic socialists who came out to see Foot
there were millions of ordinary Britons who were appalled at Labour's
big-spending manifesto. In fact Labour suffered its worst election result of
modern times and the Conservatives won a landslide majority.

The ghost of Michael Foot must have stirred when Ed Miliband addressed 250,000
people in London's Hyde Park 10 days ago to protest against public sector
spending cuts.

"We come here from all walks of life, from all backgrounds, from all
generations, " he said.

That much was true, though the vast majority were public sector workers with an
overwhelming personal financial interest in fending off the cuts.

But then came the Foot moment when Miliband added:

"We stand today not as the minority but as the voice of the mainstream majority
in this country." He had not a shred of evidence for such an assertion.

In much of Britain the quiet majority who work in the private sector and have
already undergone repeated rounds of belt-tightening will surely have been
unimpressed by the idea that they are champing at the bit to pay even more in
tax ation to entirely insulate the public sector from austerity.

N OW the quiet majority is about to get a lot noisier. A few days ago two young
UKIP supporters, Annabelle Fuller and Harry Aldridge, had the idea of organising
a Rally Against Debt as a counterbalance to the rally that Miliband had
addressed.

They set a date of May 14 and created a Facebook page to gauge support. Within
hours they had been inundated. Yesterday the Taxpayers' Alliance campaign group
pledged its backing, joining the Institute of Economic Affairs and hundreds of
Conservative and Liberal Democrat party members.

Ms Fuller, who runs her own public relations company, told me: "We don't want
this to be a party political event but a chance for people who pay for the
public sector now and for younger people who will be paying its debts for
decades to come to say 'enough is enough'.

"And far from going too far and too fast in reducing the deficit there are many
people who believe the Government is not going nearly fast enough."

The official figures back her up. Public spending in 2014-15 will actually be
higher than in 2009-10: GBP 764billion as against GBP 669billion. Even adjusting
for inflation only brings the 201415 figure down to GBP 647billion - amounting
to a cut of just three per cent. When set aside a six per cent contraction in
the size of the economy during the recession that is hardly draconian and does
not sustain Mr Miliband's claims of cutbacks going "too far and too fast".

Even under the coalition's cuts annual debt interest payments will rise to more
than GBP 62billion by the end of this parliament - more than the entire
education budget and more than is spent on defence, law and order and transport
combined. Under Labour debt interest would be much higher.

In a pamphlet published by the Centre for Policy Studies economist Tim Morgan
proved that, far from being unduly squeezed, the public sector is currently at
its most bloated.

He pointed out that in 19992000 public spending was GBP 343billion. If it had
risen with inflation it would have reached about GBP 450billion by 2009-10. In
fact, as we have seen, it reached GBP 669billion. That is a rise of 53 per cent
in 10 years during which the overall economy grew by under 17 per cent.

To sustain such an increase during good economic times is tough enough. But to
do so after a ferocious recession and the emergence of a massive structural
budget deficit is clearly asking an unreasonable amount of private citizens.

Furthermore the statistics show that Britain's six million public sector workers
have on average a far cushier deal than do the 24 million private sector workers
who pay for them.

They are 20 times as likely to go on strike yet earn on average some 12 per cent
more. Factor in their shorter working hours and, according to the think tank
Policy Exchange, that earnings gap becomes 29 per cent. Then there is the
pensions gap, with public sector pensions on average at least twice as generous
as those available in the private sector.

I N HIS preposterous speech Ed Miliband attacked the Government for: "Settin g
private sector against public sector. Setting those in work against those on
benefits."

But the harsh truth is that a trade-off does exist. Private sector wealth
generation is what pays for the public sector and for the benefits received by
those who do not work.

Ms Fuller says she will be pleased if 5,000 turn out for her Rally Against Debt.
"Ours will be a demonstration of private citizens who realise the country cannot
sustain an everincreasing national debt and want the Government to do more to
get it under control, " she says.

Fewer people will mass in Hyde Park than did for the rally organised by the
public sector unions. But these people will represent a much larger constituency
of opinion. If Ed Miliband cannot understand that then he has fallen for the
Michael Foot fallacy and is heading for a similar result.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANTI-CUTS: Public sector workers on the march - but so are taxpayers
its

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday

A British Tea Party? Pro-cuts activists plan a 'polite' London protest

BYLINE: Robert Booth

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 561 words


The British political right is preparing to fight back against anti-cuts
protests by staging its first pro-cuts demonstration, in central London next
month, in a move that has provoked comparisons to the US Tea Party movement.

The Rally Against Debt, on 14 May, is being organised by activists including the
Taxpayers' Alliance group, which is backed by Tory donors. Hundreds, if not
thousands, of supporters of the cuts programme are expected to turn out at
Westminster in a rare show of force by what organisers believe is "a quiet
majority".

The rally comes in direct response to last month's TUC-organised March for the
Alternative anti-cuts event, which attracted an estimated 500,000 people and led
to more than 200 arrests when anarchist groups went on the rampage and
supporters of UK Uncut occupied the luxury grocer Fortnum & Mason.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "This is a march
for people who think the national debt is very serious and shouldn't be left to
future generations. The tone is going to be very calm. It was conceived partly
as a response to the March for the Alternative, but I don't think anybody is
going in an angry state of mind."

Toby Young, the free-school founder and columnist, is among those signed up to
attend the pro-cuts rally.

Annabelle Fuller, a former adviser to the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, is a
leading organiser. A giant digital totaliser on a lorry showing the national
debt will be the centrepiece.

Fuller said: "It will be a major demonstration highlighting the importance of
tackling the huge public sector deficit, and the need for substantial spending
cuts.

"So far, more than 1,300 people have signed up to a rally that aims to be a
well- mannered alternative to the unrealistic trade union march and the
vandalism of the UK Uncut protest back in March . . . No particular party,
organisation or person is leading this protest, and there is no common position
beyond our basic concern about the huge public sector deficit."

Sinclair admitted to "a slight worry" that the event could become a target for
anti-cuts activists. The rally website includes some wry guidelines for what
looks likely to be a well-heeled protest.

"Any visits to Fortnum & Mason's by protesters will only be to marvel at their
selection of quality goods and perhaps make the occasional purchase," it says.
"Bonfires will be strictly forbidden: it's out of season anyway. Trips to see
Vodafone and other high street chains will result in congratulations to the
company for providing jobs and growth in the UK." The plans come amid growing
interest in UK rightwing circles in the potential for using public
demonstrations as the Tea Party movement in the US has done. Last year, it
emerged the alliance was being advised by Freedom Works, a Washington
organisation credited with helping to destabilise the Obama administration by
mobilising 800,000 grassroots activists. Tea Party organisations also attended
an alliance conference in London last September.

The organisers of the Rally Against Debt say it is "a very different phenomenon
in a very different country" to the Tea Party. "We're just British people
concerned at the huge debts resulting from irresponsible public spending," they
add.

Captions:

1,300

The number of people who have so far signed up for the pro-cuts march, according
to Annabelle Fuller, an organiser

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday

Rally Against Debt shows cuts are ideological

BYLINE: Cath Elliottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 671 words

ABSTRACT

Cath Elliott: The Taxpayers' Alliance-backed rally exposes Cameron and Clegg's
rhetoric as no more than nauseating bedside manner

FULL TEXT

I'm actually starting to feel a bit sorry for David Cameron and Nick Clegg. Well
OK, no I'm not - you know that's never going to happen, right? But things must
be excruciatingly embarrassing for them at the moment. There they are, trying to
sell the most swingeing cuts in at least a generation to an increasingly
sceptical public, and not just selling the cuts but selling them as something
they have to do not as something they particularly want to do; yet meanwhile, in
the background, their supporters are practically jumping up and down with barely
controlled glee at the prospect of our valued public services being decimated
beyond recognition and at the rise in unemployment that's sure to follow.

Both men have attempted - and often, it has to be said, failed - to put on their
most serious, concerned, empathetic faces when explaining to the House of
Commons or media commentators why it is that the cuts have to be so harsh, so
deep and so fast. "These are difficult times," we're told, in that nauseating
best bedside-manner voice they've both adopted for when they really, really want
to patronise us; but not to worry, because "we're all in this together".

Meanwhile, back in the real world, those of us who have known all along that
these cuts are purely ideological have finally had it confirmed by the sudden
emergence of a group intent not only on cheerleading for the cuts, but on
staging a march and rally for them as well, and by a Tory minister going
decidedly off script.

The  (Rad), as it's been duplicitously pegged, is set to take place in London on
14 May. And as  makes clear, unlike the anarchists and assorted dirty peasants
who  against the cuts and for an alternative a couple of weeks ago, this time it
will only be nice, fragrant people taking part.

According to their site, Rad will be: "A well mannered, polite rally for
civilised people who don't wish to see their hard earned money being spent on
pointless government initiatives and instead would like government spending to
actually fall and our national debt to be cut". But those behind Rad aren't
expecting anywhere near the numbers that turned out on , not because they
recognise they don't have the public support that the  had, but because "this
rally doesn't enjoy the thousands of full time staff and millions of pounds in
grants that unions do at taxpayers' expense, it is always harder to get people
out in the national interest rather than to defend their own pay and perks". Yes
of course, that's what nearly half a million people were doing in London on 26
March, defending their own pay and perks. Funny, though, because  who took part
did so because they don't want to see the NHS destroyed, or the poor and the
vulnerable left without care.

Rather predictably, the , as is the  who, , appeared on Fox news during the US
healthcare debate and revealed what the Tories really think of the NHS. One of
the main "brains" on the Rad organising committee is former Ukip press officer .
Cameron and Clegg really would do well to bear in mind the old adage: with
friends like these ...

Anyway, as if to compound the ConDem's discomfort, the Political Scrapbook blog
has unearthed a  speaking to an audience at the Moore School of Business at the
University of South Carolina, in which he boasts: "We are making cuts that
Margaret Thatcher, back in the 1980s, could only have dreamed of." Barker goes
on to tell the audience that "getting government off the backs of business" is
the core mission of the Conservative-Lib Dem alliance. Absolutely no surprises
there then.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU finger on the toaster;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 105 words


SIR - The Daily Telegraph (report, March 30) rightly picked up on the dubious
benefits of smart meters which are to be fitted for control of domestic
electricity. The EU has a long-term plan to make smart meters mandatory. Whether
their expense is worth the savings is very doubtful, but few realise that the
threat behind them is far greater.

On March 29, Fiona Hall MEP revealed that the EU plans meters that will monitor
and remotely control even individual household appliances. Bills will go up, but
owing to EU directives and regulations, control of our own lives will go down.

Godfrey Bloom MEP (Ukip) Wressle, North Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU museum set to cost British taxpayers £19m

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 272 words


THE cost estimates for a museum celebrating the EU's "historical memory" have
more than doubled before work has even begun on the controversial project.

Documents seen by The Daily Telegraph disclose that the initial £58million price
of the House of European History project had risen by more than 90 per cent,
with leasing a building, starting the exhibition and renovation costs all
rising. Running costs will also be more than 80 per cent higher than originally
forecast, taking the total estimate to £136.5million.

The contribution of British taxpayers to the museum, created by MEPs "to
cultivate the memory of European history and unification", will be £18.6million
at a time when many museums and galleries in Britain face funding cuts. The
rising costs have also raised questions of a conflict of interest because the
board of trustees running the project includes the chairman of the European
Parliament's budget committee, the EU assembly's spending authority.

"It defies both belief and logic that in this age of austerity MEPs have the
money to fund this grossly narcissistic project," said Marta Andreasen, a Ukip
MEP and member of the budget committee. "Worst of all is that the chairman of
the committee responsible for giving the go-ahead to the project sits on its
board of trustees. In any other parliament such a clear conflict of interests
would not be tolerated."

The House of European History, abbreviated to HEH in official documents, is
expected to open in Brussels in 2014.

Diana Wallis, the Lib Dem vice-president of the parliament and Britain's
representative on the museum's board of trustees, declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 4, 2011 Monday 10:08 AM GMT

Disputed elections have been the preserve of the Third World. AV could bring
them to Britain

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1302 words


One of the consequences of the adoption of the AV voting system in British
elections would be that we'd still be able to see what would have been the
outcome of the polls, constituency by constituency, and therefore of the general
election, on the basis of the first preference votes. (Only then would the
second or third preferences be taken into account and possibly change the
outcome.)

In short, it would be obvious what would have been the result under our present
first-past-the-post system - and that might be very different from the AV
outcome. What if it becomes clear that the party which would have won and formed
a government under first-past-the-post was, after the AV adjustments, left in
opposition and another party was declared to have won and then entered
government?

Disputed election results have until now been the exclusive preserve of the
Third World. How would the British electorate react to seeing the results in
constituency after constituency changing as the second and third preferences are
added in.

It is never easy to make a sensible confident forecast of the outcome of an
election which is still four years away. Never the less, what might happen if in
2015 there was a close fought election, one in which, let us say, the Tories
were narrowly ahead with a small overall majority on the first count, before AV
came into play where no candidate had achieved over 50 per cent of the votes
cast.

What would happen then? Well, let's make some heroic, but not absurd predictions
about how the party leaders might advise their supporters to use their second
preferences, and then assume that in England at least the only parties coming
top of the unadjusted polls would be Conservative, LibDem and Labour. I am sorry
about that, Green and UKIP supporters, but any other assumption makes it just
too complicated and I think that short of a nuclear power station blowing up, or
the despatch of a Franco-German force to put down anti-EU demonstrations in
London, it will not be far out.

My guess is that Mr Cameron would tell Tory voters to make the Lib Dems their
second choice, Mr Clegg would return the compliment and Mr Miliband would tell
his supporter to go for the LibDems.

Of course, not all voters will do just what their leaders ask them. My hunch is
that Tories would split with 50 per cent going for UKIP and 50 per cent for the
LibDems. The LibDems would split something like 20 per cent to the Tories, 10
per cent to the Greens and 70 per cent labour. Labour voters I would guess might
go four ways, 60 per cent to the LibDems, 20 per cent BNP with the Greens and
UKIP splitting the rest 10 per cent each.

Looking at seats where the leading candidate is not far off 50 per cent plus one
vote, what would happen as the votes of the lower order candidates were
redistributed. Of course it is likely that UKIP votes would mainly benefit the
Tories, while Greens and BNP would mostly go to Labour, but the numbers are
unlikely to be decisive.

However, where LibDems were ahead of either the Tories or Labour when the third
party second preferences were counted in they would probably be home. If it was
a Conservative leading over LibDem with Labour in third place, as Labour second
preferences were counted they would go mainly to the LibDems. The Tory who would
have been elected would be out and the LibDem would win.

In constituencies where the Tory candidate was ahead on the first ballot over
Labour, the LibDem second preferences could be expected to go at least
two-to-one to Labour who again might overtake the Tories and win.

Where Labour was narrowly ahead of the Liberals with the Tories in third place,
the Tory second preferences  would mostly go to the LibDems and put them, not
Labour in. If Labour was ahead of the Tories, with LibDems in third place, as
those LibDem second preferences came into play they would mostly go to the
Labour candidate and see him safely home.

Of course it might well be more complicated than that. Some Labour candidates
might squeak in on Green or BNP votes, some Tories with UKIP votes.

The devil in it is than one of the two major parties, most likely the Tories,
might well be ahead in a majority of seats on the first count and would have won
the election on first-past-the-post, but be ousted by Labour forming either a
majority government on its own, or a coalition with the bulk of the LibDems
and/or the nationalists.

Advocates of AV cannot deny that the outcome of a general election might well be
changed in this way.  After all, it is their case that it should be. Our
electoral system has not given them the results they want, so they want to
change the system. Had they gone for a full proportional representation system,
abolishing single member constituencies and using party lists, it would have
been impossible for anyone to see how an election on the old first-past-the-post
system would have turned out. Under AV we would be able to see what would have
been the result under first-past-the-post and then how AV had fiddled it to give
a different outcome.

The conclusion seems clear to me. Unless we are prepared to face a of massive
wave of anger from the normally law-abiding electorate which has always been
ready to accept the electoral rough with the smooth in the cause of getting
unambiguous, undisputed outcomes to general elections, we would be well advised
to kill AV by a huge majority on May 5.

...

There were so many of who posted comments on AV that I thought I should devote
today's blog to that question. I hope that darseid, pragmatist, freewales,
morning star, mysay, aperia and momentum, who favoured it and jackade and pigpen
who were uncertain may consider the arguments above and that peteh, itzam, and
morvan will stick with their opposition and vote on May 5.

Considering that Steve Hilton alone is paid more than 275,000 to mastermind the
coalition's presentation of its policies there were an awful lot of you,
including friends or would be friends, of the government who felt that it was
losing the battle for public understanding, let alone support. As colliemum put
it, "don't the Tory elders care?"

Indeed as darkseid noted that seemed to be the consensus view and it was
certainly shared by David Page,  crosscrop, 1grundy, frederico, auster and
others with blue peter observing that leading Conservatives seem to have lost
their convictions. Indeed Delboy 36 and antisocialist both asked who might
replace Cameron.  Well, I do not, and I think it will not happen just yet,
whilst itzman suggested the Conservatives need not just a new leader but a new
agenda.

Perhaps as morningstar and crosscrop put it, it is hard to justify "cuts" when
there is money for overseas aid and bombing Libya, or as an awful lot of others
would add, money for the EU. As usual the EU came in for a good deal of kicking,
and a number of you like emmiem pointed out that it is in charge rather than our
political institutions here. I was impressed by how fast fatmiddleagedguy can
move when he sorted out idmurray's rather muddled, indeed quite wrong, figures
on debt, deficits and trade balances.

For a time this site was almost taken over by the Americans with bersher,
221gonikon2  and Gregyank on good form and  being joined by longwayfromhome. We
even had a teacher in on the ranks of the Peerage and Knighthood for them from
billcurtis.

I thought that windsorblue made some good points about the management of care
homes, but some of what he said about reams of regulation chimed in with
pietro99's point that council Diversity Officers are there because of the
Equality Act, Human Rights Act and European law. Just what became of that pledge
to repeal the Human Rights Act I wonder.

Finally, as ever thank you to those who sent good wishes, and of those who said
flattering things about this Blog. I am grateful to you.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday

BLACK DOG

LENGTH: 440 words


Column

WINSTON RITUAL GETS THE BOOT

It's been a hallowed custom for years Z but now MPs have been ordered to stop
rubbing the foot of the imposing bronze statue of Winston Churchill as they
enter the Commons Chamber. The practice, traditionally followed by those
steeling themselves for a crucial speech, wore a hole in the great man's left
foot. It has now been restored and a strict instruction has gone out to MPs to
keep off.

David Cameron has started to keep tabs on backbench Tory MPs by joining them for
roast beef in the Members' Dining Room every Wednesday lunchtime. But the
schmoozing has its limits. When voluble troublemakers such as Bill Cash or
Nicholas Soames loom, a praetorian guard of young Cameroons forms a circle
around the PM so he can munch his Yorkshire in peace.

NICK CLEGG'S meeting with Joe Biden in Washington last week had Clegg's feisty
blonde aide Lena Pietsch fondly recalling her first meeting with the US
Vice-President. 'He said he liked my 'magnificent English cheekbones,' says Ms
Pietsch, who was too diplomatic to let on that she is as German as bratwurst.

CASUAL COOGAN DROPS A DOUBLE CLANGER...

CHAOS in the Commons last week after Labour's Gloria De Piero invited one of her
showbiz friends, comedian Steve Coogan, to Prime Minister's Questions.

Coogan, pictured with the MP, turned up in jeans and without a tie Z a double
no-no for guests in the exclusive under-gallery.

Flunkies lent him a tie and ordered him to remain seated to obscure MPs' views
of his denim, but his suffering wasn't over Z he was then introduced to Ed
Miliband.

NIGEL LEADS THE TEA SET

CANNY UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage has asked the Electoral
Commission to register the name of US Presidential hopeful Sarah Palin's Tea
Party, her anti-Obama movement, as an official British outfit.

'It is to stop someone else using it and splitting our vote,' insists Farage. 'I
won't be donning my Palin glasses just yet.'

TORY MP Claire Perry, now infamous for suggesting she might have to perform a
lewd act to persuade the Speaker to call her in the Chamber, hints at the origin
of her fruity ways. 'I spent nine years working in New York. It was classic Sex
And The City stuff. I was a single girl, living in a flat with a cat. It was all
the stereotypes. And it was great.'

TORY grandee Edward Leigh demanded an appropriate commemoration of Lord 'get on
your bike' Tebbit's 80th birthday this week. 'May we not have some suitable
memorial erected to him Z perhaps a bicycle draped in the Union Flag and carved
in solid British oak?' he asked. Speaker John Bercow responded that it was a
'far from disagreeable way to pay tribute'.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              April 3, 2011 Sunday

Searchlight is barking up the wrong poll

BYLINE: SabDhalu

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 824 words


Last month a report on attitudes in Britain to race and immigration was launched
by the Searchlight Educational Trust. It interprets the results of a survey
conducted for the educational charity by Populus. While the results are very
interesting and deserve close study, the conclusions drawn in the report are
contentious. It was flagged to the media as showing that 48 per cent of those
surveyed would support an extreme right-wing party if it were clearly
non-violent.

This is based on the percentage of respondents who would definitely support or
consider supporting a political party that defends the British, wants a British
Parliament, would control immigration and challenge Islamic extremism as long as
they were non-violent. This is used to argue that there is no progressive
majority in British society, and that the mainstream parties have to direct
their attention to an alleged crisis of British identity. The argument is
contentious first of all because support for immigration controls and a
challenge to Islamic extremism - even when elements about defending the British
are added - do not amount to a definition of extreme-right politics. All major
parties espoused the first two policies at the last election, and the addition
of an anti-European, little-Englander approach to this by Ukip did not see it
surging to victory. Second, the report's conclusions as to how to respond to
this so-called British identity crisis suggest a strategy which concedes ground
to the anti-multicultural, anti-Islam, anti-immigration agenda of the right.
This is reflected in Searchlight's own response, which is to shift their agenda
from a focus on campaigning against fascism and neo-nazism to set up a new
campaign entitled A Plague on Both Your Houses, that will equally prioritise
Islamic extremism. Searchlight's case for this appears to be that it is a
failure to address extremism which is driving those seeking a national identity
into the arms of the far right. This conclusion is reached through a skewed
interpretation and less than forensic examination of the report's results.
Rather than offering thorough analysis the report adopts wholesale the flimsily
argued case that Britain is now divided into a series of tribes with
descriptions like "latent hostiles," "identity ambivalents" and "confident
multiculturals" which, it is claimed, define our broad attitudes to our identity
and issues of race and immigration. It then argues that appealing to the
concerns of these tribes should be the focus. The response Searchlight lays out
for itself is then proposed to both the major parties with the argument they
have not done enough to oppose Muslim extremism and appeal to the "British." Ed
Miliband is warned that his policy of appealing to the "progressive majority"
and "squeezed middle" has failed to address the issues of British identity
politics. Cameron's Munich speech attacking multiculturalism meanwhile is
praised for addressing "concerns over immigration and a changing world, as well
as their belief that newcomers should accept the British way of life," with a
caveat that he does not go far enough. Apart from the fact that this approach,
if adopted generally, would simply feed into and deepen anti-Muslim prejudice,
it will not reap electoral gain, at least for Labour. There are no votes to be
had for Labour in shifting to the right on race and immigration. Research
conducted by Greenberg into the 2010 election showed that Labour did not lose
the election because it was too soft on immigration. The study revealed that
only 8 per cent of voters had seriously considered voting Labour but then
didn't. But this group was the least hostile of all groups to immigration, while
also being the most hostile to cuts and most in favour of tax increases. Labour
lost five million votes between 1997 and 2010, largely due to a failure to
deliver improvements in living standards and in reaction to the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan. The idea that Labour can electorally recover from this by attacking
Muslims, immigrants and other components of its core support is a dangerous
fiction. The same research showed that the Lib Dems outpolled Labour only on one
issue - their policy of an amnesty for long-term resident illegal immigrants.
Tory voters on the other hand were the most hostile to immigration. As austerity
undermines Tory electoral support, we can expect more appeals to the Tory
backwoods on immigration and race. There is a real danger of rising racism in
Britain today, but not because of a crisis of national identity or a failure to
confront Islamic extremism. The real danger comes from attempts by mainstream
politicians to deflect public anger about the impact of the economic crisis,
falling living standards and cuts in services onto innocent scapegoats -
immigrants, Muslims, multiculturalism. Sabby Dhalu is secretary for One Society
Many Cultures and joint secretary for Unite Against Fascism.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 3, 2011

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 274 words


ULSTER As ITV1 except 1.55pm-2.00 UTV Live 3.58pm-4.00 UTV Weather 6.00 UTV Live
6.25-6.30 Party Election Broadcast: The UK Independence Party 10.30-10.35 UTV
Live 12.30-2.35 Teleshopping

BBC1 N IRELAND As BBC1 except 1.30pm-1.45 Newsline; Weather 3.00-3.05 News;
Weather; BBC Newsline 6.30 Newsline 6.55-7.00 Party Election Broadcast 8.30-9.00
Bang Goes the Theory 10.25-10.35 Newsline; Weather

BBC2 N IRELAND As BBC2 except 5.15pm An Island Parish (R) 5.45 Off the Beaten
Track (R) 5.55-6.00 Party Election Broadcast: The UK Independence Party

RTE ONE 6.50am Teleshopping 7.25 Four Live (R) 8.15 The Daily Show (R) 9.05 The
Doctors 9.55 Dr Phil (R) 10.45 Royal Pains 11.45 Shortland Street 12.15 Doctors
12.45 Telly Bingo 1.00 News 1.25 Home and Away 1.55 Neighbours 2.20 EastEnders
(R) 3.00 Eco Eye (R) 3.30 Fair City (R) 4.00 Four Live 4.50 The Daily Show 5.40
News for the Deaf and European Weather 6.00 News 7.00 Nationwide 7.30 The Zoo.
Aisling Greene learns how to hand-rear cheetah cubs in South Africa. 8.00
EastEnders 8.30 The Business. The future of the country's tourism industry. 9.00
News 9.35 The Late Late Show 11.45 News 11.55   Frankie and Johnny (Garry
Marshall, 1991) Romantic drama starring Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer. A
lonely waitress's painful past relationships makes her reluctant to return the
affection shown her by an ex-con cook. 2.05   Take the Money and Run (Woody
Allen, 1969) Spoof documentary directed by and starring Woody Allen. With Janet
Margolin, Marcel Hillaire and Jacquelyn Hyde. 3.25 Telly Bingo (R) 3.35
Shortland Street (R) 4.00 Nationwide (R) 4.25 Dr Phil (R) 5.05 Doctors (R)
5.35-6.10 EuroNews


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 3, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

European campaign;
To the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 189 words


SIR - The 2008 EU Agency Workers' Directive was not "fiercely resisted by our
Government at the time" as Christopher Booker (March 27) says. It was initially
resisted by the Blair government, but was then positively embraced by Gordon
Brown soon after he became Prime Minister. In the European Parliament it was
championed by British Labour MEPs, who pushed it into law with the help of
Socialist allies.

The fierce resistance came from Conservative MEPs, a campaign I was proud to
lead.

Philip Bushill-Matthews Conservative Employment Spokesman in the European
Parliament 1999-2009 Harbury, Warwickshire

SIR - Tim Montgomerie (Inside Politics, March 27) suggests David Cameron's hand
is tied over the European Union because of his partnership with the pro-EU Nick
Clegg. Not so. In 2009 Lord Pearson, leader of Ukip, approached Mr Cameron and
said Ukip would stand aside in the general election in return for a guarantee of
a referendum on Europe. His approaches were ignored. Mr Cameron was prepared to
risk losing the election rather than give the British people a vote on Europe.
Nothing has changed since.

Richard Scully Harwich, Essex

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Why I admire Clegg more than Cameron, by Lord Tebbit;
Interview The Big Society is just a buzzword and war in Libya is thoughtless,
the former MP tells Bryony Gordon

BYLINE: Bryony Gordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1305 words


LORD TEBBIT of Chingford opens the door to his town house in Bury St Edmunds
wearing slacks, a green jumper and a shirt. He leads me to the room he likes to
call his library, though "in actual fact it's just a place overloaded with
books".

He says this with a chuckle. He chuckles a lot, Lord Tebbit, even when talking
about the IRA's Brighton bomber, Pat Magee. "Well, what else can you do?"
Chuckle, chuckle.

The library contains political biographies, historical tomes, a copy of Little
Black Sambo and an old pregnancy guide - the Tebbits have three children and
five grandchildren. There are also several dozen books about flowers. Lord
Tebbit is a keen gardener who spends the first few minutes in our company moving
a "rather embarrassing-looking geranium" out of sight.

Later, as we walk around his courtyard, he tells me he hates pigeons and would
like to shoot them, though living in a town, he is not allowed. "The pigeons
keep on attacking my pansies, which must make them homophobes." He pronounces it
houghmophobes. Chuckle.

Back in the library, Lord Tebbit insists on adding a tie to his outfit. "I can't
have a go at David Cameron and the bloody tieless and gormless lot and then not
wear one in the photo." He turned 80 on Tuesday, but he will not let his
standards slip. Did the Prime Minister send him a card? "No he didn't," he says
with an impish smile. "But then I didn't send him one either."

Lord Tebbit joined the Conservative Party at 15; he has been a Member of
Parliament for two constituencies (Epping and then Chingford), was the Secretary
of State for Employment then Trade and Industry, and was chairman of the party
for two years.

His dedication to the Tories has come at considerable personal cost. In October
1984 he spent four hours trapped under the rubble of the Grand Hotel in
Brighton, holding his wife's hand throughout. Margaret is a former nurse and
knew that she had been paralysed below the neck, but she did not want to worry
her husband so she made no mention of it. When they were finally pulled out on
live television, her condition became clear.

Lord Tebbit, often described as the greatest prime minister we never had, left
mainstream politics to look after her. "The only thing I sometimes wonder is
whether I underestimated the extent of the resources which would have been
available to me had I been prime minister, the resources to help look after my
wife. That perhaps it would have been better for her in that sense. But I would
probably have ballsed the whole thing up." Chuckle, chuckle.

Yet his devotion to Lady Tebbit makes me feel tearful; had Michael Foot seen
this side of Lord Tebbit he would never have described him as a semi-trained
polecat. Last year his wife had cancer. Lord Tebbit does not want to go into the
details. "I could have wished it on a couple of people other than her."

Lady Tebbit seems marvellously upbeat. She pops into the library in her
motorised wheelchair to say "hello", and points out the leather slippers she
bought her husband for his birthday. The couple recently moved from the wilds of
West Sussex so that Lady Tebbit could get about by herself. "Of all the types of
therapy Margaret has to have, her favourite is retail."

We all laugh, but the circumstances that led to her condition are never far
away: I compliment Lady Tebbit on her fine gold earrings, which leads to her
disclosing that she lost most of her jewellery in the bombing, including her
engagement ring and wedding band. The final insult. It is not a surprise that
Lord Tebbit cannot find it in himself to forgive Magee. Does he think God
exists? "I'm not sure. He ought to. Things would work better. I said to someone
the other day that it's up to God whether he forgives him [Magee], not for me.
All I'd like to do is accelerate the time of the interview."

Given all of this, I find the attempt to expel him from the party in May 2009
astonishing, especially as it was over his perfectly sane calls for people to
boycott the main parties in that month's European elections as a demonstration
over the expenses scandal. Then again, the Tories have long been keen to
distance themselves from the "bovver boy" of Baroness Thatcher's party, who in
the past has expressed Jurassic views about race and homosexuality (if I were
him, I'd smooth over the cricket test comment rather than the "on yer bike" one,
which he claims he never actually said).

Anyway, Lord Tebbit has been cast as a T-Rex, but, as he points out, Tories do
not tend to be right-on youths. "They tell me that Conservatives are dying out,
that we need to modernise, but we keep burying old people and funnily enough
there are more the next year. It amuses me that when I go out people will come
up to me and say, 'When I was 20 I loathed you and everything you stood for. Now
I find myself thinking, My God! I am getting just like him!' " Lord Tebbit
argues that the priorities of government are defence, enforcing law and looking
after the economy and infrastructure, and that it should not get involved with
social mores. "Attitudes change a lot over time, go back and forth." It is the
only time during our three hours together that he says something slightly
flimsy.

He says he is more of a Conservative than David Cameron. The Big Society is just
a "buzzword. It's a logo looking for a product". He wants to turn the party back
to being nationalist and jokes that he would like it to go into coalition with
the UK Independence Party. Chuckle. Lord Tebbit has written to the Prime
Minister several times about issues, and while he always gets a reply,
"sometimes I have had to give him a reminder to".

By contrast, when he wrote to Nick Clegg before the election - to tell him he
how much he agreed with the necessity to raise the threshold of income tax - "I
had a nice letter back". As a joke I ask if he has more admiration for Mr Clegg
than Mr Cameron, and am astonished when he says, "Yes, in a way, because I think
he has pushed his agenda quite hard. I think Clegg is probably more politically
motivated than Cameron." Damning for them both.

What does he feel Mr Cameron really believes in? "I'm not sure what he believes
in. Let me put it tactfully like that." Later he quotes Corinthians: "'If the
trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who shall follow?' David was more concerned
about being prime minister than what he was going to do as prime minister. I
think that's the heart of it." Lord Tebbit does concede some admiration for Mr
Cameron for getting the UN resolution over Libya. But even this comes with a
caveat.

"Whether it was wise to do so is another matter. I have the gravest doubt that
what follows Gaddafi will be sweetness and light." Of the rush to war, Lord
Tebbit says that "it was thoughtless".

"Sometimes one has to ignore the call of 'do something' in favour of sitting
down and working out what it is that needs to be done." It takes him back to the
US bombing of Libya in 1986. "I disagreed with the prime minister because she
agreed to the Americans' use of bases here without consulting the Cabinet."

When I asked if Baroness Thatcher was frightening, he chuckles that "she was
quite alarming at times" but he clearly holds her in great affection. On the
occasion of his birthday, has he been looking back over his life? "One does a
bit. But no, I tend still to look forward. Though I'm not quite sure to what."
And off he chuckles.

"He was more concerned about being prime minister than what he was going to do

CV Born: March 29, 1931, in Ponders End, Middlesex Upbringing: Born into a
workingclass family, he attended Edmonton County School, a selective north
London state school. Career: Brief spell as journalist at Financial Times.
Served in RAF as pilot before joining BOAC airline in 1953. MP for Epping
1970-74 and Chingford 1974-92. Stood down to look after his wife, Margaret.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Tebbit, with Bryony Gordon, talks candidly about his wife's
paralysis following the IRA bombing of the Grand Hotel, Brighton, and the
direction of the Conservative Party
MARTIN POPE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OUR PEOPLE'S ARMY IS ON THE MARCH AGAINST THE EUROPEAN UNION

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 252 words


OUR crusade for a referendum on getting Britain out of the European Union has
been a massive hit with the British public and support continues to pour in.

This week three resourceful Daily Express readers came in with more than 3,800
signed crusade coupons that they had collected themselves in the Hampshire towns
of Andover and Basingstoke.

Peter Sumner, Bill McCabe and Ann Williams are all UKIP members and told me of
the huge response they got after setting up a stall in the market place in
Andover. Later they set up a similar stall in Basingstoke. "For every one person
who walked on by, 10 stopped to sign up to the crusade," said Bill.

They were perhaps helped by the fact that the local MP Sir George Young is among
the most pro-EU of Tories. Ann recalled how he had once mocked people who
thought "all our problems come from the EU". Well he wouldn't get away with that
these days judging from the number of his constituents who want a referendum on
getting out. As former soldier Peter put it: "When I think of my mates who
fought and died for this country they would be turning in their graves at the
thought that we are now dictated to by Brussels."

Today I am one of the speakers at a rally organised by the anti-EU Campaign for
an Independent Britain.

The passion of people such as Peter, Bill and Ann has inspired me to get
involved in this great cause. They and people like them are not extremists, just
Britons with a backbone who want their country back. This newspaper aims to help
them get it.

S

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGNERS: Bill, Ann and Peter at Daily Express HQ
Picture: TIM CLARKE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEW EU ANTI-TERRORIST BODY WILL BE 'LIKE THE KGB'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words


SENIOR Eurocrats are plotting to set up a new European Union counterterrorism
agency that could cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of pounds.

And critics warned last night the body could turn into a Europe-wide secret
police force that would be "like the KGB".

The move is also likely to infuriate MI5 and MI6 chiefs as British spies could
be forced to share intelligence with European agents.

EU counter-terrorism director Olivier Luyckx envisages the new organisation
working alongside the EU's vast new diplomatic corps, headed by foreign affairs
supremo Baroness Cathy Ashton.

He raised the proposal in the European Parliament in Brussels earlier this week.

Mr Luyckx called for a series of existing EU security agencies including
Europol, Eurojust, Cosi, Frontex and Cepol to be pulled together in one body
with sweeping powers.

Mr Luyckx said: "There is new room for action at EU level. This is how I see the
change: To set up a system that would mirror the one that is being set up for
monitoring external crises, a one-stop shop for information-sharing."

Austria and Belgium first proposed a European intelligence service after the
Madrid train bombing in 2004.

But the move was rejected by Britain and some other EU member nations as yet
another unnecessary extension of the Brussels bureaucracy.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Godfrey Bloom said: "My worry is that it would be
less like America's CIA and more like Russia's KGB."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

EU ANTI-TERRORIST AGENCY WILL BE 'LIKE THE KGB'

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 204  words


SENIOR Eurocrats are plotting to set up a new European Union counterterrorism
agency that could cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of pounds.

And critics warned last night the agency could turn into a Europe-wide secret
police force that would be "like the KGB".

The move is also likely to infuriate MI5 and MI6 chiefs as British spies could
be forced to share intelligence with European agents.

EU counter-terrorism director Olivier Luyckx envisages the new organisation
working alongside the EU's vast new diplomatic corps, headed by foreign affairs
supremo Baroness Cathy Ashton.

He raised the proposal in the European Parliament in Brussels earlier this week.

Mr Luyckx called for a series of existing EU security agencies including
Europol, Eurojust, Cosi, Frontex and Cepol to be pulled together in one body.

Mr Luyckx said: "This is how I see the change: To set up a system that would
mirror the one being set up for monitoring external crises, a one-stop shop for
information-sharing."

Austria and Belgium first proposed a European intelligence service after the
Madrid train bombing in 2004.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Godfrey Bloom said: "My worry is that it would be
less like America's CIA and more like Russia's KGB."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 2, 2011 Saturday 9:00 AM GMT

The Tories must not be frightened by Ed Miliband's orgy of shroud-waving

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1120 words


Mr Miliband launched the Labour local election campaign a day early on Thursday
March 31. It would have been much better a day later on All Fools' Day. A launch
it may have been called, but I doubt if it will go very far, or indeed that it
will even stay afloat for very long.

Last Saturday he was called to address the owners of the Labour party at the TUC
rally in Hyde Park. There were moments in that speech when I began to fear that
he might call for a United Nations resolution to establish a no-police zone in
London to protect his over-enthusiastic supporters.

Sadly his local election speech was consistent with that in Hyde Park when he
denied the need to act decisively to deal with the Blair-Brown debt mountain.
His call was for Britain to hurry after Portugal and Ireland, joining them in
the downward spiral of debt which inevitably traps incontinent spenders and
borrowers, as they are compelled to pay higher and higher rates to borrow more
and more.

Applauding the TUC campaign to oppose any reductions of expenditure - and to
reduce tax revenues by driving those who pay the most tax out of the country -
he supported its plan to spend our way out of debt.

Now he has appealed to his supporters to vote for a slate of the most profligate
local government candidates. As a socialist, his message is to use Labour's debt
crisis to try to damage the Tories. Labour's policy is that if cuts have to be
made they should be made in front-line services. Not a hair on the head of any
of the 50,000 a year Diversity Outreach Advisers and their legions of
paper-shufflers should be cut. No cuts in the five-star hotel jaunts to spa
towns, or to Brussels to brainstorm on how to make brainstorming jaunts even
more ineffective.

No, he supports the election of those willing to cause the maximum of harm by
axing the 20,000 a year care assistants, the lollipop ladies on the school
crossings and the local beat police in an orgy of shroud-waving designed to
blame Messrs Cameron, Clegg and Osborne for not taking us faster and even deeper
into debt.

I hope that the Tories will not be frightened by such a campaign. I hope that
they will say again and again that they plan to increase public expenditure
every year throughout this Parliament and that our debt at the time of the next
election will be higher than at the last. The most that the Coalition will be
able to achieve is that by 2015 the annual deficit should be more or less wiped
out ready to start the hard task of repaying debt.

No doubt Eric Pickles will explain the financial facts of life to Conservative
candidates. Perhaps it would be best if Mr Clegg kept quiet and left it to his
friend, the rather effective Lib Dem Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Danny
Alexander, to deal with his party's candidates.

...

I hope that followers of these blogs will forgive me for being a little late in
this posting  but as many of you will know it was my birthday on Tuesday.  So
the first thing I should do is to thank all of you who sent me good wishes as I
embark on my ninth decade.

After that I should extend my good wishes to olcrom, with whom I have so often
disagreed, on his 80th birthday, and to his wife too. What he and I have in
common is our belief that those promises, "for richer or poorer", "for better or
worse" and "in sickness or health", were made to be kept.

There were plenty of good points made, not least by david_in_rome in some long
exchanges with some of those who see everything in terms of a great conspiracy
in which David Cameron is a covert Marxist.   Now come on, I am not uncritical
of the Prime Minister, but to label him as a closet Marxist devalues any other
comment.    Nor can I take Immanuel kant , or should that be cant, seriously
when he says that since I do not hold a university degree,  what I say is
irrelevant.  Indeed if that is what he thinks I am suprised that he reads what I
say.  More likely freedom may have the better point in his comment that we are
cursed by the insanity of government by ppe graduates.

On the substance of my blog, I was glad that pixie_jade and others agreed with
my analysis, but I think that some of you may have misread the headline to think
that I regard Clegg and his LibDem friends as the only political cross dressers
in town.  Alas I fear there are too many in my party and I think steady barker
may well have something in his diagnosis that both Clegg and Cameron are
suffering with Stockholm syndrome.   Perhaps if rtj1211 re-reads what I wrote he
might find that I did acknowledge the Liberal inheritance of the SDP but I do
not think that it was so much a merger as a take over by the SDP which created
the LibDems.

I am  inclined to agree with (I think) Q4 who said that  the Conservatives have
been re-branded centre left.  I also noted that bob3 got a lot of support for
his view that whilst there may be three parties it is still Brussells that calls
the shots. The thought that all our savings from "the cuts" seem to be going
straight to Brussels and on to Portugal brought boudicca to the edge of despair,
though jock_mcsporran was just as unhappy that the cash was going to the war in
Libya.

There was a lot of pessimism about our political process with duckham saying
nothing can be done because the UK is a vassal state to debt, but surely that
underlines that it is essential to reduce our debt. Then ptahhotpe deplored the
lack of opposition in Parliament. He has a point but I think he overstates it.
However, anders, crown armourer, kevin Leonard, dan oconnor, pietro 99 and more
were also pessimistic and mostly blaming Brussells for many of our troubles and
the narrowness of political debate too.

I should correct ooopiop who thought I did not understand demographics.  Of
course some of the Tories missing voters have died  in the last twenty years,
and as david in rome said, many have left the country.  The trouble is that the
Conservative Party no longer argues for Conservatism.  As for Rupert Tiger's
question my answer is clear.  Clegg has betrayed his LibDem followers.  That is
why his voters no longer support him.

On AV, mpjones wondered if it might split the Conservative Party.  I rather
doubt it. Then George Anderton asked if UKIP is on the wrong side by supporting
AV.  I am certain that they are.  It seems to be another example of how whenever
the Party seems poised to build on success it does something self destructive.
Maybe the Conservative Party will come to its senses and make UKIP redundant, or
maybe as mooncat suggested the right of the Conservative Party will leave the
Eurohile Left and hoover up UKIP to form the new  conservative Conservative
Party.

Not, I think, in the near future at least.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

Denying prisoners the right to vote 'makes them "outcasts"

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words


DENYING murderers, rapists and other prisoners the vote makes them "outcasts"
and damages democracy, Europe's human rights chief said yesterday.

In a clear attack on Britain, Thomas Hammarberg said to deprive anyone of the
right to vote made them a "non-person" and that prisoners still had human
rights.

The European Court of Human Rights has provoked outrage in Britain after ruling
that the blanket ban on prisoners voting was illegal.

The Coalition is still deciding how to abide by the ruling, which David Cameron
said makes him "physically sick".

In February, MPs backed a Commons motion opposing the European ruling by 234 to
22.

In his blog, Mr Hammarberg, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights,
said the court's judgment "was not particularly popular" in Britain and that
"even leading politicians stated they were appalled by the idea".

But he added: "It may be sobering to remind ourselves that democracy was once
established through the idea of universal suffrage.

"Our forefathers accepted the principle that not only male persons, nobles, and
those who owned property or paid taxes should have the right to vote, but
everyone - irrespective of their status in society.

"We may now feel that some of these right-holders do not deserve this
possibility, but to exclude them is to undermine a crucial dimension of the very
concept of democracy - and thereby human rights."

He went on: "To be deprived of this right is to be declared an outcast, a
non-person. That approach does not correspond to the European values of our POLK
times."

CHRISTOPHER Last night Gerard Batten, an MEP for Ukip, responded: "The
commissioner seems to think that refusing prisoners, people who have raped and
murdered remember, the right to vote is an insult to democracy, but seems to
ignore that in the UK it is the democratic will of the people to withhold the
vote from those convicted of crimes serious enough to merit incarceration".

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

Fury as Euro boss tells UK: You're wrong to ban votes for prisoners

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 625 words


A TOP Eurocrat provoked fury last night by insisting all prisoners must be given
the vote despite overwhelming opposition in Westminster and throughout Britain.

Thomas Hammarberg, the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights,
accused the UK of "undermining a crucial dimension of the very concept of
democracy" by denying convicted murderers, rapists and paedophiles a say in
elections.

Britain's 141-year-old blanket ban on inmates getting the vote "does not
correspond to the European values of our times", argued the Swedish-born former
head of Amnesty International.

And Mr Hammarberg, 69, declared that the opinions of leading Westminster
politicians and the vast majority of British voters on the issue should be
ignored.

"Prisoners, though deprived of physical liberty, have human rights," said the
£200,000-a-year bureaucrat.

"Measures should be taken to ensure that imprisonment does not undermine rights
which are unconnected to the intention of the punishment."

Mr Hammarberg's demand comes as the British Government awaits a response from
the European Court of Human Rights to a massive vote at Westminster against
giving allowing prisoners in the voting booth.

Earlier this year, MPs voted by a margin of 10 to one against changing the law
following a ruling from the Strasbourgbased court. Last night, Mr Hammarberg's
intervention sparked a backlash from MPs and Euro MPs.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten, who backs the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out
of the EU, said: "The Commissioner seems to think that refusing prisoners -
including people who have raped and murdered - the right to vote is an insult to
democracy.

"But he seems to ignore that in the UK it is the democratic will of the people
to withhold the vote from those convicted of crimes serious enough to merit
incarceration."

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "Mr Hammarberg is entitled to his opinion, but
frankly I couldn't care what he thinks and nor should the British public.

"This issue has got nothing to do with him. This should be a matter for the
British people and the British Parliament and not Strasbourg."

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "He is clearly wrong. Prisoners are in prison because
they have done dreadful things. That should never be forgotten."

Mr Hammarberg, known for upholding and widening the rights of asylum seekers and
gypsies, said on his official website yesterday: "The European Court of Human
Rights has confirmed its position that there should be no blanket ban against
prisoners voting in general elections. This judgment was not particularly
popular in the United Kingdom. Even leading politicians stated they were
appalled by the idea that persons sentenced to imprisonment would have the right
to vote."

He called for a debate in the UK and across Europe, arguing that letting
prisoners take part in elections could help their rehabilitation and cut
re-offending.

Mr Hammarberg's comments are a clear indication of the strength of opinion on
prisoner voting within the Strasbourg bureaucracy.

The Council of Europe also oversees the European Court of Human Rights, which
ruled against Britain after a complaint by convicted killer John Hirst, who
slaughtered his landlady with an axe. In February, MPs voted by 234 to 22 in
favour of maintaining the ban. The Government then asked the European Court of
Human Rights to reconsider its ruling.

A Cabinet Office spokeswoman last night said the Government was still waiting
for a response.

Prime Minister David Cameron has said the idea of prisoners getting the vote
made him feel "physically ill".

But ministers fear that the Government could have to pay millions of pounds of
taxpayers' money to convicted criminals in compensation payments if they
continue to defy the Human Rights Court.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Hammarberg is ignoring UK public opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 1, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury as Euro boss tells UK: You're wrong to ban votes for prisoners

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 623  words


A TOP Eurocrat provoked fury last night by insisting all prisoners must be given
the vote despite overwhelming opposition in Westminster and throughout Britain.

Thomas Hammarberg, the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights,
accused the UK of "undermining a crucial dimension of the very concept of
democracy" by denying convicted murderers, rapists and paedophiles a say in
elections.

Britain's 141-year-old blanket ban on inmates getting the vote "does not
correspond to the European values of our times", argued the Swedish-born former
head of Amnesty International.

And Mr Hammarberg, 69, declared that the opinions of leading Westminster
politicians and the vast majority of British voters on the issue should be
ignored.

"Prisoners, though deprived of physical liberty, have human rights, " said the
GBP 200,000-a-year bureaucrat.

"Measures should be taken to ensure that imprisonment does not undermine rights
which are unconnected to the intention of the punishment."

Mr Hammarberg's demand comes as the British Government awaits a response from
the European Court of Human Rights to a massive vote at Westminster against
giving allowing prisoners in the voting booth.

Earlier this year, MPs voted by a margin of 10 to one against changing the law
following a ruling from the Strasbourgbased court. Last night, Mr Hammarberg's
intervention sparked a backlash from MPs and Euro MPs.

Ukip MEP Gerard Batten, who backs the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out
of the EU, said: "The Commissioner seems to think that refusing prisoners -
including people who have raped and murdered - the right to vote is an insult to
democracy.

"But he seems to ignore that in the UK it is the democratic will of the people
to withhold the vote from those convicted of crimes serious enough to merit
incarceration."

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "Mr Hammarberg is entitled to his opinion, but
frankly I couldn't care what he thinks and nor should the British public.

"This issue has got nothing to do with him. This should be a matter for the
British people and the British Parliament and not Strasbourg."

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "He is clearly wrong. Prisoners are in prison because
they have done dreadful things. That should never be forgotten."

Mr Hammarberg, known for upholding and widening the rights of asylum seekers and
gypsies, said on his official website yesterday: "The European Court of Human
Rights has confirmed its position that there should be no blanket ban against
prisoners voting in general elections. This judgment was not particularly
popular in the United Kingdom. Even leading politicians stated they were
appalled by the idea that persons sentenced to imprisonment would have the right
to vote."

He called for a debate in the UK and across Europe, arguing that letting
prisoners take part in elections could help their rehabilitation and cut
re-offending.

Mr Hammarberg's comments are a clear indication of the strength of opinion on
prisoner voting within the Strasbourg bureaucracy.

The Council of Europe also oversees the European Court of Human Rights, which
ruled against Britain after a complaint by convicted killer John Hirst, who
slaughtered his landlady with an axe. In February, MPs voted by 234 to 22 in
favour of maintaining the ban. The Government then asked the European Court of
Human Rights to reconsider its ruling.

A Cabinet Office spokeswoman last night said the Government was still waiting
for a response.

Prime Minister David Cameron has said the idea of prisoners getting the vote
made him feel "physically ill".

But ministers fear that the Government could have to pay millions of pounds of
taxpayers' money to convicted criminals in compensation payments if they
continue to defy the Human Rights Court.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Hammarberg is ignoring UK public opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 152 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              April 1, 2011 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Eurocrat: You're wrong to stop prisoners voting

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 341  words


A SENIOR European chief provoked fury last night by insisting all prisoners must
be given the vote despite widespread opposition in Britain.

Thomas Hammarberg, the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights,
accused the UK of "undermining a crucial dimension of the very concept of
democracy" by denying convicted murderers, rapists and paedophiles a say in
elections.

Britain's 141-year-old blanket ban on inmates getting the vote "does not
correspond to the European values of our times", argued the Swedish-born former
head of Amnesty International.

Mr Hammarberg, 69, declared the opinions of leading Westminster politicians and
the vast majority of British voters on the issue should be ignored.

"Prisoners, though deprived of physical liberty, have human rights, " said the
GBP 200,000-a-year bureaucrat.

His demand comes as the British Government awaits a response from the European
Court of Human Rights to a massive vote at Westminster against giving prisoners
the vote.

Earlier this year, MPs voted by a margin of 10 to one against changing the law
following a ruling from the Strasbourg-based court. Ukip MEP Gerard Batten, who
backs the Daily Express campaign to get Britain out of Europe, said: "The
Commissioner seems to think that refusing prisoners - including people who have
raped and murdered - the right to vote is an insult to democracy.

"But he seems to ignore that in the UK it is the democratic will of the people
to withhold the vote from those convicted of crimes serious enough to merit
incarceration."

Tory MP Philip Davies said: "Mr Hammarberg is entitled to his opinion. But
frankly I couldn't care what he thinks and nor should the British public.

"This issue has got nothing to do with him.

"This should be a matter for the British people and the British Parliament and
not Strasbourg."

Tory MP Priti Patel said: "He is clearly wrong. Prisoners are in prison because
they have done dreadful things. That should never be forgotten."

The UK Government has asked the European Court to reconsider but has not had a
response yet.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Human rights commissioner Thomas Hammarberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 152 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

Comment: A yes to AV could make the Greens a force to reckon with: Germany may
be greener, but the astonishing gains in elections there hint at eventual
breakthrough for Caroline Lucas and co

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1062 words


When Ed Miliband did his bit for the alternative vote yes campaign this week,
most of the attention focused on his newfound willingness to share a platform
with Liberal Democrats. And rightly so. Yet it was the third party leader on
Tuesday's platform, Caroline Lucas of the Greens, who got me thinking too.
Because if events fall Lucas's way, and if her party has the nerve to exploit
them, this could be the breakthrough decade for the Green party.

This is certainly a week for taking Green politics more seriously than most do
much of the time. The reason is the astonishing result of Sunday's two
state-level elections in Germany. In the first of these, in Rheinland-Pfalz, the
Greens were the only party to significantly increase their share of the vote -
up by 11%, thus giving them a share of power with the Social Democrats (SPD).
But it was the other result that really took the breath away. In
Baden-Wurttemberg, the Greens were the only party to boost their share, by 13%
this time, vaulting past the SPD into second place. The Greens now lead a
state-level coalition government (with the SPD as junior partners) for the first
time in German history.

And not just in any German state, either. Baden-Wurttemberg is an economic
powerhouse. It's probably where your washing machine or your cooker was made,
quite likely your computer too, and perhaps even, if you are lucky and rich or
both, your car. It's a place with 5% annual economic growth, where in a
technical sense there is full employment, and where they make Mercedes-Benz
cars. And now it has elected a Green-led government.

It's worth reflecting on this. Most of the people who switched to the Greens
last Sunday had previously voted for Angela Merkel's CDU, the equivalent of our
Conservatives. And even though the local state government - a
conservative-liberal coalition like Merkel's and like Britain's - was unpopular,
it wasn't the largest opposition party, the SPD (the equivalent of the Labour
party), which benefited. It was the previously unsuccessful Greens. If nothing
else, these elections have been a thumbs-down verdict on the SPD. So often the
electoral pacesetter on the European left, the SPD now struggles to hold on to
more than one German vote in four. And it is the Greens who are now in many ways
its greatest electoral rival - as well as its most probable governmental
partner.

Hang on, though. Can't all this be put down to an unrepeatable set of
circumstances, with the Greens surging because of the combined impact of the
radiation leaks at the Fukushima plant in Japan and Merkel's panic U-turn on the
nuclear power issue in Germany? Possibly so. Yet big events can have long
consequences as well as instant impacts.

It would be a big surprise if the Greens did not significantly boost their
already strong positions in state-level elections in Bremen and Berlin later
this year, thus continuing the momentum. And if the Merkel coalition were to
implode, which it probably won't but may do, it would be brave to bet against
the Greens, currently on 21% nationally behind the SPD's 25% and the CDU's 33%,
coming second.

But what has all this to do with Britain? Surely our politics march to our own,
different drum? Is it not the height of fantasy to imagine Lucas, the sole MP
from a party that secured a mere 1% of the national vote in 2010, leading the
kind of impact which the German Greens, with at least a couple of dozen MPs in
the Bundestag for most of the last 30 years, have achieved in a country with a
much greater environmentalist and anti-nuclear tradition, and a fair electoral
system to boot?

All true. Yet don't overlook the similarities. The big parties are in decline in
Britain too, just as they are in Germany. Electoral pluralism is growing as the
big parties lose share. The main big party of the left, in particular, struggles
to attract new parts of the electorate. The liberal party, although
traditionally green, is in electoral eclipse. And after the 5 May referendum we
may also have a fairer voting system, in which second preferences will count,
allowing smaller parties that have a wide second-preference appeal a chance of
winning more seats - which is why the Greens and Ukip, unlike the much more
narrowly based BNP, stand to benefit.

Yes, the British Greens are weaker and smaller than the German Greens. But the
political weather in northern Europe has many similarities and it is not
entirely fanciful to see the British Greens potentially beginning to follow
where the German party has led. There's a small sign of that in this week's
Scotsman-YouGov opinion poll, which puts the Greens a sliver ahead of the Lib
Dems in fourth place in the race for the Scottish parliament on 5 May. Not a
breakthrough. Not conclusive. But a glimmer of a possibility all the same. A
space may be opening up in our politics.

More than anything, the British Greens need to attach themselves to a set of
issues which they and the electorate both care about enough to be an effective
protest party. Is nuclear power that issue, as it was at the German state
elections? It certainly cannot be ignored as a focus. But the HS2 rail project
through the Chilterns and the Vale of Aylesbury could be a better campaigning
bet in parts of southern England and the Midlands. The Greens may be a radical
party, but they have to look for conservative appeal.

Many other major uncertainties would, of course, all need to fall the Greens'
way if the party is to create anything approaching real national momentum. Good
results in Scotland - six MSPs at Holyrood instead of the current two - and
Wales, where the Greens have no AMs, would be a start. The right Westminster
byelection - though in 2010 only two Green candidates won more than 10% - could
be an opportunity. The Greens also desperately need one or two more charismatic
leaders, in addition to Lucas, with the same conservative "realo" appeal on
business-friendly issues that Winfried Kretschmann managed to harness in
Baden-Wurttemberg this week.

Right now, though, it is AV that holds the key, especially at a time when Labour
is uncertain, the Lib Dems eclipsed and the Tories unpopular. Vote for AV and
the Greens could eventually be Britain's fourth party. Vote against it and they
will remain firmly rooted in the margins of the margins. One way or the other,
we'll know after 5 May.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
