
                               1 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 31, 2011 Saturday 7:00 PM GMT

Europe cannot save the euro, nor save itself from the euro;
The deflated apparatchiks of the EU watch powerlessly as a tragedy unfolds.

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

LENGTH: 1333 words


It is customary at this time to act like two-faced Janus, looking back at the
year that has passed while predicting what may happen in the one ahead. However,
from what we have seen of the two great political fantasies of our age, it is
now much easier to say what is likely not to happen. Each of these acts of
make-believe has got so out of hand that a violent collision with reality is
inevitable. But those who are in their grip are so locked in denial that it is
only safe to predict that nothing will bring them back to earth until that
nemesis intervenes.

A first prediction is that it is no longer conceivable that the sad little
nonentities who preside over the affairs of the EU will be able to find any
rational way out of the hole they have dug for themselves over the euro. Nothing
they did in 2011 went anywhere towards saving them and us from the consequences
of this folly. There was perhaps a time when they might have rescued their
currency by allowing those countries that should never have been allowed to join
in the first place to leave - those countries that have exploited its low
interest rates to run up debts they can never repay.

But this could not be allowed because the single currency was never designed as
an economic venture. It was a wholly hubristic political gesture, the supreme
symbol of the real agenda of the "European project" from its foundation: the
desire to lock all the nations of Europe indissolubly together in ever closer
political union. For any country to leave the euro would be a defeat too great
to be countenanced.

As a result they are all now completely boxed in. Even in practical terms, it is
too late for such a remedy. A country leaving the euro would find itself in a
worse mess than ever. Its regained national currency would be instantly
devalued, leaving it even less able to repay debts contracted in euros than it
is now. Defaulting banks and defaulting countries would send shockwaves through
the entire European economy and spread chaos in every direction.

So all that is left to those in charge of the "project" is to prattle on about
the need for "more Europe", as they belatedly attempt to set up some kind of
"fiscal union": that all-powerful economic government of the eurozone which
wiser counsels warned, as much as 30 years ago, was a necessary precondition of
launching a single currency - not a half-baked measure to be cobbled together
after the damage was done.

The only recourse now is to inflict such deflationary pressures on the debtor
countries of southern Europe that their economies are driven to collapse,
inflicting social misery on a scale unknown since the Second World War. We can
see this already in riot-torn Greece, where hapless families are driven to dump
their children on a bankrupt state because they can no longer afford to feed
them.

Just how the catastrophe will unfold from here, and what the consequences will
be for the future shape of the EU, no one can predict. Even the Commission
President, Jose Manuel Barroso, has suggested that a collapse of the euro would
inevitably call into question the survival of "the Union" itself.

One faint consolation in recent months has been the sight (as broadcast on
YouTube) of Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip and of the Freedom and Democracy group
in the European Parliament, repeatedly standing up in its front row to rub in
the inescapable realities of this disaster only a few feet from those currently
responsible for it - Barroso, President Van Rompuy and the leaders of the other
political groupings in the parliament. These deflated apparatchiks simply stare
ahead, dead-eyed and stony-faced, knowing just how powerless they are in the
face of the unfolding tragedy.

We must not forget, however, that, when it comes to nations running up a debt
out of control, our own Government is still having to borrow an additional £2.5
billion every week, just to fund its own overspending - which, despite all talk
of "cuts", still races upwards. Any moment now, our own national debt will top
the £1 trillion mark, having more than doubled in six years. However damaging a
disintegration of the euro may be to our economy in 2012, we also face a crisis
we have brought upon ourselves - one for which our Government has no more of a
real answer than do the impotent rulers of the eurozone.

- - - - -

We are left in an equally insoluble mess by the ebbing away of what we can now
see was the greatest and most damaging scare-story in history: the belief that
the world was threatened with catastrophic warming by human emissions of carbon
dioxide.

In the 20 years since the scare was launched, global man-made CO2 emissions have
risen by 50 per cent. But at the end of 2011, global temperatures measured by
Nasa satellites stood barely a tenth of a degree Celsius higher than their
average throughout the 32 years since satellite measurements began - far lower
than the projected warming. The computer models on which the scare relied have
proved so wrong that it is incomprehensible how they were ever taken seriously.

Hardly surprisingly, in 2011 any attempt to get global agreement on drastic
meaures to meet this supposed threat finally expired, as the third mammoth UN
conference in as many years fizzled out in Durban. There is no chance that
China, India, Brazil, Russia or even the US will agree to a replacement for the
failed Kyoto Protocol - not when China alone, with its coal-fired power
stations, is increasing its CO2 emissions each year by an amount greater than
the UK's entire annual output.

On all sides, mad schemes dreamed up to meet this imaginary crisis are falling
apart. The EU's carbon trading scheme is collapsing, The dream of solar power is
disintegrating, as country after country slashes its subsidies, and firms set up
to cash in on the bonanza close in droves (5,000 in Germany alone). Evaporating
likewise is the fantasy of "carbon capture and storage" - CO2 from power
stations being piped away, at vast expense, and buried in holes in the ground.

More and more, this leaves Britain isolated in a mad little bubble of its own,
the only country in the world committed by law to the completely unrealisable
goal of cutting CO2 emissions by 80 per cent within 40 years.

On this very day, January 1, the EU is imposing a tax on airline flights which,
on top of the Air Passenger Duty, when George Osborne raises it yet again in
April, will bring the tax for a British family of four flying to Florida to
£344.

Next year, Mr Osborne is to impose a "carbon floor price" of £16 on every ton of
CO2 emitted by British industry, when the price of "carbon" under the EU's
emissions trading scheme has collapsed to just £5.40. Not only will Osborne's
tax do serious damage to the competitiveness of British industry, it will add £3

 billion a year to the cost of our electricity. This will rise within eight
years to £5 billion, which alone will add 25 per cent to all our bills.

Meanwhile, utterly lost in his own green dreamworld, the man supposedly in
charge of energy policy, Chris Huhne (below), babbles about chequering thousands
of square miles of our countryside and our coastal waters with a further 32,000
crazily expensive and useless windmills. It is a vision so insane that one
cannot imagine why men in white coats have not already hauled him off - rather
more expeditiously than the Essex police who, we are told, wish to see him
prosecuted for perverting the course of justice over an alleged traffic offence.

Even if Huhne's pipedream could be achieved (it is technically out of the
question), he still has not grasped that it would be necessary to pay billions
of pounds more to build dozens of grown-up gas-fired power stations, as
essential back-up for those still days that render the energy contributions of
windmills all too frequently derisory. Something that we can predict with
certainty is not going to happen in 2012 is any trace of sanity on these matters
entering this absurdly dangerous man's charmless head.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 29, 2011 Thursday

LENGTH: 1398 words


I RESOLVE TO FIND A HUSBANDa€:.ANY HUSBAND

As we head towards 2012, the Maila€[TM]s peerless sketchwriter QUENTIN LETTS
suggests some New Year resolutions that many whoa€[TM]ve appeared in the public
eye over the past 12 months would do well to make .a€[0/00].a€[0/00].

John Prescott a€" to retire to a small shed with a box of matches and to wait an
hour for the methane levels to accrue. At the first flare of flame, Ka-BOOOOOOM!

Prince William a€" to have some newly-wed fun. Is there not a danger that we
overburden this young man with our hopes and expectations?

Catherine, his wife a€" second helpings. She will need her strength if the stork
pays a visit.

John Bercow, Commons Speaker a€" to apply for a brochure for Richard
Bransona€[TM]s planned space travel tours. Blast the Squeaker to the far end of
the Moon? Any costs will happily be met by public subscription. One-way ticket,
please.

George Alagiah a€" to stop waving his arms around. Youa€[TM]re a newsreader,
George, not a semaphore operative.

Michael Gove, Education Secretary a€" to scrap Religious Studies and reintroduce
Scripture as a scholastic discipline.

Gwyneth Williams, Radio 4 Controller a€" to stop selecting weather forecasters
who sound as though theya€[TM]ve been recruited from a€˜Playschoola€[TM].

Steve Coogan, comedian a€" to drop the self-pitying, victim-of-the-Press routine
and stick to Alan Partridge.

Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury a€" to spend the holiday period
watching a box-set of Arnold Schwarzenegger action films. Retribution, fire and
brimstone, ita€[TM]s all there.

Tracey Emin, newly-appointed Professor of Drawing at the Royal Academy a€"
drawing lessons, pronto.

Miriam Clegg a€" to lay off the rolling pin or a€˜rodillo de cocinaa€[TM], as
they say in the Spanish-dominated Clegg household.

George Osborne, Chancellor a€" to develop a more resonant timbre. Maybe old
Gravel Larynx herself, Laboura€[TM]s Glenda Jackson, could give him a few
lessons.

Sir Ian McKellen a€" to buy a box of pins with which, daily, to prick his
balloon of self-esteem.

Ditto Chris Bryant, Labour MP for Rhondda.

Alex Salmond, First Minister of Scotland a€" Listerine.

John Simpson, the BBCa€[TM]s world-weary affairs editor a€" to extract his digit
and make more of an effort.

Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP a€" to join the Tory Party, where he could now
achieve so much more.

The House of Lords Appointments Commission a€" to propose a peerage for Sir
Andrew Green of MigrationWatch UK.

Sir Nicholas Serota, long-serving Tate gallery supremo a€" to let someone else
have a go. Preferably someone who believes in art.

James Naughtie, radio interviewer a€" to forego prolixity. Enough of those
tedious monologues .a€[0/00].a€[0/00].

Sir Alex Ferguson, football manager a€" to stop chewing gum. Oiky habit.

Justine Greening, Transport Secretary a€" to extinguish every other street light
in Britain, saving electricity and reducing light pollution.

Andy Murray a€" to win Wimbledon. Or at least to smile occasionally.

Nicolas Sarkozy, French President a€" to accept the inevitable on the euro.

Samantha Cameron a€" just occasionally to look a little less than perfect.
Ita€[TM]s so depressing for the rest of us.

Julian Assange, Wikileaks oddball a€" more regular showers, please.

Sally Bercow a€" to retrieve a crumb or two of her dignity.

Harriet Harman, former deputy leader of the Labour Party a€" to restyle herself
along the lines of Peggy Mitchell in EastEnders.

Polly Toynbee, Left-wing commentator a€" to set an example and offer to pay 80
per cent tax.

Sadiq Khan, Shadow Justice Secretary a€" to stop using hair gel. Youa€[TM]re 41,
man, not a student going to a disco.

Sweep a€" to refer himself to the Commission for Racial Equality. This is the
21st century, chum. You cana€[TM]t go around calling your friend a€˜Sootya€[TM].

And talking of glove puppets .a€[0/00].a€[0/00].

Nick Clegg a€" to remove that hand from his pocket when standing at the Commons
despatch box. Slovenly.

Ken Livingstone a€" to let go, give up on being London mayor.

Keith Vaz MP a€" to submit to the sort of de-oiling process they give sea birds
stricken by tanker spills.

Liz Forgan, Arts Council chief Dame a€" to travel more on public transport. But
sorry, Underground trains do not have buffet carriages.

Francis Maude, Cabinet Office minister a€" to reapply himself urgently to the
task of killing off quangos. He could start by sending a New Year P45 to bossy
Leftie Dame Suzy Leather, head of the Charity Commission.

Icelanda€[TM]s volcanoes a€" to give up smoking.

John Sentamu, Archbishop of York a€" to take elocution lessons from Brian
Sewell.

Robert Peston a€" ditto.

Greg Clark, planning minister a€" to drop his threat to the green belt and
instead make it easier for empty High Street shops to be turned back into homes.
In one swoop it would solve the housing shortage and rejuvenate town centres.

Tony Blair a€" to follow his religious convictions and become a Trappist monk.

Mark Thompson, BBC director-general a€" to shave off his scrofulous designer
stubble or quit his job. Sorry, but one of them really has to go.

Jane Garvey, Radio 4 presenter a€" to cheer up a little, honeybun.

David Cameron a€" to try to stop worrying about the bald patch. Your only other
solution is a magnum of hair tonic.

Ed Balls, shadow Chancellor a€" to visit the careers advisory service and
contemplate a change of direction. Ever thought of becoming a house-husband, Ed?

Lords Howe, Heseltine and Brittan a€" to don sackcloth and ashes and make a
pilgrimage to Stone, Staffordshire, the constituency of veteran Eurosceptic Tory
Bill Cash.

Prince Harry a€" to invest in Alka-Seltzer shares.

Lady Gaga a€" to locate a new barber.

James Paice, Animal welfare minister a€" to be a sensible chap and ignore
ludicrous calls to ban security collars for cats and dogs that administer a mild
electric shock. They prevent pets straying on to roads and being run over.

Nigella Lawson a€" star jumps, press-ups, running on the spot, Ryvita, or there
will be no more television series for you, lady.

Jeremy Paxman a€" to seek designation as an Area of Outstanding National
Bateyness. It may be the only thing to stop go-ahead BBC executives interfering.

Hugh Grant a€" to look for acting parts rather than a role in life.

Bob Crow, rail union boss a€" to attend a dental surgery, soonest, for insertion
of a gob-sized cork.

Sir George Young, Commons Leader a€" to find parliamentary time for a repeal of
the Ministerial and Other Pensions and Salaries Act 1991, which gave Cabinet
ministers their grotesque entitlement to pay-offs when they are sacked from
office. The Act is also responsible for setting the outrageously generous
pensions of Commons Speakers. Double bingo!

Nancy della€[TM]Olio a€" to find a husband. Any husband!

Boris Johnson a€" to ban those horrible new people-carrier London taxis made by
Mercedes. They are every bit as offensive as the bendy buses Mayor Boris has
rightly scrapped.

Network Rail a€" to ditch that computerised female voice from your railway
station Tannoy announcements and hire, instead, Radio 4 continuity man Neil
Nunnes, he of the boot-deep, ultra-posh Caribbean accent.

Classic FM station bosses a€" fewer Northern accents, if possible, please, on
your airwaves.

HM the Queen a€" to have the occasional lie-in.

Yvette Cooper (aka Mrs Balls), Shadow Home Secretary a€" to stop grinning quite
so broadly when Ed Miliband goofs at Prime Ministera€[TM]s Question Time.

Jeremy Heywood, new Cabinet Secretary a€" to scrap the expensive,
time-consuming, lawyer-enriching practice of a€˜impact assessmentsa€[TM] in
Whitehall.

Kirsty Young, Desert Island Discs presenter a€" to say, when your supposedly
intelligent guests ask for Eighties pop songs: a€˜Oh, do grow upa€[TM].

Ben Bradshaw, Labour MP and Nigel Havers lookalike a€" not to stare quite so
intently. His gaze when Hugh Grant gave evidence to the Select Committee on
Privacy and Injunctions was positively laser-like.

Prince Charles a€" to pare the cheese somewhat. Even we ardent royalists find
HRHa€[TM]s extravagance a little de trop.

Louis Sussman, American ambassador a€" to stop resisting a change to extradition
laws. You are only damaging Anglo-American relations with this imperious stance.

Lady Uddin, brazen Westminster expenses cheat a€" to pay back the money she owes
us.

Tulisa, judge on The X Factor a€" to stop that irritating habit of brandishing
her arm tattoo. If that is to much to ask, perhaps she should just make way for
a triumphant return by Cheryl Cole.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               December 28, 2011
                                 First Edition

Most Tories would like Britain out of EU;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 193 words


A majority of Conservative Party members want Britain to leave the European
Union. A poll of 1,566 party members, by the Conservative-Home website,
indicates that David Cameron delighted the Tory grassroots by vetoing a new EU
treaty at this month's summit in Brussels.

But it also suggests he may have created hopes of forging a more detached
relationship with the EU that he may find difficult to fulfil - and that he will
come under pressure from his party to continue to prove his eurosceptic
credentials. If he does, he will risk fuelling tensions with the Liberal
Democrats and his fellow EU leaders. If he does not, he would upset many party
activists.

Some 54 per cent of Tory members say their ideal vision of the relationship is
for the UK to leave the EU and sign up to a free-trade agreement. That view is
shared by a minority of Tory MPs, but the poll suggests the party's grassroots
is more in tune with the policy of the Ukip, which wants Britain to pull out of
the EU.

Meanwhile, 24 per cent of Tory members favour a more flexible relationship with
the EU, while. 5 per cent believe Britain should leave the EU and not seek any
agreements with it.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               December 28, 2011
                                 First Edition

Here's to the Eton wall game as an Olympic sport

BYLINE: Another View Terence Blacker

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 463 words


The end of 2011 brings a moment of satisfaction to some of us in the prediction
business. Many of the past year's major events - Jeremy Clarkson making a fool
of himself, Nick Clegg looking more miserable every month - were exclusively
predicted here. What does 2012 have in store? January There is a surprise
development in the Leveson enquiry when Nancy Dell'Olio says she is to sue three
tabloids for failing to hack her. "Nancy feels her good name has been dragged
through the mud," her publicist reveals.

"Some of the people who have starred in Leveson haven't even been to bed with
anyone interesting. Nancy is making a stand on behalf of A-listers everywhere."
February Robert Peston reveals that the US billionaire Warren Buffett has bought
Greece. He claims the purchase will preserve the best of its civilisation - its
islands, kleftiko and the Acropolis. March Organisers of the annual Rear of the
Year prize respond to criticism that it is sexist and sizeist by awarding it to
Eric Pickles. Peeking over his shoulder with a cheeky grin, he provides one of
the press photographs of the year.

April Amid growing concern that the host nation for the London Olympics will be
embarrassed, a number of new events, including croquet, the Eton wall game and
cheese-rolling, are introduced. May A live debate in BBC3's ideas show for young
viewers I Think or i-Pad? ends in disarray when the footballer-philosopher Joey
Barton cynically elbows Alain de Botton in the face during a disagreement over
the categorical imperative. June The Diamond Jubilee proves something of a flop
when the Queen refuses to appear in public. "She's just not in the mood," a
courtier reveals.

July Boris Johnson announces that the Olympics have been "absolutely biffo"
after British athletes come second in the medals table. A clean sweep in the
Eton wall game and cheese-rolling events are hailed as "historic".

August There is controversy when the Government announces that Ladbrokes has
bought the country's public libraries. Libraries minister Ed Vaizey observes
that betting shops will help the young with essential mathematical skills.
September The year's big Christmas book, Bottoms Up! Pippa Middleton's Perfect
Behind-the-Scenes Guide to Parties, is released.

October Tension between Britain and France is exacerbated by Carla Bruni
appearing on YouTube singing "Don't Let's Be Beastly to the British", a
satirical re-working of the Noel Coward song. November The rush of elderly
expatriates returning from Spain is welcomed by Ukip. "They may be knackered and
cantankerous, but at least they understand British values and laugh at Morecambe
and Wise," a spokesman says. December Warren Buffett puts Greece on the market
as "the perfect Christmas present for the millionaire who has everything".

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 28, 2011 Wednesday 3:04 PM GMT

Terence Blacker: In 2012 cheese-rolling will be introduced as an Olympic sport
and Eric Pickles will win Rear of the Year;
Terence Blacker offers his predictions for the coming year

BYLINE: Terence Blacker

SECTION: HEI-FI-VIEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


The end of 2011 brings a moment of small satisfaction to some of us in the
prediction business. Many of the past year's major events - Jeremy Clarkson
making a fool of himself, Nick Clegg looking more miserable every month, the
embarrassments of Silvio Berlusconi - were exclusively predicted in these pages.
What does 2012 have in store? Look out for these major stories:

January: There is a surprise development in the Leveson Inquiry when it is
announced that Nancy Dell'Olio is to sue three tabloids for failing to hack her.
"Nancy feels her good name has been dragged through the mud," her publicist
reveals. "Some of the people who have starred in Leveson haven't even been to
bed with anyone interesting. Nancy is making a stand on behalf of A-listers
everywhere."

February: Robert Peston reveals that the US billionaire Warren Buffett has
bought Greece. Buffet claims the acquisition will preserve the best of the
much-loved civilisation - its islands, kleftiko and the Acropolis.

March: Organisers of the annual Rear of the Year respond to criticism that the
award is sexist and sizeist by awarding Eric Pickles the prize. Peeking over his
shoulder with a cheeky grin for the cameras, the local government minister
provides one of the press photos of the year.

April: Amid growing concern that the host nation for the London Olympics will be
embarrassed, a number of new events, including croquet, the Eton wall game and
cheese-rolling, are introduced. The Games motto is extended to "Swifter, Higher,
Stronger, More Ironic".

May: A live debate in BBC3's ideas show for young viewers I Think or i-Pad? ends
in disarray when the footballer-philosopher Joey Barton cynically elbows Alain
de Botton in the face during a disagreement over the categorical imperative.

June: The Diamond Jubilee proves something of a flop when the Queen refuses to
appear in public. "She's just not in the mood," a senior courtier reveals.
"There's no talking to her when she goes into one like this."

July: Boris Johnson announces that the Olympics have been "absolutely biffo"
after British athletes come second in the medals table. A clean sweep in the
Eton wall game and cheese-rolling events are hailed as "historic".

August: There is controversy when the Government announces that Ladbrokes has
bought the country's public libraries. Libraries minister Ed Vaizey observes
that betting shops will help the young with essential mathematical skills.

September: The year's big Christmas book Bottoms Up! Pippa Middleton's Perfect
Behind-the-Scenes Guide to Parties is released.

October: Growing tension between Britain and France is exacerbated by Carla
Bruni appearing on YouTube singing "Don't Let's Be Beastly to the British", a
satirical re-working of the Noel Coward song. The UK's riposte, Sir Cliff
Richard singing a version of "La Vie en Rose" with lyrics by Sir Tim Rice, is
widely ignored.

November: The rush of elderly expatriates returning from Spain, Italy and France
is welcomed by UKIP. "They may be knackered and cantankerous, but at least they
understand British values and laugh at Morecambe and Wise," a spokesman says.

December: Warren Buffett puts Greece on the market as "the perfect Christmas
present for the millionaire who has everything". A cheese-rolling gold medallist
is the BBC Sports Personality of the Year.

www.terenceblacker.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 28, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Tories say they want to leave EU and prefer Boris to Cameron;
Some 92 per cent of party believe PM's vetoing of a new EU treaty was his best
moment, poll shows

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 688 words


A majority of Conservative Party members want Britain to leave the European
Union. A poll of 1,566 party members, carried out for The Independent by the
ConservativeHome website, shows that David Cameron delighted the Tory grassroots
by vetoing a new EU treaty at this month's summit in Brussels.

But the survey also suggests that he may have created hopes of forging a more
detached relationship with the EU that he may find difficult to fulfil - and
that he will come under pressure from his party to continue to prove his
Eurosceptic credentials. If he does, he would risk fuelling tensions with the
Liberal Democrats and his fellow EU leaders. If he does not, he would upset many
of his party's activists.

Some 54 per cent of Tory members say their ideal vision of the relationship is
for the UK to leave the EU and sign up to a free trade agreement. Although that
view is shared by a minority of Tory MPs, the poll suggests the party's
grassroots is more in tune with the policy of Ukip, which wants Britain to pull
out of the EU.

Meanwhile, 24 per cent of Tory members favour a more flexible relationship with
the EU, with continued co-operation on key policy areas. Some 10 per cent say
the UK should maintain its current relationship but ignore European laws which
are not in the country's interests, while 5 per cent believe Britain should
leave the EU and not seek any agreements with it.

Another 3 per cent think the Government should maintain the current relationship
but not sign up to any more changes, and 2 per cent favour further integration
with the EU while keeping the pound. Only 1 per cent want to join the euro and
hand tax and spending powers to the European Parliament.

By a huge margin of 92 per cent to 5 per cent, Conservative members believe Mr
Cameron was right to veto the treaty and 70 per cent regard it as his best
moment since becoming Prime Minister. More than half (52 per cent) think it was
as big a moment as Margaret Thatcher winning the rebate on Britain's EU
contributions in 1984.

A majority (54 per cent) regard the veto as the start of Britain becoming "more
detached" from the EU. Nine out of 10 believe Britain should look to trade
freely with the emerging economies and worry less about Europe.

Only 15 per cent of Tory members share Liberal Democrat concerns that there are
dangers in being outside the EU's inner group. Seven out of 10 think the veto
has made the Liberal Democrats very unhappy and likely to be less co-operative
coalition partners.

According to ConservativeHome, Mr Cameron's tough stance in Brussels has
significantly boosted his standing among Conservative activists. His net
satisfaction rating - the difference between the number satisfied and
dissatisfied with his performance - has jumped from +45 points to +64 points
since the summit. Last month he stood in eighth place in the Cabinet's
popularity rankings but has now risen to third, behind Iain Duncan Smith, the
Work and Pensions Secretary, and Michael Gove, the Education Secretary.

Nick Clegg, who publicly criticised Mr Cameron's actions at the summit, has seen
his net rating among Tory members slump from -2 points to -52 points in the past
month. Despite George Osborne's gloomy Autumn Statement in November, his net
rating has risen from +35 points to +45 points.

However, the poll suggests that Tory members are not convinced that Mr Cameron
is "one of us". Asked which politicians come closest to their own politics,
Baroness Thatcher tops the list, with Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, in
second place, followed by Ronald Reagan, the former US President; William Hague,
the Foreign Secretary; Lord Tebbit, the former Tory chairman; David Davis, the
former shadow Home Secretary. Mr Cameron trails behind them.

More Tory members would like Mr Johnson (34 per cent) to succeed Mr Cameron as
party leader rather than Mr Osborne (13 per cent). Mr Hague (27 per cent) and Mr
Gove (18 per cent) are ahead of Mr Osborne in the leadership stakes. By a margin
of 55 per cent to 36 per cent, Tory activists oppose the Coalition's plans,
backed by Mr Cameron, to change the law to allow gay people to marry.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let's be honest. How did they do in 2011?;
Mehdi Hasan The Labour leader is running out of time to assert himself as a
convincing choice for voters LABOUR VIEW

BYLINE: Mehdi Hasan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1572 words


Pity poor Ed Miliband. By any objective assessment, he has had a good year. His
leadership is secure, his party united. Despite losing in the Scottish
Parliament elections to the SNP, Mr Miliband gained more than 800 seats in May's
local elections and won five parliamentary by-elections in a row. Labour
consistently polls at around 40 per cent and has been ahead of the Conservatives
for much of 2011, as austerity failed and growth ground to a halt.

In spite of all this, it isn't just the economy that is flatlining. So too is Mr
Miliband. The Labour leader has failed to cut through to the voters. His
personal poll ratings are dire: just one in five voters thinks he is up to being
prime minister; one in four voters confuses him with his brother David.

The Labour leader has been far too cautious, too complacent, over the course of
this year. There have been bursts of decisiveness (standing up to the Murdochian
strangehold on British politics) and ruthlessness (scrapping Shadow Cabinet
elections) but far too few of them. His focus on the "squeezed middle" and the
need for a more "responsible" capitalism has resonated with the public - but he
has failed to articulate these in a way that voters can easily understand.

Above all else, he struggles as a rhetorician in set-piece speeches and
primetime interviews. Mr Miliband is the exact reverse of Tony Blair: for this
Labour leader, politics is an intellectual, not a theatrical, pursuit. He needs
to be much more Blair-like in front of the cameras. His aides pretend to be
unperturbed: "This is a marathon, not a sprint," is the inane response. Er, no,
it isn't. The window of time in which people's opinion of a leader is formed, in
which negative perceptions irreversibly harden and solidify, is closing, and
closing fast.

In contrast, David Cameron, by any objective assessment, has had a bad year. The
Prime Minister may have won a war in Libya (his "high point", according to a
friend) and a referendum on the alternative vote but 2011 also saw his Director
of Communications quit and get arrested; his Defence Secretary resign over an
influence-peddling scandal; and a series of brake-screeching, rubber-burning
U-turns on issues such as NHS reform, the sell-off of forests and the timetable
for deficit reduction. In October, just 18 months into his premiership, he had
to face down a major Commons rebellion from 81 of his backbenchers over Europe.

Yet, Mr Cameron is the master of all he surveys. He is Teflon - for now. And he
is utterly ruthless, happy to sign off on vicious, personal attacks against his
Lib Dem deputy during the AV referendum campaign and willing to risk
retoxification of the Tory brand in order to appease his restive Eurosceptic
backbenchers.

"I can't believe how good our poll numbers are," admits a Conservative Cabinet
colleague of the PM; on all the criteria that really matter -"decisive",
"charismatic", "strong", "a natural leader" - he is streets ahead of his Labour
and Lib Dem counterparts.

Nick Clegg's position is the most intriguing: he is telegenic, charming and
intelligent but completely lacking in judgment, gaffe-prone and a turn-off to
voters. His personal ratings over the course of 2011 have made Mr Miliband look
like Churchill and his deep unpopularity helped the Lib Dems to lose the AV vote
in May.

The Liberal Democrat leader is his own worst enemy. He spent much of 2011 trying
to rebuild his reputation, inch by inch, after his outrageous, protest-provoking
U-turn over tuition fees in 2010 - only to throw it all away earlier this month
with his bizarre and brazen volte face over Mr Cameron's EU "veto", where he
went from support to condemnation in the space of 72 hours. The words Mr Clegg,
credibility and consistency can never again be used in the same sentence.

Mr Clegg is the Deputy Prime Minister of a Government which, in 2011,
permanently shattered long-held Lib Dem dreams of electoral reform and greater
European integration. Whether or not he survives 2012, it is difficult to find a
senior Lib Dem who will guarantee, in private, that Mr Clegg will be party
leader in 2015.

But are we Westminster watchers far too obsessed with the performance - and the
fate - of the leaders? Of personalities over policies? "In modern politics,
nothing matters more than the leader," wrote the late columnist Hugo Young. "We
have a parliamentary system but a presidential impulse." If Ed Miliband is to
succeed in 2012, either he will have to change and radically improve his
performance or Young will have to be proved wrong. Either way, neither Labour,
nor the country, can afford for David Cameron to have another easy ride in 2012.

Mehdi Hasan is the senior editor (politics) at the New Statesman and co-author
of Ed: The Milibands and the making of a Labour leader

Tim Montgomerie The recontamination of the Tory brand by the Lib Dems is a big
issue for the PM

CONSERVATIVE VIEW

He ran for office as a modern, compassionate Conservative but in the minds of
voters he has governed as a pretty conventional Tory. David Cameron's Government
has become associated with one thing above all others: cuts. Voters have also
noticed a tough crackdown on welfare and, thanks to this month's veto, a
Thatcher-style handbagging of the EU.

This toughness might have been a recipe for electoral disaster even two years
ago. I had expected a double digit mid-term lead for Ed Miliband. I expected the
lead to be as shallow as it was wide, but it hasn't materialised.

It's always dangerous to underestimate the wisdom of voters and the British
people have flatly rejected Labour's argument that the day of economic reckoning
could be further postponed. Voters might not like George Osborne's medicine but
they know that this country has lived beyond its means for far too long.

Conservatives in Britain and around the world are prospering because this is a
deeply conservative period. In times of feast, electorates gamble on left-wing
governments and their expensive schemes. In times of famine voters choose
parties that keep taxes down, eliminate waste and are intolerant of people who
abuse the system - whether welfare fraudsters, tax dodgers or illegal
immigrants.

This adds up to a nightmare for Nick Clegg. Cut a Liberal Democrat open and
you'll find three causes written on his heart: electoral reform, European
integration and public spending. This year has been an annus horribilis for all
three. If Mr Clegg will be glad to escape 2011 he will still remain a prisoner
of the coalition - which risks becoming an increasingly miserable cohabitation.

The United Kingdom Independence Party will eat into the Conservatives' right
flank if Mr Clegg tries to undo the veto, but the Liberal Democrats will seek
revenge in other ways. Further schools, welfare and regulatory reform of the
kind that Britain needs to prosper in the world economy may be the casualties of
the resentfulness that the EU veto has produced in Mr Clegg.

Mr Miliband is unlikely to be able to take advantage of this. His leadership is
often compared with that of Iain Duncan Smith but that flatters the Labour
leader. IDS may not have been destined for Downing Street but his leadership was
a fertile period in Tory history in which Eurosceptics consolidated their grip
and ideas about public sector reform and localism took off. Most significantly
Mr Duncan Smith initiated the modern Tory party's commitment to new ways of
fighting poverty. There is no such intellectual vigour under Mr Miliband; just
the same union-funded defence of a bloated public sector and an ineffective
welfare state.

There is, nonetheless, no guarantee that the Conservatives will win the next
election. Mr Cameron's project to transform his party's reputation has not yet
succeeded. A survey last week found that half of voters thought Tories only
appealed to one section of society rather than the whole country. Only 19 and 11
per cent thought the same of Labour and the Lib Dems respectively. Next year if
the Tories are to advance in the North and in urban areas, Mr Cameron must fight
harder than ever to establish his party's compassionate credentials.

The coalition has undermined the PM's sincere determination to build a gentler,
greener conservatism. Every time the Government has done something to help the
lower paid Mr Clegg has claimed the credit. Most voters are buying the dishonest
line that the Lib Dems have humanised the Tories. In reality the extra
investment in apprenticeships and inner city education were long-standing Tory
commitments. Promises to protect the NHS and international aid budgets were
explicit in the Tory manifesto.

This Liberal Democrat attempt to recontaminate the Tory brand has been the
biggest downside of the coalition for Mr Cameron and may be Mr Clegg's best
hope. His party will expect to lose seats at the next election but knowing that
a hung parliament remains a real possibility. A promise to moderate the Tories
or pull Labour towards economic responsibility could mean Mr Clegg's
balance-of-power party has life in it yet. The Lib Dems are down but certainly
not yet out.

Tim Montgomerie is the founder of Conservative Home

He is the master of all he surveys: he is Teflon - for now

In front of the cameras he needs to be more Blair-like

He is telegenic and charming but a complete turn-off to voters

'Clegg' and 'credibility' can never again be used in the same sentence

A hung parliament is a real possibility at the next election

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let's be honest. How did they do in 2011?;
Mehdi Hasan The Labour leader is running out of time to assert himself as a
convincing choice for voters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1996 words


LABOUR VIEW

Pity poor Ed Miliband. By any objective assessment, he has had a good year. His
leadership is secure, his party united. Despite losing in the Scottish
Parliament elections to the SNP, Mr Miliband gained more than 800 seats in May's
local elections and won five parliamentary by-elections in a row. Labour
consistently polls at around 40 per cent and has been ahead of the Conservatives
for much of 2011, as austerity failed and growth ground to a halt.

In spite of all this, it isn't just the economy that is flatlining. So too is Mr
Miliband. The Labour leader has failed to cut through to the voters. His
personal poll ratings are dire: just one in five voters thinks he is up to being
prime minister; one in four voters confuses him with his brother David.

The Labour leader has been far too cautious, too complacent, over the course of
this year. There have been bursts of decisiveness (standing up to the Murdochian
strangehold on British politics) and ruthlessness (scrapping Shadow Cabinet
elections) but far too few of them. His focus on the "squeezed middle" and the
need for a more "responsible" capitalism has resonated with the public - but he
has failed to articulate these in a way that voters can easily understand.

Above all else, he struggles as a rhetorician in set-piece speeches and
primetime interviews. Mr Miliband is the exact reverse of Tony Blair: for this
Labour leader, politics is an intellectual, not a theatrical, pursuit. He needs
to be much more Blair-like in front of the cameras. His aides pretend to be
unperturbed: "This is a marathon, not a sprint," is the inane response. Er, no,
it isn't. The window of time in which people's opinion of a leader is formed, in
which negative perceptions irreversibly harden and solidify, is closing, and
closing fast.

In contrast, David Cameron, by any objective assessment, has had a bad year. The
Prime Minister may have won a war in Libya (his "high point", according to a
friend) and a referendum on the alternative vote but 2011 also saw his Director
of Communications quit and get arrested; his Defence Secretary resign over an
influence-peddling scandal; and a series of brake-screeching, rubber-burning
U-turns on issues such as NHS reform, the sell-off of forests and the timetable
for deficit reduction. In October, just 18 months into his premiership, he had
to face down a major Commons rebellion from 81 of his backbenchers over Europe.

Yet, Mr Cameron is the master of all he surveys. He is Teflon - for now. And he
is utterly ruthless, happy to sign off on vicious, personal attacks against his
Lib Dem deputy during the AV referendum campaign and willing to risk
retoxification of the Tory brand in order to appease his restive Eurosceptic
backbenchers.

"I can't believe how good our poll numbers are," admits a Conservative Cabinet
colleague of the PM; on all the criteria that really matter -"decisive",
"charismatic", "strong", "a natural leader" - he is streets ahead of his Labour
and Lib Dem counterparts.

Nick Clegg's position is the most intriguing: he is telegenic, charming and
intelligent but completely lacking in judgment, gaffe-prone and a turn-off to
voters. His personal ratings over the course of 2011 have made Mr Miliband look
like Churchill and his deep unpopularity helped the Lib Dems to lose the AV vote
in May.

The Liberal Democrat leader is his own worst enemy. He spent much of 2011 trying
to rebuild his reputation, inch by inch, after his outrageous, protest-provoking
U-turn over tuition fees in 2010 - only to throw it all away earlier this month
with his bizarre and brazen volte face over Mr Cameron's EU "veto", where he
went from support to condemnation in the space of 72 hours. The words Mr Clegg,
credibility and consistency can never again be used in the same sentence.

Mr Clegg is the Deputy Prime Minister of a Government which, in 2011,
permanently shattered long-held Lib Dem dreams of electoral reform and greater
European integration. Whether or not he survives 2012, it is difficult to find a
senior Lib Dem who will guarantee, in private, that Mr Clegg will be party
leader in 2015.

But are we Westminster watchers far too obsessed with the performance - and the
fate - of the leaders? Of personalities over policies? "In modern politics,
nothing matters more than the leader," wrote the late columnist Hugo Young. "We
have a parliamentary system but a presidential impulse." If Ed Miliband is to
succeed in 2012, either he will have to change and radically improve his
performance or Young will have to be proved wrong. Either way, neither Labour,
nor the country, can afford for David Cameron to have another easy ride in 2012.

Mehdi Hasan is the senior editor (politics) at the New Statesman and co-author
of Ed: The Milibands and the making of a Labour leader

Tim Montgomerie

The recontamination of the Tory brand by the Lib Dems is a big issue for the PM

CONSERVATIVE VIEW

He ran for office as a modern, compassionate Conservative but in the minds of
voters he has governed as a pretty conventional Tory. David Cameron's Government
has become associated with one thing above all others: cuts. Voters have also
noticed a tough crackdown on welfare and, thanks to this month's veto, a
Thatcher-style handbagging of the EU.

This toughness might have been a recipe for electoral disaster even two years
ago. I had expected a double digit mid-term lead for Ed Miliband. I expected the
lead to be as shallow as it was wide, but it hasn't materialised.

It's always dangerous to underestimate the wisdom of voters and the British
people have flatly rejected Labour's argument that the day of economic reckoning
could be further postponed. Voters might not like George Osborne's medicine but
they know that this country has lived beyond its means for far too long.

Conservatives in Britain and around the world are prospering because this is a
deeply conservative period. In times of feast, electorates gamble on left-wing
governments and their expensive schemes. In times of famine voters choose
parties that keep taxes down, eliminate waste and are intolerant of people who
abuse the system - whether welfare fraudsters, tax dodgers or illegal
immigrants.

This adds up to a nightmare for Nick Clegg. Cut a Liberal Democrat open and
you'll find three causes written on his heart: electoral reform, European
integration and public spending. This year has been an annus horribilis for all
three. If Mr Clegg will be glad to escape 2011 he will still remain a prisoner
of the coalition - which risks becoming an increasingly miserable cohabitation.

The United Kingdom Independence Party will eat into the Conservatives' right
flank if Mr Clegg tries to undo the veto, but the Liberal Democrats will seek
revenge in other ways. Further schools, welfare and regulatory reform of the
kind that Britain needs to prosper in the world economy may be the casualties of
the resentfulness that the EU veto has produced in Mr Clegg.

Mr Miliband is unlikely to be able to take advantage of this. His leadership is
often compared with that of Iain Duncan Smith but that flatters the Labour
leader. IDS may not have been destined for Downing Street but his leadership was
a fertile period in Tory history in which Eurosceptics consolidated their grip
and ideas about public sector reform and localism took off. Most significantly
Mr Duncan Smith initiated the modern Tory party's commitment to new ways of
fighting poverty. There is no such intellectual vigour under Mr Miliband; just
the same union-funded defence of a bloated public sector and an ineffective
welfare state.

There is, nonetheless, no guarantee that the Conservatives will win the next
election. Mr Cameron's project to transform his party's reputation has not yet
succeeded. A survey last week found that half of voters thought Tories only
appealed to one section of society rather than the whole country. Only 19 and 11
per cent thought the same of Labour and the Lib Dems respectively. Next year if
the Tories are to advance in the North and in urban areas, Mr Cameron must fight
harder than ever to establish his party's compassionate credentials.

The coalition has undermined the PM's sincere determination to build a gentler,
greener conservatism. Every time the Government has done something to help the
lower paid Mr Clegg has claimed the credit. Most voters are buying the dishonest
line that the Lib Dems have humanised the Tories. In reality the extra
investment in apprenticeships and inner city education were long-standing Tory
commitments. Promises to protect the NHS and international aid budgets were
explicit in the Tory manifesto.

This Liberal Democrat attempt to recontaminate the Tory brand has been the
biggest downside of the coalition for Mr Cameron and may be Mr Clegg's best
hope. His party will expect to lose seats at the next election but knowing that
a hung parliament remains a real possibility. A promise to moderate the Tories
or pull Labour towards economic responsibility could mean Mr Clegg's
balance-of-power party has life in it yet. The Lib Dems are down but certainly
not yet out.

Tim Montgomerie is the founder of Conservative Home

Mark Pack

Despite great turmoil, it has been a year of treading water for all the parties

LIB DEM VIEW

This year has certainly not been short of Harold Macmillan's "events, dear boy,
events". Political and economic turmoil disrupted even the usually quiet periods
deep in August and the final shopping days before Christmas.

Yet at the end of the year the political rollercoaster has left all three main
parties in remarkably similar situations to those in which they found themselves
at the start. Politically it has been a year of treading water.

Labour still has a leader with low personal ratings and party support levels far
short of what other oppositions achieved during similarly tough times. The
Tories continue to show resilient levels of popularity - better than many
previous governments but still far short of showing that David Cameron can win a
majority. As for the Liberal Democrats, despite a slow rise during the year the
party's poll ratings are still low, yet more Lib Dem policies have been
implemented in the past year than in the previous 50.

The problem that the Liberal Democrats face with securing political credit for
this is twofold. First, many of the policies, while individually popular - such
as the Home Office minister Lynne Featherstone's move to end the scourge of
private wheel clampers or Ed Davey's success in modernising the Post Office -
are a rather disparate collection of liberal victories. They do not add up to a
convincing and clear picture of what Liberal Democrats have achieved.

The danger is that the party ends up making many changes to government,
improving what is being done, but, as with a speechwriter, the good work is not
noticed by the public as it is behind the scenes.

The second problem is that much of Liberal Democrat success has been to block
more extreme Tory proposals, such as tax cuts for the richest. These successes
are necessarily intangible and harder to sell.

Nick Clegg has started to flesh out a clearer overall message for the party that
brings the different positive threads together. The Budget will provide the big
showcase test for that: can the Liberal Democrats ensure the Budget is not just
one of austerity but also one of fairness? Even without big giveaways our taxes
can be made fairer in ways a solo Conservative government would not wish. Get
that right and 2012 won't be a matter of simply treading water.

Dr Mark Pack is Head of Digital at MHP Communications and was the Liberal
Democrats' head of innovations until 2009. He blogs at libdemvoice.org

'Clegg' and 'credibility' can never again be used in the same sentence

A hung parliament is a real possibility at the next election

He is the master of all he surveys: he is Teflon - for now In front of the
cameras he needs to be more Blair-like He is telegenic and charming but a
complete turn-off to voters

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

G2: Quiz of the year: Politics Michael White

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 559 words


1 Who used a New Statesman article to accuse the coalition of pushing through
"radical policies for which nobody voted"?

a) Ed Miliband

b) Barclays Bank's Bob Diamond

c) Unite's Len McCluskey

d) The Archbishop of Canterbury

2 What was the No vote's margin of victory in the AV referendum on 5 May?

a) 53.6% to 46.4%

b) 73.0% to 27%

c) 67.9% to 32.1%

d) 63.5% to 36.5%

3 When David Cameron condemned the "failings of multiculturalism" in Britain
during a speech in February, which group claimed his support as they
demonstrated on the same day?

a) The Women's Institute

b) The English Defence League?

c) Hizb ut-Tahrir

d) The UK Independence party

4 Who didn't warn against an economic "race to the bottom" in 2011?

a) US treasury secretary Tim Geithner

b) Labour ex-cabinet minister John Hutton

c) Trades union leaders

d) The Duchess of Cambridge's sister Pippa

5 When Nick Clegg proposed giving taxpayers shares in the state-owned banks
their money had helped rescue, how did George Osborne's Treasury team respond?
It said:

a) "An administrative nightmare"

b) "Happy to listen to ideas"

c) "The issue doesn't currently arise"

d) "We'll do it in the next budget"

6 Who is Carwyn Jones?

a) The Welsh rugby captain sent off in the World Cup

b) The Labour MP for Durham North

c) First minister of Wales

d) Welsh rightwinger who plays for Neath FC

7 On the night in June when Adam Werritty phoned Liam Fox to fix up a meeting
between the then-defence secretary and businessman Harvey Boulter, how many
bottles of Stag's Leap Cask 23, a £250 Californian syrah, did the self-styled
special adviser's party reportedly drink at Ruth's Chris steakhouse in Dubai -
and who paid?

a) Four (Adam Werritty)

b) Eight (the taxpayer)

c) Three (the Atlantic Bridge charity)

d) 10 (Harvey Boulter)

8 Who said his organisation had "no connection with Colonel Gaddafi"?

a) Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams

b) Tony Blair

c) Saif al-Islam Gaddafi

d) Peter Sutherland, chairman of the London School of Economics

9 What was "Project Merlin"?

a) A plot to unseat the governor of the Bank of England

b) A Treasury scheme to curb excess pay and improve lending by City banks

c) An export drive to promote global sales of BBC historical dramas

d) A Labour scheme to provide free access to major UK attractions for pensioners

10 Which of the following MPs and peers served a prison sentence for expenses
fraud this year?

a) Lord Hanningfield (Tory)

b) David Chaytor (Labour)

c) Lord Taylor of Warwick (Tory)

d) Jim Devine (Labour)

11 Which coalition MP did Nick Clegg say is "very good at getting his points
across" - and why?

a) Sir Peter Tapsell

b) Ed Davey

c) Richard Benyon

d) Chris Huhne

12 To whom did David Cameron say "Calm down, dear"?

a) Michael Winner

b) Angela Eagle

c) Yvette Cooper

d) Kenneth Clarke

13 Dan Jarvis, who won the Barnsley Central byelection for Labour, previously
worked as what?

a) A miner

b) A stockbroker (but he was a miner's son)

c) A major in the Parachute Regiment

d) A lecturer at Barnsley College

14 During the August riots, Pauline Pearce, dubbed "the Hackney heroine" by the
media, was filmed denouncing the rioters' poverty of ambition, a clip that was
uploaded on YouTube. Instead of fighting for worthy goals, they were busy
looting whose premises?

a) Russell & Bromley

b) Foot Locker

c) Waterstone's

d) The Body Shop?

Captions:

'Calm down, dear.'

But who was the

PM talking to?

Which high-street store

was popular with rioters?

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 1079 words


HAGUE'S MION AND THE NOSEDIVING DOVE

WILLIAM Hague this week threw a drinks do for Londona€[TM]s diplomatic corps and
regaled the (faintly chewy) throng with cheery tales about his ministers.

The party was held at Lancaster House, ambassadorial limousines stretching back
to Pall Mall. A civil service choir warbled carols. At the door, one was met not
only by the Foreign Secretary but by fair Ffion Hague, who has a cruncher of a
handshake. Ouch!

Guests having been loaded with what Mr Haguea€[TM]s PPS, Keith Simpson MP,
called a€˜a glass of Chateau Thames Valleya€[TM], Mr Hague made a speech.

He observed that Middle East/North Africa minister Alistair Burt had this year
visited several countries which erupted into violence within a day or two of
Agent Burta€[TM]s departure. a€˜Wea€[TM]re thinking of grounding him,a€[TM] said
Mr Hague, dead-pan Yorkshire. Puzzled silence from his audience, some of whom
were in national costume.

Next, we were told that junior minister Jeremy Browne had toured South America
extensively. Photographic evidence proved young Brownea€[TM]s application to his
duties. It showed HMa€[TM]s plenipotentiary jiving with local lovelies on the
shores of Lake Titicaca, high in the Andes.

a€˜The altitude may have been to blame,a€[TM] jested Mr Hague. At this point
Germanya€[TM]s ambassador swallowed some orange juice slowly.

Finally, Mr Hague told of the minister i/c sub-Saharan Africa, the imperturbably
English Henry Bellingham, who has visited 39 countries and gone through four
passports.

In Lagos, Nigeria, it was arranged that he would release a caged dove to open a
JCB dealership. Alas, the bird was a dud. Come the moment of release, it
struggled into the air and then a€" neeeeeow! a€" did an imitation of a stricken
fighter plane, nosediving to the ground with a terminal thud. That one finally
won Mr Hague some guttural laughs.

Mr Bellingham, pukka sahib that he is, did not for a moment lose his moony smile
when the dove croaked at his feet. Cool in a crisis. The Foreign Office way.

--

TAKING THE FIGHT TO MS HARPERSON

MY women of the year are Charlotte Vere and Janice Atkinson-Small, who have
started a think tank called Women On .a€[0/00].a€[0/00].

They think women should succeed on merit, rather than via tokenism, all-female
shortlists etc. In short, they are everything Harriet Harman is not.

Last week, they took a spirited tilt against BBC2a€[TM]s Newsnight for
a€˜harming the cause of equalitya€[TM] by holding a stunty, all-female talk
about the economy. Mrs Vere, 42, is a would-be Tory MP, while Mrs Atkinson-Small
belongs to Ukip. a€˜The Lefties are very, very cross about us and see Women On
.a€[0/00].a€[0/00]. as a complete betrayal,a€[TM] laughs Mrs Vere (left).
a€˜Theya€[TM]re astonished that anyone is challenging decades of lazy thinking.
Ita€[TM]s dirty work but someone has to do it.a€[TM]

If any Tory association is looking for a humdinger of a candidate, it need look
no further.

--

MR WILSON'S WORDS OF WISDOM...

BRIAN Mawhinney, the former Tory chairman, passes on advice he received, as a
young MP, from Harold Wilson (right). The ex-PM said: a€˜Always volunteer to
write first drafts.a€[TM] Why? Because although bosses will tweak details, the
basic structure and ideas of the first draft usually survive.

* LAST weeka€[TM]s Feltham by-election was a setback for my regular
correspondent Dave Bishop, alias Lord Biro. He stood for the Bus Pass Elvis
Party and came ninth. Out of nine. His lordship, whose main policy was a€˜Scrap
EastEnders, bring back Top of the Popsa€[TM], did not have an easy campaign. He
started by leafleting the wrong constituency and then went down with food
poisoning (sabotage?). While canvassing an elector he was thrown out of the
Sawyers Arms by a barmaid. a€˜Your behaviour is anti-democratic!a€[TM] argued
our would-be MP as he sailed out of the door.

He later added a line to his manifesto: a€˜Turn the Sawyers Arms into a Pound
Shop.a€[TM] Yet still, mystifyingly, he lost.

--

AMONG those signing a pompous round-robin letter against David Camerona€[TM]s
Euroscepticism this week was former Foreign Office mandarin Lord Kerr of
Kinlochard.

What a piece of work he is: a director of Shell (which paid him 224,000 euros
last year), and Rio Tinto ($201,000), as well as being a director of Scottish
Power and Scottish American Investment Trust, plus a member of an advisory board
at arms dealers BAE. All that before we even consider his Whitehall pension.
Ka-chingeroo.

No doubt his corporate employers think Lord Kerr highly respected. At the House
of Lords this is no longer entirely the case. When he stands to talk about
Europe these days, the House groans. The other day he was heckled (unusual) with
quavery bleats of a€˜noooo!a€[TM] and a€˜too long!a€[TM]

--

KEN Livingstonea€[TM]s children may be hoping he does not win the London mayoral
election. Newt-fancier Ken is these days proud owner of a labrador, Coco. He
tells Dogs Monthly: a€˜If I dona€[TM]t win the mayoral election, I will
definitely get another dog to keep Coco company.a€[TM]

--

A READER from Lib Dem Kingston-on-Thames was recently in Rotterdam and saw a
child approached by a bearded white man and a black man. The boy was asked if he
had been good. If so, Sinterklaas, the white man, would give him a present. If
he had been bad, Zwarte Piet (Black Pete), threatened to take the child into
slavery in Africa.

a€˜This is how the Dutch celebrate Saint Nicholasa€[TM]s Day,a€[TM] says my
correspondent. a€˜If I applied for a licence to do that in Kingston, the council
diversity officer would probably call in an air strike on Woodbines
Avenue.a€[TM]

--

THE EU INQUISITION

HANDWRINGING in the Church Timesa€[TM] about David Camerona€[TM]s veto in
Brussels. a€˜Staying out of Europe is myopic,a€[TM] cries a polemic. A news
story, reporting remarks by the Bishop of Guildford, talks of the a€˜UKa€[TM]s
disastrous isolation from rest of Europea€[TM].

If there is one institution which should understand the joy of telling the
European clerisy to get stuffed, should it not (Henry VIII and all that) be the
Church of England?

--

SETTING THE TARGET

POLITICIANS continue to splurge out money, so let us start Waste Watch. Please
send me examples of foolish public spending.

To open the batting: a builder friend in the South-West was recently asked by
the authorities to do some work near the M5 where expansion is planned. A badger
has made its sett nearby. My acquaintance is being paid _6180,000 to construct a
contraption which will ensure that the badger is lured to different sett. For
that money, they could have bought the creature a council flat.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Brussels boss bid to spread Christmas joy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 325 words


Today DOUR European Council president Herman Van Rompuy has launched a bizarre
bid to put a smile on the faces of world leaders.

He has sent them each a Christmas gift of a collection of essays on happiness.
Amsterdam Brussels Dublin Frankfurt Geneva Lisbon Madrid Paris Rome It is the
poetry-writing Brussels boss's bonkers attempt to bring a little levity into the
lives of the likes of David Cameron, Barack Obama, Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela
Merkel as they face a world financial crisis brought on by an embattled euro and
faltering economies.

The gift of The World Book Of Happiness, a collection of short essays by experts
from 50 nations, is all the more surprising given Amsterdam Athens... Barcelona.
Berlin. ... Budapest. Cairo.. ... Cape Town. Casablanca Corfu. ... Dublin.. ..
Dubrovnik. Faro. .. .. Florence.. Gibraltar . .

Europe forecast Fair 8C/46F Fair 7C/45F Drizzle 10C/50F Fair 8C/46F Showers
6C/43F Sunny 15C/59F Sunny 13C/55F Sunny 8C/46F Showers 14C/57F Amsterdam
Brussels Dublin Frankfurt Geneva Lisbon Madrid Paris Rome the boring reputation
of a man once dismissed as a clown. EU leaders may pay particular attention to a
segment entitled, "Create your own currency that no one else can buy", while
another section suggests that "money can buy happiness if we spend it on each
other".

'Happy' Herman Around the world CF C. Rain 10 50. . Rain 7 45. . Sunny 14 57. .
Rain 9 48. . Fog -3 27. . Sunny 18 64. Sunny 22 72 . Cloudy 17 63. . Sunny 14
57. . Sunny 6 43. . Sunny 10 50. . Sunny 16 61. . Sunny 6 43. . Sunny 18 64 Ukip
leader Nigel Farage said: "For a man who is causing misery to tens of millions
of people it's a deeply ironic gift." HongKong..Fair 16 Istanbul.. ... Shwrs 8
Jersey.. . . Drizzle 10 Larnaca. ... Cloudy 19 Las Palmas. Sunny 20
LosAngeles.Sunny 17 Luxor......Sunny 21 Malaga.....Sunny 17 Mallorca. ... Sunny
17 Malta......Fair 13 Melbourne. . Sunny 24 Miami......Fair 26 Moscow....Snow -5
Nairobi .. . . Sunny 24

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Las Palmas. Sunny LosAngeles.Sunny 'Happy' Herman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cheer up everyone, the Left has been routed

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 875 words


IT WOULD be easy to finish the year bemoaning the state of Britain and fretting
about her future prospects. After all, living standards are falling,
unemployment is rising, euroland could be about to tip us into another deep
recession and the summer riots brought us a terrifying glimpse of what happens
when the streets are surrendered to criminal gangs.

But instead today I ask you to rejoice. Because 2011 was the year that proved
the long domination of British politics by selfstyled "progressives" is over.
Instead the values and opinions advanced by this newspaper and its readers are
back in the driving seat. During the years of exile enormous damage was done to
our country and it will take a long time to put that right. Indeed some of the
change the Left managed to railroad through is irreversible - the reckless
experiment with uncontrolled immigration, for instance, has permanently changed
the make-up of our society.

But our values of rewarding personal responsibility, patriotism, law-abiding
conduct, private enterprise, hard work and neighbourliness will produce results.
They will take Britain in the right direction, improving our lives and allowing
more people to fulfil their potential. For the fact is that across almost every
significant area of public policy the liberal Left has been routed.

It has lost a series of set piece battles leaving conservative values in the
ascendant and with the capacity to effect permanent change for the better.

The first battle the Left lost was over its belief that any volume of
immigration from anywhere is beneficial. That defeat actually occurred during
the 2010 election campaign. Gillian Duffy administered the coup de grace to
Gordon Brown.

But Nick Clegg also took a beating. After his great breakthrough in the first
televised leader's debate the Lib Dem poll rating collapsed back to its usual
level when the electorate was made aware of the party's lax and ludicrous
immigration policy, including a proposed amnesty for illegal immigrants.

DURING 2011 David Cameron started to implement measures to bring immigration
down. They have yet to succeed but ministers are tightening rules governing
several major migrant streams: student visas, economic migration and the family
route included. So powerful has been the public backlash against Labour that it
has been forced to admit it got the issue of immigration wrong.

The second key battle the Left has lost is over the idea that increases in
public spending are always desirable. As recently as the 2005 election campaign
the Tory MP Howard Flight was sacked for merely thinking aloud about the
potential for spending cuts. But the economic crash and massive public sector
deficit have killed the Left's position stone dead. Even before the crash the
public mood about tax and spending was shifting as living standards came under
pressure. Now the new orthodoxy is that the state must work out ways of
delivering much better value for money. Most voters support the coalition's
deficit reduction programme under which 80 per cent of the strain is taken by
spending cuts and just 20 per cent by tax rises.

The next battle the liberal Left has lost is over its article of faith that
European integration is always a good thing. The efforts of this newspaper, of
Ukip and of other campaigning groups have helped change the debate. There has
also been the small matter of the farcical failure of the euro experiment.

These pressures led to a decisive victory earlier this month when David Cameron
wielded the veto in Brussels. The liberal Left threw up a chorus of protest in
the expectation that its usual tactic of claiming the Tories were impaled on the
divisive issue of Europe and leaving Britain isolated would damage them.

Guess what? It didn't work. Cameron's ratings soared. The Left and their
acolytes at the BBC crawled away to lick their wounds and think anew.

At the start of this year it seemed that no major party wanted to push a tough
line on law and order. But the summer riots changed all that. Seeing what
anarchy really looks like led the courts to shake off their obsession with soft
sentencing and hand down some stiff punishments. It led to a new generation of
no-nonsense police chiefs, exempli-fied by Bernard Hogan-Howe at the Met. And in
politics David Cameron supported the tougher line even as Ed Miliband droned on
about "underlying causes". The result was another poll boost for Cameron.

In education the "progressives" are suffering a fearful battering as Michael
Gove brings back traditional standards and subjects and breaks the stranglehold
of the Left on state schools. The liberal Left also lost the referendum on
electoral reform by a landslide.

More importantly still, the Right has won the debate over welfare reform. The
coalition's imposition of a maximum benefit, housing benefit cuts and a tougher
regime for disability benefits has commanded massive public support. Even in
Labour ranks there is now a recognition that the contributory principle should
return to the heart of the welfare system. The tide really has turned. We are
winning. So let us hope that 2012 is the year that David Cameron comes out of
his ideological shell and exploits what we have witnessed this year: the rout of
the Left.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DETERMINED: David Cameron wielding the veto in Brussels
Picture: PINGFAN/CHINE NOUVELLE/SIPA / REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 24, 2011 Saturday 7:00 AM GMT

Bond hit with law suits? Alternate endings for classics;
Following disclosures that the BBC has modified the ending of Great
Expectations, Christopher Middleton lets his imagination loose on some other
final chapters

BYLINE: By Christopher Middleton

LENGTH: 1797 words


It was recently revealed that the BBC has given both next week's serialisation
of Great Expectations, and a later film adaptation, completely different endings
from the two penned by Dickens. In a further bout of creative license they have
completed the unfinished novel The Mystery of Edwin Drood, leading us to imagine
alternative endings for some other classic yarns that are ripe for a new, 21st
century twist.

Pygmalion

Old version: Man of letters Professor Henry Higgins takes up the challenge of
teaching Cockney flower-seller Eliza Doolittle to talk and behave like an
aristocratic lady. As time goes on, though, he discovers that she means more to
him than just an abstract phonetics project. Climax of the story is when Higgins
and his friend Colonel Pickering try to pass Eliza off as a countess at a big
society ball.

New version: In a radical re-working of the story, set in the 1970s, Higgins is
an Old Etonian who falls in love with Eliza, a young florist who lives with her
Mum and Dad on a rough council estate in Battersea, and works at nearby New
Covent Garden. In order to be accepted by her parents and friends, Higgins has
to learn how to talk and behave like they do. Climax of the story is when he
goes to a Chelsea home game, and attempts to pass himself as one of the
hooligans at the Shed end. Not only does he succeed triumphantly, but he ends up
as manager of Leyton Orient.

The Odyssey

Old version: On his way home from the Trojan Wars, our hero Odysseus encounters
countless dangers and diversions. Meanwhile, back in Ithaca, his wife Penelope
remains loyal to his memory, and keeps her 108 suitors at bay by promising that
she will marry one of them as soon she has finished the funeral shroud she is
weaving for her father-in-law. Each night, though, she secretly unravels her
work.

New version: With her husband having been away 20 years, and no money coming in,
Penelope decides to go into the textile-production business. She finds she has a
ready-made workforce, in the form of her suitors, whom she employs - offering to
marry the one who is most productive. When Odysseus finally turns up, she tells
him she has moved on, and certainly isn't buying his story about having been
held against his will for seven years, as consort to the beautiful Calypso. She
knows all about Greek men and holiday island romances, thank you very much.

Cinderella

Old version: Beautiful but put-upon, Cinderella is planning an evening of
sweeping and cleaning, until her fairy godmother materialises and transforms her
rags into a beautiful dress. Ferried to the royal ball in a magic golden
carriage, Cinderella enchants the prince, but in her hurry to be home by
midnight, she stumbles and leaves one of her glass slippers behind. Desperate to
find the owner of the slipper, the prince asks every girl in the land to try it
on, and the only one it fits is Cinderella. Naturally, the couple marry and live
happily ever after.

New version: In this version, Prince Charming is disappointed when the slipper
fits Cinderella, rather than the younger, and slightly less ugly, of the Ugly
Sisters, with whom he has struck up a real rapport during the slipper-trying-on
process. The prince feels obliged to marry Cinderella, but despite their wedding
capturing the public imagination, and everyone commenting on the loveliness of
his young bride, he secretly prefers the Ugly Sister, and continues to see her
behind Cinderella's back. Despite the producers' repeated denials, this altered
storyline is seen as a veiled reference to Prince Charles's first marriage.

Winnie The Pooh

Old version: The adventures of a lovable, if slightly podgy bear, who, when not
visiting his woodland chums, likes nothing better than dipping his paws into a
lovely, big jar of what bees make best. Only trouble is, that being a bear of
little brain, he's not quite sure of the right way to spell "honey".

New version: With the action transferred from to Hundred Acre Wood to downtown
Los Angeles, "hunny" is gangland slang for a powerful narcotic substance that
comes in sticky, glutinous liquid form. This story follows the attempts of
teenage dropout Win E to achieve a permanent hunny "high", with the help of his
fellow hoodies Tig R and Christopher Robbin'.

A Christmas Carol

Old version: Sour-faced, miserly Ebenezer Scrooge is confronted by three Ghosts
of Christmas (Past, Present and Future). What they show him makes him repent of
his meanness and especially his harsh treatment of employee Bob Cratchit, who
may be hard-up and have a crippled son called Tiny Tim, but is rich beyond
measure in love and happiness.

New version: In a 21st century update of the story, part financed by UKIP, the
Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come shows Scrooge the future: he is taken to an
industrial tribunal by Bob Cratchit for failing to allow him the European Union
minimum number of days off. Profoundly affected by this vision, Scrooge resolves
to sack Cratchit, and introduce a completely automated workforce.

The Pickwick Papers

Old version: Portly, jolly bon viveur Samuel Pickwick and his pals (the members
of the Pickwick Club) embark on a series of travels and adventures around the
coaching inns of England. These come to a premature end, however, when
Pickwick's landlady Mrs Bardell gets the wrong end of the stick and thinks he is
proposing marriage. When he tries to rid her of this impression, she sues him
for breach of promise, and, rather than pay up, he opts to be put in a debtor's
prison.

New version: In the midst of one of the Pickwick Club's gargantuan feasts, the
ballooning-bellied Pickwick suffers a heart attack. Rather than ending up in
prison he is taken to hospital, where he is placed under the watch of a Food and
Vittles specialist, and, in what has been criticised as a blatant example of
product placement, manages to lose five stone with the help of a well-known
brand of low-fat spread.

1984

Old version: Harbouring secret rebellious thoughts towards the totalitarian
regime that runs Britain (now re-styled Oceania), Winston Smith begins an affair
with a girl he meets at his workplace, the Ministry of Truth. Their liaison is
discovered by the Thought Police, and as part of his "re-education" programme,
Smith is taken to Room 101, the place where every prisoner's worst fear comes
true (in his case, a cage full of rats is fitted to his head). He emerges with
his spirit crushed; like the rest of the brainwashed masses, he has come to love
Oceania's all-seeing party leader, Big Brother.

New version: In what critics perceive to be a satire on the inflexibility of
dictatorship, Winston Smith ends up in Room 101, but due to a bureaucratic
error, what is put inside the cage is not rats, but hats. Despite subjecting him
to a daily onslaught of trilbies, berets and other headgear, his tormentors are
unable to break his will.

Live And Let Die

Old version: This is Ian Fleming's second James Bond book, in which 007 locks
horns with SMERSH supremo Mr Big, in a story that starts in London, but takes
the agent to New York and Jamaica, and involves him in numerous shoot-outs, plus
several encounters with poisonous fish and man-eating sharks.

New version: The film version follows the book to the letter but with the
addition of a final scene, in which, on his return to the UK, Bond is hit with
law suits from the families of the SMERSH guards whose deaths he has caused.
They claim that the amount of force he used was unnecessary and
disproportionate, and that in many cases, he discharged his weapon without first
issuing a verbal warning.

Day of the Triffids

Old version: Apocalyptic story in which Earth is invaded by giant, killer
plants, which kill humans with their poisonous, whip-like stings, then feast
upon their cadavers. Surrounded by an ever-encroaching tide of these triffids,
the last surviving men and women make a stand on the Isle of Wight.

New version: This ill-fated TV production was meant to launch the acting career
of horticultural expert Alan Titchmarsh. Deliberately, if misguidedly, presented
as a gardening programme rather than a drama, it provoked scenes reminiscent of
the panic caused in America, in 19, when people thought Orson Wells' production
of War Of The Worlds was live news coverage of an alien invasion. Here in the
UK, viewers imagining they were watching an episode of Gardeners World were
shocked and traumatised upon witnessing Titchmarsh being seized and devoured by
the giant plants. Switchboards at the emergency services and the BBC were
overwhelmed, and the programme has never been re-broadcast.

Wind In The Willows

Old version: Tired of his lonely burrow, Mole is drawn to the riverbank in
search of adventure, and teams up with the twinkly-eyed Ratty in a series of
scrapes and escapades, many involving the impetuous, automobile-obsessed Toad.

New version: Controversial right-wing film director Lorne Auder felt the
original Kenneth Grahame story left some loose ends in terms of the legality of
the animals' behaviour. At his insistence, this version includes a completely
new storyline in which Mole and Ratty are arrested and charged for complicity in
Toad's prison break. They escape incarceration, but are sentenced to 200 hours
of community service, removing abandoned supermarket trolleys from the
riverbank.

Brideshead Revisited

Old version: Impressionable middle-class boy Charles Ryder comes under the spell
of flighty, teddy bear-dangling Lord Sebastian Flyte while at Oxford. Dazzled by
the whiteness of Sebastian's blazer, and the grandeur of Brideshead, the family
seat, Charles is sucked into a world of aristocratic Catholic guilt, and
eventually spat out, after separating from his wife and having an affair with
Sebastian's sister Julia, who refuses to marry him on the grounds it would be
sinful. The story is told in retrospect by Charles, when billeted to Brideshead
as an Army officer during World War II.

New version: In a radical new re-interpretation, by openly gay director Uzo
Mayall, Charles Ryder is posted overseas to take part in Montgomery's North
Africa campaign, where he is reunited with Sebastian at the Tunisian monastery
where he is living as a helpless alcoholic. The two of them finally acknowledge
their feelings for each other, return to Brideshead after the war, and turn the
estate into a safari park, with bears.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

VINCE SCROOGE AND THE HYPOCRISY OF SOUR-FACED LIB DEM MINISTERS

BYLINE: BY QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1373 words


WHAT a crotchety display we had from Vince Cable on Tuesday. During an internet
chat with the public, the Business Secretary abandoned his customary public
image of the avuncular head wobbler. a€˜Good old Vincea€[TM] sounded more like
the seasonal misanthrope Ebenezer Scrooge.

Mr Cable was asked if he was sending Christmas cards to any of his Conservative
colleagues in the Coalition. Certainly not, he barked. Well, as it was an
internet discussion, a€˜barkeda€[TM] may be putting it a little strongly, but Mr
Cablea€[TM]s reply came across pretty baldly on the computer screen.

So it is bad luck David Willetts, John Hayes, Mark Prisk, Greg Clark, Lord Green
and Lady Willcox, all Tory ministers at the Department of Business, Innovation
and Skills. The boss will not be sending you his Christmas greetings this year.
Scrooge, you may recall, was similarly liverish towards his clerk Bob Cratchit.

Next, Cable the lemony shankum compared being in Government with the Tories to
a€˜a nightmarea€[TM]. A nightmare? Really? In which he is being paid _6134,565 a
year? He is chauffered around, attended by flunkeys and hailed as an economic
swami. Would that my nightmares were like that.

Then the 68-year-old was asked if he had heeded the advice of anti-poverty
campaigners and, as one of Britaina€[TM]s better-off pensioners, had handed back
his _6200 winter fuel payment. No, he had not, came the answer like a rifle
shot. a€˜But I do a lot for charities anyway.a€[TM]

My! Was the petulance not tangible? Was that a€˜anywaya€[TM] not freighted with
self-satisfaction? Ia€[TM]ve done my bit, so get lost. Christmas? Coalition?
Bah, humbug, as Charles Dickensa€[TM]s Scrooge says.

Petty

It is a pity a€" though not entirely surprising a€" to find Mr Cable in a grump.
In the past he may well have seemed a courteous, thoughtful man, but Government
has not improved him.

Nor has it improved the Liberal Democrats. Office has exposed the party
leadershipa€[TM]s character flaws. Hence the dismal opinion poll ratings that
have placed the Lib Dems lower than Ukip.

Vince Cablea€[TM]s churlish remarks showed him to be a more partisan politician
than he long claimed to be. It follows a pattern in recent months when he and
his senior Lib Dems have repeatedly appeared duplicitous and childish.

This included party leader Nick Clegga€[TM]s decision to stay away from the
House of Commons when his Coalition partner David Cameron made a parliamentary
statement about his Brussels veto.

It was a petty, sour riposte to events and it was at odds with his earlier
support for the Prime Ministera€[TM]s Brussels decision.

Lib Dem Energy Secretary Chris Huhne has established himself as the least
reputable of Cabinet ministers. I do not refer to the episode of Mr Huhnea€[TM]s
driving licence points and contested claims (currently under investigation) that
his former wife took blame for a motoring offence he may have committed.

Nor will I dwell on other private matters, save to note hea€[TM]s shacked up
with a lobbyist at the same time as belonging to a party that high-mindedly
deplores lobbying.

The area of conduct that better illustrates Mr Huhnea€[TM]s character is his
habit of bitching to the media about other members of the Cabinet. Around
Westminster it is open knowledge that Mr Huhne leaks on a regular basis to
certain newspaper reporters.

The Home Secretary, Theresa May, has been one victim of his plotting a€" Mr
Huhne was clumsy enough to post a Twitter comment about her a€" and Mr Cameron
also received the Huhne treatment after his Brussels veto.

Nor is Mr Huhnea€[TM]s treachery limited to Tory colleagues. You would need to
be as saintly as Saul of Tarsus to believe Mr Huhne never dripped poison about
his party leader, Mr Clegg.

Lib Dem Cabinet ministers are content to enjoy the fruits of office yet ignore
the principle of collective responsibility.

When the Government tries to make work pay, Lib Dems manoeuvre and demand a 5
per cent increase in welfare payments a€" ie, making unemployment pay, and
wrecking the visionary policy of Iain Duncan Smith.

I may have complained about Mr Cable being Scrooge, but I wish the Treasury
Chief Secretary, Lib Dem Danny Alexander, had some of Scroogea€[TM]s tightness
about money.

Mr Alexander is a great one for spraying public cash around the place. He is a
major source of extravagance at the Treasury.

When David Cameron speaks of his desire to buttress the institution of marriage,
Mr Clegg comes over all human rightsy and says he has a a€˜philosophicala€[TM]
problem with the idea of giving married couples a few quid extra a week. His
a€˜philosophicala€[TM] principles do not prevent him from weekending at
grace-and-favour mansion Chevening, mind you.

And when Mr Cameron returns from Brussels having stood up for British interests,
Mr Clegg crows about our a€˜isolationa€[TM] from crisis-hit eurozone countries.
To protest against that isolation Mr Clegg retires, alone, to his office at the
Commons. Not comina€[TM] out. Wona€[TM]t play. Blowina€[TM] bubbles.

Bolshy

This Lib Dem instransigence is perplexing, and not just because they have so
long been the party that recommended government by compromise-based coalitions.
Now it is here, they seem to hate it! The Tories are making the greater effort
to ensure the blasted thing works.

Ita€[TM]s from the Lib Dems that we hear bolshy threats to resign (these emanate
most frequently from allegedly mature Mr Cable, almost on a monthly cycle).

From the Lib Demsa€[TM] president, Tim Farron MP, we hear chest-thumping
rhetoric about how the Coalition Government will end in a€˜divorcea€[TM]. Mr
Farrona€[TM]s speech to his party conference in September attacked the Tories
for a€˜knee-jerk populisma€[TM].

At the Tory conference a couple of weeks later, one heard nothing but public
compliments for the Lib Dems from ministers.

The Lib Demsa€[TM] behaviour is perplexing for the additional reason that on
many areas of policy squabbling, Mr Clegg is out of step not only with the
voting public but even with his party activists.

David Cameron consistently scores high approval ratings from Lib Dem party
members. Yes, the man Cleggy mocks for being a little Englander is, in fact,
rather liked by the yellow-tie brigade.

Lib Dem activists were almost similarly impressed by the Prime Ministera€[TM]s
performance in Brussels. Here is a party, remember, which in the Eurosceptic
south-west of England presents itself to the electorate as a doughty defender of
our sovereignty. The shrill Europhilia of Nick Clegg and co may do the party
terrible damage here.

As a political reporter, I have been to quite a few Lib Dem events. The
partya€[TM]s rank-and-file have always struck me as the kindest, most reasonable
of the three main partiesa€[TM] foot soldiers.

These Lib Dems are respectable, middle-class and, above all else, polite. They
are the sort of people who would cheerfully send Christmas cards to Chairman
Mao, let alone their Coalition colleagues.

Puerile

What on earth can they be making of this outburst of Ebenezerish dyspepsia from
Vinnie Cable? Do they really think it is a a€˜philosophicala€[TM] atrocity to
support marriage in the tax system? I very much doubt it.

Do they really want the unemployed to receive a rise in their benefits while
working people may be having to accept wage cuts to stave off the effects of
recession? Class warrior Cable demands a a€˜mansion taxa€[TM], but many of his
party members actually live in such houses.

Why are the top Lib Dems being so wrathful? In part it is an internal power
thing. There is a battle for the soul of the party and it is being won by the
Left-leaning Social Democrats rather than more Right-inclining Liberals such as
David Laws and Foreign Office minister Jeremy Browne.

At the same time, Mr Clegg feels he must try to distinguish the Lib Dems from
the Tories. He is worried about disappearing as a political brand.

It does not seem to have occurred to him and his lieutenants that, with the
electorate shifting on Europe, deficit reduction and welfare policy, they might
prosper by positioning themselves slightly to the Right of the infamously small
a€˜la€[TM] liberal David Cameron. Dropping colleagues from their Christmas card
list is pointless and puerile.

If they really want to stuff the Tories, they should overtake them on the Right.

Humbug: How the Lib Dem Ebenezer might look

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU caught breaking its own rules on benefits of water

BYLINE: Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 277 words


EU OFFICIALS widely derided for banning claims that drinking water could prevent
dehydration could be prosecuted after falling foul of their own ruling.

They prohibited drinks companies' claims about the benefits of drinking water
and manufacturers face two years in jail for breaching the edict due to come
into force this month.

But the EU could be investigated itself after its Milk Programme was found to
promote the benefits of drinking water. The literature for the scheme, which
encourages children to drink more milk, said: "You may not have known, but a
large part of milk is actually water.

"So, if you regularly drink milk, you can stay hydrated at the same time.

"Drinking milk can help put the necessary water back into the body, while
providing carbohydrates, proteins and other nutrients to give you energy."

In a complaint calling on the Procureur-General in Brussels to act on the
blunder, Paul Nuttall, Ukip MEP for North West England, said it was a
"disgraceful breach of EU law by the European Commission".

"These people think that they can lay down the law that they have created no
matter how absurd and threaten individuals and businesses with criminal
sanctions," he said.

"In this case, though, it appears that the EU just doesn't know its backside
from its elbow."

The literature was believed to have been produced by the department for the
European Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development.

An EU spokesman said it had not been contacted by the prosecutor yet but could
not comment in case it prejudiced future legal proceedings.

The Procureur-General's office would not comment on the complaint but said it
would be treated like any other.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday

Simon Hoggart's sketch Imagining the worst

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 495 words


Peter Bone, the Tory MP for Wellingborough, is a cadaverous looking fellow. He
has a very slight resemblance to the late Boris Karloff, who played various
homicidal monsters in films. You may recall his line in The Secret Life Of
Walter Mitty: "An icicle, inserted in the brain, will melt and leave no trace."

He is also one of those strange members who is under the impression that their
wives are a limitless source of common sense wisdom. The late David Evans, the
MP for Welwyn, was forever quoting "my wife Janice" who apparently had populist
views on everything from capital punishment to Europe.

Mr Bone also thinks it is a subject of great hilarity that Mrs Bone has
trenchant views on all the issues of the day. Most people find the shtick dreary
beyond belief, but he did get a response from the prime minister back in July,
when David Cameron said, to predictable mirth, "a very big part of my life is
trying to give pleasure to Mrs Bone".

Anyhow, the male Bone - and it is the perfect name - is himself very rightwing,
and like all Tory rightwingers he detests the Lib Dems.

Never mind that they and their leader have sacrificed their popularity in order
to turf Gordon Brown out of office and keep David Cameron in Number 10. Never
mind that they have shown almost unswerving loyalty, through the cuts, tuition
fees, NHS "reform", and Europe. Their job, in the view of the Tory right, is to
ditch their principles and subscribe to the views of - the Tory right.

Nick Clegg was answering questions. Mr Bone uncoiled himself from the bench, and
in a voice that could freeze a jug of mulled wine, wished the deputy prime
minister a Merry Christmas. (Boris Karloff: "Enjoy the festivities. You will not
be enjoying them again.")

He went on: "If the prime minister was killed in a terrorist attack, who would
take charge of the government? And will he confirm it wouldn't be the deputy
prime minister because he leads a party that has less support than Ukip?"

Ooof! Now that wasn't nice! But what made it even less nice was the way he
specified how the prime minister might meet his end. Anyone else might have said
"if the prime minister were incapacitated", or, using the usual formulation, "if
he were to fall under a bus . . ."

But Mr Bone seemed to relish the very thought of the event. One felt that what
he really wanted to say was, say, "if the prime minister was killed in a
terrorist attack, and his blood, guts and severed limbs were scattered across
the streets, and newsreaders were breaking down in tears just like in North
Korea . . ."

Nick Clegg flipped him aside. "I will receive his season's greetings in the
spirit in which it was intended, and as he knows, the appropriate arrangements
will be made in that very unfortunate event. His morbid fascination with the
death of his own party leader is not a matter for me, but for the chief whip."

It might have been better if he had said, "for a highly paid Harley Street
psychologist", but no matter. He'd won.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 21, 2011 Wednesday 1:54 PM GMT

Tory MP rebuked over 'morbid fascination' with death of David Cameron;
The Conservative backbencher Peter Bone has been rebuked for his "morbid
fascination" over who would lead the country in the wake of an assassination
attempt on the Prime Minister in a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Andrew Hough

LENGTH: 659 words


The MP for Wellingborough, has asked repeated questions of the government on who
would take over at Number 10 in the catastrophic event David Cameron is killed
in a terrorist attack.

He said current rules did not make this clear and he said the public and the
military needed to know who would be in charge in an emergency.

He called for a "line of succession" similar to that introduced in America, in
which the Vice President is second in line in the event the President is hurt or
killed.

But after his latest question in Parliament this week, he was told by Nick Clegg
to drop his "morbid fascination" with Mr Cameron's death. A prime minister has
not died in office for nearly 150 years

It came after Mr Bone tried to undermine the Deputy Prime Minister by claiming
he should not take over from Mr Cameron if he was either killed or deemed unable
to do the top job.

The Cabinet Office said "appropriate arrangements would be in place to ensure
smooth running of government".

At present Mr Clegg deputises for Mr Cameron at Prime Minister's Questions and
on overseas trips while William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, has the additional
title of First Secretary of State, denoting seniority within government.

During heated debate, Mr Clegg said that the Tory chief whip Patrick McLoughlin
might want to investigate why Mr Bone is so obsessed with the Prime Minister's
death.

Mr Bone has repeatedly used Commons questions to ask who would take over from Mr
Cameron in the event he was killed or deemed unable to do the job.

Speaking in the Commons this week, Mr Bone said: "In wishing you a merry
Christmas, if the Prime Minister was killed in a terrorist attack, who would
take charge of the Government?

"Would you confirm that it wouldn't be you as you lead a party which has less
support than Ukip?"

Mr Clegg hit back: "I receive your season's greetings in the spirit in which
they were intended and as you know appropriate arrangements would be made in
that very unfortunate event.

I have to to say that your morbid fascination with the premature death of your
own party leader is not really a subject for me, it is a subject for the chief
whip."

Mr Bone has asked Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, in the Commons about
whether he might take over. Mr Hammond said arrangements were in place but he
would not make them public.

On Wednesday he defended his questioning  on the issue during an interview with
BBC Radio 4's today programme.

"The important thing is if there is a terrorist attack the military must know
immediately who is in charge, the country must know immediately who is in
charge," he said.

"If the Prime Minister has been killed in that attack and there is a requirement
to take an instant decision, someone needs to be in charge.

"To say we can wait and get the cabinet together and sit down to decide who is
in charge, in this day and age, is patently absurd.

"It does need to be clear. At the moment, what would happen?"

He added: "Would the defence secretary be in charge, would it be the Cabinet
Office, would it be William Hague or Nick Clegg. Who knows?"

Mr Bone said he was "absolutely certain" that it should not be Mr Clegg.

He said of Mr Clegg: "It was an absurd response from the Deputy Prime Minister
to deflect answering the question which he refused to point blank do."

A document published earlier this year set out the role and powers of the
sovereign, the executive, ministers and Parliament.

It stressed that even if there is a deputy prime minister this "does not
constrain the sovereign's power to appoint a successor to a prime minister".

A Government spokesman said they were not prepared to speculate about who would
take over from the Prime Minister in the event he could no longer do the job.

He added: "The Prime Minister remains Prime Minister at all times but
arrangements, appropriate at the time, would be put in place as necessary, as
has been the practice under successive administrations."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 21, 2011 Wednesday 12:53 PM GMT

EU breaks its own ruling on water hydration claims;
EU officials could be prosecuted after falling foul of their own ruling that
banned claims that drinking water could prevent dehydration.

BYLINE: By Donna Bowater

LENGTH: 410 words


The EU was widely derided last month for the bizarre decision to prohibit drinks
companies from claiming drinking water could help avoid dehydration.

Manufacturers face two years in jail for breaching the edict that was due to
come into force this month after being passed in November.

But the EU could now be investigated after it emerged its Milk Programme was
found to promote the health benefits of drinking water.

The literature for the scheme, which encourages children to drink more milk,
said: "You may not have known, but a large part of milk is actually water. So,
if you regularly drink milk, you can stay hydrated at the same time.

"When people do not get enough water, a condition called 'dehydration', they can
become tired, irritable and have a hard time concentrating.

"Drinking milk can help put the necessary water back into the body, while
providing carbohydrates, proteins and other nutrients to give you energy."

A British MEP has called on the Procureur-General in Brussels to act on the
blunder.

In his complaint, Paul Nuttall, Ukip member for North West England, said it was
a "disgraceful breach of EU law by the European Commission."

He added: "These people think that they can lay down the law that they have
created no matter how absurd and threaten individuals and businesses with
criminal sanctions.

"In this case, though, It appears that the EU just doesn't know its backside
from its elbow."

The literature was believed to have been produced by the department for the
European Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, led by Romanian
politician Dacian Ciolos.

Denouncing the ruling last month, Conservative MEP Roger Helmer said: "This is
stupidity writ large.

"The euro is burning, the EU is falling apart and yet here they are:
highly-paid, highly-pensioned officials worrying about the obvious qualities of
water and trying to deny us the right to say what is patently true.

"If ever there were an episode which demonstrates the folly of the great
European project then this is it."

It also emerged earlier this month that the European Food Safety Authority had
rules against claims that prunes had a laxative effect.

An EU spokesman said: "We have not been contacted by the prosecutor as yet,
however, as we may be within a due legal process, we cannot comment in case it
prejudices future proceedings."

The Procureur-General's office would not comment on the complaint but said it
would be treated like any other.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

A spine for Nick, better jokes for Ed and a Flashman costume for Dave;
Times Parliamentary Sketchwriter Ann Treneman on the good, the bad and the
Lickspittles of 2011

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 832 words


What a year! We may live in the age of austerity but, for sketchwriters, it's
been the year that just kept on giving. So it's only right, after the last day
of the parliamentary session for MPs, to give something back. Here are my
Not-So-Secret Santa presents: To Dave, a Flashman uniform, complete with sword
(Touché!) and the ability to grow a handlebar moustache. Our Prime Minister has
a split personality: traditional, rather aloof Chairman of the Board or Harry
Flashman, the cocky, arrogant, swashbuckling hero of George MacDonald Fraser
fame. It was Flashman who walked out on Europe and it's Flashman that, against
all odds, we seem to love. So why doesn't Dave just wear the kit? I'd love to
see him at PMQs, sword dangling, fringed epaulettes bobbing and luxurious
moustache (currently he is follically challenged in the upper lip area)
twirling.

To Nick, a spine. Yes, a real one with proper vertebrae to carry round and
practise with. It's been a nightmare year for Poor Nick (official name changed
by deed poll) in which he has specialised in looking sad. But finally, after
tuition fees, the AV referendum and Eurogeddon, he's learning that he needs to
stand up for himself. Yesterday in the Commons a Tory Eurosceptic, Peter Bone,
asked Nick who would be in charge if Dave was killed. "Would you confirm that it
wouldn't be you as you lead a party which has less support than UKIP?" he
demanded. Not-So-Sad Nick hit back: "Appropriate arrangements would be made in
that very unfortunate event. Your morbid fascination with the premature death of
your own party leader is not really a subject for me, it is a subject for the
Chief Whip." Is that a backbone I see? To Ed M, some jokes. Lord Mandelson
insists that Ed should concentrate on policy, to which I have only one word:
snore. Ed is already a geek, always appearing to be on the verge of making his
own volcano. Remember his summer reading list that included Leadership on the
Line? Lighten up, Ed! So I'm giving him a personal comedy trainer and a gig.
Remember, Ed, laugh and the world laughs with you and not at you, which would
make a change.

To Hugh Grant (or as the Leveson automatic transcriber referred to him, hue
frant), his privacy back. 000 000 00000 but 000 000000 and 00000 000.

To Theresa May, a Gloria Gaynor CD and a leopardskin pillbox hat to go with her
leopardskin shoes and general cattiness attitude. They said she'd have to go
over Catgate (meow) and was borderline over borders. But, as Gloria could have
told us, she has survived.

To Ed "Butter" Balls, a subscription to WeightWatchers. Do you remember that
photo of the Shadow Chancellor playing football, face red, cheeks bursting,
tummy straining? Cut the carbs, Ed, and start living the age of austerity for
real. (Others who seem to be expanding include George Osborne and Nick Clegg.)
To George Osborne, a voodoo doll of Ed Balls making his infuriating trademark
"flatline" gesture. Mr Balls is the one that George loves to hate, surely a
compliment from the man who invented the economic theory of sadomonetarism.
Plus, just for fun, I'm going to make it so George's mouth has to smile, not
sneer. He'll hate that.

To Chris Huhne, a Houdini (or should that be Huhndini) magic kit because so far
the Environment Secretary has managed to get himself out of some almost
impossibly tight situations. Mr Speedy is still at the wheel. Drive on, 2012!

To the Eurosceptics, respect. Time magazine chose The Protester as its Person of
the Year. In Parliament, though, it has to be the Sceptics. For years, everyone
just thought Bill Cash was a Euro-bore. Now we know that, actually, he's the
future.

To Gordon Brown, an invisibility cloak so he can hide forever and the Lesser
Spotted Gordo can be the Never Spotted Gordo.

To the Speaker and his Tweet-meister wife Sally of bedsheet fame, an army of
elves to embroider their new coat of arms, replete with pink triangles, rainbows
and tennis balls, on to all the bed linen that they own. Classy, I am sure
you'll agree.

To Sam Cam, the new Imelda, a pair of skyscraper Jimmy Choos. Remember when Sam
walked a mile for charity in five-inch heels? Surely the Stiletto Walk of Fame
should be our new Olympic sport.

To Kevin Brennan, an award for Best Heckle of the Year. The easily infuriated
Labour backbencher bellowed at a droning Nick Clegg: "Sophistry!" Runner-up is
the man (rumoured to be Chris Ruane) who shouted at Dave during the Euro Veto
statement: "Où est Clegg?" (Now we know: at the osteopaths, getting a new
spine.) Finally, to Claire Perry, my coveted Lickspittle of the Year award.
Claire, statuesque, indefatigable leader of the Total Tory Tendency, has spent
the year gushing from the backbenches. She is the Niagara of praise, the font of
fawning, a siren of sycophancy. She will, of course, go far.

Ann Treneman's Dave & Nick: The Year of the Honeymoon (rrp £14.99) is available
for £11.99 from The Times Bookshop, 0845 2712134, thetimes.co.uk/bookshop
Illustrations: Andy Bunday for The Times

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

What are the benefits of staying in Europe?;
The Lords are right to consider a cost-benefit analysis of Britain's EU
membership

BYLINE: PHILIP JOHNSTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 958 words


To paraphrase Life of Brian, what has Europe ever done for us? In the Monty
Python film, the Judeans could grudgingly cite the aqueduct, roads, wine,
irrigation, public baths, sanitation, medicine, education and security to
acknowledge that being part of the Roman Empire was not entirely without its
advantages. But what exactly do we get from our membership of the EU?

Little, say the Eurosceptics. They tend to answer the question in economic
terms, pointing to many years of negative trade imbalances with Europe and a
substantial net contribution to the budget to show we have had a bad deal.
Plenty, say the pro-Europeans. They emphasise half a century of peace on a
continent previously ravaged by war - a point made so eloquently by Germany's
foreign minister Guido Westerwelle on a visit to London yesterday - and the
importance of being part of a larger political bloc in a globalised world in
which size matters.

Who is right? Is it even possible to answer this question? More to the point,
why does no one in government ever try to find out? Perhaps they are frightened
of the answer. The fact is that next year marks the 40th anniversary of the
passage of the European Communities Act; yet in all that time our membership has
never been subject to an official cost-benefit analysis.

Certainly, Eurosceptic groups have produced dozens of reports detailing how we
have been disadvantaged by belonging to the EU; but no government has ever
sanctioned an inquiry to test the case. The lofty view from Whitehall has always
been that the benefits of membership are so self-evident that such an exercise
would be a waste of time and money.

Most of us have gone along with this over the years - myself included, I must
confess - fearful that becoming semi-detached from Europe would adversely affect
our standing in the world. But there must come a point when the economic
liabilities outweigh whatever political and diplomatic uplift accrues from
membership. That time has surely arrived when we are under pressure to stump up
(that is, borrow) £25 billion in the middle of a recession to rescue countries
made insolvent because they belong to a currency union that we refused to join.
Or when our trawlermen are required under the Common Fisheries Policy to work
for just 90 days of the year, as agreed at the weekend - the latest devastating
blow to a once-great industry.

It is at this timely juncture that the House of Lords is considering whether to
set up an independent committee of inquiry to answer precisely the question: cui
bono? It would consist of seven people: two in favour of staying in the EU, two
who want to leave and two who have no firm view, with an independent chairman.
True, this measure is being sponsored by someone who fits firmly into the "let's
get out" camp - Lord Pearson of Rannoch, a Ukip peer and long-standing critic of
Britain's membership. But what do pro-Europeans have to fear from such an
exercise? If the virtues of belonging are so obvious, they will be apparent to
any inquiry.

More than that, it might provide definitive proof of the case regularly made by
pro-Europeans to justify continued membership. Foremost among their points is
the negative impact on the economy if we left. It is often said that since 40
per cent of our exports go to EU clients, three million jobs would be
jeopardised by withdrawal, a point made once again by business leaders in a
letter on this page. But why does one follow the other? Does the fact that so
many jobs are linked to trade with European countries mean they would be lost or
would the business simply continue? We don't trade with the EU as an
institution, but with its constituent states.

Another claim is that inward investment from, say, Japanese motor firms would
dry up. Is that true? With the eurozone in such a mess, and the regulatory
burden of the EU hampering growth, a non-member on the periphery of the EU but
no longer subject to its rules might actually be attractive to overseas
investors. After all, the City of London has developed into the world's largest
financial centre despite the UK being outside the euro.

Here is another question: how many of member states' laws are imposed by Europe?
No one knows for sure; estimates vary from 10 per cent to 80 per cent, though
the true figure is probably closer to 50 per cent. In the NHS, working-time
restrictions have severely disadvantaged our hospitals and EU directives have
impaired clinical research. Protectionism, lack of competitiveness,
over-regulation: all these incur serious costs, but the pro-Europeans would
argue that they are a small price to pay for access to the single market and a
place at the top table of world trade talks. Is that true? And in any case, why
would we be excluded from the European market if we were outside the EU? Perhaps
someone without an axe to grind could explain.

There is not even agreement on this country's net contribution to EU coffers,
something that should be straightforward. The Treasury says the figure is £7.6
billion, up from £4.7 billion in 2009-10. But the sceptics quote figures from
the European Commission's Pink Book, which reveal that we handed over £18.5
billion last year in various forms and received £8 billion in return for
regional aid, agricultural support and other projects. So we do get something
back; but it is our own money - and it would probably be cheaper to cut out the
middleman. Surely by now the costs have reached the point where it is no longer
rational to maintain the same relationship with the EU that we have had for 40
years, any more than an aqueduct and a jug of pinot grigio made Roman occupation
palatable to the People's Front of Judea.

Comment on Philip Johnston's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday

Politics Live: Danny Alexander statement on public sector pensions

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6833 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of the day's political developments as
they happen including the Treasury secretary's statement to MPs

FULL TEXT

4.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd]Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, has said that most
unions have signed up to its plans for public sector pension reform. In a
statement to MPs, he said that negotiations were now over and that heads of
agreement had been established with most unions covering local government,
health, the civil service and education. These will form the basis for a public
service pensions bill. The threat of mass industrial action seems to be fading,
but it is not clear yet exactly how much support there is for the deal in the
union movement. Some unions are reserving their position and further
consultations are planned.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has been visiting British troops in Afghanistan. He was
due to go to Camp Bastion in Helmand province, but he was diverted to the Nato
base in Kandahar because of a dust storm.

[#xfffd] Piers Morgan, the former Daily Mirror editor, has told the Leveson
inquiry that he does not think phone hacking went on at the paper when he was in
charge. Asked if phone hacking going on there when he was editor, he replied:
"To the best of my recollection I do not believe so," he said. The hearing is
still going on. It's riveting. You can follow it in detail on our live blog.
[#xfffd] The Ministry of Defence has announced that a new ministerial committee
has been set up to ensure that the government maintains its commitment to the
military covenant.

[#xfffd] Kenneth Clarke, the justice secretary, has told a parliamentary
committee that in the past he did not see the point of a British Bill of Rights.
Although creating a British Bill of Rights was Conservative policy at the last
election, he said: "I've never personally seen the need for a Bill of Rights in
the past but I now genuinely have an open mind ... I wait to see what [the
commission set up by the government to investigate the matter] come back and
recommend."

[#xfffd] The Department of Health has announced that Freud Communications will
take charge of its public health campaigns. Diane Abbott, the shadow health
minister, said this was "creepy". She went on: "Big business is now completely
in the driving seat of the country's public health policies."[#xfffd] Vince
Cable, the business secretary, has said the Occupy movement are making a valid
point about excessive pay. In a webchat with Gransnet, he said: "I think the
Occupy movement does have something to say. They don't have the answers but they
are posing a real challenge to politicians about the big divide in income and
wealth. I accept that we have to come up with answers on extreme and unjustified
pay and I'm embarking on policy initiatives in the New Year in this area." He
also said that he was not sending Christmas cards to any Tory MPs. "I'm sending
no Christmas cards to Tory MPs, but I look forward to getting back to business
working with them in the New Year."

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

3.41pm: Piers Morgan is giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry now. There is
full coverage on our Leveson live blog.

3.22pm: Danny Alexander told MPs that most unions had agreed to the public
sector pensions deal. He only identified two unions - Unite and the PCS - as
being opposed.

But the real picture is a bit more complicated. The Press Association have been
in touch with all the main teaching unions and it is clear that most of them are
still sitting on the fence.

The National Union of Teachers (NUT), the NASUWT, the University and College
Union (UCU) and Welsh teaching union UCAC all confirmed that they will not be
signing up at this stage.But the Association of Teachers and Lecturers (ATL) and
the National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) said they will take the revised
proposals to their members, with the latter stressing that there is no deal yet.

Here are some of the key quotes.

From Christine Blower, general secretary of the NUT

There was some movement [in Monday's talks], but we have taken the view that
there was insufficient movement We have reserved our position. We will await all
the documentation and we will discuss this with our executive early in January.
We expect that if there are further negotiations, we will be present at them.

From Sally Hunt, general secretary of the UCU

We have requested further documentation and clarification on a number of aspects
of the proposals. Once we are in receipt of full information on the offer and
how it will affect our diverse membership, our national executive committee will
consider the proposals. Following this, UCU is then committed to balloting our
members in the teachers' pension scheme on whether to accept or reject any final
offer.

From Elaine Edwards, UCAC general secretary

The talks have been constructive, but the latest proposals still don't fully
address the principal concerns of UCAC's members. We cannot agree to this
proposal without further discussion.

From Russell Hobby, general secretary of the NAHT

After yesterday's marathon session, we feel we are now in a position to submit
the headlines of a possible agreement to members. However, no deal has been
signed. The NAHT is a democratic organisation, and any agreement will be signed
only after consultations with our national executive and our members.

Is this a good deal for teachers? No, the government has treated the profession
badly and will pay the price in years to come in terms of recruitment, morale
and, ultimately, through the quality of education our future pupils can expect.

3.11pm:Mark Serwotka, the general secretary of the PCS union, has accused Danny
Alexander of misleading MPs by saying that he walked away from the talks. The
Cabinet Office unilaterally announced on Monday that the CPS would no longer be
invited, the union said.

In a statement, Serwotka described this as bullying.

It is extraordinary how PCS members have been treated by this government, simply
for saying they will not accept being made to pay more and work longer for tens
of thousands of pounds less in their retirement.

This kind of unacceptable bullying will not deter union members from standing up
for what is right, and opposing the government's attempts to make them pay the
price for a recession they did not cause. We remain committed to negotiating
with ministers, but they continue to refuse even though we believe they have a
legal obligation to do so.

The union has also said that it is taking legal advice over being "excluded"
from the civil service talks. The government had a legal duty to include all
unions under the 2010 Superannuation Act, it says.

3.01pm: The last question is from the Daily Mail.

Q: What would you say to private sector workers who cannot hope to get a pension
deal like this?

Alexander says this deal will cut the cost of public sector pensions to the
taxpayer. But a good pension has always been part of what is offered to people
who work in the public sector.

2.55pm: More questions.

Q: Are you still considering changing strike legislation?

Maude says between 75 and 80% of public sector workers went to work on 30
November. Strike laws, like all laws, are kept under review.

But that's not the territory we're in.

Q: Isn't it true that you reached a deal because you retreated on Fair Deal
(see1.40pm) and accrual rates? And why didn't you retreat earlier?

Alexander says he does not accept that. In November he said he was willing to
look at making a trade off between accrual rates and revaluation rates.

And, on Fair Deal, he says he always made it clear that there could be an
agreement on this.

Q: Do you think many public sector workers will opt out?

Maude says the government has done everything it can to avoid this.

The last thing we want is people to deny themselves access to what continue to
be very generous pension schemes.

Q: What will happen to workers who transfer to a private sector employer?

Maude says workers who are outsourced or privatised will still have access to a
public sector pensions.

2.50pm: More questions.

Q: Will this deal be imposed on those unions that have not signed up?

Alexander says he always made it clear that he wanted a deal by the end of the
year. He thinks these agreements are the "best that can be achieved" by
negotiation.

Q: Is your door still open to Mark Serwotka and the PCS?

Maude says he is not going to reopen the heads of agreeement that have been
reached. But there are some points still be be finalised, in particular in
relation to the Prison Officers Association.

Serwotka is coming to see him tomorrow about something else, he says.

Q: Was the letter that upset the GMB sent by Eric Pickles?

Yes, says Alexander.

Q: What do you feel about him trying to scupper this deal?

Alexander says the letter was withdrawn. Another letter is being sent.

Q: Have you got a revised estimate for the cost of the strike on 30 November?

Alexander says he has no revised estimate. (At the time of the strike the
Treasury said it could cost [#xfffd]500m.)

2.46pm: More questions.

Q: Are you being premature in saying a deal has been reached?

Maude says he is not being premature. He acknowledges that unions have important
discussions to have with their members.

Q: The PCS say they have been subject to "unacceptable bullying"? Is that true?

Maude says it is a pity that Mark Serwotka, the PCS leader, never came to any of
the Cabinet Office meetings about pensions. The PCS have "form" for this, he
says. When the Cabinet Office reformed the rules about civil service
redundancies, the PCS did not engage in those negotiations.

2.41pm: They are not taking questions.Q: The GMB are now said to be
reconsidering their support for the deal. Is that true?

Alexander says a letter that apparently prompted the GMB's threat to walk out
has now been withdrawn.

It was "not a text that had been agreed", he says.(There is more detail about
this on the GMB website.)

Q: The unions says you have been more helpful since the November strike. Is that
true?

Maude says there has been no change in the "tempo" of the talks since the 30
November strike. But the unions did want to change the details; they all wanted
a more generous accrual rate, and a less valuable revaluation rate. These
changes have been agreed.

Q: Is this a vindication of your divide and rule approach?

Maude says he had not intention of operating a "divide and rule" policy. He is
just sorry that one public service union (the PCS) has "written itself out of
the script".

2.37pm: Danny Alexander and Francis Maude are now giving a press conference.
I'll cover as much of it as I can live, but I'm dependent on Sky and BBC News,
who may well switch to Piers Morgan at some point.

Maude says: "Strike action does not work." Since the strike, the government has
not changed the cost ceiling on its plans.

1.40pm: It was a curiously flat announcement, in a chamber half-empty only hours
before the Commons packs up for Christmas, but Danny Alexander's statement on
public sector pension reform marks a key development in one of the most
far-reaching reforms being driven through by this government. It's not quite the
end of the process; two big unions are still opposed, the other public sector
unions have yet to get the support of their members, some details remain to be
thrashed out and the government has not even published the public services
pensions bill that will have to be passed before the new arrangements become
law. But, still, it does feel as these reforms are much closer to actually
happening than they ever were. It's a landmark moment.

Here are the key points.[#xfffd] Alexander said that detailed agreements on
public sector pensions had now been struck and that this would form the basis
for government legislation. Most unions supported these "heads of agreement",
Alexander said. The overall amount of money the government will spend on
pensions - the "cost ceiling" - has not gone up since the government published
details of its revised outline offer in November, he said. But since then, in
the civil service, health and education, unions and the government have agreed
details of exactly how these changes will be implemented. In the local
government scheme, some details have yet to be thrashed out. There are more
details about these heads of agremeent at 12.56pm.

[#xfffd] He said that the government has agreed to continue the Fair Deal policy
that ensures that workers who find their jobs contracted out to the private
sector will continue to enjoy their public sector pensions.In March 2011 the
Treasury launched a consultation on scrapping the Fair Deal policy.Keeping it
ensures that workers will have less to fear if their job moves over to a private
sector provider. Alexander said this would make it easier for the government to
press ahead with its plans to get more private firms supplying public services.

At the same time, by offering transferred staff the right to remain members of
the public service scheme, we are no longer requiring private, voluntary and
social enterprise providers to take on the risks of defined benefit that deter
many from bidding for contracts in the first place.

Replacing so-called bulk transfers of pensions with continued access to public
sector schemes means that we continue to protect public service workers'
pensions, manage the risk to the taxpayer, and forge ahead with our ambitious
plans on public sector reform.

[#xfffd] He said that it was "disappointing" that Unite and the PCS union had
not accepted the heads of agreement. Avoiding a confrontational tone, Alexander
said that he hoped Unite and PCS could be persuaded to accept the deal. He
played down the consequences of the strike that those two unions (and others)
led in November, describing it at one point in his statement as an "unnecessary
interruption"

[#xfffd] He said most unions would be asking their executives to lift the threat
of strike action as a result of this deal.

[#xfffd] He said the new settlement would last at least 25 years. Under the
reforms, public sector workers would still get pensions that would cost a third
of salary in the private sector. "This is a proper reward for a lifetime's
commitment to serving the public," he said

[#xfffd] He confirmed that the government would review the impact of the
increased pension contributions coming into force next year before taking final
decisions on implementing future increases. In particular, the government would
look at "opt-outs and equality", he said. There is concern that some workers
could opt out of pension schemes altogether rather than pay the increased
contributions.

[#xfffd] He said plans for the reform of police, armed forces, judiciary and
fire service pensions would be brought forward "in due course". Those schemes
were not included in this year's talks.

1.32pm: The statement is now over. I'll sum up shortly.

1.28pm: Labour's Russell Brown, a Unite member, says Alexander said Unite and
the PCS have not signed up to the deal. Will Alexander confirm that the Prison
Officers Association has also refused to back the deal?

Alexander says he takes a most "positive" view of the POA's position.

1.26pm: Labour's Katy Clark asks if the government will veto any agreement
between the Scottish government and the unions.

Alexander says traditionally Scottish deals mirror those for the rest of the UK.
He hopes this will continue, even though the Scottish government has opposed
what the UK government is doing. If the Scottish government wants to pay higher
pensions, it will have to fund them itself.

1.24pm: Labour's Ian Lavery asks what the government will do if trade union
members reject the offer.

Alexander says this is the final offer from the government. The government is
going to legislate on this basis.

1.22pm: Alexander says under the current system the contributions of
"hard-pressed, low-paid workers" go to subsidise pensions for high-earners.
Under the reforms, that will change, he says.

1.21pm:The full text of Danny Alexander's statement is now on the Treasury
website.And here is the Treasury's press notice about the announcement.

1.18pm: Labour's Fiona Mactaggart asks if there will be an equality impact on
the reforms.

Alexander says the government will see what impact the reforms have on the
number of people opting out of the public sector schemes in year one. In the
light of those findings, there could be changes to the way the reforms are
implemented in years two and three.

1.17pm: Chris Pincher, a Conservative, asks Alexander if he has received any
"imaginative proposals" from public sector pension reform from Labour. Alexander
says he is "sad to say" that the answer is no.

1.13pm: Damian Hinds, a Conservative, asks how many new starters in the private
sector can look forward to a defined benefit pension scheme.

Alexander says the number of people being offered pensions like this in the
private sector is "very small". But that does not mean the government wants to
stop them in the public sector. They are part of the reward for a career of
public service, he says.

1.12pm: Alexander says he is "very disappointed" by the stance of the PCS union
(which has rejected the offer). He says he hopes it will come round.

1.10pm: Labour's Andrew Miller asks if the government will ensure that pension
holidays are no longer possible.

Alexander says this is a very important point. Schemes need to be funded so that
they can meet future increases in life expectancy.

1.08pm: Labour's John Healey says the government has given "no ground" on
imposing the equivalent of a 3% tax rise on workers. When will workers get the
chance to see the precise details of what is on offer?

Alexander says that is a matter for the unions.

1.07pm: Back to the statement, Alexander says no party will need to revisit
these arrangements for 25 years.

12.56pm: In his statement, Alexander explained how the offer being made to
public sector workers had changed since November. The changes are technical;
they don't affect the overall value of the pension offer, but they alter the way
the reforms will be implemented. Here are the key details.

[#xfffd] In the civil service scheme, each year's contribution will be revalued
by CPI, not earnings, allowing an accrual rate of 44ths to be offered. This will
cost the same as originally planned, but will spread the costs in a way
preferred by the unions.

[#xfffd] In the local government scheme, the pension age will be linked to the
state pension and there will be a career average scheme. Further discussions
will take place over the next three months.

[#xfffd] In the health scheme, contributions will be revalued by CPI plus 1.5%.
This will allow an accrual rate of 1/54th.

[#xfffd] And in the education scheme, contributions will be revalued by CPI plus
1/6%, allowing the accrual rate to be improved to 1/57th. There will also be
modest improvements to early retirement factors.

12.47pm: Rachel Reeves, the shadow chief secretary to the Treasury, is
responding for Labour.

Most public sector workers retire on very modest pensions, she says.

Labour will be looking at the details of the proposals based on the tests Labour
has set out.

What is the timetable for finalising the talks?

When will plans be produced for the police, the armed forces, the judiciary and
the fire service?

What is the government's estimate for the number of workers who will opt out of
schemes?

She says Labour are concerned that this could lead to the privatisation of more
services.

It is a "matter of regret" that it took a strike to get the government to this
point, she says. The government took an "aggressive and provocative approach" to
this serious issue, she says.

The government has displayed the same level of negotiating skill we saw in the
EU summit, she says.

12.43pm: Alexander is still talking.

The unions have demanded assurances that their members will still get the
benefits of their pension schemes if they are transferred out of the public
sector.

Alexander says he has extended the Fair Deal pension protection scheme to ensure
that workers will get this protection.

Private providers will not have to take on the same risk they would have done if
they had done if the old scheme had remained in place. This will encourage more
private providers to bid for public sector contracts, he says.

Alexander says the new scheme is fairer to women, because it pays career-average
pensions not final-salary ones.

Most unions will be asking their members to lift the threat of strike action, he
says. He hopes the remaining unions will do the same.

For the taxpayer, these reforms mean that tens of billions of pounds will be
available for other purposes.

Alexander says the process has shown that it is possible to reach an agrement if
you negotiate in good faith.

This is a fair deal for public sector workers, an affordable deal for the
taxpayer, and a good deal for the taxpayer, he says.

12.41pm: Alexander is now talking about the details of the schemes.

In the civil service scheme, the accrual rate will now be 1/44ths, he says.

12.36pm: Alexander says negotiators have been working hard to reach "heads of
agreement" despite some unwelcome interruptions (a euphemism for the strike).

The government has stuck closely to Lord Hutton's recommendations, he says.

Public sector pensions cost [#xfffd]32bn a year.

The government has already made some changes to public sector pensions. Next
year's increase in contributions is almost the same as that planned by Labour.

The government will review its final pension offer after 2012 so that it can
assess the impact that the changes coming into effect in 2012 have on the number
of people opting out of pensions, Alexander says.

Heads of agreements have now been reached with most unions, he says. These are
within the budget set in November.

Negotiations on the heads of agrement are now concluded. Ministers and the
unions agree that these are the best deals achievable.

12.36pm: Danny Alexander is up now.

12.28pm: Danny Alexander, the chief secretary, to the Treasury, is about to make
his Commons statement about the public sector pensions negotiations. He will be
giving a press conference later, at 2.30pm.On his BBC blog, Nick Robinson gives
a flavour of what Alexander is going to say.

Praise for the unions which have signed outline agreements. Patience with those
who say they need to think some more. Condemnation for those who say that no
deal is possible and hint of more industrial action to come.

That will be how Danny Alexander, chief secretary to the Treasury and chief
pensions negotiator for the government, responds today to the progress made on
reforming pension schemes.

12.21pm: Here's an early lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, has been
preparing a Commons statement about public sector pensions. I will be covering
it live when he delivers it at 12.30pm. This morning the Association of Teachers
and Lecturers (ATL) has become the latest union to confirm that it has signed
the "heads of agreement", which means that in principle, it will take the
government's offer back to its members.

[#xfffd] HM Revenue & Customs has strongly rejected the main findings of a
report from the Commons public accounts committee claiming it struck
preferential deals with some big companies. "HM Revenue & Customs rejects the
conclusion of the Public Accounts Committee that there are systemic failures in
the management of tax disputes," it said in a statement. "The report is based on
partial information, inaccurate opinion and some misunderstanding of facts."

[#xfffd]An official review of police tactics has said that arsonists who set
fire to shops with flats above them could be shot where there is serious risk to
life.

[#xfffd] The Association of Train Operating Companies has said that train fares
will rise by an average of 5.9% in January.

[#xfffd] Rob Whiteman, the new chief executive of the UK Border Agency, has told
MPs that there is "poor morale" at the agency. "I've come across people of
enormous talent," he said. "On the other hand the organisation has poor morale
in places and a detachment between senior management and frontline staff."

12.10pm: Labour's Jack Straw says the only reason not registering to vote is not
an offence now is because Britain still has household voter registration, not
individual voter registration. (See 11.42am.) But it is an offence for a head of
a household not to register. As the government moves to individual voter
registration, will it ensure that individuals have to register to vote?

Clegg says that he has already indicated that the government will amend the
proposed legislation on this point.But he says that he wants to be "careful"
about creating a new offence. Under the current law, not providing information
is an offence. But not registering is not an offence.

12.06pm: The Tory MP Peter Bone asks who would be in charge if the prime
minister were to be killed. (See 11.36am.)As leader of a party with less support
than Ukip, it should not be Clegg, Bone says.

Clegg says "appropriate arrangements would be made". Bone "morbid fascination"
with Cameron's death should be a matter for the Tory chief whip, he says.

12.03pm: Labour's Karen Buck asks if Clegg thinks that the number of people
registered to vote will be as higher or higher in 2015.

Clegg says he wants as many people as possible to be registered. On current
figures, about 85/87% of eligible people are registered. Ten years earlier the
figure was 93/95%. Something went wrong under Labour, he says.

11.58am: Many MPs have tabled questions for Clegg today but have not turned up
in the chamber to ask them. Denis MacShane thinks it's deliberate.

Never seen so many Questions on order paper called but MP absent. Quite easy to
pull a Q. Feels like organised contempt for Clegg + Speaker

11.55am: Sadiq Khan, the shadow justice secretary, asks Clegg if he agreed with
David Cameron's decision to veto the proposed new EU treaty. Clegg sidestepped
the question and attacked Labour for leaving an economic mess.

11.53am: In response to a question about his responsibilities, Clegg says he
"supports" the prime minister. This prompts much laughing

11.48am: Clegg tells MPs that the joint committee considering the draft bill on
Lords reform will report by 27 March 2011. The bill will be a "big step forward"
for Britain, he says.

Labour's Sadiq Khan asks if the Lib Dems will want to remove the 20% of
appointed peers in future if the government legislates to have 80% elected.

Clegg says he supports a fully-elected Lords. But an 80%-elected Lords would be
better than having a Lords with no elected element.Q: Will the government be
prepared to use the Parliament Act to drive this through?

Clegg says the government will pursue this bill "as forcefully" as it can. If
necessary, the Parliament Act will be used. But he hopes that won't be
necessary.

11.42am: Nick Clegg has just told MPs that the government is not removing the
civic duty to vote. Contrary to what has been claimed, it is not an offence
under current law not to register to vote, he said. But under the current law it
is an offence not to provide information about voters in a household. That
offence will remain, he said.

11.36am: And, while we're on the subject, Politics Live readers are not the only
people worrying about Nick Clegg. At ConservativeHome the Tory MP Peter Bone
about who would take over the government if David Cameron were to be killed in a
terrorist attack.Bone raised this at defence questions yesterday and did not get
an answer. He's not happy.

What the country has a right to know is who would take over in the unfortunate
circumstances of the death of a prime minster and a terrorist attack. Now I
don't mind if it is the home secretary, foreign secretary or chancellor, but we
need to know and we need a line of succession. This is not something that can be
decided upon after an attack it should be known in advance and made clear to any
terrorists that whatever happens the country will know who is in charge in the
immediate aftermath.

The one person who is not fit to do this job and should have no place in such a
succession is the deputy prime minster.

11.34am:Nick Clegg is about to take questions in the Commons. Knowing the deep
affection and respect many of you have for him, I'll be keeping a close eye on
the proceedings.

11.19am: Here's the latest on public sector pensions.

Paul Noon, general secretary of Prospect, the union for public sector
professionals, told Sky that the November strike created "a shift in the
atmosphere" and that subsequently "proper negotiations started". I've taken the
quote from PoliticsHome.

We won't be taking strike action while the discussions are continuing. We still
hope to reach agreement, but ultimately if we get nowhere as a trade union we
don't have anywhere else to go. Our members tell us very strongly is they
absolutely resent imposed additional pension contributions at a time when they
have been suffering a pay freeze, their costs are rocketing, they feel and I
feel that that's hugely unjust."

And the Association of Teachers and Lecturers has confirmed that it has signed
the "heads of agreement" with the government over pension. This means that in
principle it will take the government's offer back to its members.

10.52am: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are two articles that are particularly
interesting.

[#xfffd] Philip Stephens in the Financial Times (subscription) says the purpose
of David Cameron's premiership remains a puzzle.

The purpose of Mr Cameron's premiership remains a puzzle. What comes across from
insiders' accounts is an impatience both with grand philosophy and with
technical detail. The prime minister likes his meetings short - 20 minutes is
ideal. He does not want to be overburdened with paperwork. He frets about his
thinning hair. His great advantage, though, is that he looks and sounds the part
of prime minister.

(The FT is a good, serious paper, but it's not immune from trivia. In commenting
on the prime minister's hair, Stephens is reviving a great FT tradition.)

[#xfffd] Rachel Sylvester in the Times (paywall) says we need ASBOs for the
super-rich.

Perhaps it's time for the Prime Minister to reinvent Tony Blair's Respect
agenda. He could introduce a version of the ASBO for the rich - a RASBO - that
would be served on anybody who acts against the interests of the wider
community. A civil rather than a criminal order, it could catch the tax avoiders
as well as the tax evaders, the ill-mannered along with the illegal.

Yes, like the original ASBOs, RASBOs could become a "badge of honour" and be
criticised as a form of "punitive populism". But they would be a way of society
expressing its displeasure about certain forms of behaviour. Everybody, rich or
poor, should uphold the spirit of our society as well as abide by the letter of
its laws.

10.45am: And here's Rachel Reeves, the shadow chief secretary to the Treasury,
commenting on the HM Revenue & Customs report. (See9.27am.)

I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome.

No family would be able to negotiate their tax bill with Her Majesty's Revenues
& Customs; it seems to be one rule for the big businesses and another for
everybody else. That's not fair, that's not right. And the government have got
to get a grip on this ...

The public accounts committee have revealed a number of things. There's the
relationship between some of the big businesses and government or the civil
service that don't seem appropriate - lots of lunches and dinners between senior
civil servants and the people that they're supposed to be inspecting. The system
where the same people are negotiating and then signing off the tax bills of
companies - that should be done by different people.

10.33am: The People's Pledge, the cross-party campaign for a referendum on the
EU, has signed upIan McKenzie,a former aide to John Prescott, as its
communications director.

10.21am: Here's some more reaction to today's report on the "far too cosy"
relationship between HM Revenue & Customs and large companies. (See9.27am.)

This is from Stephen Williams, co-chair of the Lib Dem parliamentary Treasury
committee.

The taxman must collect all the tax that is due. Special treatment or even the
perception of special treatment for big corporations is simply unacceptable.

It is sometimes understandable in highly complex tax disputes that HMRC settles
out of court. But when it comes to public money being lost through vast tax
settlements, the taxman needs to be more transparent. The public must be able to
see they how they are negotiating with big companies so they can see if special
treatment is being given.

And this is from Emma Boon, campaign director of the TaxPayers' Alliance.

This report again calls into question whether HMRC is fit for purpose. Ordinary
taxpayers often feel that they are treated harshly when they make genuine
mistakes because of our complicated tax system; the [public accounts committee]
findings will increase suspicions that big businesses are treated differently.

The taxman will always struggle to effectively enforce a tax code that is one of
the longest and most complicated in the world and the only way to ensure that
more individuals and big businesses pay their fair share is to simplify the
system and reduce the number of loopholes.

There may be times when confidentiality is needed, but it would be unacceptable
if HMRC was using this as an excuse to avoid being completely transparent about
its decisions.

10.03am: HM Inspectorate of Constabulary has just published its report on public
order policing. It says that in some circumstances the police would be justified
in shooting arsonists.

Here's the Press Assocation story about the report.

Arsonists attacking commercial properties with links to people's homes could be
shot by police during future riots, an official review of police tactics said
today.The use of firearms could be justified given the "immediacy of the risk
and the gravity of the consequences", legal advice published in the review
said.Plastic bullets and water cannon could also be used by officers facing
riots similar to those seen this summer, the review by Her Majesty's
Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) added.Police need to be better prepared,
trained and ready to protect the public if they are to improve their response to
similar scenes of violence and looting in the future, the review found.It called
for clear rules of engagement to establish "an agreed envelope of available
tactics and associated use of force, that are likely to maintain public
support".These rules could include making clear that armed police could use
firearms with live ammunition during "arson attacks on commercial buildings with
linkage to residential dwellings".The review added that plastic bullets could
also be considered when barricades and missiles were used by protesters, during
violent attacks on the public in the presence of police, and when other
emergency services are threatened.They could also be used when petrol bombs are
thrown or during arson attacks.All of these scenes were experienced by officers
this summer.The review added that water cannon were an "effective means of
dispersal and incur fewer injuries to the public" in static and slow-moving
scenarios.They are a "good option to protect vulnerable areas and premises", but
it conceded there were none on mainland UK, cost more than [#xfffd]1 million
each and need to be deployed in twos to be effective.Water cannon also have to
be protected by officers and need access to water as they can empty in "a matter
of minutes" if used continuously.It comes in sharp contrast to a report by the
Commons Home Affairs Select Committee yesterday which said it would have been
"inappropriate as well as dangerous to have employed water cannon and baton
rounds".Their use "could have escalated and inflamed the situation further", the
MPs said.

You can read HMIC's press release about its report here.And you can read the
full report here (pdf).

9.57am:Our Leveson live blog is now up and running. Piers Morgan will not be
giving evidence until late in the afternoon.

9.51am: Gransnet, a social networking site for grandparents set up by the
Mumsnet crowd, is hosting a webchat with Vince Cable, the business secretary, at
1.30pm. You can post a question on the site here.

9.35am: Train fares will rise by an average of 5.9% in January, the Association
of Train Operating Companies (Atoc) said today. This is from the Press
Association copy.

The increase is higher than the Retail Prices Index (RPI) measure of inflation,
which was 5.2% in November.Michael Roberts, chief executive of Atoc, said:
"Money raised through fares helps pay for new trains, faster services and better
stations."The long-standing government approach to sustaining rail investment is
to cut the contribution from taxpayers and increase the share paid for by
passengers."The industry is working together to continue cutting costs as a way
to help limit future fare rises and offer better value for money for taxpayers
over the longer term."

Here's the Atoc news release, with a Q&A explaining why the fares are going up
and where the money is going.And here's Atoc's online fares guide.

9.27am: The headlines this morning have been dominated by the public accounts
committee scathing report about the "far too cosy" relationship between HM
Revenue & Customs and large companies like Vodaphone and Goldman Sachs. Rajeev
Syal's Guardian story about the report ishere,and the report itself is available
here.

Len McCluskey, the Unite general secretary, has put out this comment.

At last confirmation of what has been long said - that the government is too lax
when it comes to collecting the money corporations owe this nation.Some
[#xfffd]25bn is being squandered because the government prefers to go easy on
its friends in the City. But now, in this time of severe austerity, this
lenience is costing ordinary people heavily. Jobs are going, services are being
cut, the challenge of making ends meet is biting into everyday life. This is not
just a question of efficient management of the nation's finances, but also one
of managing them in the interests of the many. George Osborne and the Treasury
have been exposed - they need to shape up urgently because their credibility is
in ruins.

9.00am: It's the last day the Commons is sitting before the Christmas break and
the main event will be a statement by Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to
the Treasury, on the public sector pensions talks. As Dan Milmo reports, the
dispute which saw more than 1 million people go on strike last month, is moving
towards a resolution.

Unions representing health, civil service and local government workers agreed to
consider outline deals, while talks with education representatives were
adjourned and will continue in the new year, according to the National Union of
Teachers. The largest public sector union, Unison, confirmed it would not set
strike dates while it consulted on the proposals, as labour movement sources
acknowledged Monday's developments headed off the prospect of a further public
sector general strike in the new year. However, there was dissent from one
important player, as the biggest civil service union, the Public and Commercial
Services union, rejected a deal.

I'll be covering the Alexander statement in detail.

Otherwise, it's reasonably busy. Here's the schedule.

10am: HM Inspectorate of Constabulary publishes its review of public order
policing.

10am: The Leveson inquiry resumes. Piers Morgan, the former Daily Mirror and
News of the World editor, gives evidence, as well as Sharron Marshall, former TV
editor of the News of the World, solicitor Julian Pike, of Farrer and Co,
Matthew Bell, co-owner of Ferrari Press Agency, Chris Johnson, who runs
Liverpool-based Mercury Press, and Steve Turner, general secretary of the
British Association of Journalists. Morgan is giving evidence in the afternoon.

10.30am: Friends of the Earth and two solar panel companies launch a legal case
against the government's decision to cut subsidies for solar electricity.

11am: Sir Scott Baker, chair of the extradition review panel, gives evidence to
the Commons home affairs committee.

11.30am: Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, takes questions in the Commons.

11.45am: Rob Whiteman, chief executive of the UK Border Agency, gives evidence
to the Commons home affairs committee.

12.30pm: Nick Herbert, the policing minister, gives evidence to the Commons home
affairs committee about policing reform.

12.30pm: Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, makes a statement
in the Commons about public sector pensions.

2.20pm: Kenneth Clarke, the justice secretary, gives evidence to the joint
committee on human rights on the government's human rights policy.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary before the Alexander statement and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 20, 2011 Tuesday 4:21 PM GMT

We face long journey, says Miliband

BYLINE: By Tim Ross

LENGTH: 273 words


ED MILIBAND admitted last week that Labour faces a "long journey" back to power,
as he overcame the first major test of his leadership at the ballot box.

Labour retained the west-London parliamentary seat of Feltham and Heston,
increasing the party's share of the vote in the by-election to more than 50 per
cent.

Mr Miliband dismissed criticism of his recent Commons performances as
"Westminster-village gossip", and insisted that most members of the public were
more concerned about jobs.

He has caused concern among his own MPs after a series of uninspiring
appearances in the Commons, and recent national opinion polls showing the
Conservatives in the lead for the first time this year.

However, the Labour leader told a national newspaper: "I always said it would be
a long journey to be just a one-term opposition."

On a night that saw a turnout of under 29 per cent - the lowest in a by-election
for 11 years - the Labour candidate Seema Malhotra won with a majority of 6,203.

Mr Miliband claimed that the result, which saw a substantial swing away from the
Conservatives to Labour, represented "a verdict on this government's failing
economic plan".

The Liberal Democrats, who have been struggling in national opinion polls,
suffered a sharp fall in their share of the vote and narrowly avoided the
humiliation of being beaten into fourth place by the UK Independence Party.

The Conservative vote share was down from 34 per cent to 28 per cent, while the
Lib Dems dropped from nearly 14 per cent to under six per cent. Labour won 54
per cent of the vote.

The by-election was caused by the death last month of Alan Keen, the veteran
Labour MP.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Workers of Europe unite, you hove only euro chains to lose

BYLINE: Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1049 words


EUROPE'S Left has suffered a calamitous six months. Socialist governments have
met historic defeats in Portugal and Spain. Greece's Pasok party was toppled by
an EU technocrat Putsch. Ireland's soft-Left Fianna Fail lost every seat in
Dublin.

Almost 97pc of the European Union's population is now governed by conservative
or Right-leaning coalitions, or EU-imposed mandarins. All that is left to social
democrats is Austria (8.4m), Denmark (5.5m), and Slovenia (2.1m).

The whole machinery of the European Union (EU) system is under the control of
the Right, with variants of Rhenish corporatism in the Council, and premodern
Hayekians at the European Central Bank (ECB). Whether you regard this Hegelian
ascendancy as good or bad, it certainly has profound consequences.

For just as former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher protested at Bruges that "we
have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of the state in Britain, only to
see them reimposed at a European level", the Left might equally protest that
they have not fought the long, hard struggle for worker rights in their own
democracies to see social welfare rolled back by Brussels and Frankfurt.

In Italy, EU viceroy Mario Monti has more or less been ordered to reform the
labour code, to break union power by shifting to "firm-level" wage deals and
rewrite Article 18 that protects workers against sacking for economic reasons -
the issue that led to the assassination of two labour reformers by the Red
Brigades since 1998.

No doubt Italy should confront its trade unions if it hopes to compete in the
world, but my point is a different one. Who decides such matters? Why would the
Italian Left think it desirable to concentrate further power in EU hands when it
will without question be used against them? They might win control of Italy.
They have no chance of taking control of policy levers in Europe in the
foreseeable future, if ever.

David Begg, head of the Irish Congress of Trade Unions, said his encounter with
the (EU-ECB-IMF) Troika now restructuring Ireland was a sobering experience.

"The man from the IMF was very helpful, but the officials from the EU were
neo-liberal ideologues. We had a very fraught meeting, almost a shouting match,"
he said. "It would have been better if we had never joined the euro."

The consequences of this Rhenish Right ascendancy in EU institutions - not the
same as Anglo-Saxon or Burkean "small platoon" conservatism, by the way - was in
evidence at the Merkozy summit in Brussels. As the BBC's Paul Mason put it, the
deal has "outlawed expansionary fiscal policy" by enshrining near-zero
structural deficits in international law, with constitutional debt brakes,
mandatory sanctions and budget commissars for delinquent nations.

The 26 states that went along with this Merkel plan have given up the right to
pursue counter-cyclical Keynesian stimulus, and have agreed to do so in
perpetuity since it is almost impossible to repeal EU "Acquis".

Personally, I am not a Keynesian - nor are many Daily Telegraph readers - but
this strikes me as a mad commitment to make. For the Left it is surely an
unmitigated disaster. They cannot pursue their economic agenda ever again.

Fabians feared long ago that such an outcome was built into EMU. They called the
euro a "bankers' ramp", but somehow their warnings were drowned out in the mass
hysteria of monetary union.

Owen Jones at the New Statesman said it is baffling that socialists have been so
slow to recognise the threat. "The proposed EU treaty is perhaps the biggest
catastrophe to befall the European Left since the Second World War. After this
stitch-up, the Left really needs to have a long, hard think about its attitude
to the EU as it is currently constructed. There's still a sense that any
criticism of the EU puts you in the same box as swivel-eyed Ukip-ers. It is a
travesty that highlighting the EU's palpable lack of democracy has become a
Right wing issue."

Well, yes, we're all swivel-eyed now. It should indeed have nothing to do with
Right wing or Left wing affiliation. Besides, if you listen closely, angry talk
is simmering across Europe, in the ranks of the French socialist party, in
Germany's Linke, in Italy's Rifondazione, and Spain's newlyliberated Socialist
Workers Party (PSOE).

Note the outburst last week by Pedro Nuno Santos, socialist vicepresident in
Portugal's Assembleia. "We have an atomic bomb that we can use in the face of
the Germans and the French: this atomic bomb is simply that we won't pay. Debt
is our only weapon and we must use it to impose better conditions. We should
make the legs of the German bankers tremble," he said.

The sacrosanct 40-hour week is being stretched to 42 hours in Portugal. Manuel
Carvalho da Silva, head of the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers, said
pay-cuts for public workers under successive austerity packages will amount to
27pc.

This is an "internal devaluation" of epic proportions.

Much has been written in recent weeks of Europe's swing to the far Right, of the
rise of Geert Wilders in Holland, or Marie Le Pen's Front National in France, or
- quite different - the black-shirt Garda Magyar of Hungary's Jobbik party. The
echoes of the 1930s are loud, and will become louder as combined monetary and
fiscal contraction entrench depression.

Yet there is another parallel of equal resonance: the election of the Front
Populaire in France with Communist support in May 1936, the cathartic rejection
of deflation policy. Whether or not Leon Blum privately wanted to leave the Gold
Standard - that inter-war replica of Europe's unemployment union - the logic of
his policies forced the outcome. Orthodoxy was overthrown.

The question for today's Left is whether it is in their interests to keep
apologising for an EU monetary regime that has pushed the jobless rate for youth
to 49pc in Spain, 45pc in Greece, 30pc in Portugal and Ireland, 29pc in Italy
and 24pc in France - yet 8.9pc in undervalued Germany - and that offers no
credible way out of the slump for the Southern half.

Comrades across Europe, come over to the eurosceptic side. You have only your
euro chains to lose.

Comment on Ambrose Evans-Pritchard's view at telegraph.co.uk/finance

"The echoes of the 1930s are loud and will become louder as combined monetary
and fiscal contraction entrench depression"

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nick Clegg has got it totally wrong about marriage

BYLINE: Leo McKinstry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 903 words


.... .....

THE brass neck of Nick Clegg is remarkable. After almost two years in office,
the Liberal Democrat leader has proved to be a politician of formidable
ineptitude, distrusted by his own party and despised by the general public. Yet
instead of showing any humility in the face of his unpopularity, he becomes ever
more hectoring, with his melodramatic self-pity matched by his noisy eagerness
to distance himself from David Cameron.

The concept of collective Cabinet responsibility, which has been at the core of
our Parliamentary democracy since the late Victorian age, seems to mean nothing
to him. Disloyalty has been one of the hallmarks of his performance as Deputy
Prime Minister. Wallowing in epic self-delusion about his own importance, he
provides us with a tiresome running commentary on his objections to Government
policy.

But he is no position to deliver such criticisms. Under his failing leadership,
the Liberal Democrats have been haemorrhaging support, down to little more than
10 per cent in recent polls. In last week's Feltham and Heston by-election they
scraped into third place, only marginally ahead of UKIP.

Nor is Clegg's histrionic behaviour justified by the size of his following in
the Commons. In fact only about eight per cent of the total number of MPs are
Liberal Democrats. Rather than carping all the time, the party should be
grateful that it is in Government at all.

CLEGG'S lack of authority also reflects the reality that he has been hopelessly
wrong on most of the great political issues of our time, from Europe to mass
immigration. What he spouts are the views of the patronising metropolitan elite,
not those of the great, patriotic mass of the British people. Remember, this is
the leader who wants softer sentences for criminals, an amnesty for illegal
immigrants and the maintenance of the Human Rights Act.

All Clegg's worst qualities were on display last week in the aftermath of the
Prime Minister's veto of a new EU treaty which would have paved the way to
further European integration under centralised Brussels control. His antics made
him look both ridiculous and treacherous. At first he publicly expressed support
for Cameron, then dramatically changed his mind and denounced him.

Yet again, Clegg placed himself on the wrong side of the national mood, since
the overwhelming majority of the public backed Cameron. Even one of Clegg's own
ministers, Jeremy Browne, warned him last week to "stop obsessing" with Europe
and to show more respect for Cameron's decision. "You have to make tough
judgments the whole time as Prime Minister," said Browne.

But Clegg, filled with the selfrighteous indignation of a weak man, still
refuses to listen. He seems to think that the way to restore his credibility is
by more criticism of the Tories. So today, in a speech at the think tank DEMOS,
he sets out what he claims his own distinctive philosophy.

And by far the most illconceived passage in Clegg's speech is his sneer at
traditional family structures. Determined to strengthen Britain's social
cohesion, the Conservatives want to promote marriage through the tax system,
especially by introducing more generous allowances for married couples. But
Clegg, ever the trendy metropolitan elitist, is having none of it. Condemning
the Tories for clinging to an outdated model of family life from the Fifties, he
declared it would be wrong to take "a particular version of the family
institution and try and preserve it in aspic." But his caricature is absurd. It
is not just in the Fifties that marriage was regarded as vital. Every successful
society in the history of mankind has recognised that the stable family unit,
where both partners are committed to each other, is the best way to bring up
children.

INDEED Clegg, the ultimate Eurofanatic, knows full well that in most other
European societies, including France and Germany, the state still upholds
traditional family life by giving married couples financial support.

Sadly in Britain we have moved in exactly the opposite direction since the
Sixties, as successive governments have deliberately provided perverse
incentives through the welfare system towards family breakdown and lone
parenthood. The results can be seen all around us in the record number of
fatherless households, teenage pregnancies and soaring divorce rates. So many of
our social problems, from drug abuse to juvenile crime, from gang warfare to
benefit dependency, stem from the incidence of boys growing up in households
without masculine role models or discipline.

Clegg grandly declares in his speech today that the "state should not encourage
any particular family form." But that is precisely what the state now does in
the most destructive fashion. Through social security, it promotes parental
neglect, irresponsibility and dysfunction, hardly the progress from the Fifties
that he likes to pretend. The sensible Tory proposal is simply an attempt to
restore some balance before our society slides further into dissolution.

Like so many Left-wingers, Clegg has learned nothing from the past 50 years. He
sticks rigidly to his cherished ideologies about the EU, immigration and family
life long after these creeds have been discredited by experience. He is the one
whose philosophy is truly outdated. The tragedy for our nation is that he is
still allowed to wield influence in our public life.

'He has learned nothing from the past 50 years'

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT OF TOUCH: The Deputy PM is patronising us

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Foreign criminals set free to kill and rape

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 272 words


FOREIGN criminals who should have been deported have been freed from jail to
commit murders, kidnaps and rapes in Britain, a leaked report revealed
yesterday.

In all, three people have been murdered among a slew of violent offences, three
have been kidnapped and 14 have been victims of sexual attacks, including rape,
admits the report by the UK Border Agency.

Foreigners who are jailed for more than a year are meant to be deported upon
release but because of human rights laws Home Secretary Theresa May's officials
are forced to allow the criminals to live in the community as they struggle to
sort out their deportation.

The Border Agency report reveals 4,238 such offenders are currently
"non-detained".

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "Home Office figures show 700 fewer
foreign national criminals were removed from the UK this year compared to last.

"Now we learn that the number of foreign prisoners released into communities has
increased by nearly 500 in just four months.

"This new information adds to the deep concern, chaos and incompetence
surrounding the Home Secretary's handling of the UKBA."

Gerard Batten of the UK Independence Party, said: "This report clearly shows
that the Government has lost control of our borders."

Matthew Sinclair, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "If this is the result of
the Human Rights Act, it needs to be scrapped immediately.

"The Government need to end this expensive farce."

A Home Office spokesman vowed: "We will change the immigration rules to cut
abuse of the Human Rights Act."

There are 10,779 foreigners in British prisons, plus 1,431 who are behind bars
awaiting deportation.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Politics Live blog: Monday 19 December

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5371 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen

FULL TEXT

4.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] George Osborne, the chancellor, has just told MPs in a statement that
the government will legislate before 2015 to force banks to separate their high
street banking divisions from their investment arms. He has also announced that
state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland will have to significantly scale back its
investment business.

[#xfffd]Unison has reached a provisonal agreement with the government on the
reform of pensions for workers in the NHS. Ministers are expected to make an
announcement tomorrow.

[#xfffd] Germany's foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, has said that there is
no "hidden agenda" within the EU to damage the City of London. At a news
conference at the Foreign Office, Westerwelle also said that Germany saw Britain
as an "indispensable partner" in the EU. (See2.43pm.)

[#xfffd] Damian Green, the immigration minister, has told MPs that the
government is doing everything it can to increase the speed at which foreign
criminals are reported. He was responding to an urgent question tabled by Labour
about aleaked report claiming that many foreign criminals went on to re-offend
after their release. Green said that the figures in the leaked report covered
the period from March 2009 and that they therefore reflected on Labour's record.
[#xfffd] Matt Driscoll, a former News of the World reporter, has told the
Leveson inquiry that a tip he received about Sir Alex Ferguson's health led to
paper "blagging" the Manchester United manager's medical records. There are more
details on our Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] A review has suggested that pupils could be made to study geography,
history and a foreign language up to the age of 16. As the Press Association
reports, the review has suggested pupils continue these subjects, along with
design and technology and the arts, even if they do not take GCSEs in them. The
recommendation is included in an initial report by the expert panel leading the
national curriculum review. It warns that England narrows the curriculum for
pupils earlier than other nations with high-performing education systems.
[#xfffd] David Cameron has welcomed the news that 500 jobs are being created by
Honda at its factory in Swindon. (See3.30pm.)[#xfffd] A retired surgeon has been
refused permission to bring a High Court challenge over the attorney general's
refusal to back a new inquest into the death of David Kelly.

[#xfffd] Labour has dimissed the government's new youth services strategy as
"nothing more than spin".Tim Loughton, the children's minister, said Positive
for Youth, the new strategy, would allow young people to become involved in
decision-making. But Karen Buck, his Labour opposite number, said: "Today's
strategy for young people is nothing more than a rehash of previous
announcements to mask the cuts the Tory-led government is making to youth
services and support to help young people get jobs, training or advice. The
government's short term approach is kicking the ladder of opportunity away for a
generation of young people who aspire to do better."

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

3.30pm: David Cameron has put out a statement welcoming the news that Honda is
going to create 500 jobs at its plant in Swindon."This is great news and a
tremendous boost to the workforce, the car industry and UK manufacturing,"
Cameron said in a statement.

3.26pm: Here's the latest from the Press Association on the NHS pension talks.

A "heads of agreement" has been approved covering health workers' pensions
following talks today in the first sign of a breakthrough to the bitter row
involving millions of public sector workers.Union executives will have to
approve the proposed deal at meetings in the New Year, but it is understood that
the outline of an agreement covering staff in the NHS has been agreed.Talks have
been held today between unions and government officials over three of the four
public sector pension schemes covering teachers, the NHS and local
government.There were no negotiations today over the civil service scheme, with
unions leaders meeting to decide their next move.

3.11pm: According to the BBC's Norman Smith, health unions are poised to agree a
deal with the government on their public sector pensions.

2.43pm: The Hague/Westerwelle press conference is over. The most interesting
comments came from Westerwelle. Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, insisted that there was
no "hidden agenda" within the EU to damage the City of London.

I would like to tell you there is no hidden agenda against the City of London.
We think it is in our common interest, in our mutual interest, to have a strong
segment of financial services here in the City of London. If you go into
details, and see how many German, French, Spanish, Italian banks are invested
here in the City of London, then I think you will see that it's obvious that we
share this goal.

[#xfffd] He insisted that Germany saw Britain as an "indispensable partner" in
the EU.

For Germany, the United Kingdom is an indispendable partner in the European
Union and there is no doubt for us we want to make the next steps in the
European Union together, as 27, or with Croatia as 28 countries. We think we
have a common destiny. We think the European Union is not only the answer to the
darkest chapter in our own history. It is also a life insurance in times of
globalisation because no country - not Germany, not Great Britain, not France -
is strong and big enough to face the challenges of globalisation on its own ...
My main message is for the British people - you can count on us, and we count on
you.

2.33pm: More questions.

Q: Nick Clegg said today the summit was disappointing. Do you agree?

Westerwelle says he does not want to comment on internal British politics. He is
also a member of a coalition, he says.

He says for many in Europe the EU is the single market and the euro. But for
Germans it means much more than that. It is a solution to Germany's past. He is
1961, he says. He is from the first post-war generation. He remembers going to
Britain in the 1970s on a camping holiday and meeting a woman in a shop who
refused to talk to him because she found it too upsetting. Her husband told him
it was not personal; it was because of the war. He also recalls visiting Berlin
and seeing how Germany was split. European unity is not only a destiny; it is a
desire too, he says.

Hague says this is well understood in the UK.

Q: How will Britain re-engage with the rest of the EU?

Hague says Britain will engage with the EU because that is what the country
requires.

Q: Would Britain help the eurozone by contributing more to the IMF?

Hague says Britain is not part of the eurozone agreement on increasing
contributions to the IMF. But at the G20 Britain did make a separate commitment
to increase contributions to the IMF. George Osborne is talking to EU finance
ministers about this today.

2.31pm: The two foreign ministers are now taking questions.

Q: Is it possible that Britain could end up signing the new treaty?

Hague says the requirements that Britain set out at the EU summit remain
absolute requirements.

Q: What are the new initiatives you are proposing?

Hague says Britain and Germany are working on initiatives to push forward the
single market. For example, they want the digital single market to move forward.
These measures can bring "real, tangible benefits" to the people of Europe.

2.29pm: Westerwelle says that there has been a phone call between David Cameron
and Angela Merkel since the EU summit. Westerwelle says he is trying to look
forward now.

2.20pm:Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, is speaking now. He says
his friendship with Hague is a genuine one.

For Germany, Britain is an "indispensable partner" in the European Union, he
says. Germany wants the EU to take the next steps forward together, as 27
states, he says.

He also says there is "no hidden agenda" against the City of London.

2.12pm:William Hague, the foreign secretary, is holding a press conference now
with his German opposite number, Guido Westerwelle.

Hague is making an opening statement. He says he welcomed the invitation for
Britain to attend the talks about setting up a new eurozone fiscal pact. And he
says Britain wants the euro to succeed.

2.02pm: Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, has put out a response to the
Nick Clegg speech. (See 10.11am.)

Nick Clegg's talk of 'promoting fairness' is nothing but empty words when he has
chosen to prop up a Tory government which is making families and children bear
the brunt of their unfair policies.

Clegg is part of a government which has cut tax credits for working families;
has increased VAT - costing a family with children [#xfffd]450 a year; and which
is giving banks a tax cut this year. Rather than putting a brake on Tory
policies, Nick Clegg is allowing them to penalise hardworking families.

With the government trebling tuition fees and abandoning our national interest
by walking away from Europe, people will know there is no liberal tradition Nick
Clegg is not prepared to sacrifice.

1.00pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Nick Clegg has signalled he will make a tax on wealth one of the
Liberal Democrat priorities between now and the next election, saying it will be
one way to attack the glass floors that allow the children of the privileged
elite to be protected. As Patrick Wintour reports, in a speech to Demos Clegg
said he wanted to go further in an open society approach to tax - by which he
meant "lower taxes on work and effort, a greater contribution from the wealthy".
In a wide-ranging speech, Clegg also defined the "open society", which he said
was a core liberal ideal, committed the government to using the Parliament Act
if necessary to force through Lords reform and attacked the legal profession as
unrepresentative. (See 10.11am.)

[#xfffd] Downing Street has said the government is "hopeful" of a deal with the
unions on the reform of public sector pensions before Christmas. Talks are
taking place today. One union source said a deal looked likely on local
government pensions, but that the government was "hell bent on confrontation" on
the other schemes.

[#xfffd]Stuart Hoare, whose brother Sean died earlier this year after speaking
out about phone hacking at the News of the World, has told the Leveson inquiry
that Sean told him that the practice was "routine at the Sun" but "probably more
daily at the News of the World".

[#xfffd] William Hague, the foreign secretary, has said that the death of Kim
Jong-il could be a "turning point" for North Korea. "We hope that their new
leadership will recognise that engagement with the international community
offers the best prospect of improving the lives of ordinary North Korean
people," Hague said. (See 9.37am.)

[#xfffd] Johann Lamont, Labour's new leader in Scotland, has named members of
her shadow cabinet.[#xfffd] The Local Government Association has said councils
are spending millions of pounds fighting unjustified attempts to label parcels
of land as village greens. Village green designations can be used to block
planning applications.

[#xfffd] London Underground has launched legal action in a bid to halt a planned
strike on Boxing Day by Tube drivers in a row over pay. As the Press Association
reports, the company said it was challenging the validity of the strike called
by the Aslef union's leadership over its claims for additional Boxing Day pay.

[#xfffd] A high court judge has been told that public uncertainty over the death
of David Kelly justifies a full inquest into his death. As the Press Association
reports, David Halpin, a retired orthopedic surgeon, asked Mr Justice Nicol,
sitting in London, to allow him to seek judicial review of the decision by
Dominic Grieve, the attorney general, not to allow a new inquest into the death
of Kelly, who was found dead after being named as the source of a report
accusing Tony Blair's government of "sexing up" the intelligence about Iraq's
weapons of mass destruction. John Cooper QC, appearing for Halpin, argued that
previous legal authority which stated that the attorney general's decision was
not open to review should no longer be "slavishly followed" by the courts
following developments in human rights law. In June Grieve ruled out a fresh
inquest on the grounds that there was no chance that it would reach a verdict
other than suicide.

[#xfffd] Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom Independence party, has
said that Ukip could form an electoral pact with the Conservatives at the next
election if David Cameron were to promise a referendum on membership of the
European Union. In an interview with the Guardian, he has also insisted that
Ukip is a "very globalist party", signalled that he is going to ditch Ukip's
policy of banning the burqa and suggested that the party still has a problem
with "nutters" amongst its membership.

12.26pm: Back to Nick Clegg. At YouGov Peter Kellner has got an interesting idea
as to how Clegg could revive his flagging poll ratings. (See 10.11am.) He thinks
Clegg should renew his call for a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU.

Your support would make it hard for Cameron to resist the idea, for he would
face pressure not just from you but from a sizeable proportion of his own
backbenchers. He could well conclude that his best course would be to hold a
referendum, campaign for the UK to stay in the EU, but allow Conservative
ministers and backbenchers the freedom to take either side. (This is what Harold
Wilson did in 1975 when his Labour government held the last referendum on
Britain and Europe.)

If that happens, then the leaders of all three main parties, together with Alex
Salmond in Scotland, would campaign against withdrawal. As in 1975, I would
expect the tide of public opinion to shift decisively towards a 'yes to Europe'
majority. You would be on the winning side. Just as you support for a referendum
catch the public mood, so would your support for the UK remaining a member. And
the issue of British membership would be dead for another generation.

12.07pm: You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some stories and articles that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Wolfgang M[#xfffd]nchau in the Financial Times (subscription) says the
French are wrong to think that their economy is in a better state than
Britain's.

The French economic policy elite no longer understand the world. They genuinely
believe that they are doing better than the British. The French private sector
is in much better shape. The country is committed to the righteous path of
fiscal austerity. So why should the rating agencies be downgrading France and
not Britain ...

The real difference between France and the UK is simply that the UK is not
trapped. Britain is a sovereign country. France is economically a sub-sovereign
zone. That is the simple reason why the eurozone needs a eurobond and a lender
of last resort function in the system. With those functions in place, policy
errors are less catastrophic.

[#xfffd] Boris Johnson in the Daily Telegraph says Anglo-French shouting matches
should not be taken too seriously because they are essentially innocent.

[Nicolas] Sarkozy bolsters his own election hopes as he launches an ever-popular
tirade against les rosbifs and their appalling belief in free markets. It's
win-win. That is the point about the pantomime xenophobia between the French and
the British: it is essentially innocent - or more innocent than almost any other
form of xenophobia; because in our hearts, au fond, neither side really believes
it.

[#xfffd] Tim Ross, and Bruno Waterfield in the Daily Telegraph say Britain will
be asked to contribute more than [#xfffd]25bn to a new eurozone bail-out.

European finance ministers will aim to agree a new (EURO)200 billion
([#xfffd]167.7 billion) loan to the International Monetary Fund as part of a
deal to save the single currency.

Three quarters of the money is expected to come from eurozone members, but
Britain will also be asked to provide funds.

Figures suggest European Union officials expect British taxpayers to be the
second largest contributor. The Prime Minister has repeatedly promised not to
provide any extra funding for the IMF for the specific purpose of saving the
euro and Britain is already liable for [#xfffd]12 billion of loans and
guarantees to Ireland, Greece and Portugal.

[#xfffd] Tom Newton Dunn in the Sun says David Cameron is setting up a new
committee to look after the interests of injured servicemen and women.

Stung by criticism that grim MoD cuts have betrayed the sacrifice made by our
troops, the Premier will go further still.

In a symbolic act to cement his personal commitment to the cause, the PM will
enshrine his pledge to help the forces, their families and veterans in writing.

He will make his Military Covenant Pledge in a pre-Christmas address to troops
this week. Its wording is: "It is my duty to ensure our brave service personnel
and veterans get the support they need and deserve. My guiding principles will
be: No service personnel or veterans should suffer disadvantage in accessing
public services. Wherever necessary, they will get priority access."

[#xfffd] Becky Barrow in the Daily Mail says the amount paid in winter fuel
payments to British expatriates living abroad has almost doubled in the last
five years.

Pensioners in sun spots including Spain, Cyprus, Portugal, Greece and Gibraltar
receive [#xfffd]13.4million a year to help with the cost of heating, compared
with [#xfffd]6.9million in 2006.

The payments are vital to the elderly in Britain, where energy bills have
reached an all-time high and the cold weather contributes to 26,000 deaths a
year.

Their counterparts in Spain enjoy mild winters - yet they have still received an
astonishing [#xfffd]29.2million over the past five years.

11.56am: Update on the public sector pension talks: a deal on teachers' pensions
before Christmas looks unlikely.

This is from Russell Hobby, general secretary of the National Association of
Head Teachers.

Talks continue and are particularly tense with looming, artificial deadlines. It
is important to remember that unions are democratic organisations - no deal of
this magnitude can be completed behind closed doors. Any outcomes - and there is
no proposal on the table yet - will have to go to members and union executives.

11.29am: Downing Street said this morning that the government was still
"hopeful" of reaching an agreement on pensions before the end of the year,
according to Paul Waughon Twitter.

10.11am: Nick Clegg needs to rally his supporters. He was accused of
flip-flopping after David Cameron used his veto at the EU summit and, by the end
of last week, his personal approval ratings had slumped to their lowest ever.You
can't do a lot with a single lecture. But leaders can use speeches to define
their beliefs and to enthuse their activists and, on that basis, Clegg's "Open
Society" speech will probably go down very well with the Lib Dem faithful.
(Sorry, baggiessupporter, but you're probably not going to agree with this
post.) The full text is now on the Lib Dem website.The speech does not have much
to say in policy terms, but it provides a coherent account of what liberalism
means and it contains some strong rhetoric, particularly about the House of
Lords. If you're a Lib Dem party member wondering what you believe in, you'll
find today's speech valuable.

Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Clegg said that a commitment to the "open society" was at the core of
his political philosophy. Interestingly, he appropriated Tony Blair as an ally
in this regard.

It is not often you'll hear me say this, but I agree with Tony Blair. In his
words "the big difference is no longer between left and right, it is between
open and closed".

Clegg defined an "open society" in five terms.

It is a society where powerful citizens are free to shape their own lives. It
has five vital features:

i) social mobility, so that all are free to rise;

ii) dispersed power in politics, the media and the economy;

iii) transparency, and the sharing of knowledge and information;

iv) a fair distribution of wealth and property; and

v) an internationalist outlook

By contrast a closed society is one in which:

i) a child's opportunities are decided by the circumstances of their birth

ii) power is hoarded by the elite

iii) information is jealously guarded

iv) wealth accumulates in the hands of the few, not the many; and

v) narrow nationalism trumps enlightened internationalism

Clegg also said that, at a time of "deep economic uncertainty", the "open
society" was under threat.

[#xfffd] He said the "open society" was a liberal ideal. Identifiying liberalism
as one of the three main political traditions in Britain, he said the others,
socialism and conservatism, had different models of the ideal society.

Socialists support the idea of the good society, typically judged in terms of
equality of income. In order to bring about this end they use the state quite
aggressively in terms of labour market regulation, centralised public services
and through tax and benefits.

Conservatives support the idea of a big society, with responsibility shared
throughout society - people are responsible both for themselves and each other.
The emphasis is naturally on non-state institutions such as marriage, the
family, churches and voluntary organisations.

[#xfffd] He strongly committed himself to reform of the Lords, describing it as
"an affront to the principles of openness which underpin a modern democracy".

The Lords is perhaps the most potent symbol of a closed society. Because we are
in the process of building support for a Lords reform package, I am sometimes
advised not to be too outspoken on this issue. But I'm afraid this is one boat
that urgently needs rocking.

Lloyd George described the House of Lords as being "a body of five hundred men
chosen at random from amongst the unemployed". To be honest, it might be better
if it was. Of course among our peers there are those with valuable experience
and expertise.

But a veneer of expertise can surely no longer serve as an alibi for a chamber
which legislates on behalf of the people - but is not held to account by the
people. The Lords as currently constituted is an affront to the principles of
openness which underpin a modern democracy.

Clegg said that there would be legislation on Lords reform in the next session
of parliament and that, if the Lords tried to block the bill, "the will of the
Commons will prevail" (ie, the goverment will use the Parliament Act).As Patrick
Wintour reports, Clegg believes that Cameron and George Osborne are fully
committed to reform.[#xfffd] He attacked the legal profession for not doing
enough to promote diversity. He stressed the importance of diversity in all key
professions, but he did single out the law for particular criticism.

More than two thirds of all high court judges and top barristers are
privately--educated. Nine out ten QCs are men. Nineteen out of twenty are white
...

Both the law and politics must, above all, represent the nation as a whole. But
the nation is not represented in them. We've had years of warm words and
incremental progress. It's time for a step change.

As he has done before, he admitted that the Lib Dems were also "too male and too
pale". (The Lib Dems have not got any non-white MPs.)

[#xfffd] He defended localism as "postcode democracy". Localism is often
criticised, quite effectively, on the grounds that it leads to a "postcode
lottery". One of the interesting features of Clegg's speech was that it
contained a new way of tackling this argument head-on.

Opponents of localism brandish the phrase "post code lottery" to dramatize
differences in provision between areas.

But it is not a lottery when decisions about provision are made by people who
can be held to democratic account. That is not a postcode lottery -- it is a
postcode democracy.

[#xfffd] He said the government would block any "irresponsible" bonus payments
in state-owned banks.

[#xfffd] He suggested that the government could force businesses to publish
details of their pay differentials.

Transparency is not just necessary in government activities. There is a good
case for it in a range of areas within the private sector, too - such as
bonuses, gender pay gaps and environmental activities. And indeed earnings
differentials, to help restrain excessive top pay.

That's why the coalition government has recently completed a call for evidence
on options in this area, and we'll be looking very hard at the results in the
next few weeks.

[#xfffd] He said he would like to increase taxes on unearned wealth. A liberal
approach to taxation differentiated between earned income and unearned wealth,
he said.

That's why we've put up capital gains tax while cutting income tax for ordinary
working families. And, of course, I'd like to go further in pursuit of this
fiscal liberalism. Lower taxes on work and effort, a greater contribution from
the wealthy: an open society approach to tax.

[#xfffd] He said liberals broadly supported David Cameron's big society
philosophy. The prime minister's particular approach to the big society ... is
broadly compatible with the liberal concept of an open society," he said.

[#xfffd] He reaffirmed his opposition to a tax break for marriage.

But open society champions are more alive [than big society champions] to the
way in which society and social institutions can be oppressive, too ... We
should not take a particular version of the family institution, such as the
1950s model of suit-wearing, bread-winning dad and aproned, homemaking mother -
and try and preserve it in aspic. That's why open society liberals and big
society conservatives will take a different view on a tax break for marriage. We
can all agree that strong relationships between parents are important, but not
agree that the state should use the tax system to encourage a particular family
form.

For a more critical account, you should read the Labour blogger Owen Jones on
Twitter.He was at the Demos event and wasn't impressed.

9.51am: The Nick Clegg speech has just dropped in my inbox. The broadcasters
don't seem to be showing it live - they're more interested in the death of Kim
Jong-il, who really was one of the enemies of the open society - but I'll post a
summary as soon as I've read it.

9.43am:Mark Serwotka, the general secretary of the PCS union, was on Radio 5
Live earlier talking about the pensions talks with the government. According to
PoliticsHome, he said the government's offer was still "unacceptable".

Here's the key quote.

[The Government has] given us until 3 o'clock today to essentially sign up to
everything that we've been opposing, which was essentially: work eight years
longer, pay thousands of pounds more in and get tens of thousands of pounds less
over your retirement. And that remains as unacceptable now as it always has.

We've said all along that as soon as the government starts treating this as a
pension negotiation, we're likely to make progress. And to do that they need to
value the schemes - they haven't valued any of the schemes - they have to talk
in terms of pensions, i.e. how can they demonstrate it can go into a pension
scheme rather than straight into Treasury coffers? And they need to produce
evidence that supports their claim that we all have to work 8 years longer. And
they've done none of those things.

9.37am:William Hague, the foreign secretary, has put out this statement about
the death of the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-il.

The people of N Korea are in official mourning after the death of Kim Jong-il.
We understand this is a difficult time for them.

This could be a turning point for North Korea. We hope that their new leadership
will recognise that engagement with the international community offers the best
prospect of improving the lives of ordinary North Korean people.

We encourage North Korea to work for peace and security in the region and take
the steps necessary to allow the resumption of the Six Party Talks on
denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula.

There's more about this on our live blog about the reaction to Kim's death.

9.33am: Today seems to be the deadline for the conclusion of the talks between
the government and the unions over public sector pensions. This is what the
Press Association have filed.

Ministers are believed to have given unions a deadline of 3pm today to reach
agreement during a final round of discussions on the future of four schemes
covering local government workers, NHS staff, civil servants and teachers.A
union source close to the talks told the Press Association a deal looked
increasingly likely on local government pensions, but he accused the Government
of being "hell bent on confrontation" on the other schemes.Up to two million
workers went on strike last month in protest at the controversial pension
changes, and intensive talks have since been held to try to break the deadlock.A
fresh row was sparked on Friday when the Department for Education and the
Cabinet Office announced that changes from next year would go ahead, with
further talks to be held about future arrangements.Ministers were accused of
being "unnecessarily provocative" and of imposing the increase for some
workers.A flurry of meetings will be held across Whitehall today, with Francis
Maude, Cabinet Office minister, and Danny Alexander, Treasury Chief Secretary,
wanting any agreement to be made by mid-afternoon.It is likely they will tell
MPs if enough progress has been made to avert more strikes during statements to
the Commons before Parliament breaks for Christmas tomorrow.Sources also told
the Press Association that unions have been given the go-ahead to reach
agreement in the individual schemes rather than wait for a deal covering all
public sector workers.The union source said: "It is looking increasingly likely
that there will be a deal covering the local government pension scheme. But for
the other three schemes it looks like the Government is hell bent on
confrontation and wants to impose deflationary cuts in pay and increase
contributions to put more money into the Treasury's coffers."It is understood
that the Government plans to bring forward legislation on its changes to the
health, education and civil service schemes during the first session of
Parliament in the new year.

8.45am:Karl Popper was regarded as one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th
century. He wrote a two-volume book called "The Open Society and its Enemies",
which he used to assail Plato, Hegel and Marx.

Nick Clegg isn't (yet?) regarded as one of the greatest philosphers of his age.
But he has adopted "The Open Society and its Enemies" for the title a major
speech he is going to deliver this morning.

We don't know yet whether he's going to take on Plato, Hegel and Marx, but we do
know that he's going to have a tilt at the Conservative plan for a tax cut for
marriage and excessive bankers' bonuses. As for the rest of it, I'll be covering
it in full this morning.

Otherwise we've got an important statement on banking today. Here's a full list
of what's coming up.

9.45am: Nick Clegg delivers the annual Demos lecture. His speech is called: "The
Open Society and its Enemies: Promoting Fairness in Difficult Times."

10am: The Leveson inquiry resumes. Stuart Hoare, brother of the late ex-News of
the World reporter and phone hacking whistleblower Sean Hoare, Independent on
Sunday deputy editor James Hanning and former News of the World sports reporter
Matt Driscoll are giving evidence.

2pm: William Hague, the foreign secretary, holds a press conference with his
German counterpart, Guido Westerwelle.

2.30pm: Philip Hammond, the defence secretary, takes questions in the Commons.

3.30pm: George Osborne, the chancellor, makes a Commons statement about the
future of banking. As the Guardian reports, he will confirm the government is
going to force banks to separate high street lending from "casino" investment
banking - as the Vickers report recommended.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and an afternoon one at about 4pm.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 19, 2011 Monday

Farage says Ukip could offer Tories electoral pact in return for referendum

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4713 words

ABSTRACT

Andrew Sparrow speaks to the Uk independence party leader about electoral pacts,
Ukip 'nutters', banning the burqa and Europe

FULL TEXT

"This is the perfect environment if you are Nigel Farage," Nick Clegg told the
Guardian at the end of last week. "The people who are trying to exploit the
politics of grievance and blame, they believe they have got the wind in their
sails."

By coincidence, I was interviewing Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom
Independence party (Ukip) on Friday and at that point he didn't seem to have the
wind in his sails.

It was a few hours after the announcement of the result in the Feltham and
Heston byelection and, despite speculation that Ukip could overtake the Lib
Dems, Clegg's party hung on to third place. But, as Farage talked about the
broader political picture, he was upbeat about Ukip's chances of tugging Britain
out of the EU. Here are the key points from our conversation.

· Farage said that Ukip could form an electoral pact with the Conservatives at
the next election if David Cameron were to promise a referendum on membership of
the European Union. There was "every chance of forcing David Cameron into giving
us a referendum", he said. Whether or not to propose an electoral pact with the
Conservatives in 2015 would be a "huge decision" for the party, he said. But he
had offered the Tories a pact before the 2010 election, he said.

· He renewed his call for 20% of teachers to be sacked. "There's no doubt there
are too many people in the teaching profession who have academic achievements
and qualifications [that mean] frankly they shouldn't be in that position," he
said.

· He signalled that he was going to ditch Ukip's policy of banning the burqa. At
the last election Ukip was in favour of banning the burqa in public buildings
and some private buildings. But Farage, who was not party leader at the 2010
election, said that this was a policy he had inherited. It was being reviewed,
he said. He was "dubious" about using legislation in this area. "I'm not really
in favour of banning the burqa," he said.

· He said that he made a mistake when he accused Herman Van Rompuy, the
president of the EU, of having "all the charisma of a damp rag and the
appearance of a low-grade bank clerk" in a speech in the European parliament.
"Hands up, I got the tone of that wrong," Farage said.

· He suggested that Ukip still had a problem with "nutters" among its members.
In the past he has used this term and talked about Ukip having a
disproportionate number among its members when it launched as a new party. Asked
if this was still a problem, he said: "Less than it was."

· He claimed Ukip was a "very globalist party". He explained: "We are the party
saying we've got to stop being so small-minded and thinking that the beginning
and end of the economic world is Europe. It jolly well isn't."

Most commentators don't take Ukip particularly seriously because, although they
do well in European elections, where they scoop up the anti-European protest
vote, they are irrelevant at Westminster because they have never come close to
winning a seat in the House of Commons. But earlier this year the Labour
magazine Progress speculated about Farage winning enough seats to hold the
balance of power after the 2015 election.

Absurd fantasy, or a plausible scenario? In a 30-minute interview at Europe
House, the old Conservative party headquarters which is now (ironically) the
European parliament and commission's London HQ, we covered this and much else.
You can decide for yourself.

Being offensive in the European parliament

Q: On the blog I posted inviting people to suggest questions,there were lots of
comments from people who have seen your speeches in the European parliament on
YouTube. And they want to know why you're so offensive. For example, this was
from gilly606: "I accept that when you speak in the European parliament you are
trying to make a point you believe in. But why do you have to be so rude? Why
can't you act more like a professional intelligent open minded representative of
our country?"

A: Gilly, have you seen what they say about me? No.

Q: Two wrongs don't make a right, as I have to tell my children.

A: Listen, the one speech I've made that was said to be rude was the Rumpy Pumpy
speech. [The one in which he told Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the EU,
that he had "all the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade
bank clerk" - the Guardian story about it is here, and the YouTube footage
here.]

A: A lot of this is about parliamentary culture, isn't it?

Q: Are you saying it's part of the European parliament's culture?

A: No, it's not part of their culture. That's the point. [The European
parliament] has been designed with this semicircle. The basic assumption when I
went there in 1999 was that we would all agree exactly on the direction we were
going; the only argument was about how quickly we would get there.

Q: But if you stood up in Westminster and said that David Cameron had all the
charisma of a damp rag ...

A: Everyone would laugh. What did Vince Cable say about Gordon Brown?

Q: That he was Mr Bean.

A: There you are. What's the difference? In parliaments all over the world you
get real confrontation. But the European parliament is not designed for that,
because we're not politicians; we're technocrats.

Q: But Vince Cable was using a joke to a make a point. Your comment about Van
Rompuy just seemed offensive.

A: Well, if you look at the words I uttered, it's not very offensive. If you
look at the tone in which it's delivered, I can understand why people think
that. And I've said since then that when you are an unscripted speaker, which I
am, sometimes you get the pitch wrong. So, hands up, I got the tone of that
wrong. And the reason? This is my defence. When you hear debate in Westminster,
there are 200 microphones hanging from the ceiling. So you get a feeling, when
you listen or you watch, not just for what the speaker is saying, but for how
the house is reacting. In Brussels all you get is the speaker's microphone. So
you have absolutely no idea the extent to which on that day I was being jeered.
It was very noisy. There were 300 of them absolutely screaming at me. And I
responded to that by lifting the pitch to a level that looked a little bit
aggressive. I accept that. Do I think apart from that my speeches have been
rude? No I don't.

Q: Another Ukip intervention that offended people even more was Godfrey Bloom
calling a German MEP a fascist.Do you think that was acceptable?

A: No. But it was an off-mic comment that somebody heard and there was all the
feigned outrage. He would not have stood up and said it. He said it in a
half-jokey manner. It wasn't the right thing to have done.

Q: Did you ever apologise to Van Rumpoy?

A: I apologised to bank clerks the world over.

Relations with other MEPs

Q: If you ever got elected to the House of Commons, would you try and play the
same role in the House of Commons, as a licensed hooligan?

A: I wouldn't be on my own. I wouldn't be surrounded by hundreds of people that
hate me, by hundreds of people that don't think I should exist. They actually
don't think I should be allowed to be an MEP. This is how undemocratic these
people are.

Q: What evidence have you got for that?

A: Very early on, in 2005 or 2006, Hans-Gert Pöttering became president of the
European parliament. German MEP, quite senior, been there since 1979. And in my
first proper introduction to him he said: "People like you shouldn't be here." I
said: "You mean, you don't agree with my point of view." He said: "No, people
like you shouldn't be here."

Q: Because you did not support the institution?

A: Yes. They do not think of this as being a democratic chamber. They think of
this as being an adjunct to, and to work hand-in-glove with, the European
commission.

"Nutters" in Ukip

Q: In your autobiography,Flying Free, you said that in the early days Ukip had a
disproportionate number of "nutters" because new parties attract fanatics. [As
Farage put it: "Enthusiasm is a prerequisite (in a new party) and enthusiasm is
nowhere greater than in the fanatical or the personally ambitious. Nutters and
the self-seeking therefore hitch rides."] Do you still think that is a problem
for the party?

A: Less than it was. I think the quality of people coming to Ukip has increased
markedly. Look at the bloke who stood for us in the [Feltham and Heston]
byelection: a successful businessman, somebody with a bit of background, a bit
of knowledge of the world. The quality of people has improved markedly. And our
selection procedures have improved markedly too.

Political correctness

Q: On the Ukip website there's a page headlined: "What we stand for." It says:
"Political correctness is stifling free speech." One of my readers[JonathanCR]
wants to hear an example of something that you're not allowed to say because of
political correctness but that you would want to say.

A: I think we've been through a very long period of time when to even discuss
immigration was considered to be racist. When you look back on it, that Enoch
Powell speech was a disaster because it actually stopped national debate because
of the language that he used and everything else.

Q: But is there anything now that you want to say that you can't because of the
forces of political correctness?

A: I think there are some issues. For example, the current debate on gender
balancing. If you say anything against gender balancing, whether it's FTSE
boards or whatever, you are perceived to be anti-women. I can make a very
intelligent argument that said if you and I were both working in the private
sector and we both had commercial customers, and I was a woman and I had three
children in the space of the next five years, that I would not be able to do my
job as well as you because my client base would not be there. After 20 years in
business, that to me says that's one of the reasons why a lot of women do find
it more difficult to get to the top of companies. Having debates like that is
very, very difficult because there's a perception that you are doing down women.
There are lots of examples of that. But I do think the big one has been the
whole immigration debate. And I do think we are getting to a much more mature
level.

Schools

Q: Another claim on your website is that: "Children are taught to be ashamed of
our past." When have your children ever been taught to be ashamed of the past?

A: Oh, yeah, the empire was absolutely awful, and we're beastly people, and the
archbishop of Canterbury marches through the streets of Canterbury wearing
sackcloth and ashes apologising for slavery, not saying here's the bicentenary
of us being the first country to recognise that not only was what we had done
morally wrong, but that we were now going to try to free the rest of the world
from slavery. That's an example.

Q: But are children really taught that the British empire was a bad thing. My
children have never been taught that?

A: I think so, yes.

Q: Have your children been taught that?

A: My children have been taught that we used to have wars and poverty, and
terrible things used to happen, but now we've got the European Union and all
will be well.

Q: I don't think my children have been taught that either.

A: Aged eight, in primary school. They all get that. [Later he said he was
talking about his child's experience in a private school, not a state school.]

Q: You've got strong views on teachers. In your book you say: "A good 20% of
teachers should be sacked as useless functionaries." Why do you think that?

A: The real expert on this isLord Pearson [the former Ukip leader]. Before he
got involved with the European question and other things, education was his big
thing. There's no doubt there are too many people in the teaching profession who
have academic achievements and qualifications [that mean] frankly they shouldn't
be in that position. We have suffered a bad lowering of standards.

Q: But how do you get that 20% figure?

A: These are all figures from Malcolm [Pearson]. I'll give you an example. I met
a former headmaster of quite a well-known public school at a social event who is
now running an academy. He said he was jealous of the guys starting new
academies because they could start with a blank sheet of paper. He said he had
one in five of his teachers who were having a detrimental effect on the pupils
they taught and he could not sack them. That's absolutely from the horse's
mouth.

Banning the burqa

Q: You have talked about Ukip being a libertarian party. In your book, writing
about when you joined the party, you say: "I was a libertarian to my fingertips
and would have welcomed the chance to fight for the nation's cross-dressers,
swingers, naturists, prostitutes, adult nappy-wearers, consensual cannibals and
the like."

A: That's Ukip, isn't it. We have all sorts of people in our party. We've not no
prejudice against any of them. And we want the state to butt out.

Q: Well, why are you in favour of banning the burqa then? [In its manifesto at
the last election (pdf), Ukip said it would "tackle extremist Islam by banning
the burqa or veiled niqab in public buildings and certain private buildings".]

A: Well, I'm not really in favour of banning the burqa. I'm not.

Q: You're on record as saying ...

A: On record as saying that if can't wear a motorcycle helmet in NatWest or a
balaclava on the London Underground, then the law should be applied to everyone
equally. But have I ever said we should ban people walking down the streets from
wearing religious dress or ceremonial dress? Absolutely not.

Q: But would you legislate on the burqa?

A: This is something that to some extent I've inherited. We are going through a
major policy review at the moment. I do think everybody being equal before the
law is important. But is it the sort of thing we should be legislating for? I'm
dubious about that. When you become the leader of a political party, you inherit
an awful lot. You can't change it all at the stroke of a pen or overnight.

Q: But at the time of the last election you were defending that position in
interviews.

A: I was defending it in exactly the terms I've given: NatWest bank, the London
Underground, but not walking down the street.

Q: But in NatWest bank they don't let people in in a motorcycle helmet because
might be an armed robber. Armed robbers tend to be male.

A: Listen, I'm not looking to pick a fight with any ethnic minority in this
country at all. Absolutely not.

Q: So is that a policy that you will be happy to ditch?

A: It's a policy I'm going to look at.

Ukip's strategy ahead of the 2015 general election

Q: After the recent EU summit, you said: "Britain is going to make the great
escape. We are going to get out of this union." In practical terms, how do you
think that is going to happen?

A: We've conned ourselves for nearly four decades that we have some
extraordinary influence within the EU, that we're a big player at the top table.
That to me, in the 12 years that I've been there, has never been self-evident,
but that's what we've always believed. Last Friday that changed, because there
was a realisation that we hadn't got a friend in the room.

Q: But how do you think Britain will get from here to actually leaving the EU?
You'll need a government with a majority that calls a referendum.

A: The referendum is by far the most likely route.

Q: So how do you see that happening?

A: It is most likely that it will be the Conservative party, although you never
quite know what the Labour party could do on this issue. At the moment it
appears to be very, very Europhile, under Ed Miliband, although we do know that
Ed Balls and others have slightly different views. I think the pressure within
the Conservative party for something radical to happen is very great indeed.
Secondly, I think the pressure that Ukip can exert is enormous.

We've spent most of our life being a party with a Labour government. Over the
years we've drawn our support from quite a wide spread. Even Guardian research
showed a few years ago that 51% of Ukip voters were Tories. The other 49% came
from classical liberals, patriotic old Labour and people who otherwise would not
vote for anybody. So our effect on the electoral process up until now has been
very mixed.

Q: But at the end of the day you need a majority government at Westminster.

A: Well, here's the argument. The Tories are now in. [David] Cameron, I don't
think, intends to deliver on these big promises; you know, the referendum,
cutting immigration, human rights. I don't think he actually meant any of those
things. Now what will happen as Ukip grows, and I believe that it will, is that
we will disproportionately start to take more votes away from the Conservatives
than from other parties. And you get to a point where, if it's pretty obvious to
Cameron that he simply can't win the next election because of that number of
people who are not going to vote for him but are going to vote for us, that
leads to rebellion in the Tory party.

Q: But what happens then?

A: What happens then is that if he wants to win the next election, he has to
call a referendum on the issue.

Q: And if you get to that stage, do you then say, "Great, we've got what we
want, we'll tell Ukip supporters to back Conservative candidates"?

A: The difficulty with that is, are we going to believe them? So we would like
to see it happen before the general election. If it's a promise in the general
election, then there will be very divided opinion within Ukip as to what we
should or shouldn't do.

Q: And what's your personal opinion?

A: I don't know what's going to happen. I just feel that it is more than likely,
particularly if this electoral timetable works the way that it looks to be
working - ie, we go to 2015 - the year after a European election in which I
think Ukip can do something quite dramatic, I think we've got every chance of
forcing [Cameron] into giving us a referendum.

Q: But do you then tell your party, "We want a Conservative majority government,
let's form a pact"?

A: I did actually make that offer last time round, if you remember.

Q: So would you do it again?

A: We'd have to see. I don't know. It is some way down the track. My effort and
energy and focus is on building up Ukip as an electoral party, Ukip as an
operation. That will be a huge decision as and when the time comes.

Q: But wouldn't it make more sense to do that than to actually put up candidates
against the Conservatives?

A: That depends on whether we think [Cameron] is telling the truth. If he
promises a referendum, is he actually going to deliver that referendum?

Merging with the Conservative party

Q: At some stage in the future can you ever see the Conservative party and Ukip
merging?

A: I think it's unlikely. Ukip is a small-government, libertarian political
movement. The Conservative party, under its current directorship and
governorship, resembles more of a social democratic party. So, at the moment
we're such a long way apart. Down at the ground level, of course, there are
similarities between many of their activists and many of our activists.

David Cameron

Q: Two months ago in the Evening Standard you said Cameron had shown himself to
be "the most pro-EU Conservative prime minister since Edward Heath". Do you
still think that in the light of the veto?

A: Well, he had no choice, did he? If we examine the record up until the veto -
not that it was a veto, really - his first act was to overturn Michael Howard's
"let's take our fishing waters back" policy. He has actively supported the
creation of a European foreign policy, which is something that is astonishing to
many Conservative voters. He has actively encouraged the eurozone to move
towards a full fiscal and political union - again, something that most
Conservative voters would find astonishing. He had been a very, very pro-EU
prime minister until last Thursday.

Q: And you still think he's the most pro-European Conservative prime minister
since Edward Heath?

A: In terms of where he wants us to be, yes.

Chances of becoming a minister

Q: Anthony Painter has writtenan article for Progress in which he speculates
about Ukip winning 25 seats at the next election, the Conservatives having no
overall majority, and Cameron having do a deal with you, implying that you could
become deputy prime minister. Can you ever see yourself being in government?

A: I don't make silly predictions for the future.

Q: So the idea of you being in government is a silly prediction?

A: I don't make silly predictions. I don't make any predictions. I travel
optimistically. Listen, I see myself as a campaigner. I see Ukip, with me at the
helm, as being a force for changing the national debate in this country, which I
think we've been quite successful at in one or two areas. There are many other
areas in which I would like us to be a catalyst for change. I'm not thinking
about post-2015. That's just too far in the distance at the moment.

Ukip and Scottish independence

Q: Ukip supports the right of people not to be governed by distant rules in
foreign countries. On the basis of that, one of the people who put a comment on
the blog [ArseneKnows] said: "Will you be supporting the SNP in their fight for
Scottish independence from a union forced on them by an undemocratic elite,
albeit in 1707?"

A: Look, the future of Scotland is absolutely for the people of Scotland to
decide. I just wish they were having a more honest debate.

Q: What do you mean by that?

A: Well, there's not very much point in Scotland leaving Westminster and going
in under Brussels. [Alex] Salmond has really danced around this question. If he
signs an accession treaty for Scotland, he will be committing them to joining
the euro. But am I happy to see the United Kingdom become more of a federal
model? Yes.

Ukip and English independence

Q: Can you ever see Ukip changing its name and becoming the English Independence
party [as Dapper asked on the blog]?

A: Well, we do have representation in Wales. We do have a councillor or two in
Northern Ireland. The place where we've really struggled has been Scotland. It
has been very difficult for us to get off the ground in Scotland. And that's
because the independence debate there takes on an entirely different
connotation. So do I see us becoming English only? No. But do I see us being a
party that is campaigning for an English parliament and for a fair deal for
England and for a new federal structure for the union? Yes.

Changing Ukip's name

Q: What about changing your name to make that more obvious?

A: Rebranding is something that we've discussed many, many times. The big
difficulty with rebranding is that it has taken us an awful long time to get
Ukip established in people's minds.. If you say Ukip, they know what Ukip is. To
rebrand, you would need two things; one, a very, very clever replacement and,
two, vast amounts of money to reach the same level of market penetration that
we've currently got now.

Ukip's future if Britain ever left the EU

Q: If Britain ever left the EU, would Ukip ever wind up and cease to exist?

A: In electoral terms, the USP [unique selling point] that most people know Ukip
for will have gone and it will make it much harder for Ukip, much, much harder
for Ukip. However, there are so many other things that Ukip is trying to talk
about, in terms of sensible, genuine, managed migration policy, in terms of a
free enterprise agenda, in terms of Britain's role globally. There are a whole
host of things for Ukip to campaign on, post EU. Quite what form that takes,
it's difficult to say.

Britain outside the EU

Q: Let's move on to what Britain would be like if we ever did leave the EU. I
got several comments on the blog from people [like deadinthewater and Cosmonaut
and JonathanCR]who wanted to know what would happen to Britons who wanted to
work in the EU. One person who said they would consider voting Ukip
[FirmbutFair] said: "What guarantees can you give that, as part of your
negotiations you would keep the rights of UK citizens to move freely around and
work in the remaining Union?"

A: Well, we were moving pretty freely around Europe pre 1973.

Q: The world has move on a lot since then.

A: Interestingly, for the first 20 years of our EU membership there were no more
foreign British workers in Europe than there had been before we actually joined
the thing. The big change, of course, has come since 2004. That was when we
admitted poor countries to the union, and that made a huge difference. As far as
movement of workers are concerned, there is absolutely no problem in having
reciprocal deals. What we object to, and have objected to since 2004, is a total
open door to the whole of eastern Europe. That, at a time of youth unemployment
at 21%, doesn't make any sense.

Q: Another question came from someone who wanted to know what you would do to
protect ex-pats living on the continent.

A: Remember, this is not an equal two-way street. There are four times as many
EU workers in Britain as there are British workers abroad. That's the first
point to make. Second, the majority of Brits living in Spain or France, or
wherever they are, are people living on pensions or people with savings. They
are pumping money into those economies. Spain benefits from the Brits being
there. Does Britain benefit from there being 1 million Poles here? Well, you
could argue that many of them are extremely hard working and very good at what
they do. But the net effect of it, as a time of rising unemployment, is, I
think, negative for this country.

Q: There is a lot of scepticism about your claim that Britain would be better
off outside the EU. [For example, read manasotaor Spoonfaceor RubberBaron]. Have
you at any point sat down with politicians from the EU commission, or from other
EU countries, to sketch out what trade arrangements an independent Britain would
have with the EU?

A: This is conversation we've had a lot. It began for me in 2001 with [Neil]
Kinnock [then an EU commissioner]. I challenged him live on air, on the Today
programme. I said if Britain leaves the EU, what happens in terms of trade
relationships? He said he was making no threats, we would carry on doing
business just as we do now. All the years I've been there, everybody has said if
all you poor Brits want is a free trade deal, then that's very much on offer.

Remember, there is the argument of economic logic. Remarkably, the UK is the
biggest export market in the world for both France and Germany. They sell us
more than we sell them. We trade at a massive deficit with other EU states.
There are 10,000 lorries every day that come from Folkestone and Dover into this
country and bomb up the M20. And they're all full of foreign produce being sold
in this country. Those lorries are going to keep coming.

Q: Under a Ukip government, what would be Britain's relationship with other
international bodies, like the World Trade Organisation [asCosmonaut asked on
the blog]?

A: Well, this is the exciting thing. One of the things that it has taken British
business a long time to understand is that in terms of global trade we are
neutered. When the WTO meets in a room like this, we have to leave the room.
Tiny little countries are there at the WTO. If you look at the trade that is
being negotiated on our behalf by the EU, you find that Switzerland - tiny
little Switzerland - has more trade deals with the top 30 global economies than
we do as part of the EU.

Q: You'd be happy to submit to WTO jurisdiction, but not EU jurisdiction?

A: Look, when you go to the WTO, or you go to Nato, you sit round the table as a
sovereign government and you agree to do something, or you agree not to do
something. When you are part of the EU, I, as the member state, give to you, as
the unelected commissioner, the power to make that decision. They are
fundamentally different things. There's no level on which you can argue that the
EU is a co-operative structure. It's not a co-operative structure. It is an
assimilative structure that takes power away from member states.

I would argue that we are a very globalist party. In terms of trade, in terms of
looking to the future, in terms of what we think the potential for London is, we
are the party saying we've got to stop being so small-minded and thinking that
the beginning and end of the economic world is Europe. It jolly well isn't.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 19, 2011 Monday 1:11 PM GMT

Does Clegg's absence signal the genesis of a new coalition?;
The eurozone crisis has brought Labour and the Lib Dems closer than they ever
expected, says Mary Riddell

LENGTH: 1181 words


WHERE'S Clegg? As the cry rose from the Labour benches, the Deputy Prime
Minister was in his office, having a security briefing and catching up with
phone calls. His TV was off as David Cameron told the Commons why he had wielded
the veto that parted Britain from mainstream Europe.

Nick Clegg informed the PM last Monday morning that he would be staying away.
According to a senior Lib Dem source, a "voiceless" Clegg would have been put in
"an incredibly uncomfortable position" by crowing Tory Eurosceptics. Instead, an
empty seat spoke for him. There is no lasting Coalition rift, advisers claim:
the show goes on. But it became clear last week that nothing could be the same
again.

The penchant for being absent from the room, whether in Brussels or Westminster,
gives the air of a spectral government. And indeed, like Ebenezer Scrooge,
Cameron has been assailed by the undead. As the Prime Minister explained why he
said No to Europe, three spirits of Christmas mustered. The Ghost of Christmas
Past is played by Margaret Thatcher, whose handbagging of European leaders still
elicits Tory reverence.

Even so, the hardline Bruges speech which ultimately led to her demise seems a
billet doux to Europe compared with her successor's ultimatum. Britain, in her
words, "does not dream of some cosy, isolated existence on the fringes of the
European Community". Yet that is exactly where Cameron has placed it.

The role of the Ghost of Christmas Present has been filled in melodramatic style
by Clegg, whose sanguine first reaction to the Euro-bombshell gave way to
dress-down Sunday, in which he berated the PM for a deal that imperilled the
City and manufacturing and risked making Britain a global "pygmy". Last Monday,
as Clegg exercised his own veto, the stage was set for spirit number three.

Dickens's A Christmas Carol could be a Labour tract. Not only does it feature a
cameo part for Gordon Brown as the chain-swathed ghost of Jacob Marley, "doomed
to wander without rest or peace", but the book's theme, an indictment of
19th-century industrial capitalism, prefigures the critique of 21st-century
predatory capitalism advanced by Ed Miliband. Cast (or so he must hope) as The
Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come, it fell to Miliband to terrify Cameron with dire
visions of the future if he fails to learn the lessons of his folly. Miliband,
conscious that he needed a game-changing moment, impressed hard-to-please
Cleggites. "He wasn't bad at all. Braver than we thought he'd be," said one
senior source.

That muted compliment opens up a new battlefront in British politics. The
contempt in which Euro-leaders held Cameron's bulldoggerel offers a rare chance
to the centre-Left. Having seen his political bartering, and his explanation
last week, critics would hesitate to send the PM to haggle for a fake Rolex in a
Bangkok market. Many business leaders remain appalled, the City is at risk,
links with Washington will weaken, and Britain looks about as mighty as the Isle
of Eigg.

Were all this not so serious, the centre-Left should feel as if Christmas
arrived early. Yet Clegg is in a bind. What is the Coalition for, if not the
national interest? His assertion that the PM's veto runs directly counter to
that interest marks a profound shift. As a senior ally puts it, Lib Dems have
shown that they can "lift the veil".

The question is what may lie behind it. Lib Dem anger, already mounting, may yet
gather a lethal momentum. Clegg, now level-pegging in some polls with Ukip,
cannot afford to exercise his own nuclear option, but nor will he play poodle to
Cameron's bulldog. Churchillian rhetoric, over-played in this drama, can at
least be adapted to the Coalition's prospects. Though not the end, this looks
like the beginning of the end.

Enter Ed Miliband, whose refusal to say that Labour would have signed up to
Europe's plan to save the euro threw Cameron a lifeline that he duly grabbed in
the Commons debate. While Europe's austerity deal is an anti-growth agenda, that
was never the issue at stake. Miliband should have said initially that he would
have retained top-table influence and sanctioned fiscal measures from which
Britain would have been exempt. Instead, he appeared constrained by a Europhobic
public mood and, perhaps, by his party's own Eurosceptic roots.

Now, however, a new alliance beckons. Leading Lib Dems regard last week's events
as a test of Miliband's intentions. In this game of truth or dare, Clegg chose
to quit the PM's side in his hour of need. His henchmen now expect some
indication of respect from Labour. Early cries that Clegg was "spineless" did
not encourage them, but the Lib Dem mood is to watch and wait. Once, hope of any
Lib/Lab meeting of minds would have seemed forlorn.

With many of Labour's most eloquent Europhiles, not least his brother, David, on
the sidelines, Miliband's shadow cabinet contains voices ranging from the
nuanced Europhilia of Douglas Alexander to the more ambivalent stance of Ed
Balls, who has lumped Cameron and European leaders together under the general
heading of "catastrophic".

Even before last week, there were renewed signs of a Cleggiband consensus.
Although the two leaders have not met since Remembrance Sunday, senior-level
contact between the two camps is growing, with Lib Dems grumbling to their
opposite numbers that Cameron has behaved to Clegg "like a CEO who won't consult
his chairman".

Europe has given the parties the reason they have lacked for a rapprochement.
Some Cleggites will not lightly forgive Miliband for his past animosity, and
powerful figures on each side claim that the other party will dump its leader
after the election. Even so, Miliband's declaration that "he agrees with Nick"
is significant.

Lib Dems now envisage cross-party co-operation, perhaps involving Lord Mandelson
and Vince Cable on industrial policy. In the longer run, both parties are
talking up a centre-Left coalition after the next election. In an interview for
the forthcoming Fabian Review, Ed Balls - once scornful of "Liberals" - tells me
that he is eager for a deal right now.

Balls is no fan of coalitions, but asked whether he would favour a Lib/Lab
government in 2015, he says: "You could do it tomorrow. What's happening is
dangerous and against the national interest. If you can form that consensus
tomorrow, I'd be part of it like a shot."

That conversation took place before the PM boarded the Eurostar for Brussels. It
seems likely that the shadow chancellor is now even more inclined to think that
the Coalition will collapse before 2015. There are many obstacles ahead. If the
eurozone hits bigger trouble, then voters may decide, however rashly, that
Cameron's exit was wise. The worse the prospects for Britain, the higher the
potential political dividend for the Tories.

In A Christmas Carol, a redeemed Scrooge sends a top-class fowl to the Cratchit
home for the festive dinner. To his critics' mind, the only prize turkey in this
chilling seasonal saga is a Prime Minister who has put the nation's prosperity
at risk. The future of the centre-Left rests on persuading voters that is true.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               December 18, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Inconvenienced by the truth

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 901 words


reaming of a white Christmas? Dit will be a black one if the Greens get their
way. Cranks like our Environment Secretary Chris Huhne want us to rely more and
more on such "renew­ able energy sources" as windmills to keep the lights on.
So, electricity will be not only more expensive but less reliable.

Windmills don't work if there is no wind and, as we've seen, they can't work if
it is too strong because bits fall off. Electricity can't be stored so, for
stable supplies, we must build extra power stations which will be mothballed for
much of the time.

For this reason, our household electri­ city bills currently cost us all £90 a
year more than they should and things will get dramatically worse over the next
few years. At last week's UN Climate Change boondoggle in Durban, Britain agreed
to ramp up its commitment to wreck the coast and countryside with 32,000 wind­
mills.

To pay for this, our annual electricity bills will go up by between £200 and
£300.

So more people will be plunged into fuel poverty and have to choose between food
and heating in winter. Meanwhile, a millionaire landowner such as Samantha
Cameron's father Sir Reginald Sheffield is reportedly creaming off £1,000 a week
in subsidies for windmills on his estates.

The poor are taxed to make the rich even richer, the polar opposite of fairness.
You couldn't make it up.

Scientific pioneers of electricity such as Benjamin Franklin and Michael Faraday
would rub their eyes in disbelief that our Government is reverting to such
primitive and hopelessly inefficient methods of generating power. What next?
When ministers give up their limos in favour of a pony and trap I will take
their commitment to cutting emissions seri­ ously.

Who can forget David Cameron's PR stunt of bicycling to the Commons? It was
ruined when it emerged his Government car followed behind with suit and shoes.

This nonsense is predicated on theories of man­made global warming that look
dodgier with every new revelation. Not only have we had academics at the Univer­
sity of East Anglia and elsewhere accused of falsifying and suppressing evidence
to bolster their dubious claims but a growing body of evidence contradicts them.

Sir David Attenborough's BBC series Frozen Planet was brilliant. What a pity he
spoilt it by implying that the Arctic ice­ sheet is melting because of global
warm­ ing. In fact, the latest evidence shows the opposite. Global temperatures
have been cooling for the past 10 years. Furthermore, although Arctic sea­ice
has been shrink­ ing, in Antarctica (with 90 per cent of the world's ice) the
opposite has been happen­ ing.

Of that, he made no mention.

The truth is no one knows why these changes occur, though it is probably to do
with shifting wind and sea­current pat­ terns. Unfortunately, global warming
zeal­ ots behave more like high priests of a religious cult than scientists.
Carbon emis­ sions are declared the work of the devil, despite our comparative
ignorance of the complex factors that influence climate change. Inconvenient
facts like Europe be­ ing much warmer 700 years ago (the Medi­ aeval Warm
Period) and much colder 300 years ago (the Little Ice Age) are ignored.

Former Tory trade minister Peter Lilley wisely says: "We do not yet know how big
the effects of carbon dioxide are on tem­erature, still less the balance of harm
it will do. We are penalising the current gen­ eration on the basis of
protecting future generations from an unknown threat."

Unfortunately, his leader and Govern­ ment take a different view and are sad­
dling us with these absurdly expensive burdens for the indefinite future.

Only UKIP dares to point out the ele­ phant in the room. Disastrous EU rulings
such as the Large Combustion Plant Directive threaten to put the lights out by
closing a quarter of our coal and energy plants by 2015 without providing any
real­ istic, working alternatives. And for what? Britain creates only 1.7 per
cent of the world's carbon emissions, compared with China's 23 per cent and
India's 5.8 per cent. These countries refuse to prejudice their own economic
development by cutting emissions. So we have the preposterous situation that our
Government is deliber­ ately burdening our industries with higher fuel bills to
make marginal reductions in worldwide carbon emissions, cancelled out by massive
increases from our rivals.

BRITISH governments of all three major parties enthusiasti­ cally promote
policies that put British firms out of business and British workers on the dole
for no benefit. Ministers' carbon footprints bear no scrutiny. They travel the
world by jumbo jet, attending junkets to discuss a problem which, if it exists
at all, they can do nothing effective to solve.

The Durban summit cost at least £150million, money that could have been used to
save children from starvation, malnutrition and disease.

In 1798 Thomas Malthus wrote a book predicting mass starvation because he
believed our population was increasing faster than the country's ability to feed
it­ self.

In fact, the opposite happened. Today, we waste more food than the entire coun­
try consumed then. Not only are there lots more of us but we are all vastly
richer than the average person in Malthus's day.

Do politicians learn nothing from his­ tory? Chris Huhne is just a modern
Malthus.

The sooner he is recycled, the better.

'These theories about man-made global warming look dodgier with every new
revelation'

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               December 18, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fury at attack on Euro-sceptics

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 339 words


NICK CLEGG was accused of being out of touch with the public last night after he
said euro-sceptics were indulging in the "politics of grievance", writes Kirsty
Buchanan.

Mr Clegg tried to pour oil on the troubled waters of cross-Channel relations
yesterday but then risked stoking tensions in the Coalition by lecturing
eurosceptics.

He warned the "stress" caused by the economic crisis must not be allowed to
foster "xenophobia and polarisation".

The Deputy Prime Minister pointed the finger at UKIP and Scottish nationalists
but his comments will anger backbench Tory MPs who view his attack on Mr
Cameron's Brussels walkout as a betrayal. Mr Clegg said: "This is the perfect
environment if you are [Ukip leader] Nigel Farage or [SNP leader] Alex Salmond.
The people who are trying to exploit the politics of grievance and blame, they
believe they have got the wind in their sails. I represent a centre-ground
liberalism, sticking to being reasoned and open." However, Mr Farage said: "Nick
Clegg should spend more time away from his Westminster bubble talking to real
people.

"He would then realise they are increasingly questioning the UK's membership of
the EU. There is nothing xenophobic about this, it's called democracy."

On Friday Mr Clegg spoke to French prime minister Francois Fillon after a French
politician attacked Britain for its stance on the new eurozone treaty. He said
the comments were "simply unacceptable" and told Mr Fillon to "calm the
rhetoric".

French president Nicolas Sarkozy is the one now beginning to look isolated after
German Chancellor Angela Merkel telephoned Mr Cameron on Friday before an
official visit to the UK next week.

France's AAA credit rating was put on negative outlook by ratings agency Fitch
after it concluded a full solution to the eurozone crisis was "beyond reach",
while Moody's downgraded Belgium last night.

Former chancellor Lord Lamont said Italy and other countries couldn't go on with
interest on bonds close to seven per cent and a "real crisis" was in prospect.

OPINION: PAGE 36

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 18, 2011 Sunday 8:33 PM GMT

Workers of Europe unite, you've only euro chains to lose;
Europe's Left has suffered a calamitous six months. Socialist governments have
met historic defeats in Portugal and Spain. Greece's Pasok party was toppled by
an EU technocrat Putsch. Ireland's soft-Left Fianna Foil lost every seat in
Dublin.

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

LENGTH: 982 words


Almost 97pc of the European Union's population is now governed by conservative
or Right-leaning coalitions, or EU-imposed mandarins. All that is left to social
democrats is Austria (8.4m), Denmark (5.5m), and Slovenia (2.1m).

The whole machinery of the European Union (EU) system is under the control of
the Right, with variants of Rhenish corporatism in the Council, and pre-modern
Hayekians at the European Central Bank (ECB). Whether you regard this Hegelian
ascendancy as good or bad, it certainly has profound consequences.

For just as former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher protested at Bruges that "we
have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of the state in Britain, only to
see them reimposed at a European level", the Left might equally protest that
they have not fought the long, hard struggle for worker rights in their own
democracies to see social welfare rolled back by Brussels and Frankfurt.

In Italy, EU viceroy Mario Monti has more or less been ordered to reform the
labour code, to break union power by shifting to "firm-level" wage deals and
rewrite Article 18 that protects workers against sacking for economic reasons -
the issue that led to the assassination of two labour reformers by the Red
Brigades since 1998.

No doubt Italy should confront its trade unions if it hopes to compete in the
world, but my point is a different one. Who decides such matters? Why would the
Italian Left think it desirable to concentrate further power in EU hands when it
will without question be used against them? They might win control of Italy.
They have no chance of taking control of policy levers in Europe in the
foreseeable future, if ever.

David Begg, head of the Irish Congress of Trade Unions, said his encounter with
the (EU-ECB-IMF) Troika now restructuring Ireland was a sobering experience.

"The man from the IMF was very helpful, but the officials from the EU were
neo-liberal ideologues. We had a very fraught meeting, almost a shouting match,"
he said. "It would have been better if we had never have joined the euro."

The consequences of this Rhenish Right ascendancy in EU institutions - not the
same as Anglo-Saxon or Burkean "small platoon" conservatism, by the way - was in
evidence at the Merkozy summit in Brussels. As the BBC's Paul Mason put it, the
deal has "outlawed expansionary fiscal policy" by enshrining near-zero
structural deficits in international law, with constitutional debt brakes,
mandatory sanctions and budget commissars for delinquent nations.

The 26 states that went along with this Merkel plan have given up the right to
pursue counter-cyclical Keynesian stimulus, and have agreed to do so in
perpetuity since it is almost impossible to repeal EU "Acquis".

Personally, I am not a Keynesian - nor are many Daily Telegraph readers - but
this strikes me as a mad commitment to make. For the Left it is surely an
unmitigated disaster. They cannot pursue their economic agenda ever again.
Fabians feared long ago that such an outcome was built into EMU. They called the
euro a "bankers' ramp", but somehow their warnings were drowned out in the mass
hysteria of monetary union.

Owen Jones at the New Statesman said it is baffling that socialists have been so
slow to recognise the threat. "The proposed EU treaty is perhaps the biggest
catastrophe to befall the European Left since the Second World War. After this
stitch-up, the Left really needs to have a long, hard think about its attitude
to the EU as it is currently constructed. There's still a sense that any
criticism of the EU puts you in the same box as swivel-eyed Ukip-ers. It is a
travesty that highlighting the EU's palpable lack of democracy has become a
Right wing issue."

Well, yes, we're all swivel-eyed now. It should indeed have nothing to do with
Right wing or Left wing affiliation. Besides, if you listen closely, angry talk
is simmering across Europe, in the ranks of the French socialist party, in
Germany's Linke, in Italy's Rifondazione, and Spain's newly-liberated Socialist
Workers Party (PSOE).

Note the outburst last week by Pedro Nuno Santos, socialist vice-president in
Portugal's Assembleia. "We have an atomic bomb that we can use in the face of
the Germans and the French: this atomic bomb is simply that we won't pay. Debt
is our only weapon and we must use it to impose better conditions. We should
make the legs of the German bankers tremble," he said.

The sacrosanct 40-hour week is being stretched to 42 hours in Portugal. Manuel
Carvalho da Silva, head of the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers, said
pay-cuts for public workers under successive austerity packages will amount to
27pc.

This is an "internal devaluation" of epic proportions.

Much has been written in recent weeks of Europe's swing to the far Right, of the
rise of Geert Wilders in Holland, or Marie Le Pen's Front National in France, or
- quite different - the black-shirt Garda Magyar of Hungary's Jobbik party. The
echoes of the 1930s are loud, and will become louder as combined monetary and
fiscal contraction entrench depression.

Yet there is another parallel of equal resonance: the election of the Front
Populaire in France with Communist support in May 1936, the cathartic rejection
of deflation policy. Whether or not Leon Blum privately wanted to leave the Gold
Standard - that inter-war replica of Europe's unemployment union - the logic of
his policies forced the outcome. Orthodoxy was overthrown.

The question for today's Left is whether it is in their interests to keep
apologising for an EU monetary regime that has pushed the jobless rate for youth
to 49pc in Spain, 45pc in Greece, 30pc in Portugal and Ireland, 29pc in Italy
and 24pc in France - yet 8.9pc in undervalued Germany - and that offers no
credible way out of the slump for the Southern half.

Comrades across Europe, come over to the eurosceptic side. You have only your
euro chains to lose.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

We face a long journey, admits Miliband after by-election victory

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words


ED MILIBAND has admitted that Labour faces a "long journey" back to power, as he
overcame the first major test of his leadership at the ballot box.

Labour retained the west London parliamentary seat of Feltham and Heston,
increasing the party's share of the vote in the by-election to more than 50 per
cent.

Mr Miliband dismissed criticism over his recent performances as "Westminster
village gossip" and insisted that most members of the public were more concerned
about jobs.

He has caused concern among his own MPs after a series of uninspiring
appearances in the Commons, and recent national opinion polls showing the
Conservatives in the lead for the first time this year.

However, the Labour leader told a national newspaper: "I always said it would be
a long journey to be just a one-term opposition."

On a night which saw a turnout of under 29 per cent - the lowest in a byelection
for 11 years - the Labour candidate Seema Malhotra won with a majority of 6,203.

Mr Miliband claimed the result, which saw a substantial swing away from the
Conservatives to Labour, represented "a verdict on this Government's failing
economic plan".

However, the Conservatives argued that Labour should have extended their
majority even further if they were looking to be on course for victory at the
next general election, set for 2015.

Mr Miliband said the Tory argument that the seat was always known to be safe for
Labour was "pretty offensive".

"They shouldn't be denying the people's choice, they should be listening to the
people's verdict," he said. "The people of Feltham and Heston are like people
across this country - fearful of what is happening in Britain and determined
there must be a better way.

"We, Labour, are starting to win back trust but we know there is more to do."

The Liberal Democrats, who have been struggling in national opinion polls,
suffered a sharp fall in their share of the vote and narrowly avoided the
humiliation of being beaten into fourth place by the UK Independence Party.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said the Lib Dems were "almost a busted flush".
The Conservative vote share was down from 34 per cent to 28 per cent, while the
Lib Dems dropped from nearly 14 per cent to under six per cent. Labour won 54
per cent of the vote.

The Ukip saw votes more than double from two to five per cent. The by-election
was caused by the death last month of Alan Keen, the veteran Labour MP.

Coalition kicking

Seema Malhotra, Labour 12,639 (54.42 per cent, +10.79 per cent)

Mark Bowen, Conservative 6,436 (27.71 per cent, -6.32 per cent)

Roger Crouch, Liberal Democrats 1,364 (5.87 per cent, -7.87 per cent)

Andrew Charalambous, Ukip 1,276 (5.49 per cent, +3.45 per cent)

David Furness, British National Party 540 (2.33 per cent, -1.21 per cent)

Daniel Goldsmith, Green Party 426 (1.83 per cent, +0.74 per cent)

Roger Cooper, English Democrats 322 (1.39 per cent)

George Hallam, London People Before Profit 128 (0.55 per cent)

David Bishop, Bus-Pass Elvis Party 93 (0.40 per cent)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Seema Malhotra, who won the Feltham and Heston seat, with Ed Miliband.
The by-election was called after the death of Alan Keen
STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA WIRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

britain's future lies out of the eu and into the world

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 843 words


tHIS week I heard George Osborne thinking aloud at a lunch hosted by the
Conservative Friends of Israel. The Chancellor was asked about dramatic and
unexpected changes that occur in the world. He said that the collapse of the
Soviet Union had been the most dramatic event at the end of his childhood and
"nobody saw it coming".

He was asked about the Arab Spring and whether intervention in Libya had been a
hard decision given that the last Labour government had put a lot of effort into
getting Colonel Gaddafi to open his wallet to British business. It was at this
point that Osborne gave his most intriguing answer: "The establishment are
always nervous of change. Change is sometimes disruptive but it can also move
you to somewhere better."

Those words stayed with me long after I left the event. For here was the
Government's chief strategist acknowledging that dramatic, unanticipated change
could occur and, despite the natural caution of the political establishment,
that it could be worth embracing.

Mr Osborne is expecting a dramatic change in his own economic sphere - the
falling apart of the eurozone. Such an event will have a far-reaching impact on
the whole European political settlement.

Could we be about to see an event that is in its way just as dramatic as the
collapse of the Soviet Union 20 years ago - namely the collapse of the 60-year
project to create a European Union? I am convinced that the Chancellor is now
pondering this possibility.

And might such an event move us all to somewhere better? You bet it might.

Officially the Government's position remains that massive political will exists
among the key members of the eurozone to save the single currency. But it is
becoming increasingly obvious to many ministers that the euro may well be beyond
saving.

Nobody has yet explained how its 17 member states and assorted hangers-on will
be able to get the requirements of a Fiscal Union past their populations. For
southern Europe it means compulsory austerity for many years. For northern
Europe it means bailing out the southern cousins to an enormous extent now and a
very large extent every year for the foreseeable future in transfer payments as
their economies fail to cope with an exchange rate and interest rate set for
Germany.

WERE countries such as Italy, Greece, Spain and Portugal to fall out of the euro
and bring back their own currencies then the whole ideology of ever-closer union
would have failed. The question the Brussels bureaucracy really fears would then
be on the lips of everyone: what, actually, is the point of the EU? This is the
question that my friend Lord Pearson the Ukip peer throws into conversations
these days. You can make a compelling case for Nato as the guarantor of peace in
Europe and Western liberty (despite its expense and inefficiencies). You can
make a case for the United Nations as a tolerated international peacekeeper and
organiser of humanitarian relief (despite its lamentable corruption). But what
is the point of the EU? We are passing, however painfully, from a world of
regional trading blocks to one of global free trade. The costs of belonging to
the single market - with all its attendant regulations - may well already
outweigh the gains offered by it. The cost of our vast direct EU subscription
certainly outweighs any gains it offers because Britain can guarantee access to
the single market through its membership, by a different treaty, of the European
Economic Area.

The main EU economies are saddled with huge debts, they have over-regulated
labour markets that have led to mass unemployment, especially among the young.
They cannot afford their welfare states yet lack the will to reform them. As Mr
Osborne remarked in his autumn statement, they are pricing themselves out of the
world economy. So the growth in trade for Britain must lie beyond Europe, out
across the seas. China and India are growing in a single year at a rate the EU
will be lucky to achieve in 10 years. The Anglosphere of Australia, New Zealand,
Canada and South Africa is growing strongly too. Other parts of Africa -
Commonwealth parts - are getting their act together. The Americas are calling -
just as they once did for Walter Raleigh.

All this is beginning to occur to thinkers in the Labour Party too - not the
usual old Leftist critics of the EU but among a new generation of Blairites who
will one day be charged with making it electable again.

One of them, a young man called Luke Bozier, published an essay this week that
made it explicit. "Access to the European market is a fundamentally important
benefit for Britain but everything else is a waste of time. We can take care of
our own regulatory, legal and human rights environments and we can take care of
our own foreign policy. Britain doesn't need EU membership and the EU has made
clear they don't need Britain," he wrote.

The Titanic has sailed in search of Fiscal Union and we are not on it. David
Cameron deserves a slap on the back for that. But now, as Mr Osborne realises,
another question looms: where do we go from here?

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THINKER: Chancellor George Osborne
Picture: GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Must speak English' law is not racist

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 203 words


A LAW forcing immigrant spouses to speak English before entering Britain was
ruled legitimate yesterday.

Three claimants tried to get the rule overturned, arguing it interfered with
their right to a married life and was racist and discriminatory.

But in a High Court review Mr Justice Beatson dismissed the case, saying the
rule is rational and that even if it does affect married couple's lives, it does
not override Britain's right to protect its interests.

Victory Sir Andrew Green of Migration Watch UK said: "Perhaps we are seeing the
dawn of common sense in these immigration cases."

And Ukip MEP Gerard Batten called the ruling a rare "victory for common sense".

One of the claimants was British-born Rashida Chapti, 54, whose Indian husband
of 37 years and father of her six children cannot join her in Leicester because
he cannot speak English. She said she plans to appeal.

The other claimants are a couple from Pakistan and another from the Yemen.

The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants said: "In countries experiencing
conflict, poverty, natural disasters, and political instability, it can be
difficult to acquire linguistic skills prior to arrival in the UK."

The judicial review was conducted in Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday

Front: Clegg hits out at Eurosceptics as spat with France deepens: Lib Dem
leader insists Britain can mend bridges despite cross-Channel row

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words


Nick Clegg has accused Eurosceptics of stoking xenophobia and chauvinism by
indulging in "the politics of grievance", on the day that a diplomatic war of
words between Britain and France intensified.

The Liberal Democrat leader called for calm and vowed to return Britain to the
heart of Europe despite David Cameron's decision last week to veto a treaty
planned to rescue the euro.

Speaking to the Guardian at the end of one of the most politically fraught weeks
for the coalition, he said it was "very significant" that the British government
had agreed to co-operate with Europe by allowing eurozone countries to use EU
community institutions, such as the commission and European court of justice, to
enforce its new fiscal agreement.

He said: "As the dust settles on last week's summit, the government has already
taken some very big steps to re-engage, get back in the saddle and get back into
the mainstream of the debate."

Nonetheless, cross-channel relations hit new lows yesterday as the French prime
minister, Francois Fillon, appeared to urge credit rating agencies to train
their fire on the UK as opposed to French banks. Clegg said the remarks were
unacceptable: "I just think we all need to go away, have a bit of hiatus, a bit
of time to have Christmas, to eat some mince pies or whatever the French
equivalent is. Everyone is a bit tired."

He said Britain may have been caught in the crossfire of the French presidential
election. "There is nothing more popular in French politics - it has always been
the case and it will always be so - than giving 'perfidious Albion' a good
kicking from time to time. At the end of the day, France and Britain have always
worked out it is better to work together rather than shout at each other across
the Channel."

No 10 indicated that Cameron fully backed his coalition partner's rebuke of the
French PM for his comments.

French officials insisted last week that ministers had not been seeking to
criticise British government economic policy or its creditworthiness, but
acknowledged there was some residual French pique at the way in which chancellor
George Osborne appeared to use a BBC interview to bracket the French economy
alongside that of Greece and Portugal.

Facing the threat of isolation since the summit, Clegg has been working to undo
the damage, firstly by heading off any British attempt to block the eurozone
countries from being able to use EU institutions to help enforce its deficit
pact; and secondly by ensuring observer status for UK officials at meetings of
the euro group.

"If we play our cards right and are smart, far from being at the margins of that
debate, Britain can be at the centre. What everyone in business tells me is
clearly they want Britain right at the heart of the ongoing debate about the
evolution of the single market," he said.

"There are different visions and traditions of what European integration looks
like. The great genius of European integration economically is that it has
always held two different traditions in balance - the Anglo-Saxon liberal
tradition and the French dirigiste tradition. The goal has been to ensure that
neither the French or British tradition triumphed over the other. I don't think
it is in their interest to see the British liberal tradition marginalised. It
will not happen."

But he warned: "The danger at the moment is because society is under economic
stress, xenophobia, chauvinism and polarisation increase. You can see it in
British politics. This is the perfect environment if you are (Ukip leader) Nigel
Farage or (SNP leader) Alex Salmond. The people who are trying to exploit the
politics of grievance and blame, they believe they have got the wind in their
sails. I represent a centre-ground liberalism that is saying we have got to
stick to being reasoned and open. The liberal, open society is always under
pressure when there is fear and anxiety in society. "

His aides stressed this attack was not aimed at the PM, adding that the
negotiating position at last week's Brussels summit had been agreed in advance,
but it had not been foreseen that Cameron would abandon the negotiation so
rapidly.

Clegg accepts that David Cameron could not have signed the proposed 27-strong
treaty without any concessions by the rest of the EU; to do so would have, Clegg
said, deferred the crisis and risked defeat in the Commons. "That is just a
political fact and sometimes I am afraid politics is the art of the possible,
not always the ideal."

Clegg admitted that the summit had done little to solve the euro crisis. "There
are very big question marks about how to stop contagion. Clearly the markets
have got great doubts - they are just as bad now as before the summit.

"What we are still waiting for is a very significant tangible expression of
collective determination to implement labour market reforms, product market
reforms and pension reforms. A summit cannot, of itself, deal with issues as
intractable as in the so-called periphery of the eurozone - that will take
months and years of painful and controversial reform."

Leader comment, page 48 >=

Captions:

'We all need to have Christmas. . . Everyone is a bit tired' Clegg with Cameron

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday

Leading article: Labour holds its own: Feltham and Heston byelection

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 450 words


There have now been four parliamentary byelections in England since the 2010
general election, all of them coincidentally in seats previously held by Labour,
as well as a fifth in Scotland and one in Belfast. The most recent of the four
English contests took place this week, in Feltham and Heston, which flanks
Heathrow airport to the west of London. Labour has now won all four, with the
newly elected Seema Malhotra securing a big Labour win early yesterday on the
lowest byelection turnout (28.8%) since 2000. With a swing to Labour from
Conservative of some 9%, the result at Feltham and Heston showed strong
continuity from the previous English parliamentary byelection in Leicester South
in May, when the swing from Tory to Labour was also 9%.

It is hard to dispute Ms Malhotra's conclusion, in her acceptance speech, that
her constituents have delivered a vote of confidence in Labour, even though
turnout was so poor. It is certainly a good result for the Labour leader Ed
Miliband, who has been under growing criticism for failing to make a bigger
impact and for some disturbingly poor ratings. If Labour had lost in Feltham and
Heston, the "Miliband in crisis" headlines this weekend would certainly have
been frenzied. So it is only fair to underline that Labour's comfortable victory
helps to bolster the party leader. David Cameron will also have been pleased
that his Brussels veto probably helped to hold off the Ukip challenge.

The larger question is whether the result can be reconciled with the boost for
the Conservatives in the nationwide opinion polls since Mr Cameron's Brussels
walkout. Those polls have shown a swing of around 3% from Labour to the Tories
since Brussels, so they appear at odds with the byelection result. This may,
though, fail to take account of specific local factors in Feltham and Heston.
These include its large and loyally Labour Asian community, the poorer than
average Labour performance in 2010 by the late Alan Keen (who was tarnished by
expenses violations), and some good Labour campaign organisation this time
round. The seismic quality of the nationwide Tory polling lead should also
probably not be exaggerated.

Whether Mr Miliband is right to claim that Feltham and Heston represented "a
swing away from Tory ideas to Labour ideas" is more doubtful. There was
certainly no evidence in the byelection of support for coalition economic
policy. But nor was there much evidence of support for Labour plans either,
assuming anyone really knows what they are. On a very small turnout in a safe
seat, the voters chose themselves another Labour MP, that's all. Good news for
Mr Miliband, certainly, but no one should read too much more into it than that.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               December 17, 2011
                                 First Edition

Labour holds seat in west London by-election;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 329 words


The Labour leader Ed Miliband drew comfort yesterday from the party's decisive
victory in the Feltham and Heston by-election, claiming it was a "verdict on the
Government's failed economic plan". The low-key contest is likely to be best
remembered for its dismal turnout, with less than 29 per cent of electors in the
west London constituency bothering to vote.

Labour's Seema Malhotra won with a majority of 6,203 over the Conservatives,
while the Liberal Democrats saw off a challenge from the UK Independence Party
to cling on to third place.

Ms Malhotra, a management consultant, achieved a swing of 8.6 per cent since the
general election although the number of votes cast for Labour fell because of
the lowest turnout in a by-election for 11 years.

Mr Miliband, who is facing growing muttering over his leadership, told
supporters in the seat: "This is not just a swing from the Tories to Labour. It
is a swing away from Tory ideas to Labour ideas.

"Labour is starting to win back trust but we know there is more to do, more
arguments to win, more people to convince, more people we have to win back," he
admitted.

The Tories, whose share of the vote dropped by six per cent, conceded their
performance had been disappointing, but said Labour needed to win by a much
larger margin to prove they were on course for a general election victory.

There was relief for the Liberal Democrats who avoided being forced into fourth
place by Ukip by just 88 votes. The two parties narrowly avoided losing their
deposits. But Ukip, whose support may have been depressed by David Cameron's
stance at the European summit, said the collapse in the Liberal Democrat vote
proved the party was a "busted flush".

The by-election was caused by the death last month from cancer of Alan Keen, who
had represented the seat since 1992.

The turnout was 28.8 per cent - the lowest since the West Bromwich West
by-election in November 2000. Conservative chairman Baroness Warsi said this was
"very worrying".

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 17, 2011 Saturday 12:26 AM GMT

Miliband: By-election win says it all about economy;


BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: HEI-FI-NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, drew comfort yesterday from the party's decisive
victory in the Feltham and Heston by-election, calling it a "verdict on the
Government's failed economic plan".

But the contest is likely to be best remembered for its dismal turnout, with
less than 29 per cent of electors in the west London constituency bothering to
vote.

Labour's Seema Malhotra won with a majority of 6,203 over the Conservatives,
while the Liberal Democrats saw off a challenge from the UK Independence Party
to cling on to third place.

Ms Malhotra, a management consultant, achieved a swing of 8.6 per cent compared
with the general election result, although the number of votes cast for Labour
fell because of the lowest turnout in a by-election for 11 years.

Mr Miliband, who is facing growing muttering over his leadership, told
supporters: "This is not just a swing from the Tories to Labour. It is a swing
away from Tory ideas to Labour ideas. Labour is starting to win back trust but
we know there is more to do, more arguments we need to win, more people we have
to convince, more people we have to win back."

The Tories, whose share of the vote dropped by six per cent, conceded their
performance had been disappointing, but said Labour needed to win by a much
larger margin to prove they were on course for election victory.

There was relief for the Liberal Democrats, who avoided the humiliation of being
forced into fourth place by Ukip by 88 votes. Roger Crouch, the Liberal Democrat
candidate, said: "We have shown we are still resilient and still relevant." But
Ukip, whose support may have been depressed by David Cameron's stance in last
week's European summit, said the collapse in the Liberal Democrat vote proved
the party was a "busted flush".

The by-election was caused by the death from cancer last month of Alan Keen, who
had represented the seat since 1992. He retained it last year with a majority of
4,658.

The turnout of 28.8 per cent - the lowest since the West Bromwich West
by-election in November 2000 - was described by the Conservative chairman,
Baroness Warsi, as "very worrying".

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

LABOUR'S WIN 'IS VERDICT ON FAILED POLICY';
ELECTION

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


By JAMES LYONS Deputy Political Editor ED Miliband yesterday hailed Labour's
victory in the Feltham and Heston by-election as a damning verdict on the
Government's economic failure. Candidate Seema Malhotra won with 12,639 votes,
an increased majority of 6,203 over the Tories and a swing of 8.6%.

The Lib Dems held on to third place with 1,364 votes, narrowly avoiding a
humiliating finish behind the UK Independence Party in the West London seat.

The Labour leader said: "This by-election offers a verdict on the Government's
failed economic plan.

"It's a verdict that says we can't go on with the idea that there is no
alternative."

But many people did not bother to vote, and the turnout of just 28.8% was the
lowest in a by-election for a decade.

Mr Miliband hopes the win can silence muttering about his leadership among his
MPs.

Feltham and Heston was held by the Tories in 1983 and 1987. The by-election was
cause by the death of Labour's Alan Keen.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTORY J Seema Malhotra

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Low poll turnout's 'a worry'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words


THE lowest by-election turnout for 11 years is "deeply worrying", Tory party
chairman Baroness Warsi said last night.

Labour's Seema Malhotra won the West London seat of Feltham and Heston with
12,639 votes.

The result saved Labour leader Ed Miliband from a Christmas coup over his
lacklustre performance.

But fewer than three in ten voters braved the cold to go to the polls - with a
turnout of just 28.8 per cent.

Baroness Warsi said: "I am concerned about the level of political engagement.

It can't be right that on 12,000 votes a constituency can be won."

Despite the low turnout Labour had an increased 6,203 majority over the Tories,
who polled 6,436. The Lib Dems got 1,364 and UKIP 1,276.

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Triumph ... Malhotra

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

POLL FEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 108 words


THE lowest by-election turnout for 11 years is "deeply worrying", Tory party
chairman Baroness Warsi said last night.

Labour's Seema Malhotra won the West London seat of Feltham and Heston with
12,639 votes.

The result saved Labour leader Ed Miliband from a Christmas coup over his
lacklustre performance. But fewer than three in ten voters went to the polls -
with a turnout of just 28.8 per cent.

Baroness Warsi said: "I am concerned about the level of political engagement.

"It can't be right that on 12,000 votes a constituency can be won."

Labour won an increased 6,203 majority over the Tories, who polled 6,436. The
Lib Dems got 1,364 and UKIP 1,276.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

By-election gives Miliband a much-needed Christmas gift

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Soraya Kishtwari

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 517 words


Ed Miliband bought himself time with a by-election win that helped to ease
Labour jitters before the Christmas break.

Seema Malhotra gained a swing from the Conservatives of 8.6 per cent to claim
more than half the vote in the Feltham and Heston poll.

Mr Miliband said that David Cameron should start listening to voters but
conceded that Labour had to do more to regain public trust.Turnout in the
Labour-held seat was less than 29 per cent, the lowest in a by-election for 11
years.

The Liberal Democrats scraped into third place, 88 votes ahead of UKIP. The
result showed that the Lib Dems were "still resilient and still relevant", said
Roger Crouch, the party's candidate.

Mr Miliband brushed off questions about his leadership, saying he was focused on
speaking up for unemployed young people, families facing squeezed budgets and
struggling businesses.

The Labour leader has endured a tough few weeks. At a time when Labour
supporters have expected their party to capitalise on poor economic news and the
uncertainty of Britain's place in Europe, the Tories have risen in the polls.

Mr Miliband capped a lacklustre run by coming off second best in the last joust
of term at Prime Minister's questions.As he prepared to make political capital
from David Cameron's differences with Nick Clegg over Europe, the Prime Minister
floored him with a jibe about his own relationship with his brother David, which
has yet to recover from the party's leadership election.

An outbreak of muttering by some Labour MPs about Mr Miliband's performance
currently represents more of a lament than a threat. Shadow Cabinet ministers
insist that the PMQs verdict was harsh on Mr Miliband, that he performed well
and that Mr Cameron had only one good line. They also point out that the party
is still recovering from its second worst general election showing only 18
months ago. And they believe that Labour's argument on the economy is - slowly -
beginning to gain weight with voters.

Mr Miliband insisted again yesterday that he was on a "long journey". He said
that Labour would have to persuade the public they could provide a fairer
alternative to the coalition without having money to spend. "I'm totally clear
that we're going to have to show different routes to social justice and we're
going to have to show the public," he told The Financial Times.

Labour blamed cold weather for the low turnout, but the Tories said it was a
cause for concern. Baroness Warsi, the Tory co-chairman, said: "It's deeply
worrying. By-elections generally have low turnouts ... but I am concerned about
the level of political engagement. It can't be right that on 12,000 votes a
constituency can be won."

Results in full

The Feltham and Heston by-election was unremarkable. Labour increased its
majority by 1,545 and the Lib Dems took third place, beating UKIP by 88 votes.
The results, with the percentage increase or decrease in brackets from last
year, in full were:

Labour 12,639 (+10.79%)

Conservative

6,436 (-6.32%)

Liberal Democrats

1,364 (-7.87%)

UKIP

1,276 (+3.45%)

The turnout was 28.8 per cent, the lowest in any by-election since 2000.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed Miliband with Seema Malhotra, the newly-elected MP for Feltham and
Heston
STEFAN ROUSSEAU / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

By-election eases Labour jitters despite low turnout

BYLINE: Roland Watson, Soraya Kishtwari

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 226 words


Ed Miliband bought himself time with a by-election win that helped to ease
Labour jitters before the Christmas break. Seema Malhotra gained a swing from
the Conservatives of 8.6 per cent to claim more than half the vote in the
Feltham & Heston poll.

Mr Miliband said that David Cameron should start listening to voters but
conceded that Labour had to do more to regain public trust.

Turnout in the Labour-held seat was less than 29 per cent, the lowest in a
byelection for 11 years.

The Liberal Democrats scraped into third place, 88 votes ahead of UKIP. The
result showed that the Lib Dems were "still resilient and still relevant", said
Roger Crouch, the party's candidate.

Mr Miliband has endured a tough few weeks. At a time when Labour supporters had
expected their party to capitalise on the poor economy and uncertainty of
Britain's place in Europe, the Tories have risen in the polls.

Baroness Warsi, the Tory co-chairman, said the low turnout was cause for
concern. "It's deeply worrying. Byelections generally have low turnouts, but I
am concerned about the level of political engagement," she said. "It can't be
right that on 12,000 votes a constituency can be won."

Results in full Labour 12,639 (+10.79%) Conservative 6,436 (-6.32%) Liberal
Democrats 1,364 (-7.87%) UKIP 1,276 (+3.45%) The figure in brackets is the
increase or decrease from last year

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

By-election victory is a timely gift for Miliband

BYLINE: Roland Watson, Soraya Kishtwari

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 334 words


Ed Miliband bought himself time with a by-election win that helped to ease
Labour jitters before the Christmas break. Seema Malhotra gained a swing from
the Conservatives of 8.6 per cent to claim more than half the vote in Feltham
and Heston.

Mr Miliband said that David Cameron should start listening to the voters but
conceded that Labour had to do more to regain public trust. The turnout in the
Labour-held seat was less than 29 per cent, the lowest in a by-election for 11
years.

The Lib Dems scraped into third place, 88 votes ahead of UKIP. The result showed
that the Lib Dems were "still resilient and still relevant", said Roger Crouch,
the party's candidate.

Mr Miliband brushed off leadership questions, saying that he was focused on
speaking up for unemployed young people, families facing squeezed budgets and
struggling businesses. The Labour leader has endured a tough few weeks. At a
time when Labour supporters have expected their party to capitalise on poor
economic news and the uncertainty of Britain's place in Europe, the Tories have
risen in the polls.

An outbreak of muttering by some Labour MPs about Mr Miliband's performance
represents more of a lament than a threat.

Mr Miliband insisted again yesterday that he was on a "long journey". He said
that Labour would have to persuade the public that they could provide a fairer
alternative to the coalition without having money to spend.

"I'm totally clear that we're going to have to show different routes to social
justice and we're going to have to show the public," he told The Financial
Times.

Results in full The Feltham and Heston by-election was unremarkable. Labour
increased its majority by 1,545 and the Lib Dems took third place, beating UKIP
by 88 votes. The results, with the percentage increase or decrease in brackets
from last year, in full were: Labour 12,639 (+10.79%) Conservative 6,436
(-6.32%) Liberal Democrats 1,364 (-7.87%) UKIP 1,276 (+3.45%) The turnout was
28.8 per cent, the lowest in any by-election since 2000.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIMscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

Front: Easy win for Labour in Feltham and Heston byelection after MP's death

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 537 words


Labour comfortably held onto the west London seat of Feltham and Heston in a
byelection early this morning, raising hopes among supporters of Ed Miliband
that a whispering campaign against his leadership will die down over Christmas.

Seema Malhotra (right, with Ed Miliband), a former adviser to Harriet Harman,
retained the seat for Labour after a swing of 8.56% points from the Tories.

Malhotra increased Labour's majority from 4,658 to 6,203 when she won with
12,639 votes. Mark Bowen, the Conservative candidate, came second with 6,436
votes. Roger Crouch, the Liberal Democrat, fought off a challenge from the UK
Independence Party to hold third place with 1,364 votes. UKIP won 1,276 votes.

The actual Labour vote fell after a low turnout of 28.7% - thirty points below
the figure for the general election and the lowest in a byelection in eleven
years.

The byelection was caused by the death last month of Alan Keen who held the seat
with a majority of 4,658 at the general election last year. Keen captured the
seat from the Tories in 1992.

Malhotra said: "This result is a great victory for Labour which shows the
progress we are making under Ed Miliband's leadership, a vote of confidence in
the way Labour is changing, listening hard, winning back the trust of the people
we seek to serve.

"But this is also a wake-up call for David Cameron. This result shows how this
Tory led government is totally out of touch."

Jim Fitzpatrick, the shadow transport minister, said that Labour had performed
well because of fears over the economy. Speaking in the constituency on Sky News
this morning before the declaration, Fitzpatrick said: "This is a seat the
Tories had to win last year to win the general election. They have failed to do
that and they have gone backwards. Labour is making steady and significant
progress.

"This was about the economy. Europe didn't really feature very much. Youth
unemployment has almost trebled here in less than one year. The economy,
unemployment - these are the issues people here are worried about. The
government's economic strategy has been rejected here by the people this
evening."

Alok Sharma, the Conservative MP for Reading West, said: "The British people
just don't think (Labour) gets it. (Labour's) plan may be a Plan B but it is a
plan for bankruptcy. This is a traditional Labour seat. Labour should be doing
really well. We would expect them, in a standstill position, to be getting a
swing of anywhere between 15% to 18%. Unless they do that they have gone
backwards."

Labour will hope that a solid performance in a seat which the Tories won in the
Thatcher landslides in 1983 and 1987 will stabilise Miliband's position after a
tough week. Labour MPs have started to question his leadership after he
struggled at prime minister's questions on Wednesday.

Malhotra worked for Harman while she served as acting leader of the Labour party
after Gordon Brown's resignation. A management consultant, Malhotra advised Liam
Byrne and Ian Austin before the election when they were regional ministers.

Result:

12,639: Votes for Labour candidate Seema Malhotra (54.42%)

6,436: Votes for Conservative candidate Mark Bowen (27.71%)

1,364: Votes for Liberal Democrat candidate Roger Crouch (5.87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

Feltham and Heston byelection: don't break open the cava, Ed

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1337 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Labour may have scored victory but it should be under no illusion
about its prospects in these times of austerity

FULL TEXT

A learned professor whom we all see on the telly confided to a friend this week
that Ukip might win yesterday's Feltham and Heston byelection. It's a useful
reminder why learned professors should always be on tap, never on top. They so
often lack the common sense with which we mere mortals are saddled.

Labour won easily with an evidently clever management consultant called Seema
Malhotra for a candidate. She went to school in the area and would have had to
have been caught behind a bush with Ed Miliband - no, make that David Cameron -
to have lost the seat.

Admittedly, with low turnouts accidents occasionally happen. But after the
coalition's bust-up in Brussels last Friday this wasn't going to be Ukip's
night. Would-be Tory protest voters may have stayed put and the Conservatives
are currently doing better in some polls despite the recession and the cuts.
We'll come back to that.

It's usually better to win an election. But that's about it. Labour should be
under no illusion about its prospects - and probably isn't. The overnight death
of the contrarian-and-proud-of-it journalist, Christopher Hitchens, was higher
up the Radio 4 news bulletin this morning than the byelection - and rightly so,
though comparing Hitch with Voltaire (as MP Denis MacShane did) was over-cooking
things a bit. An old drinking companion of mine, Hitchens came to believe his
own press releases.

Back to Feltham and Heston, not a very Hitchens kind of place located under the
Heathrow flight paths and solidly blue collar. I've always enjoyed byelections
and try to visit most of them in my old age. Driving around the network of
lookalike suburban roads in the constituency last week I managed to get lost,
but have an excuse. It was the nearest byelection to my own west London home
that I have attended in 30 years of this sort of thing. Complacently, I didn't
bother to take my wife's new sat-nav. At least I called the right result.

So what does it tell us about the state of play in domestic Westminster
politics? Not much, I fear, and certainly not much that will keep Cameron awake
at night or prompt Miliband to open the cava. In her acceptance speech this
morning Malhotra - canvassing again with Miliband on Friday, we are assured -
called it a "wake-up call" to the coalition, which is what byelection winners
say, always privately relieved they didn't blow it.

As Nick Watt's report makes clear there was an 8.5% swing from the Tories, whose
candidate was a likable local councillor, Mark Bowen. That may reflect a
restoration of the Labour vote damaged by the ex-MP, the late Alan Keen's
embarrassing treatment of expenses in tandem with his ex-MP wife, Ann, who lost
her neighbouring suburban seat in 2010.

But attempts to make this bread-and-butter event more interesting than it was
ever likely to prove focused on Ukip's hope of pushing the Liberal Democrats'
first-time contender, Roger Crouch, into third place. It failed, only narrowly
by 88 votes, but we all know that one vote would have been enough either way.
The BNP got 540 votes (since you ask) ahead of the Greens on 426 in a
nine-candidate field where the Bus-Pass Elvis party garnered 93 votes.

All right, an 8.5% swing sounds fine and for an opposition party it's always
better than a similar swing in the opposite direction. Much more important - and
discouraging for all concerned - is the low turnout of 28.7%, half the 69% in
the 2010 general election and apparently the lowest in a byelection for 11 years
when David Lammy won Tottenham on a turnout of 25.4% and Adrian Bailey held West
Bromwich West on 27.3%, both in 2000 when Tony Blair was in his prime.

As Mike Smithson notes on his smart Political Betting website there were 10,145
postal votes cast in Alan Keen's last win - 21% of the total - and could have
been even more significant in Malhotra's win because nowadays people don't need
an excuse to claim a PV. Like me, Smithson disapproves of this Labour "reform"
because it encourages fraud and allows people to vote without being able to
judge candidates.

I persist in believing that candidates matter, that a good or bad one can make a
difference, especially in a byelection. Ukip's candidate, a colourful
entrepreneurial character called Andrew Charalambous who was still sniffing
after a Tory seat until quite recently, didn't strike me as the man to swing
votes, though he was protectively supported by his party leader, the much more
plausible Nigel Farage MEP, always a cheerful presence and looking a lot
healthier than when I last saw him (before his 2010 election plane crash).

That's why parties take no chances, they ensure that "safe" candidates are
picked, though byelections are no longer the TV three-ringed circus they were in
the days when Newsnight's Vincent Hanna had such fun. The parties protect their
candidates too closely - and in this instance Labour staged the ballot (the
party holding the seat chooses the date) barely a month after Keen's death. Why?
To save campaigning money it doesn't have, so I was told. MPs also tend to
retire or move on to new pastures rather than die in harness: there are fewer
byelections. Check the record with Wikipedia. Yet there have already been five -
now six - in this parliament after 18 months, as many as in the whole 2001-5
parliament.

Belfast West's Gerry Adams, who became an Irish Sinn Féin TD and Sir Peter
Soulsby (Leicester South) became elected mayor of Leicester; Inverclyde's David
Cairns died; Barnsley Central's Eric Illsley went to jail for expenses fraud and
Oldham's Phil Woolas was ejected by an election court, the first such verdict in
99 years.

No seat has changed hands in party terms, all the winners came in on the usual
lower turnouts, 45.4% in Inverclyde, 36.5% in Barnsley Central where ex-Para
major, Dan Jarvis, held the seat for Labour and Ukip pushed its way into second
place in this South Yorkshire ex-mining stronghold. In Leicester, Labour pushed
up its vote by 12.2% (Jarvis did slightly better) and in Inverclyde, the rampant
SNP took 15.5% more than in 2010 - in what is a Labour heartland area. Elwyn
Watkins, the Lib Dem whose complaint of illegal campaign practice forced the
Oldham byelection did not prosper: Labour's new candidate, Debbie Abrahams,
upped her vote by 10% and elbowed him aside.

Not much to glean from that lot. Labour defended five seats and held five,
though not very excitingly. In Feltham and Heston Labour usually runs the local
council - Hounslow - and clearly has both achievements and failures on its
record. Being lost, I arrived too late to see Ed Miliband and his candidate
visit the Sure Start project on the edge of the Beaver Estate, a tough 1960s
high-rise neighbourhood close to the busy M4.

The Sure Start centre looked bright and cheerful - like its staff - but times
are still tough for many people around here, relatively prosperous though it is
compared with some of the other byelection constituencies I have visited lately.
Youth unemployment has risen sharply and the price paid for many local jobs is
noise and pollution from the airport.

On Comment is Free today the Guardian's Martin Kettle presents the challenge
Labour faces here - and elsewhere - which is how to address issues of public
spending and social justice, its core appeal, in times when there is no extra
money and no prospect of there being any more for the forseeable future.

Voters remain more inclined to blame Labour for its share of the recession -
borrowing too much to fund its ambitious anti-poverty plans and not reining in
the boom-and-bust banks via effective regulation - for the state we're all in
than they are to blame the coalition for trying to fix it. Self-defeating
austerity, which simply piles on the debt, may change that. But when it does,
Labour had better have created a more persuasive story to woo voters back - or
something nastier may step into the vacuum.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

Labour holds seat in Feltham by-election

BYLINE: Louise Nousratpour

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 292 words


Labour's candidate Seema Malhotra comfortably held Feltham and Heston for the
party with a net swing of 8.6 per cent from the Tories. She was elected with a
majority of 6,203 - increasing Labour's share of the vote from 43 per cent at
the 2010 general election to 54 per cent. The parliamentary by-election was held
to replace veteran Labour MP Alan Keen following his death from cancer last
month.

Addressing supporters in Feltham town centre, Mr Miliband called on the Tories
to listen to voters. "This is a result about young people looking for a job,
it's about families and their living standards and it's about businesses that
are really struggling. What we are going to do as a party is focus on those
people and fight for those people," he said. But Mr Miliband, who has come under
pressure after a string of poor poll ratings, also admitted that Labour still
had more to do to "rebuild trust" in politics. The triumphant Ms Malhotra said
her by-election win was a "wake-up call" for David Cameron. "This is a really
important message that's been sent to Mr Cameron," she added. Labour's candidate
for London mayor Ken Livingstone said the result was "a clear message over the
need for jobs and recovery to the Tory-led government." He added: "A swing to
Labour in outer London, where fares are rising and there has been a 147 per cent
increase in youth unemployment, raises serious questions about the Mayor of
London's position ahead of next May's elections." Turnout was just 29 per cent -
the lowest in a by-election for 11 years. The Tories went from 34 per cent in
2010 to 28 per cent, while the Lib Dems' share more than halved to under 6 per
cent from 14 per cent - just 92 votes more than the UK Independence Party.
louise@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 16, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TXT US ON 07900 946 486

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 124 words


Don't forget to include your name. Standard text rates from your provider apply

WHO needs the German meerkat and her little puppet Sarky? Make Britain great
again. Free trade, free world.

DAVE, Norwich

I DON'T agree with many UKIP policies but it took balls for Nigel Farage to
stand before EU bureaucrats and say what he said.

BRANDON

HIGH Street shops empty - either no parking or expensive. Retail parks - large,
free car parks. I know where I'll be going.

EINSTEIN

WELCOME back My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding. Brilliant TV.

Mrs CLARKE

LOWEST-paid seasonal employees are turkey pluckers? Full-time senior care
assistant isn't much better paid. Ho ho ho.

SHAUN MOORE

THATCHER was the Iron Lady. Cameron has a long way to go but PM could be the
Iron Man.

MARTIN

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 16, 2011 Friday 1:59 PM GMT

Labour 'long journey' back to power, admits Ed Miliband;
Ed Miliband has admitted that Labour faces "a long journey" back to power, as he
overcame the first major test of his leadership at the ballot box.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 367 words


Labour retained the west London parliamentary seat of Feltham and Heston,
increasing the party's share of the vote in the by-election to more than 50%.

Mr Miliband dismissed criticism over his recent performances as "Westminster
village" gossip and insisted that most members of the public were more concerned
about their jobs.

He has caused concern among his own MPs after a series of uninspiring
appearances in the Commons, and recent national opinion polls showing the
Conservatives in the lead for the first time this year.

However, Mr Miliband told the Financial Times: "I always said it would be a long
journey to be just a one-term opposition."

On a night which saw a turnout of under 29% - the lowest in a by-election for 11
years, the Labour candidate Seema Malhotra won with majority of 6,203.

Mr Miliband claimed the result, which saw a substantial swing in support away
from the Conservatives to Labour, represented "a verdict on this Government's
failing economic plan".

However, the Conservatives argued that Labour should have extended their
majority even further if they were looking to be on course for victory at the
next general election, set for 2015.

Mr Miliband said the Tory argument that the seat was always known to be safe for
Labour was "pretty offensive".

"They shouldn't be denying the people's choice, they should be listening to the
people's verdict," he said.

"The people of Feltham and Heston are like people across this country - fearful
of what is happening in Britain and determined there must be a better way.

"We, Labour, are starting to win back trust but we know there is more to do."

The Liberal Democrats, who have been struggling in national opinion polls,
suffered a sharp fall in their share of the vote and only narrowly avoided the
humiliation of being beaten into fourth place by the UK Independence Party.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said the Lib Dems were "almost a busted flush".

The Conservative vote share was down from 34% to 28%, while the Lib Dems dropped
from nearly 14% to under 6%. Labour won 54% of the vote.

The Ukip saw vote more than double from 2% to 5%.

The parliamentary by-election was sparked by the death last month of veteran
Labour MP Alan Keen.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2011 Friday 12:54 PM GMT

Labour wins Feltham and Heston by-election;
Labour has comfortably held Feltham and Heston in the by-election with an
increased majority over the Conservatives.

LENGTH: 384 words


The Labour candidate Seema Malhotra was returned with majority of 6,203 - a net
swing of 8.6% from the Conservatives.

On a night which saw a turnout of under 29% - the lowest in a by-election for 11
years - the Liberal Democrats managed to see off a challenge from the UK
Independence Party to hold on to third place.

The result came as a relief to Labour leader Ed Miliband who needed a victory if
he was not to face a fresh bout of questioning over his leadership.

The triumphant candidate Ms Malhotra said it was a ''wake-up call'' for Prime
Minister David Cameron.

''Even on a lower turnout we've increased substantially our majority and the
Tories have got to be asking the question of why,'' she said.

''This is a really important message that's been sent to Mr Cameron.''

The Conservatives however said Labour should have extended their majority even
further if they were looking to be on course for victory at the next general
election, set for 2015.

The defeated Tory candidate Mark Bowen insisted that he was ''proud'' of the
result, despite seeing his party's share of the vote fall.

''We have done a lot better than the pollsters and bookmakers suggested we would
do,'' he said.

For the Lib Dems there was relief that they avoided the humiliation of being
beaten into fourth place, despite a sharp fall in their share of the vote.

Lib Dem candidate Roger Crouch said: ''We have shown that we are still resilient
and still relevant.''

However Ukip leader Nigel Farage said the Lib Dems were ''almost a busted
flush''.

''People are turning to Ukip as they realise we are serious when it comes to
putting Britain first,'' he said.

Ukip had been hoping to overhaul the Lib Dems but admitted their chances had
been damaged by David Cameron's decision to wield the veto at the Brussels
summit, which gave the Tories a fillip in the final week of the campaign.

Labour increased their share of the vote from 43% at the general election to 54%
with a net swing of 8.6% from the Tories.

The Conservative vote share was down from 34% to 28%, while the Lib Dems dropped
from nearly 14% to under 6%.

In contrast, Ukip saw its vote share more than double from 2% to over 5%.

The parliamentary by-election was sparked by the death last month of veteran
Labour MP Alan Keen after he lost his battle with cancer.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2011 Friday 10:23 AM GMT

Labour wins Feltham and Heston by-election;
Labour candidate Seema Malhotra celebrates her win in the Feltham and Heston
by-election with a warning to David Cameron's Coalition.

LENGTH: 137 words


Feltham and Heston by-election: full result

Labour won the London seat with an increased majority over the Conservatives on
a night which saw a turnout of under 29% - the lowest in a by-election for 11
years.

The net swing of 8.6% from the Conservatives came as a relief to Labour leader
Ed Miliband who needed a victory if he was not to face a fresh bout of
questioning over his leadership.

The triumphant candidate Ms Malhotra said it was a "wake-up call" for Prime
Minister David Cameron.

"Even on a lower turnout we've increased substantially our majority and the
Tories have got to be asking the question of why," she said.

The Liberal Democrats managed to see off a challenge from the UK Independence
Party to hold on to third place.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 16, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If I should love Europe, please tell me why;
My generation is open to the positive case for staying in. But all we get are
apocalyptic warnings on going it alone

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1040 words


The problem with concentrating on the mechanisms of European Union politics for
long is that it's all so complex and boring that, within the space of ten
minutes or so, you risk finding yourself headbutting a wall, or setting yourself
on fire, or hurling yourself out of a window just to escape the sheer,
horrifying ennui of, however briefly, still being alive.

Bearing this in mind, and hoping that you've nothing sharp to hand, did you know
that the leader of the third-largest pan-European party is a Brit? Shut up, no
you didn't. Not unless you are him, or maybe his wife. But it's true. Sir Graham
Watson heads the European Liberal Democrats, with 55 member parties and 75 MEPs.

"How embarrassing that I've never heard of him," I thought to myself, when my
meandering Googling this week threw up his name. "I bet he's had something to
say this week." So I had a look to see when his name had last turned up in the
British news, and discovered that it was yesterday, in a story about what the EU
does and does not consider to be a laxative.

"Sir Graham Watson", reported The Daily Telegraph, "has challenged an EU
commissioner to a prune-eating contest." Yeah. Doesn't look great, does it?
Britain's relationship with the EU is wavering, the British public are thinking
"What's in it for us?" and at the same time ...

One-sided arguments make me nervous. Continental Europeans may believe peculiar
things (and you want to hear the arguments I have with my German in-laws about
the various biblical characters they reckon fly down my chimney at Christmas),
but it's still hard to credit that they'd set so much store by something so
patently ludicrous as the European project often appears to British eyes.

The only pro-European arguments we hear are the ones that warn, apocalyptically,
of the dangers of going it alone. Surely that's not enough to have won over 26
other countries, not to mention British Europhiles such as Sir Graham, whoever
he may be.Whether they are right or wrong, there must surely be some positive
arguments for Europe out there. Possibly, they'd have no traction in Britain at
all. Still, it would be nice to hear somebody making them.

British exceptionalism is not a myth. "Baldwin thought Europe was a bore, and
Chamberlain thought it was only a greater Birmingham," said Winston Churchill,
summing up the sense of hostile tedium that still characterises our approach to
pretty much everywhere over there.

I've been reading some pretty exciting documents this week, as you'd imagine,
but my favourite are probably the Eurobarometer surveys of attitudes in member
states, produced by the European Commission since 1973. They are full of graphs
(alas there are few blades in our office and no opening windows) and in every
one, ever, Britain is at the bottom. Whatever the question, the British answer
is "go away".

I've been to the European Parliament in Brussels only once and it felt exactly
as alien to me as the parliament of anywhere I don't come from. I was being
shown around, admittedly, by the fiercely Eurosceptic Daniel Hannan, MEP, but I
think that my impression would have been much the same if my guide had been of
the opposite political persuasion altogether. (Sir Graham! Lunch? Somewhere near
a loo?) I felt more involved and, frankly, represented on a visit to the White
House.

Mr Hannan, who has been in Brussels since 1999, told me he had become an MEP by
mistake. When Tony Blair came to power threatening to join the euro, he said, he
genuinely thought that our centre of political gravity would cross the Channel.
It didn't happen, and not just because we kept the pound. At best, even when
they aren't trying to rape our banks, Europe is still just a greater Birmingham
and a bore. And this isn't only the fault of our media, which gets
disproportionately excited about stories such as the prunes one. It's also the
fault of the Euro-evangelists, the people with passion, who never bother to tell
us exactly what it is they're so keen on - or why.

In Britain, we see only the faintest glimmers of the outline of an ideology that
has shaped our continent. I felt it this week, the tiniest amount, while reading
about CERN. The pan-European dream, the need to reach beyond nations; not just
to remove the causes of war, but to soar towards ... hmmm, something. It slips
through my grasp. But Nick Clegg must feel this. Chris Huhne must. Why don't
they talk about it?

All of our language about Europe is archaic. Eurosceptics talk about wanting to
"win back powers" without saying what powers, or what difference it would make
to have them. It's vacuous drivel, and it's amply reflected when Europhiles warn
of a "loss of influence", without explaining what we've used this influence for
in the past. Such terms presumably had meaning when people first started
throwing them around 20 years ago. But now? It all makes me feel terribly next
generation. Why are they still talking like this? What the hell are they all on
about?

The call for fresh thinking on Europe sounds like a UKIP euphemism for getting
the hell out. But it needn't. I'm part of a generation for which a degree of
Europeanism is unthinking. We eat croissants and pizza and regard pretty much
any easyJet flight as essentially domestic. I regard Germans, Spanish and French
of my age as pretty much the same as me, which isn't something I could honestly
say about Americans. Yet the pro-European case doesn't speak in this sort of
language at all. Why not?

When the referendum comes, as it surely must, prunes and fishing quotas aren't
going to be enough.Disengagement, like any sort of devil, seems to have all the
best tunes. But maybe that's just because nobody else is singing. Can a Brit
truly feel like a European? Can we feel pride in Beethoven and guilt for Hitler
as if they were our own? Can we feel ownership of the riches of Germany and
responsibility for the meltdown of Greece? I might take some convincing that we
can, but nobody in my lifetime has ever tried to convince me. I wish they would.

You, the editor

Send your 250-word review of today's edition of The Times by 2pm to
YouTheEditor@thetimes.co.uk

Whatever the question, the British answer is 'go away'

Disengagement, like any devil, seems to have all the best tunes

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday

Politics Live blog: Thursday 15 December

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 6511 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
including David Cameron's speech on troubled families

FULL TEXT

2.40pm: I'm wrapping up early today, not least because I've got to read almost
300 comments before I interview Nigel Farage.Before I go, here's an afternoon
summary.

[#xfffd] Lord Blair, the former Metropolitan police commissioner, has attacked
the way the government is cutting the police. He made his comments in an
interview on the World at One.

There is no intelligent view as to whether the cuts should fall. There has been
this fairly ridiculous conversation about back office, front office, middle
office. The organisation is a whole and there is a much deeper question, which
is what proportion of the police force should be officers and what proportion
should be other people.

That's a much more interesting question which the government hasn't addressed
and it keeps refusing to have an inquiry and I just think we're staggering on
into a degraded service because you can't impose 20% cuts on the service unless
you change the way the service is delivered.

Nick Herbert, the policing minister, told the programme that he disagreed.
"We've got something like 25,000 police officers in backroom functions," he
said. "It must make sense to prioritise the front line."

[#xfffd]Former MPs David Chaytor, Elliot Morley and Eric Illsley have been told
to repay thousands of pounds in legal costs after their convictions for falsely
claiming expenses.[#xfffd] The Ministry of Defence has said that up to 13,500
military personnel will help provide security during next summer's Olympics.

[#xfffd] Sir George Young, the leader of the Commons, has defended the lack of
legislation going through the Commons this winter. "The government is not a
legislation factory," he told MPs at business questions. "We are not going to
make the mistake the previous government made of imposing on the house too many
ill-considered, ill-drafted bills."

[#xfffd]David Lammy has accused the education secretary, Michael Gove, of an
"undemocratic and aggressive" attempt to overhaul the management of the primary
school he attended as a child.

Thanks for the comments.

2.02pm: Earlier I promised a Feltham and Heston byelection reading list. Here it
is.

[#xfffd] Jackie South at the all that's left blog reviews the voting record in
the constituency in detail and predicts the result.

Upset-wise, look out for a strong UKIP showing. Although they only got 2% last
time, they are currently polling well nationally (8% in some polls) and could do
well in the south of the seat if voters there feel the pinch from the economy
and decide to move away from the Coalition parties. They should also be able to
capitalise on the BNP collapse, who won 3.5% last time round. Chamalambous won't
win, but he could take a strong third place.

So, I think [Seema Malhotra, the Labour candidate] should win with an increased
percentage majority, but possibly a smaller numerical one due to low turnout.

However, it will be a relatively short-lived victory for whoever wins - the seat
is proposed for abolition by the Boundary Commission, with Feltham joining Hayes
and Harlington to form a Heathrow-centred seat, Heston joining Southall and
Hanworth in the south-east being absorbed into Vince Cable's seat.

[#xfffd] Michael White in the Guardian last week says the byelection is Labour's
to lose.

In 2010, [Alan] Keen - easy-going and likeable, he died of cancer at 73 on 10
November - had 43% of the vote to Tory challenger, Mark Bowen's 34%, down from
his personal best (60%) in 1997, burdened with Labour's unpopularity and his own
share of the expenses scandal. Keen's would-be successor, Seema Malhotra, a
second-generation immigrant, who grew up around here, is more of a Labour
high-flyer, a well-connected management consultant. "Ministerial material," her
handlers predict.

[#xfffd] Lord Ashcroft at ConservativeHome last week on his polling showing
Labour 22% ahead in the constituency.

Looking further ahead, the poll confirms that Boris Johnson is running well
ahead of the Conservatives in London. Even in what is about to become a safe
Labour seat, Boris is running neck and neck with Ken Livingstone. A third of
those who say they will vote Liberal Democrat at the by-election on Thursday,
and a quarter of those planning to vote Labour, see themselves backing Boris
five months from now.

[#xfffd] Tom Copley at LabourList on how the Ashcroft poll is actually good for
Ken Livingstone.

The poll actually shows the momentum is with Ken, in an outer London seat where
Boris Johnson won last time. Ken's vote is up, and up by more than Boris
Johnson's. In the first poll since Ken announced his seven per cent fares cut,
the swing in Feltham and Heston is to Ken Livingstone.

In the last London Mayoral election in 2008, Boris Johnson won 41.9% of the
vote, compared to Ken's 37.5%. This poll shows that the two are now neck and
neck in Feltham and Heston: 45% to 44% respectively. That means that Ken has
added 6.5% to his vote here, and Boris Johnson 3.1%. So the momentum is more
than double in Ken's favour. Overall, that is a 1.7% swing towards Ken. It means
that the mayoral race is narrowing towards eye-wateringly close percentages.

[#xfffd] Paul Richards at LabourList on Seema Malhotra, Labour's candidate.

Bizarrely, the Tories' main line of attack on Seema, who grew up and went to
school in the constituency, is that she is successful. I've known her for nearly
20 years, and her brilliance as a management consultant has always been balanced
with a overwhelming commitment to social justice and the values of the Labour
party. That she is well-educated, well-paid and lives in a nice house is an odd
criticism from the Tories and their proxies. Even more strange is their attack
on the views of Sushil, her husband, discovered by trawling through back issues
of Management Today. Whereas in the 80s, candidates and their family members
were attacked if they believed in nuclear disarmament or the Cuban revolution,
Seema's husband is being attacked by the Tories for making a statement which
seems to support George Osborne's fiscal strategy. I concede it's an eccentric
view, and I will have it out with him next time I see him, but it doesn't
represent much of a barrier to his wife becoming a Labour MP.

1.30pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Labour have accused David Cameron of having unrealisitic aspirations
following the launch of a new drive to turn around 120,000 troubled families. In
a speech, Cameron said that these families were costing the state [#xfffd]9bn
and that a new Troubled Families unit would help them deal with their problems.
But Labour said that the initiative, which builds on work begun by Tony Blair
and Gordon Brown, would suffer because of government spending cuts. "Expecting
cash-strapped local authorities to provide 60% of the funding for new projects
seems unrealistic when ring-fences have been removed," said Gloria De Piero, the
shadow Home Office minister. The government is offering councils but they will
only get the money if they can show Louise Casey, the new troubled families
tsar, that their interventions have secured change, such as less truanting,
anti-social behaviour or addiction. (See11.51am and1.00pm.)

[#xfffd] Britain has been involved in a war of words with France about the
possibility of Britain losing its AAA credit rating. Banque de France governor
Christian Noyer, governor of the French cental bank, Banque de France, said that
a French credit rating downgrade was not justified on economic grounds. He went
on: "Or if it is, they should start by downgrading the UK, which has a bigger
deficit, as much debt, more inflation, weaker growth and where bank lending is
collapsing." Downing Street replied: "We have put in place a credible plan for
dealing with our deficit and the credibility of that plan can be seen in what
has happened to bond yields in this country."

[#xfffd] Examiners who were suspended following claims that they gave unfair
advice to teachers about exams have told MPs that they regret what they said.

[#xfffd][#xfffd]The Information Commissioner's Office has ruled that ministers
and officials can be ordered to hand over emails sent from their private
accounts if they contain details about government business. Information
Commissioner Christopher Graham said: "It should not come as a surprise to
public authorities to have the clarification that information held in private
email accounts can be subject to Freedom of Information law if it relates to
official business. This has always been the case - the Act covers all recorded
information in any form. It came to light in September that this is a somewhat
misunderstood aspect of the law and that further clarification was needed."

[#xfffd] Margaret Moran, the former Labour MP accused of fiddling her
Parliamentary expenses, is to face a fitness to plead hearing, it has been
decided. As the Press Association reports, a fitness to plead hearing will take
place at a date before April 18 when the court will hear reports from both
defence and prosecution psychiatrists about her mental health, Southwark Crown
Court was told. If Moran is found to be unfit to plead, a provisional date has
been set for April 18 when a jury will determine whether she did the acts
alleged by the prosecution, the court heard.

[#xfffd] Colin Myler, the former News of the World editor, has said that when he
was at the paper he feared that the history of misconduct in the newsroom would
at some stage cause problems. "It's fair to say that I always had some
discomfort and at the time I phrased it as that I felt that there could have
been bombs under the newsroom floor," he told the Leveson inquiry. "And I didn't
know where they were and I didn't know when they were going to go off. That was
my own view. But trying to get the evidence or establishing the evidence that
sadly the police already had was another matter." There are more details on our
Leveson live blog.

[#xfffd] Peers have abandoned an attempt to scrap the law allowing civil
partnership ceremonies to be held in churches. Lady O'Cathain, a Conservative,
threatened to call a vote on annulling the regulations allowing the registration
of civil partnerships in religious buildings. But, after a debate, she withdrew
the challenge after assurances from Lord Henley, a Home Office minister, that
the provisions were "entirely permissive" and did not force faith groups to hold
ceremonies if they did not want to do so. Ben Summerskill, Stonewall chief
xxecutive, said: 'Christmas has come early for equality. We're delighted that a
campaign of misinformation surrounding this issue has today been seen off by the
House of Lords. Although only a small number of devout lesbian and gay people
will benefit, at Stonewall we will always stand up for minority groups - whether
of faith or anything else - within our community."[#xfffd] Francis Maude, the
Cabinet Office minister has announced that 31 quangos are going to be reviewed
to see if they are still necessary. Among the bodies being reviewed are sleaze
watchdog the Committee for Standards in Public Life, the Migration Advisory
Committee and the Legal Services Board. [#xfffd] Theresa May, the home
secretary, has announced that she will set up a new national body for policing.
It will "will develop policing as a single profession", she said.[#xfffd] The
Committee on Climate Change has published figures suggesting that household
energy bills will rise by [#xfffd]190 by the end of the decade.[#xfffd] Voters
in Feltham and Heston have been voting in a byelection.[#xfffd] Jonathan Baume
has announced that he is going to retire next year as general secretary of the
FDA, the union for top civil servants. After almost 15 years in post, he's the
longest-serving union general secretary in Britain.

1.00pm: Here is some more reaction to David Cameron's speech.

From Gloria De Piero, the shadow Home Office minister

We welcome the prime minister's support for Labour's family intervention
projects, and his recognition that good work is being done on the ground to help
families.

However, we have a number of concerns about the feasibility of the prime
minister's promises. Firstly expecting cash-strapped local authorities to
provide 60% of the funding for new projects seems unrealistic when ring-fences
have been removed and local services are already being closed down.

Second, we think support for families should be consistent across the country to
prevent multiple problems occurring in the first place. Cutting the early
intervention grant by 20 per cent, which covers things like childcare and mental
health, could make things worse.

Finally communities sometimes need tough tools and robust action. The
government's commitment to scrapping ASBOs will weaken community tools to tackle
anti-social behaviour.

From Matt Cavanagh, associate director of the IPPR thinktank

This is good news. These families combine behaviour that is harmful or
disruptive to the rest of society with reliance on benefits, social housing and
other services, reinforcing the sense that they are taking a lot from their
fellow citizens while giving nothing positive back. And although effectively
dealing with their problems can be expensive, they already cost government and
society a lot of money, as the prime minister is rightly emphasising today.

The dedicated 'troubleshooters' who will coordinate all the different services
who already work with these families - police, probation, local authorities,
schools, doctors, and so on - and who will support the families to come up with
"action plans" to turn their lives around, and apply sanctions if they don't
co-operate, appear to be closely modelled on caseworkers in family intervention
projects.

These projects were first piloted on a national basis under Tony Blair as part
of his 'Respect Agenda' in 2006, and significantly expanded under Gordon Brown
in 2008 and 2009, to the point where they were reaching around 5,000 families a
year in 2010.

11.51am: Here's the key message from the prime minister, in his own words,
summing it up in a nutshell.

Family intervention projects work. They change lives, they make our communities
safer and they crack down on those who're going off the rails. Starting now ...
every one of the 50,000 most chaotic families will be part of a family
intervention project - with clear rules, and clear punishments if they don't
stick to them.

That was Gordon Brown, addressing the Labour party conference in 2009. If you
replaced 50,000 with 120,000, you could have slipped this passage almost word
for word intoDavid Cameron's speech, although now they are troubled families,
not chaotic families, and Cameron did not say anything about them being
punished.

But, as prime minister, it's no good announcing that you're just going to do
what the last government did and so Cameron, in his speech, tried to argue that
there was a fundamental difference between the coalition's approach and
Labour's. He also made some quite broad points about individual responsibility
and the role of the state. Here are the main points.

[#xfffd] Cameron claimed that the state spent [#xfffd]75,000 per family on
troubled families last year. That came to [#xfffd]9bn on 120,000 families, he
said. The Department for Communities said [#xfffd]8bn was spent on reacting to
the problems they caused. Only [#xfffd]1bn was spent on targeted interventions.
Cameron said it was wrong to accept this as inevitable.

I don't believe in writing people off.

I don't think people are pre-programmed to fail because of where they come from.

And I hate the idea that we should just expect to pay ever larger amounts in
welfare to an ever larger chunk of society - and never expect the recipients to
change their lives.

Our heart tells us we can't just stand by while people live these lives and
cause others so much misery.

Our head tells us we can't afford to keep footing the monumental bills for
social failure.

The government defines families as troubled if they suffer from at least five of
the following seven features: 1) no one in the family is in work; 2) living in
poor or overcrowded housing; 3) no parent has any qualifications; 4) mother has
mental health problems; 5) at least one parent has a longstanding illness,
disability or infirmity; 6) a low income; and 7) an inability to afford a number
of food, clothing items.

[#xfffd] He claimed that Labour's approach to troubled families left them
subject "to a sort of compassionate cruelty". He acknowledged that Labour did
try to make a difference in this area. But he went on:

We can't accuse them of under-doing the welfare and the social programmes.

The problem, particularly in the past ten years, has actually been an excess of
unthinking, impersonal welfare.

Put simply: tens of thousands of troubled families have been subjected to a sort
of compassionate cruelty.

However, Cameron rather undermined his own argument by then going on to say that
that some family intervention projects were already "doing brilliantly" and that
the government was publishing research showing that these projects have cut
anti-social behaviour amongst the families involved by more than half. The
research covers the period from February 2007 to March 2011.

[#xfffd] He claimed that the the coalition's approach to family intervention
would be better.

Where [Labour's approach] was impersonal - dealing with families like
bureaucratic units, we will be human: engaging with families as the messy,
varied, living, breathing groups of different people they actually are.

Where it was disjointed - with a whole load of state agencies over-lapping, we
will have a single point of focus on the family: a single port of call and a
single face to know.

And where it was essentially top-down and patronising - keeping people sealed in
their circumstances with a weekly welfare cheque and rock-bottom expectations,
we will be empowering, not making excuses for anyone, but supporting these
families to take control of their own lives.

[#xfffd] He said Louise Casey would head a new Troubled Families unit in the
Department for Communities.[#xfffd] He said that the government was publishing
data showing, by council area, where the 120,000 troubled families in England
are thought to be living.

[#xfffd] He said the the government would spend [#xfffd]448m on the initiative,
allowing it to fund 40% of the cost of family intervention if councils fund the
other 60%. Councils would be paid by results, he said, measured by indicators
like whether children were going back to school and whether anti-social
behaviour had stopped.

[#xfffd] He insisted that the state did have a role to play in encouraging
people to behave responsibly. The Conservatives are often accused of being crude
believers in laissez faire. This passage seemed intended to rebut that charge.

Let me be clear: everyone must take responsibility for their own actions.

But when the state fails, it can amplify the worst in people.

Yes, it's the child's responsibility to study hard at school - but if that
school is a place of constant disruption and chaos they're not going to get a
fighting chance.

Yes, it's the parents' responsibility to look for work - but if the state is
paying them more not to work, it becomes a rational choice to sit at home on the
sofa.

Yes, it's the teenager's choice to smash up the bus stop and torment their
neighbours - but if the criminal justice system doesn't draw a firm enough line
between right and wrong, they're more likely to do wrong.

[#xfffd] He defended his right to talk about morality and insisted that he
wanted to fix "the responsibility deficit".

My mission in politics - the thing I am really passionate about - is fixing the
responsibility deficit.

His language on his subject was very similar to the language used by Ed
Milibandin his Reading the Riots speech yesterday.Both leaders talked about the
importance of those at the top of society showing responsibility, attacking
bankers who took unacceptable risks, MPs who fiddled their expenses and
journalists who hacked phones. (Can't they think of any other examples of
white-collar professionals who misbehave?)[#xfffd] He criticised company
executives for paying themselves too much. This came in the passage about
responsibility. Nick Clegg has called for action on this issue, but it's less
common to hear it from Cameron.

It is extraordinary that in the last year the average earnings of FTSE 100
directors rose by 49 per cent - even as many of these companies faced difficult
times.

We have got to address this, and we will.

11.35am: The full text of Cameron's speech is not on the Number 10 website yet.
But here's the news release from the Department for Communities with details of
what the Troubled Families team will do.

And here are six "infographics" that Number 10 have posted on Twitter giving
more information about the issue.

11.17am: Cameron's Q&A is now over. There were some stark figures in the speech,
and some visionary rhetoric. For the last few weeks we've seen Downing Street
run by austerity Dave, the deficit-cutter, and Eurosceptic Dave, the
treaty-vetoer. This speech marks the reappearance of Big Society Dave, the
social reformer. I'll post a summary in a moment.

11.10am: Cameron is now taking questions.Q: How confident are you that this will
deal with the problems behind the riots?

Cameron says he is confident that this programme is "do-able". It is an
ambitious programme. But there is huge enthusiasm for this initiative in local
government.

I sense a great feeling that this is an issue that needs to be gripped.

Cameron says one of the key issues behind the riots was whether or not people
felt a connection to where they lived. Where they feel a connection, they don't
"smash things up".

Q: Some charities are saying there is not enough money. Councils have to put up
60% of the money. Have they got it?

There is an enormous budget deficit, he says. But that does not mean that you
cannot do anything to improve society. The government has gone through budgets
and found where money is being wasted on "responsive" interventions that are not
working. That money is going to this programme. Eric Pickles and Louise Casey
are in charge, but Cameron himself will take a "huge interest" in it.

Q: Is this an attempt to show that your government is not just defined by
tackling the deficit?

Cameron says he is passionate about building a stronger society. Part of that
involves helping families who have "fallen through the net".

Without this, you are always going to leave the most troubled, the most damaged
behind.

11.07am: And Cameron explains how the funding - or the "financial firepower", as
he puts it - will work.

We are committing [#xfffd]448 million to turning around the lives of 120,000
troubled families by the end of this parliament.

This money has got to do its job.

Our offer to councils is that we will fund 40% of the cost if they match this
with 60%.

And crucially this payment depends on results.

Simple tests such as...

...are the children going to school?

... how many people have they got back into work?

...have they stopped - and I mean completely stopped - anti-social behaviour?

...how many crimes have been prevented?

This will take a concerted effort from all corners of government.

11.06am: Cameron says the government needs to identify where the troubled
families actually are.

Today we are announcing, council by council, our estimate from data, mapping
where these families are.

To give you an idea of the scale of the problem, there are an estimated 4,500 of
these families in Birmingham, 2,500 in Manchester, and 1,115 here in Sandwell.

11.01am: Cameron is describing what his initiative means in practical terms. (On
Sky this morning, when Eric Pickles was being interviewed, Eamonn Holmes became
quite exasperated trying to get Pickles to explain how this would work in
practice.)

We need to provide leadership at the top, action in local authorities and
results on the ground.

At the top I have appointed Louise Casey - who has great experience in this area
- to lead the Troubled Families Unit in Eric Pickles' department, and
co-ordinate this change of approach.

Louise is leading the nationwide task of getting to grips with the number of
troubled families - and working out where they are.

We're not prescribing a single response.

But we are demanding results from councils in return for support.

For many of the most troubled families, there will be a family worker - a single
point of contact for the first time for particular families - working out what
the family needs, where the waste is and lining up the right services at the
right time.

When the front door opens and the worker goes in, they will see the family as a
whole and get a plan of action together, agreed with the family.

This will often be basic, practical things -like getting the kids to school on
time, properly fed - that are the building blocks of an orderly home and a
responsible life.

These things don't always cost a lot but they make all the difference.

And they will get on top of the services, sorting out - and sometimes fending
off - the 28 or more different state services that can come calling at the door.

Cameron goes on to give the example that was included in the passage I quoted
earlier. (See8.59am.)

11.00am: This does not mean people are not responsible for their actions,
Cameron says.

Let me be clear: everyone must take responsibility for their own actions.

But when the state fails, it can amplify the worst in people.

10.59am: Cameron says that a "great phrase" used by David Davis sums up these
families. They are "victims of state failure", he says.

10.56am: In his speech, David Cameron says that last year the state spent an
estimated [#xfffd]9 billion on just 120,000 families.

That is around [#xfffd]75,000 per family.

Now there are some who say "yes, this is terrible, but this 'Shameless' culture
is now a fact of modern British life, and there's nothing we can do."

They're the same people who believe that poverty and failure, like death and
taxes, will always be with us.

But I am an optimist about human nature.

10.50am: David Cameron is delivering his troubled families speech now. I'll post
a summary once I've had a chance to read the full text.

10.44am: Here's Enver Solomon, director of policy at the Children's Society, on
David Cameron's troubled families initiative.

Intensive family support coordinated by a dedicated skilled worker can make a
real difference to chaotic families who have multiple needs. But it is important
to recognise that there are no quick fixes for families and their children whose
problems are often linked with challenging mental health needs, alcohol misuse
and poverty. Turning around their lives can be a long term process that on the
way involves success and failure depending a great deal on accessing good
quality specialist support as well as achieving financial security.

There are also many families and children that move in and out of crisis
following sudden change in their lives who may not be identified as being the
most troubled but must be able to access intensive support when they need it.
Services should work for them as well as being made to work for those deemed to
be in greatest need.

10.35am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are some stories and articles that are
particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Peter Oborne in the Daily Telegraph says today's Commons debate on
breaking up the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority is shaming.

Here is the truth. MPs are deeply interested in how Ipsa works because it
affects them in the pocket. They passionately resent its existence, and their
real ambition is revealed in a report this week by the Committee on Members'
Expenses. It is a disreputable piece of work, full of errors and
inconsistencies. It claims to support independent regulation of MPs' expenses,
but close examination reveals a completely different agenda.

The committee is urging a return to flat-rate allowances, which means
effectively no accountability to the taxpayer. Worse still, it demands that
administration of expenses should return to the House of Commons, recreating the
old Fees Office, which allowed MPs to get away with pretty well anything. These
proposals are to be discussed today in a debate that has been called with
suspicious speed: normally it takes ages to arrange such an event in the
Commons.

[#xfffd] Steve Richards in the Independent says Gordon Brown should speak out to
defend his record.

Only one side of a story is heard, that it is all Mr Brown's fault that Britain
is now on the edge of a cliff. He is the convenient scapegoat for anyone with
ambition in British politics, the chosen villain of virtually the entire media
and political class ...

A colleague of Mr Brown tells me he is wary of re-engaging in the UK because he
fears all he will be asked about is whether he throws telephones across a room.
But if he does not speak out himself, no one will do it on his behalf.

Labour is failing to make more of a mark for several deep reasons. One is that
it is held solely responsible for the current crisis, just as it was blamed for
the so called "winter of discontent" in the late 1970s and was still being
blamed for it when it lost in 1992. The past is an important part of the present
in politics. If a leading player from that distant land is conspicuously silent,
his or her successors can lose the arguments raging in the present. Important
parts of the story can be lost and, in this frightening, complex crisis, we need
to know everything there is to know.

[#xfffd] David Davis in the Daily Telegraph says Euroscepticism is no longer a
turn-off to the voters.

Banging on about Britain's relationship with the European Union is a sure-fire
way to turn off voters. That, at least, is the conventional wisdom of many
advisers in No 10. Three years ago, they may well have been right. But not any
more. Following the Prime Minister's rejection of a new EU treaty, polls show a
surge in Conservative support. Seventy per cent of voters want a referendum on
Europe. Half want to leave the EU altogether. Euroscepticism has gone
mainstream.

[#xfffd] James Kirkiup in the Daily Telegraph says defence chiefs are drawing up
plans to cope with the potential military consequences of the eurozone debt
crisis.

It is understood that Armed Forces planners are looking at the possibility that
a new global financial crash could undermine the defence forces of key British
allies ...

[General Sir David Richards], the Chief of the Defence Staff, said economic
issues present the biggest threat to Britain and its interests in the world.

"I am clear that the single biggest strategic risk facing the UK today is
economic rather than military," he told the Royal United Services Institute

"Over time, a thriving economy must be the central ingredient in any UK Grand
Strategy. This is why the eurozone crisis is of such huge importance not just to
the City of London but rightly to the whole country and to military planners
like me."

[#xfffd] Maeve McClenaghan and Oliver Wright in the Independent say that former
MPs involved in lobbying have been given passes giving them access to the
Commons.

Unlike serving MPs, journalists, and Parliamentary support staff who also have
access to Parliament there is no need for the former MPs to declare their
business interests. The system was set up by the former Speaker Michael Martin
in 2004 to allowing former MPs to keep up with friends in Parliament.

10.26am: An SNP-dominated Scottish parliament committee has published a report
today saying that the Scotland bill being debated at Westminster represents a
threat to Scotland. Here's an extract from the Press Association story.

MSPs made 45 recommendations to the legislation, presently at Westminster,
including greater control of taxes and borrowing powers.Linda Fabiani, convener
of the Holyrood committee that scrutinised the proposals, said: "There are
elements of the Bill which the whole committee can welcome. However, overall, we
believe that the Bill does not go far enough and its provisions, if enacted,
represent a significant risk to public finances in Scotland."Our report
concludes that whilst the Bill delivers a very limited amount of financial
accountability, it does not deliver what Scotland needs which is full fiscal
autonomy."

There are more detailsin the committee's news release.

10.05am: Today's retail sales figures are grim. This is from the Press
Association.

Wide-scale discounts failed to prevent sales falling in November as today's
official figures added to signs of a tough Christmas.Sales volumes fell 0.4%
from the previous month, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS),
with poor sales of computers, watches, jewellery and carpets.The fall in sales,
despite a large number of special offers from retailers desperate to drum up
trade, was bigger than the City had expected and brought to an end two months of
growth.Non-food retailers battled against their biggest monthly fall in sales
since February, while food stores saw their largest fall for half a year.This
was despite strong internet demand and a recovery in clothes sales, which had
been hit in recent months as the mild autumn weather promoted shoppers to resist
buying winter clothes.

9.56am: For the record,here are the latest YouGov GB polling figures.

Conservatives: 40% (up 3 points since the general election)Labour: 38% (up 8)Lib
Dems: 10% (down 14)

Conservative lead: 2 points

Government approval: -18

9.28am: David Cameron has not delivered his troubled families speech yet, but
already plenty of reaction has come in. Here's a selection.

From Gloria De Piero, the shadow home office minister

We welcome the Prime Minister's support for Labour's Family Intervention
Projects, and any support Louise Casey can provide to local leadership on the
ground. But we are worried there is a gap between the rhetoric and the reality,
given the government's cuts to family intervention projects and the work
councils have been doing on early intervention.

There is only so much a network of 'trouble-shooters' can achieve when family
intervention projects in practice have been cut back and the ring-fence removed
for local projects already working with families on the ground.

In addition, the government has torn up Labour's Total Place programme, which
was bringing together all of the local agencies needed to provide services to
families, and saved money, setting this work back.

This is important work, but if David Cameron demands results from local
authorities, whilst pulling the carpet from beneath them while reforms are being
shelved, this could be a wasted opportunity to properly expand Labour's family
intervention policies.

From Sir Merrick Cockell, chairman of the Local Government Association

Improving lives for families and residents is at the heart of what councils do
and closer working between public sector agencies like job centres, schools,
police, probation officers and social services locally will get better results
and cost less.

It is great news that the money announced today will go to local areas to build
on much excellent work already underway. We must ensure this support gets to
where it is most needed and is not tied up in endless bureaucracy and form
filling.

We are pleased government has recognised the need for all departments to work
much more closely with councils at a local level. This is vital to help us
overcome historic hurdles which have stood in the way of the huge savings and
greater local accountability this coordinated approach can deliver.

From John Wade, managing director of Bromford Support, which provides support
and care services

The government needs to ask itself: "Is it enough to need to meet 5 of the 7
criteria?" We deal with families with these problems everyday. One problem leads
to another so we would call for families to be able to access the help that has
been announced at an earlier point.

8.59am: After the riots in the summer David Cameron said that he would put
"rocket boosters" under a government programme already under way designed to
help the 120,000 most troubled families in England. Today, in a speech, he's
going to give some details of what those rocket boosters might involve. As the
Guardian reports, the government is allocating [#xfffd]400m to the programme.
Cameron will say that focused intervention, involving a family worker helping a
family with all its problems, can make a real difference.

Where it's been tried, this approach can work wonders... [in the area I am
visiting today] you can see just what persistent and intensive work can achieve.
The Family Intervention Project worked with one family whose criminality and
antisocial behaviour had spiralled out of control. Police visits to their home
were happening almost every day - to follow up on reports of antisocial
behaviour, to arrest one of the children or to check up that curfews were
working. The story of the misery that one family can caused one small area is
all too familiar.

The breakthrough came when the mother admitted to the housing officer that she
was struggling to cope at home. The Family Intervention Project gave the family
a key worker, who over the next nine months helped the family transform its
behaviour. The change is lasting too - there are now no calls to the police, the
teenage children are engaging with school, the younger children are more
settled.

I'll be covering more from the speech, and the reaction to it, later this
morning.

Otherwise, it''s a routine day. Here's the diary.

9.30am: The Department for Education publishes primary school performance data.

10am: The Leveson inquiry resumes. Derek Webb, a private detective who carried
out surveillance on prominent people for the News of the World, is giving
evidence.

10.30am: David Cameron delivers a speech on troubled families. AsPatrick Wintour
reports, he will throw his authority and [#xfffd]400m of funding behind plans to
end "the responsibility deficit" among 120,000 troubled families said to be
costing taxpayers [#xfffd]8bn.

10.35am: Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, speaks at a Social
Market Foundation conference.

Around 11am: Peers will debate an attempt to try to scrap the law allowing he
registration of civil partnerships in religious premises.

12.30pm: Danny Alexander, the chief secretary to the Treasury, speaks at the
Social Market Foundation conference.

Around 12.30pm: MPs start debating a motion calling for the Independent
Parliamentary Standards Authority to be broken up.

Voting is also under way in the Feltham and Heston byelection. This contest has
not attracted much media attention, because Labour are expected to win easily,
but I'll post a reading list about it later.

There are also 27 written ministerial statements out today. There's a full list
of them on the Commons order paper. Among the more interesting could be the ones
covering quango reform and tobacco control legislation.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and another in the afternoon.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on @AndrewSparrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 15, 2011 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: Lib Dem loss in by-election would be a salutary lesson

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 719 words


Labour's Seema Malhotra is expected to take her place as Britain's newest MP
after the votes have been counted today in the by-election in Feltham and
Heston. Malhotra certainly should, because it would bode very badly indeed for
Ed Miliband's future if Labour were to lose a seat made vacant by the death of
the well-liked Alan Keen.

This is a seat, moreover, which the Tory MP "Bosnia Bob" Stewart visited and
told the Tory whips, in a leaked email, "There is absolutely no chance of us
winning there", which didn't make campaigning any easier for Mark Bowen,
contesting the seat for the Tories for the third time.

What may be more interesting tonight is watching who comes third. A poll
commissioned by Lord Ashcroft put the Lib Dem candidate, Roger Crouch, on 10 per
cent, but also showed that Lib Dem support was very soft, with only three out of
five of their supporters saying they were "fairly sure" they would vote, while
two out of five said they "may well" switch.

Subsequent events are not likely to have made those switchers any less inclined
to switch, opening up the prospect that Mr Crouch could end up in a humiliating
fourth place, behind Andrew Charalam-bous an ex-Tory running for the UK
Independence Party. That would not make the Lib Dems any happier about being
junior partners in a coalition.

What a sweetie lady you are, Anne

Anne Milton, a Tory Health minister was spending money like there was no
recession in Parliament's gift shop yesterday.

Her shopping-list was laid on the counter for all to see. My informant noticed
that her long list of recipients were divided into three headings "Big Sweets",
"Small Sweets" and "Biscuits". Whereas members of staff were marked down for
sweets, her fellow Health minister Paul Burstow was relegated to biscuits. But
he's a Lib Dem, so he'll be thankful to get anything.

Technically, Andrew, you may be right

The Health Secretary, Andrew Lansley, has not had a brilliant year, having
produced a hugely complex plan to change the NHS which only enhanced his
reputation for being a policy wonk. But he takes some comfort from the
developments in the eurozone, telling The Spectator that his own reputation "has
the ancillary benefit that if things get really difficult and everybody demands
a technocratic government, I might get to keep my job".

Another butterfly on a wheel

Richard Apperley, son of a Tory councillor in Stroud, Gloucestershire, was given
an eight-month jail sentence by Cheltenham magistrates yesterday for growing
cannabis at his parents' home - without their knowledge.

What was the point of sending him to prison? This is a man in his 20s, who has
had a drug problem, illegally but harmlessly growing pot for private
consumption. He was no threat to anyone, except himself, and no one is protected
by having him locked in an overcrowded prison system.

We'd win, no question

Congratulations to The Sunday Telegraph for winning the Press Gallery annual
quiz on Tuesday night. The Times, shamefully, came last, just behind the
Financial Times. Independent journalists set and asked the questions, so there
was no Independent team. If there had been, of course, The Sunday Telegraph
would have had to be content with coming second.

And the femaleof the species...

Charlotte Vere, who ran unsuccessfully as Tory candidate for Brighton Pavilion
last year, is furious with the BBC.

Their offence? On Newsnight, they had two female panellists being interviewed by
Emily Maitlis, with no men in shot. Ms Vere runs a campaigning group, Women
On..., dedicated to putting a stop to concessions such as this to 1970s
feminism.

"Our state-run broadcaster decided to take positive discrimination to the
extreme," she says. "By concocting a women-only programme, BBC Newsnight once
more struck another dagger into the backs of women everywhere who just want to
get on in life because they are good at something.

"The all-female line up continues to pander to the meme of segregation so
espoused by Harriet Harman and her radical feminist sisterhood and yet, as we
all know, if you are segregated, you are not equal."

That's one in the eye for you, Harperson.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Election would finish us, Clegg tells Lib Dems

BYLINE: Christopher Hope; James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 525 words


THE Liberal Democrats would cease to exist as a party if they brought down the
Coalition over Europe and triggered an early election, Nick Clegg warned his MPs
last night.

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

Mr Clegg's public attacks on Mr Cameron over Europe have raised questions about
the future of the Coalition but the Deputy Prime Minister told his party he
intends to remain in power with the Conservatives until the election due in
2015.

Earlier, Mr Clegg had seemed to backtrack from his former position by ordering
his MPs to back a Commons motion "commending" Mr Cameron for rejecting the
treaty. Mr Clegg has denounced Mr Cameron's refusal to endorse a treaty aimed at
creating a fiscal union between eurozone countries, suggesting the decision
could harm British interests.

But Liberal Democrat MPs were told to vote in favour of a Commons motion
describing the Prime Minister's veto as "a vital means of defending the national
interests of the UK".

Senior European politicians said Britain should be stripped of the rebate first
won by Baroness Thatcher as a punishment for vetoing the EU treaty. José Manuel
Barroso, the President of the EU, said Mr Cameron's demands for special
protections for the City threatened to undermine the EU single market.

Lib Dems were also ordered to back a motion for "a rebalancing of the
relationship with our European neighbours", echoing the calls of eurosceptic
Tories.

It was tabled by the Ulster Unionists and backed by the Conservatives, while
Labour were opposed. To avoid the spectacle of Coalition MPs voting both ways -
and a government defeat - Lib Dem MPs were whipped to vote in favour, too.

The decision exposed Mr Clegg to allegations that he has had three positions on
the treaty in five days. Having initially given Mr Cameron lukewarm support on
Friday, a Lib Dem backlash forced him to criticise the Prime Minister on Sunday.

A party spokesman last night played down the order. "We are not going to change
the whipping arrangement we always have, where government ministers operate on
the same whip unless specified in the Coalition agreement, in a vote of little
consequence," he said.

In the European Parliament, a senior French politician warned that Britain will
pay a price for Mr Cameron's veto. Joseph Daul, the French MEP who leads the
centre-Right European People's Party, said the veto should mean that Britain is
made to pay more towards the EU.

Under a deal struck by Baroness Thatcher in 1984, Britain receives an annual
rebate on its EU contributions. Mr Daul told MEPs that because Mr Cameron had
"abandoned solidarity", he could not expect the rebate - worth almost £3billion
this year - to continue.

Benedict Brogan: Page 20

Jeremy Warner: Page 21

Business: B1, 2 & 5

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

Politics Live blog + PMQs - Wednesday 14 December 2011

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 7714 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen, including David Cameron and Ed Miliband at PMQs.

FULL TEXT

4.15pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has said that Britain will remain
an important member of the European Union, despite its refusal to join a new
treaty designed to help the EU overcome the eurozone debt crisis.[#xfffd]
Jonathan Djanogly, the justice minister, has published a consultation on
charging fees for people who take a case to an employment tribunal. "Currently,
the UK taxpayer bears the entire [#xfffd]84 million cost per year of resolving
other people's employment disputes at tribunals," he said. "This is not
sustainable. We believe that people should pay a fair amount towards the cost of
their case. Fee waivers will be available for people on low incomes to protect
access to justice." (See2.45pm.)

[#xfffd] Tom Crone, the former News of the World lawyer, has said that News
International ordered checks on the birth certificate of the child of a lawyer
representing phone hacking victims to see if it provided evidence she was having
an affair.Crone made the admission in a letter to the Commons culture committee
published on its website this afternoon.As the Press Association reports, Crone
said he agreed the check on papers relating to Charlotte Harris's first child as
well as searches of electoral records for Miss Harris and Mark Lewis, who also
represents hacking victims. But he said that the checks - which are entirely
legal - provided no evidence that the pair had had a relationship.

[#xfffd] Andrew Lansley, the health secretary, has said that health spending
will have to rise in real terms every year in perpetuity. He made the comment in
an interview in the Spectator that has just been released to the media.

'We have been very clear that the NHS is going to have real terms increases year
on year. I mean clearly what we've said in terms of the coalition agreement is
an agreement for a parliament. From our point of view, I would say yes is the
answer to that because exactly the same principles apply. We have a profile of
rising demographics and demand and cost pressures and technology in the NHS, so
it is inconceivable that we can sustain the quality of services that we are
looking for without the basis of real terms increases.'

Does this mean that spending on the NHS will have to rise in real terms every
year from now until kingdom come? 'I believe so.'

In the interview he also described having to deal with Shirley Williams over the
health bill.

When asked what he makes of her, the Health Secretary is lost for words. 'She
is...' he splutters. 'How can I say, she is... a high maintenance date.'

'We have had lots of meetings,' he continues. 'In a sense, to give her her due,
even if I felt we had to devote an enormous amount of time simply to get to the
point where we were clear about what it is she wanted, I think that allowed her
to realise that we were not dealing with the bill as she imagined it was.'

[#xfffd] Adam Werritty, the adviser whose links with Liam Fox led to Fox's
resignation, has said that he was "naive" not to think about how his role would
be perceived. In his first public comments about the affair, in an article in
the Spectator, he explained what he actually did for Fox.

I've been friends with Liam for years and we've worked together on his 'Atlantic
Bridge' group and also his efforts to support reconciliation efforts in Sri
Lanka. My numerous trips there contributed to the decision by the government to
remove longstanding emergency regulations. It was an important step forward and
something I'm proud to have been able to help with. I've been asked on several
occasions why I didn't apply to be a special adviser. The answer: I actually
know very little about defence policy and have never pretended otherwise. Why
should I be paid by the taxpayer for an expertise I didn't possess?

So I continued to work outside of 'officialdom' in what was certainly an unusual
role. I was funded by a number of donors and my job was to research and network.
To meet various experts, attend forums and conferences and get a solid
understanding of various foreign affairs issues. This involved a lot of travel:
international conferences and specific overseas trips to help maintain important
relationships covering Sri Lanka, the Middle East and UK/US relations.

I was depicted in some coverage as working in a 'shadowy' environment. But one
man's 'clandestine' meeting is another man's informed and fascinating discussion
...

I was certainly naive not to have better considered how my role, and regular
contact with Liam, would look from the outside. In public life (or even on the
fringes of it) you have to ask: how would this look if it appeared in Private
Eye magazine? I now know the answer.

[#xfffd] Official figures have revealed that revealed that almost one in five
year-six pupils in England (19.0%) is now obese.

That's it for today. Thanks for the comments.

3.50pm: Ed Miliband has delivered his speech to the Reading the Riots conference
and it's available on the Labour party website. But I'm afraid it's not really a
must-read. It doesn't have anything new to say in policy terms and, if you're
already familiar with Miliband's belief in the need to create a more responsible
society, you won't learnt much from this. Miliband stressed the fact that most
people living in deprived communities in August did not choose to riot and he
says that they were making a moral decision. "The left should not shy away from
it; these were individual ethical decisions," he said. Attacking bankers who
took unreasonable risks, MPs who fiddled their expenses and journalists who
hacked phones, he said it was important to change the values at the top of
society because "we all need to take responsibility for the culture we inhabit
and nurture."

But if you do want a must-read on the riots, then I would strongly recommend
David Lammy's book, Out of the Ashes (which Miliband mentioned in his speech).
It's part autobiography, part ministerial memoir, part narrative about the
August riots in Tottenham and part scorecard on Labour's record in office. We
published an extract in the Guardian last monthbut it's worth reading the whole
thing. By my count, Lammy has come out with at least a dozen reasonably original
social policy ideas (which is almost a dozen more than the Labour front bench
has produced over the last 12 months). He has also produced what could be the
best critique of the Big Society from the left. Here's a flavour of it.

Like others before him, the prime minister is prepared to be a radical reformer
only within the strict confines of public sevices. The flaw in the big society
is that it is not big enough to reach beyond the public sector. There are
promises to promote mutual business models - but only in the public sector. The
rest of the economy is still considered beyond the remit of politics. The
economic revolution of the 1980s casts a long shadow and the present government
shows no sign of stepping out from it.

I said the book was full of policy ideas. Here are a dozen I've picked out.

1) Recast social services as family services, allowing all families to register
for help.2) Force companies employing more than 50 people to offer workers a
share of profits, as happens in France.3) "Father-proof" state services so that,
if a couple split up, the father continues to get information about how his
children are doing at school and gets accommodation big enough to take his
children.

4) Use league tables, and perhaps tax breaks, to encourage firms to get their
staff to do volunteering.

5) Ban commercials aimed at children.6) Force parliament to debate laws whenever
they are ruled incompatible with the Human Rights Act by the courts.

7) Apply the Freedom of Information Act to the private sector so that firms have
to reveal how much they pay their staff.8) Divide prison sentences into a
punishment phase and a rehabilitation phase.

9) Charge a market price for work visas for migrants from outside the EU.

10) Grant a one-off amnest to migrants.11) Merge police authorities with
councils, and let council leaders appoint police chiefs.12) Force fathers to
register their name and national insurance number on birth certificates.

Given Miliband's own record on the birth certificate front, the last suggestion
is particularly bold. Lammy remains a Labour backbencher. But, after the
publication of this book, he is now an important voice in British politics.

3.35pm: The badger backlash has begun.

The Press Association is saying that animal rights groups have started to
protest about Caroline Spelman's announcement. (See 1.30pm.)

Humane Society International (HSI) said it would submit a formal complaint to
the 1979 Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural
Habitats.It said the cull lacked "legitimate purpose" and posed a significant
threat to badger populations and that ministers had failed to examine
alternatives ...Leading animal charities criticised the decision, the RSPCA
accusing the Government of being "more interested in killing badgers than
vaccinating them".The Badger Trust said it was "clearly very disappointed" and
would consult lawyers to decide what action could be taken.And HSI executive
director Mark Jones, himself a vet, said Mrs Spelman's decision appeared to be
in "clear breach" of the Bern Convention and amounted to "institutionalised
cruelty"."For Defra to blindly push ahead with a pilot badger slaughter, despite
compelling scientific evidence that it will be ineffective, hugely damaging to
local populations and cruel, is an absurdly misguided decision," he said.

But the National Farmers Union are pleased. This is from Peter Kendall, the NFU
president.

Today is another massive step forward in achieving our end goal of a healthy
countryside - both for badgers and for cattle. I commend Defra for introducing
these two pilot areas to confirm the effectiveness, humaneness and safety of
controlled shooting.

We must tackle this terrible disease, a disease that sees tens of thousands of
cattle destroyed each and every year. The most recent science shows badger
controls are absolutely necessary, together with cattle controls, to get on top
of TB. No other country in the world has successfully tackled this devastating
disease without first addressing the reservoir of TB in the wildlife.

3.06pm: More than half of finance services professionals think that the costs of
EU regulation outweigh the benefits of the single market to the City, according
to a poll released today. Here's an extract from the Press Association story.

The ComRes survey for eurosceptic thinktank Open Europe found that 56% of those
questioned thought the costs outweighed the benefits, against 31% who
disagreed.A clear majority (69%) of the 500 financiers polled said that the UK
should seek a veto on future EU regulation of the City, even if that risked
reducing business opportunities in Europe through decreased access to the single
market.Some 70% said Prime Minister David Cameron should renegotiate EU treaties
to protect the interests of the City ...ComRes interviewed 500 London financial
service professionals at manager level and above online between November 28 and
December 7.

2.45pm: The government has already said that it is going to introduce fees for
employment tribunals. Jonathan Djanogly, the justice minister, has now launched
a consultation on the plan.He is looking at two options.

[#xfffd] Option 1: an initial fee of between [#xfffd]150-[#xfffd]250 for a
claimant to begin a claim, with an additional fee of between
[#xfffd]250-[#xfffd]1250 if the claim goes to a hearing, with no limit to the
maximum award; or

[#xfffd] Option 2: a single fee of between [#xfffd]200-[#xfffd]600 - but this
would limit the maximum award to [#xfffd]30,000 - with the option of an
additional fee of [#xfffd]1,750 for those who seek awards above this amount.

Tribunals would also have the power to order the side that loses to pay the
costs of the side that wins, Djanogly says.

2.11pm: Here's the Guardian video of Theresa May announcing the review of police
stop and search powers at the Reading the Riots conference.

Ed Miliband is speaking at the conference now. My colleague Paul Lewis is
covering it on the Reading the Riots live blog.

1.30pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Unemployment has hit a fresh has hit a fresh 17-year high after the
public sector shed thousands more jobs and the private sector failed to pick up
the slack. As Katie Allen reports, youth unemployment held at a record high of
over 1 million and the total number of unemployed people rose to 2.64m over the
three months to October, according to official figures.The Office for National
Statistics said that at 8.3% the unemployment rate was at its highest since
1996. But economists said there were tentative signs the deterioration in the
labour market was slowing, if not reversing. At PMQs Ed Miliband cited the
figures and said that the government was "betraying a whole generation of young
people". David Cameron said all job losses were a "tragedy". He also claimed
that since the election an extra 581,000 jobs had been created in the private
sector, compared to 336,000 lost in the public sector.[#xfffd] The GMB union has
publisheda study claiming that more than 370,000 jobs have been lost in the
public sector since the general election. As the Press Association reports, the
union said most jobs have been cut in the South West (54,000), followed by the
North West (44,000) and the South East and East of England (both 41,000). Paul
Kenny, the GMB general secretary, said: "I doubt the electorate had any notion
that a change of government would lead to a loss of 376,000 jobs across the UK
in the public sector in such a short time." [#xfffd] Miliband has urged Cameron
to re-open talks with Britain's European partners about a new EU treaty. "In the
cold light of day, with other countries spending the weeks and months ahead
trying to see if they can get a better deal for themselves, isn't the sensible
thing to do to re-enter the negotiations and try to get a better deal for
Britain?" Miliband asked. But Cameron said he made "no apology for standing up
for Britain". He also accused Miliband of not being able to say whether or not
he would have agreed to the new EU treaty at the summit last week. "This leader
of the Labour Party makes weakness and indecision into an art form," Cameron
said. Nick Clegg was in the chamber sitting alongside Cameron to show his
support.

[#xfffd] Two polls have shown the Conservatives ahead of Labour. YouGov have got
Cameron's party in the lead for the first time since December 2010. And Ipsos
MORI have also recorded the first Conservative lead in their poll for this year.
(See 11.26am.)

[#xfffd] Theresa May, the home secretary, has announced a review of the use of
police stop and search powers. "Should we worry that the rioters were eight
times more likely than the average Londoner to be stopped and searched, when the
research found young rioters were 22 times more likely than their peers to have
been convicted of a crime?" she told the Guardian's Reading the Riots
conference. "I strongly believe that stop and search should be used
proportionately, without prejudice, and with the support of local communities
... and I have asked the Association of Chief Police Officers to look at best
practice on stop and search."

[#xfffd] May has been heckled at the Reading the Riots conference after saying
that this summer's riots were about money and "instant gratification", not
protests about unemployment or cuts. As the Press Association reports, she told
the LSE/Guardian conference on the disturbances that their study was limited and
it was important to "draw a more comprehensive and accurate picture of what
actually happened this summer". "The riots weren't about protests, unemployment,
cuts," she said. "They were about instant gratification. Because all the riots
really come down to was money." Several members of the audience interrupted her
10-minute speech, shouting "No", "Not correct at all", "You shouldn't say things
like that" and "Like MPs fiddling expenses". At least one member of the audience
walked out. There are more details on our Reading the Riots live blog.

[#xfffd] May has launched a consultation on domestic violence that could lead to
people under the age of 18 being considered as potential victims.

[#xfffd] Downing Street has said the government will resist any attempt by
eurozone countries to press Britain to hand more cash to the International
Monetary Fund to help fund a euro-bailout fund. The IMF reported on Tuesday that
eurozone countries at last week's EU summit had agreed in principle to raise
(EURO)200bn ([#xfffd]168bn) for the IMF including (EURO)50bn from non-eurozone
countries. But the prime minister's spokesman said Cameron had made it clear he
had not agreed to this proposal and it had not been approved by the IMF board.
[#xfffd] Caroline Spelman, the environment secetary, has told MPs that a pilot
badger cull will begin in two areas of England next year to prevent the spread
of bovine TB. "There is great strength of feeling on this issue and no-one wants
to see badgers culled," she said. "But no country in the world where wildlife
carries TB has successfully controlled the disease in cattle without tackling
its presence in wildlife as well."

[#xfffd]A Lords committee has said that disgraced peers who fail to repay
wrongly claimed expenses shoul be barred from returning to parliament. As the
Press Association reports, the house committee of the Lords has recommended in a
reportclosing a loophole that allows members with outstanding debts to come back
to work. However, it has ruled out pursuing individuals through the courts -
suggesting judges would refuse to interfere in a parliamentary dispute. The move
is likely to affect peers such as Baroness Uddin, who owes [#xfffd]125,000 but
under the present arrangements could resume her seat when her six-month
suspension ends, and Lord Hanningfield, who was jailed for nine months over his
claims but could theoretically return in the spring.

[#xfffd] Ofqual, the qualifications watchdog, has confirmed that schoolchildren
will no longer be able to take their GCSEs in separate modules to stop the
culture of resits. As the Press Association reports, pupils will also be marked
for spelling, punctuation and grammar under the Ofqual reforms.

[#xfffd] Tom Crone, the former News of the World lawyer, has told the Leveson
inquiry that he is "pretty certain" he held up the front page of the "for
Neville" email to James Murdoch at a meeting.

[#xfffd] Neville Thurlbeck, the former News of the World reporter, has claimed
that knowledge of phone hacking "went to the top" of the newspaper "but no
further".

[#xfffd] London Underground drivers have voted to go on strike on Boxing Day.
[#xfffd] Vince Cable, the business secretary, has launched a two-year project to
investigate the future of manufacturing until 2050.

1.04pm: David Cameron may have had the upper hand at PMQs, but Labour are
fighting back on Twitter. It's being led by John Prescott,the self-styled "cyber
warrior" according to his Twitter profile,who has got #fivewordsforcameron (see
12.25pm) trending. Examples include:

Maths isn't my strong point

Clegg really loves you, honest

64% didn't vote for you

12.38pm: Verdict: At this stage in a parliament polls are relatively
meaningless. But they can do wonders for political confidence and David Cameron
seemed high on YouGov and Ipsos MORI today. He was firmly on the back foot for
the first three questions, as Ed Miliband pressed him on the economy. But then
Miliband made the mistake of switching subject and Cameron pounced with a
well-received joke about Miliband and his brother. Miliband also mentioned
Europe, which allowed Cameron to replay the "Miliband won't say what he would
have done" riff that he performed in the Commons on Monday. Cameron's
performance in Brussels last week may have horrified Britain's foreign policy
elite, but it has gone down well with the voters, and with his party, and he
will be feeling chipper about today's PMQs. It's four weeks until the next one.
As Nick Robinson has just pointed out on the BBC's Daily Politics, this is bad
for Miliband. PMQs doesn't actually matter very much in overall terms in
politics, but it does have an impact on party morale because MPs always want to
see their leader do well. Miliband will have to wait another month before he
gets another chance perk up his backbenchers.

12.33pm: John Bercow says that he's in a generous mood and that he will allow
more questions.

Brian Binley, a Conservative, asks about delays on the West Coast mainline.

Cameron says Britain has a choice. The government is in favour of building High
Speed Rail.

12.32pm: Adrian Sanders, a Lib Dem, asks about the need to improve care for
those with diabetes. Cameron says addressing the public health issues involved
is important. Bad diet causes diabetes.

12.32pm: Labour's John Cryer asks when the government will publish its plans for
a statutory register of lobbyists.

Cameron says it will be published within the next month.

12.31pm: David Rutley, a Conservative, asks Cameron to praise charities that
recycle Christmas trees for hospices. Cameron praises hospices and the charities
involved.

12.30pm: Cameron says a 1% increase in interest rates would cost the typical
family an extra [#xfffd]1,000 a year in extra mortgage payments.

12.25pm: Cameron launches another attack on Miliband over his EU policy. He says
Miliband wants to join the euro if he remains prime minister for long enough.
Someone shouts rubbish and Cameron says Labour are now saying Miliband does not
want to stay prime minister for long enough. Labour's policy can be summed up in
five words, he says. He says what sounds like "Let's bankrupt Britain again" but
it might be "Let us bankrupt Britain again."

12.23pm: Bob Ainsworth, the former Labour defence secretary, asks if the
decision to impose a pay freeze on the military is a breach of the military
covenant.

Cameron says military allowances are going up. These benefit low-paid servicemen
more than percentage pay increases, which give more money to the generals.

12.22pm: Philip Hollobone, a Conservative, asks if Cameron will ensure that
other countries implement an EU prisoner transer system.

Cameron says that if Hollobone (a Eurosceptic) is asking about a successful EU
scheme, it must be Christmas.

12.21pm: Labour's Rushanara Ali asks about Bangladesh, and the need to protect
developing countries from climate change.

Cameron says Ali has raised an important issue. Britain has a good relationship
with Bangladesh and an aide programme there. But Britain should not be afraid of
raising human rights concerns too.

12.20pm: Cameron says the government needs to encourage people who come to
London for the Olympics to visit other parts of the country.

12.19pm: Labour's John Robertson says the government's tax changes are taking
money away from children.

Cameron says Robertson is "plain wrong". The child tax credit is going up, he
says.

12.18pm: Sheryll Murray, a Conservative, asks if Cameron will stop the
"open-door policy" that Labour had on immigration. Cameron says he is tackling
this problem.

12.17pm: Cameron says the government needs to look at the issue of low-cost
alcohol. He notes "very carefully" the letter about this in today's Daily
Telegraph. (See 11.33am.)

12.15pm: Labour's Yvonne Fovargue asks what Cameron will do to protect people
from pay-day lenders.

Cameron says Fovargue knows about this because she used to work for Citizens
Advice Bureau. The last government wrestled with this problem, he says. He is
prepared to meet MPs to dicuss what to do about it.

12.14pm:Snap verdict: Miliband should have kept going on unemployment and the
economy. Once he moved on to coalition politics, he got mauled.

12.10pm: Miliband says Cameron is like someone who's partner goes abroad, and
then rings up at 4am to say they've made a terrible mistake. Shouldn't Cameron
re-join the talks and try to get a good deal for Britain.

Cameron says he makes no apologies for standing up for Britain. We know what
Cameron and Clegg think, he says. But we don't know what Miliband thinks.
"What's your answer?"

John Bercow interrupts. He does not like the prime minister asking questions.

Miliband says Cameron acts like he was born to rule. But he's not very good at
it.

Cameron says that even Miliband's jibes are recycled; Miliband has used that
line before. He says that he will deliver his own end-of-term report on
Miliband. Miliband, in his New Year's message, said the fightback would begin in
Scotland. That didn't work out. (Labour did very badly in the Scottish
parliament elections.) But Miliband has united his party. They all want the same
thing for Christmas: a new leader.

12.06pm: Miliband says the government said private sector employment would
compensate for the loss of jobs in the public sector. But that promise has been
broken. Will Cameron confirm long-term unemployment has gone up by 93% since
Cameron delivered his jobs New Year message.

Cameron says David Miliband has admitted that Labour had a problem with
long-term youth unemployment. Labour's plans would lead to more borrowing and
more debt.

Miliband says Cameron's promises are worthless. He turns to "broken promises on
the coalition". It is good to see Clegg back, he says. In his New Year's message
Cameron said coalition politics was not straightforward, "but I believe we are
bringing in a whole new style of government". It would be "more collegiate",
Cameron promised. What has gone wrong?

Cameron says Miliband should not believe everything he reads in the papers.

It's not that bad. It's not like we're brothers or anything.

As Tory MPs jeeer, Cameron adds:

He certainly walked into that one.

12.03pm: Ed Miliband pays a tribute to the dead soldier. And he says that at
Christmas MPs should be thinking of troops on duty abroad.

In his New Years' message 12 months ago Cameron says jobs were uppermost on his
mind. What has gone wrong?

Cameron says any increase in unemployment is bad news and a tragedy for those
involved. That is why the government has got the work programme and a massive
increase in apprenticeships.

Miliband says the figures show the government's economic strategy is failing.
Will Cameron confirm that for every job created in the private sector, 13 are
lost in the public sector.

Cameron says whoever was in government would have to be cutting spending. The
government is cutting welfare, freezing pay and reforming pensions. But Labour
is opposing all those measures.

12.02pm: Richard Fuller, a Conservative, says his constituents will be
disappointed that the report into RBS did not recommend criminal prosecutions.
Will the government enforce financial regulations, unlike Ed Balls?

Cameron says the government is looking at toughening up City regulation. He says
the RBS report named Balls as culpable.

12.01pm: David Cameron starts with a tribute to a soldier killed as a result of
wounds sustained in Afghanistan.

11.58am: PMQs is about to start. And Nick Clegg has turned up.

11.33am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, includin some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, I've already mentioned the story about the care
plans being delayed. Here are some stories and articles from the rest of the
papers that are particularly interesting.

[#xfffd] Sam Coates and Roland Watson in the Times (paywall) say David Cameron
faces another crunch Commons vote on Europe soon.

David Cameron is facing a new year ambush over Europe as Conservative MPs plan
to force a further Commons vote on Britain's membership of the European Union.

Downing Street fears that Eurosceptics will hijack a vote intended to overhaul
the eurozone bailout fund. Allies of the Prime Minister are desperate to avoid a
rerun of October's rebellion in which 81 Tories defied the leadership and called
for a referendum on Britain's relationship with Europe.

One Downing Street source said they were worried that rebels would put down an
amendment to force another referendum vote, which would jeopardise Mr Cameron's
attempts to resist further reform of Britain's ties with the EU.

Tory MPs said that Mr Cameron's use of the veto last week to block an EU treaty
has raised hopes of a fundamental renegotiation of ties with Europe.

Some Conservative backbenchers have started referring privately to the "English
Spring", likening their cause to the revolutionary pro-democracy campaigners of
the Arab world.

[#xfffd] Tim Shipman in the Daily Mail says Lib Dem MPs and peers are
questioning Nick Clegg's competence.

Lib Dem MPs and peers privately questioned Mr Clegg's competence after he first
backed the Prime Minister's stance and then turned on him.

Party sources said the only thing stopping a leadership challenge to Mr Clegg is
the lack of a credible candidate that would please the Left and Right of the
party.

Party grandees, including Baroness Williams and Lord Ashdown, were last night
said to be in a state of despair that Mr Clegg was 'asleep on the job' when the
key decisions were being made by David Cameron in the small hours of the
morning.

Privately some have branded him a 'lightweight' and said he had failed to plan
properly for the crunch summit.

[#xfffd] Christopher Hope and James Kirkup in the Daily Telegraph say Clegg told
his MPs last night that an election now would destroy the party.

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

[#xfffd] Benedict Brogan in the Daily Telegraph says that Cameron has no
intention of bringing down the coalition.

Even now, groups of MPs are drawing up shopping lists of demands. The Prime
Minister told the Commons on Monday that he wants us to remain in the EU, but
his colleagues want a change in the terms of membership. His "No!" has stoked
their expectations of what might be possible. He is likely to disappoint them.

Instead, his focus will remain on protecting the Coalition and keeping it on
course. He has no interest in the suggestion that the time is ripe to end his
deal with Mr Clegg and seek his own mandate from the electorate. He argues that
the longer he can present himself as a confident leader with a plan to get
Britain through the crisis, the greater his chance of an outright majority. Nor
has he any intention of making things worse for the Lib Dems by picking another
fight with the EU. Rather, ministers and officials will use every opportunity to
heal rifts and get back to the bread-and-butter of European negotiations.

[#xfffd]Martin Wolf in the Financial Times (subscription) says the deal agreed
to rescue the eurozone last week won't work.

This leaves much the most plausible outcome of the orgy of fiscal austerity:
long-term structural recessions in vulnerable countries. To put it bluntly, the
single currency will come to stand for wage falls, debt deflation and prolonged
economic slumps. Can this stand, however big the costs of a break-up?

The eurozone has no credible plan to fix the flaws of the eurozone, apart from
greater fiscal austerity: there is to be no fiscal, financial or political
union; and there is to be no balanced mechanism for economic adjustment on both
sides of the creditor-debtor divide. The decision is, instead, to try still
harder with a stability and growth pact whose failures have been both
predictable and persistent. Yes, Mr Cameron made a blunder last week. But that
of the eurozone looks far bigger.

[#xfffd]James Lyons in the Daily Mirror says Clegg has been joking about Cameron
at a Lib Dem Christmas party.

[Clegg] could not resist playing to the crowd at the nightclub.

He said: "It is very unfamiliar for me. I don't go out clubbing very much. It
feels somewhat uncomfortable - somewhat like David Cameron at a Franco-German
summit."

[#xfffd]Rowena Mason in the Daily Telegraph says health experts have written to
the paper saying the government should follow the example of Scotland and bring
in a minimum price for alcohol.

In a letter to The Daily Telegraph, medical experts urge the Government to take
"bold action" and follow the lead of Scotland by bringing in minimum prices for
drinks.

They say current policies are not going far enough to prevent thousands of
deaths from alcohol-related diseases every year.

They made the appeal before a debate by MPs in Westminster today on alcohol
taxation. The Government is to announce its new "alcohol strategy" early next
year.

11.26am:The latest overnight YouGov GB polling figures put the Conservatives
ahead for the first time since December 2010.

Conservatives: 41% (up 4 points since the general election)Labour: 39% (up 9)Lib
Dems: 10% (down 14)

Conservative lead: 2 points

Government approval: -16

Anthony Wells has written a post about the figures. He says the rise in the
Conservative vote is explained by UKIP voters returning to the Conservatives
following David Cameron's decision to veto the new EU treaty.

(By the way, I'm interviewing the UKIP leader, Nigel Farage, later this week. Do
post a comment on my "what do you want to ask?" blog if you want to suggest a
question.)

11.13am: Here's some more reaction to the unemployment figures. (See 10.16am.)

From Liam Byrne, the shadow work and pensions secretary

The government has well and truly clobbered the recovery and now more families
face Christmas without a job than at any time since the early 1990s. As every
month passes, it is getting clearer and clearer that the government's welfare to
work programmes are simply failing. The lowest amount of people are coming off
benefits and into work than at any time since 1998.

The result is now a soaring welfare bill that is creating an almighty hangover
for Britain to deal with. The government is now set to borrow [#xfffd]158
billion more than planned - more than [#xfffd]6,500 for every household in the
country. This isn't borrowing to support the economy through difficult times,
but a huge new bill for failure.

In the last quarter, for every 13 jobs lost in the public sector, just one was
created in the private sector. Quite simply we're losing jobs faster than we're
creating them.

From Brendan Barber, the TUC general secretary

No amount of spin can put a gloss on these terrible figures. Worryingly, the
latest rise in job losses looks less like a bad blip and more like a trend of
entrenched high unemployment, with new records being set each month for the
number of women and young people out of work.

Ministers will desperately attempt to lay the blame on the Eurozone but it is
the UK government alone that is responsible for the huge cull of public sector
employment. There are now 12 public sector workers losing their jobs for every
new post which is created in the private sector.

From John Philpott, chief economic adviser at the Chartered Institute of
Personnel and Development

The quarterly rise of 128,000 in unemployment is itself enough to dampen the
spirits but what's worse is news that private sector job growth is almost at a
standstill while public sector employment is falling at twice the rate projected
by the Office for Budget Responsibility.

The hope that private sector job creation would offset large-scale public sector
job cuts even in the short run has proved false and unemployment will continue
to climb throughout 2012, regardless of what happens in the eurozone.

10.47am: The Daily Mail has splashed today on a story saying that reform of the
care system could be delayed until 2025.The story is partly based on comments
from Andrew Lansley, the health secretary, partly on a prediction from the
Alzheimer's Society and partly on background briefing.

Whitehall officials have revealed that a social care white paper, to be
published in the spring, will focus on the quality of provision alone. The issue
of paying for it has been relegated to a 'progress' document.

Ministers are now thinking in terms of both elements not being in place until
well after the 2020 general election.

Andrew Dilnot, the economist who published a report recommending a new system
that would save people from the risk of having to spend their entire savings on
care in their old age, told the Today programme this morning that a delay of
this kind would be "totally unacceptable".

I think 2025 would be completely unacceptable. The government promised a White
Paper by Easter of next year. I that level of delay is acceptable, but anything
beyond that would be completely unacceptable. I see no official sign that there
is any suggestion that a decision will be delayed beyond that, and any such
delay would be a betrayal of peoples' trust.

10.25am: Here's some reaction to the unemployment figures.

From Chris Grayling, the employment minister

There has obviously been an unwelcome increase in unemployment since the summer
but these latest figures show some signs that the labour market is stabilising.

The number of people in employment is higher than last month's published figure
and the number of unemployed people is steadying. Encouragingly this is also the
case for young people not in education.

The increase in those claiming jobseeker's allowance has slowed and our welfare
reforms are having a positive impact, with overall benefit claimant numbers
falling by around 40,000 in the last 18 months.

From Paul Kenny, general secretary of the GMB union

A double-dip Osborne recession, rising unemployment, rapidly falling living
standards are the Tory/Lib Dem miserable Christmas gifts to the nation. The
millions of workers without jobs face a miserable Christmas and a bleak New
Year. Instead of attacking pensions and employment rights and making it easier
to sack people, the government should be pursuing policies to create jobs, which
is something it is failing to do.

From Tony Dolphin, chief economist at the IPPR

Private sector jobs have only risen by 5,000 but cuts in public sector
employment, for the same period are 67,000. The public sector is the only broad
sector of the economy that employs more women than men. If the OBR's latest
forecasts are right, unemployment will increase further next year, and women are
likely to bear the brunt in 2012.

From Andrew Sissons, a researcher at the Work Foundation

The labour market is on a dangerous trajectory, as today's numbers confirm that
our private sector recovery has stalled. Between June and September private
businesses struggled to create just 5,000 new jobs while the public sector shed
67,000 workers over the same period. The economy shed 252,000 employee jobs in
three months, leaving unemployment higher now than at any point during the
recession. Businesses are suffering from an acute lack of confidence, which
makes it very hard for them to create jobs. The eurozone crisis also makes it
impossible for companies to plan for the long-term, while consumers at home
appear to be cutting back their spending.

Most worrying is the prospect of unemployment remaining high for years to come.
The OBR's forecast suggests that unemployment will not start to fall
significantly until 2014, which means that whatever rate of unemployment we
reach over the coming months is likely to persist for several years to come.

10.23am: The Conservative MEP Martin Callanan has been elected president of the
European Conservatives and Reformists group (ECR) in the European Parliament -
the group formed after David Cameron pulled his party out of the main
centre-right bloc, the European People's Party (EPP). Callanan, the first Briton
to take charge, is replacing the Czech Republic's Jan Zahradil, who is stepping
down.

10.18am: This morning Nick Clegg had breakfast with Business For New Europe, a
pro-European business group.

He told them that the government was "absolutely determined" to ensure that
Britain remained at the heart of the single market.

You know as well as I do that your businesses and millions of people's jobs in
this country depend on our place at the heart of the single market.

As the dust settles on the summit that took place last week, I speak here on
behalf of the whole coalition government, notwithstanding the differences of
view between the parties within the government. The whole government is
absolutely determined to re-engage with our European partners, to get back on
the front foot and to make sure that our vital national economic self-interest
in being at the heart of the single market is properly followed through the
weeks and months ahead.

10.16am: Here's the story the Press Association have filed about the
unemployment figures.

Unemployment reached a 17-year high today after another 128,000 joined the
jobless ranks, taking the total to 2.64 million.A series of grim figures
delivered a pre-Christmas blow to the Government, with youth and female
unemployment showing big rises and the number of people claiming jobseeker's
allowance increasing for the ninth month in a row.Travel giant Thomas Cook added
to the gloom by announcing more than 600 job losses and 115 shop
closures.Employment fell by 63,000 in the quarter to October to 29.11 million,
while the number of people working in the public sector dipped below six million
for the first time since 2003.The unemployment rate is now 8.3%, up 0.4% on the
quarter - the highest since 1996 - while the jobless total is now worse than at
any time since 1994.Unemployment among 16 to 24-year-olds increased by 54,000 to
1.03 million, the highest since records began in 1992.The Office for National
Statistics also reported that women's unemployment increased by 45,000 to 1.1
million, the highest figure since 1988.The number of people out of work for
longer than a year rose by 19,000 in the latest quarter to 868,000, the worst
figure since 1996.Jobseeker's allowance claimants increased by 3,000 last month
to 1.6 million, the ninth consecutive monthly rise and the highest total since
the start of 2010.The number of job vacancies fell by 8,000 to 455,000, while
161,000 people were made redundant in the three months to October, down by 1,000
on the previous quarter.The number of economically-inactive people, including
students, those on long-term sick leave, looking after a relative, or who have
given up looking for a job, fell by 54,000 to 9.33 million.Public sector
employment fell by 67,000 in the third quarter of the year to 5.9 million,
including 59,000 in local government and 9,000 in the civil service.Private
sector employment increased by 5,000 to 23.1 million.Average earnings increased
by 2% in the year to October, down by 0.3% on the previous month, taking average
weekly pay to [#xfffd]464.

9.53am: Alex Salmond, the Scottish first minister, has been doing his best to
squeeze maximum political advantage out of David Cameron's decision to veto a
new EU treaty last week. (And there's nothing wrong with that - he's a
politician.) He was giving interviews on this subject yesterday, and he popped
up on the Today programme this morning to say that the decision could make it
harder for Britain to get support on issues affecting Scotland. He said Cameron
was motivated by the desire to protect his own position.

I think it was possible to produce a situation where agreement could have been
produced on the treaty. What David Cameron was doing, spooked I suspect by Boris
Johnson looking for his job, was to take a decision which might jeopardise the
jobs of tens of thousands of other people. That's not leadership, that's
isolationism and it's irresponsible posturing.

Salmond also said that an independent Scotland would not be obliged to join the
euro. But he also said that joining would be "a long-term possibility" if the
economic circumstances were right.

9.31am: Here are the headline unemployment figures.

[#xfffd] Unemployment increased by 128,000 between August and October to 2.64m.

[#xfffd] The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month
increased by 3,000 to 1.6m.

[#xfffd] Average earnings increased by 2% in the year to October, 0.3% down on
the previous month.

Here is the Office for National Statistics release with the headline figures.
And here is the ONS bulletin with the full details (pdf).

8.55am: It's the last PMQs of 2011 but Westminster is unlikely to be in the mood
for festive cheer and, with the economy still ailing, it will take a brave
leader to foresee a Happy New Year with any confidence. New unemployment figures
are out this morning and last night the Lib Dems failed to vote with the Tories
on a motion praising David Cameron's handling of the EU summit, and so Ed
Miliband won't be short of subject matter at 12pm. And, of course, we'll get to
find out whether Nick Clegg is going to turn up.

The other big event today is the Guardian's Reading the Riots conference, where
Miliband and Theresa May, the home secretary, are both delivering speeches. My
colleague Paul Owen is covering the conference on a live blog,but I'll be
keeping an eye on the political speeches.

Here's the full agenda for the day.

9.30am: Unemployment figures are published.

10am: The Leveson inquiry resumes. Colin Myler, the former News of the World
editor, and Jon Chapman, the former News International head of corporate and
legal affairs, are giving evidence.

11am: Lynne Featherstone, the equalities minister, launches a consultation on
expanding the definition of domestic violence.

11.30am: Theresa May, the home secretary, speaks at the Reading the Riots
conference.

12pm:David Cameron and Ed Miliband clash at PMQs.

12.30pm: Caroline Spelman, the environment secretary, is expected to make a
statement in the Commons about tackling bovine TB in badgers.

2pm:Ed Miliband speaks at the Reading the Riots conference.

3.15pm:Jonathan Stephens, permanent secretary at the Department for Culture, and
other officials give evidence to the Commons culture committee about
preparations for the Olympics.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and an afternoon one at about 4pm.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on@AndrewSparrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

What do you want to ask Nigel Farage?

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 452 words

ABSTRACT

Dismissed by David Cameron as a party full of 'fruitcakes and closet racists',
Ukip has achieved remarkable results in European polls. So, what would you like
to ask the Ukip leader?

FULL TEXT

Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom Independence party, thinks last
week's Brussels summit marks a turning point in Britain's relationship with the
EU. In one of his typically brash speeches in the European parliament, the MEP
claimed Britain was on its way out:

Something changed ... on Friday. Cameron may not know it, but we are on course.
Britain is going to make the great escape. We are going to get out of this
union. We'll be the first European country to get our freedom back.

Farage has been making predictions like this for years. But, given the state of
debate in the Conservative party, the future of Britain's relationship with the
EU is clearly a live political issue. I'm interviewing Farage tomorrow. What do
you think I should ask?

It's easy to dismiss Ukip: David Cameron once said its members were "fruitcakes,
loonies and closet racists".But they came fourth in the general election in
terms of votes (920,000 votes, or 3.1%) and, for a minor party, they have
achieved some remarkable results in European elections.

In the Barnsley Central byelection this year they came second, and a poll has
put them level-pegging with the Lib Dems in tomorrow's Feltham and Heston
byelection.Most commentators view Ukip as just a protest vote party. But in
Progress recently Anthony Painter speculated that Farage could be on the track
to becoming deputy prime minister by 2015:

So it did happen. In the year after its staggering first-place finish in the
2014 European parliamentary elections, the political classes had argued that the
English Independence party's support - in the mid-20s - was just froth. But in
the first post-austerity general election, Farage's party managed to hold on to
most of its support, polled 20% of the vote and saw the election of 25 MPs.

Sporting a St George's cross tie, Farage declared in the early hours that his
party "hadn't even begun yet" and already it had "turned British politics
upside-down". The prime minister faces a tough choice: governing as a minority
coalition with the 12 remaining Liberal Democrat MPs, a grand coalition with
Labour, or a small majority coalition with the EIP. The UK's departure from the
EU seems a very real possibility. How did it come to this?

Does Farage think this could happen? I'll find out tomorrow. But do let me know
what else you think I should raise.

I won't be able to use all the questions you suggest, but it is helpful to get
ideas from others and it is useful to know what topics you find particularly
interesting.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TORIES' 2PT LEAD IN EU VETO BOUNCE

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words


DAVID Cameron's EU veto has "bounced" the Tories to a two-point lead over
Labour, it was revealed last night.

A YouGov poll for The Sun showed the Conservatives on 41 per cent, with Ed
Miliband's party on 39 and the Lib Dems trailing on ten.

It is the first time for a year that the Tories have been ahead of Labour.

Experts said the spike followed repeated public exposure of Mr Cameron's
decision to block a new EU treaty without safeguards for the City. The Tories
gained at the expense of UKIP, whose support has dipped to just three per cent.

The Prime Minister yesterday came under an extraordinary barrage of threats from
leading EU figures. Belgian MEP Guy Verhofstadt, formerly the nation's PM,
suggested Britain would be gobbled up by the EU as it was now "on the menu". And
French MEP Joseph Daul called for the UK to lose its rebate due to its "selfish
nationalism".

But No10 countered: "Our position is unchanged."

More rifts between the Tories and Lib Dems emerged yesterday in Cabinet talks on
the EU. At one stage Mr Cameron slapped down Energy Secretary Chris Huhne for
saying the Lib Dems had been cut out of negotiation tactics.

QTHE IMF last night warned Greece had "taken a turn for the worse," with its
economy possibly shrinking by SIX per cent this year.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Spike . . David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 9:18 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Italy's borrowing costs jump at bond auction as EU attempts to forge a 'fiscal
union' fails to convince markets it can solve the debt crisis, while 'opt out'
Britain secures record low interest rates at gilt sale.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson, Graham Ruddick and Matthew Sparkes

LENGTH: 5565 words


· Euro falls to low for the year vs. dollar and pound
· Italian bond yields highest since 1997 at auction
· FTSE falls 2.2pc, DAX drops 1.7pc and CAC loses 3.3pc
· Cameron: no apology for using EU veto on treaty
· Eurozone rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn
· UK unemployement at 17-year high

Latest

21.15The US markets are done for the day, having continued falling from
yesterday on eurozone fears. Investors just aren't convinced that EU leaders
have a solution to the debt crisis.

The Dow Jones is off 1.10pc, the S&P 500 lost 1.13pc and the Nasdaq fell by
1.55pc.

20.34 Tomorrow's front pages are starting to emerge. The Independent has gone
with a story on the EU treaty.

The headline reads: "EU 26 fight to stop pact unravelling".

Underneath that are three bullet points: "Several non-eurozone nations having
doubts about 'fiscal compact'", "Ireland warns that final agreement could
trigger referendum" and "Sarkozy inflames divisions with attack on 'kid'
Cameron".

20.15 Our poll on the outcome of last week's EU summit will run until midnight,
so make sure you get your votes in...

EU leaders need to come up with a better solution for the eurozone debt
crisis...

20.06 Greece will likely chalk up its worst ever recession this year, Greek PM
Lucas Papademos warns, with GDP contraction likely to be greater than the 5.5pc
forecast.

"2011 will be the worst recession here ever," he said, with contraction "over
5.5pc". Greece's economy shrank by 4.5pc in 2010.

Earlier today the head of the IMF mission in Greece, Poul Thomsen, said that the
Greek economy will go down "six percent and maybe more" this year.

19.35 Three years on from the financial crisis and it's hard to find a clear
narrative for the US economy over the next year. Which is one reason that 2012
promises to be a fascinating year, writes Richard Blackden from New York.

Everyone is also far more aware of the external traps for the economy. Europe's
debt crisis comfortably tops the leaderboard of global hazards. The increasing
tension with Iran, though, is causing iunease. Then there are the domestic traps
- a list that starts and ends with the race for the White House. There won't be
any agreement on addressing America's long-term fiscal challenges before 2013.

19.10 We've produced a series of graphics which give a snapshot of how the UK
economy has fared over the past year: 2011 in graphs . You can also see them in
the image section at the top of the live blog.

18.38French banking group Credit Agricole has announced it will slash 2,350 jobs
around the world because of "challenging market conditions", but still post a
profit this year.

18.09 US Fed chief Ben Bernanke is set to brief President Barack Obama's
Republican foes in the US Senate today about Europe's financial crisis.

Republican Senator Lamar Alexander invited Bernanke to deliver a briefing amid
rising fears that Europe's troubles may stifle weak US economic recovery.

Republicans were "interested in hearing the views of the Chairman of the Federal
Reserve on what's going on in Europe and how it affects the US," said a
spokesman for Alexander.

The US markets are down on eurozone worries today, with the Dow Jones off
0.87pc, the S&P 500 0.86pc lower and the Nasdaq slipping 1.51pc.

17.45Jean-Claude Juncker says Luxembourg shouldn't introduce a "golden rule"
requiring balanced budgets into its constitution.

He now says it goes against "the philosophy" of Luxembourg's constitution and
claims that a "special law," if passed by a large majority, would do the trick.

17.34 Greece is lagging behind its targets, warns the IMF's mission chief Paul
Thomsen, adding that delay in reforms was the main reason. He said Greece must
move more aggresively in closing down redundant state enterprises and proceeding
to involuntary redundancies.

17.19 Strong demand for safe havens saw banks' dollar borrowing triple today at
the ECB's weekly loan offering. A total of 12 banks used the ECB's seven-day
dollar swap line, borrowing $5.122 billion - three times the $1.602 billion
borrowed last week.

The surge came two weeks after central banks slashed the cost of accessing the
swap line and as the cost of raising dollars from the market rose, making
funding via the ECB more attractive. Laurence Mutkin, strategist at Morgan
Stanley, said:

Until year-end there's an aversion generally to expanding balance sheets so this
is exactly the kind of time you would expect market pricing to be unattractive
relative to these official tenders.

Dependence on the ECB as a source of dollars has grown as the debt crisis raging
in the eurozone has pushed US money market funds to cut back their lending into
the currency bloc, spurring the ECB to step up its support for banks.

17.06 And it's not only the FTSE 100 that's plunging, but gold as well. Garry
White tweets that it's now tumbled back to its July level, before the dramatic
rise we saw throughout Autumn.

16.59 And a graph showing just the FTSE 100 since the start of December. It's
been an eratic few days, but with a clear downward trend since David Cameron's
veto in the early hours of the morning on Friday.

16.52Time for the end-of-day markets graph, which is starting to show a trend
downwards over the last few days in Europe.

16.43 European markets have now closed for the day, with rising unemployment in
the UK and the threat of

The FTSE 100 is off 2.25pc, the DAX fell 1.72pc and the CAC slipped 3.33pc.

Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said:

Political leaders and central bankers seem to have got stuck in a quagmire of
indecision so as a result financial markets gave up on their lack of resolve
today. The prospect of the usual Christmas rally has almost completely
disappeared as the prospect of a full scale European sovereign debt melt down in
the near future became more of a reality.

16.31 Perhaps in response to the rumours floating around on Twitter of an
iminent French downgrade, the country's foreign minister, Alain Juppe, has said
that losing its AAA rating would be bad news but "not a cataclysm". Speaking to
Les Echos he said:

It wouldn't be good news, but it wouldn't be a cataclysm either. The United
States lost their triple-A and still manage to borrow on the markets in good
conditions.

French foreign minister, Alain Juppe

16.16 As the euro continues to slide against the dollar and markets tumble in
the last hour of trading, this note from Kathleen Brooks, research director at
Forex.com, helps shed some light on the causes:

We are in full risk aversion mode. The break below 1.30 in EURUSD highlights the
escalation in the eurozone debt crisis. But where it goes from here depends on
how traders digest the vast amount of commentary coming from Europe's political
classes.

On balance the most important comments (i.e., the ones that come from Germany)
are negative. Firstly, Merkel ruled out a swift solution to the debt crisis when
she addressed the Bundestag earlier. She said it will take years to solve.

So strains remain and as we head towards the end of the year there is a triple
whammy of fears on investors' mind: a failed Italian bond auction in Q1, a
collapse of a bank and 3, sovereign downgrades.

The note also includes this graph, showing the worrying rise in French banks'
borrowing from the ECB.

16.08 There are rumours circulating on Twitter (the natural habitat of the
rumour) that a French downgrade is on the way. The Financial Times'sSam Jones
says:

16.05 The Christmas catering at the French Finance Ministry is the latest victim
of austerity cuts designed to save the country's AAA credit rating.

Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said they had to lead by example, so would
serve simple biscuits rather than the petits fours traditionally on offer at
holiday events. It will also shun paper New Year cards in favour of electronic
greetings.

Obviously in this period of extreme budget constraints and crisis, the state has
got to cut back as much as possible.

15.37 A quick graph showing the tumble the euro has taken so far in December.
Having started the month at $1.3446 it's now slipped to $1.2984.

15.25 Insurer Legal & General has just released its economic forecasts for 2012.
Bad news, I'm afraid. Economist Tim Drayson says the OBR's prediction of 0.7pc
growth in the UK are "too optimistic" and warns of a difficult year for Italy
and France.

The euro area problems don't just affect Europe. Europe is a major trading area
for the US, China and the UK. European banks have been major providers of credit
to the global economy. These problems will be felt globally.

Even in the unlikely event of Europe's leaders finding an immediate and
comprehensive solution to the debt crisis, a lot of damage has already been
done.

15.15 Amid all the gloom and uncertainty, one piece of good news for consumers
today is the falling oil price. Brent Crude for January delivery is down $2.89
to $106.65 per barrel, primarily due to the strengthening of the dollar.

14.55 News coming out of Frankfurt on Commerzbank, which is Germany's second
biggest bank but is understood to be financially fragile. It has boosted its
core capital by (EURO)700m (£588m) through the repurchase of hybrid securities.

14.50 More on the IMF - they are to send a "small team" to Rome next week to
meet the new government and receive updates on the progress of austerity
measures.

14.44 The chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard,
has issued a warning on austerity measures that could be used as future
ammunition for the Labour party against the Coalition's spending cuts. Mr
Blanchard warned that austerity measures must be a "long, drawn out process"
because otherwise they "kill growth". He added: "It is very clear we don't want
to do it too fast."

Chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard.

14.43The US markets have picked up where they left off yesterday: in the red, as
troubles in Europe continue to concern investors.

Five minutes into trade, the Dow Jones was down 0.38pc, the S&P 500 lost 0.39pc
and the Nasdaq trimmed 0.58pc.

14.24 Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Euro Group and prime minister of
Luxembourg, has warned that if the euro collapses then the entire European Union
will be at risk. Speaking in the Luxembourg parliament he said:

If the euro falls - and it won't - then the entire European unification project
is at risk in its substance and in its essence.

I'm fundamentally convinced that if we don't manage in the coming years to make
it sustainable in the future, the entire European unification will crumble again
into pieces.

Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Euro Group and prime minister of
Luxembourg.

14:12 More news from Lloyds, they have announced that the Co-Op is the preferred
bidder for the 632 of bank branches they are selling. So, expect the Co-Op bank
to have a much greater prominence on Britain's high streets.

14.11 An update from Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock:

If you think Britain's youth unemployment figures are bad, spare a thought for
Spain, where almost half of all under-25s are out of work.

Official figures said this morning the unemployment rate for 16 to 24 year olds
in the UK was 22.0pc between August and October. This equates to 1.03m under-25s
out of work. It's been rising steadily since the recession.

But over in Spain, youth unemployment stands at 48.9pc according to Eurostat.
That's one in every two young people out of work. Ouch.

14.02During PMQs earlier today David Cameron insisted he would make no apology
for "standing up for Britain" by deploying veto to block proposed changes to the
EU treaty.

He was accused of making a "catastrophic mistake" by Labour leader Ed Miliband,
who urged him to re-enter negotiations with the other 26 EU states to try to get
a better deal for Britain. We have a full story on the lively session on our
politics page.

13.52 Time magazine named "The Protester" as its 2011 Person of the Year this
afternoon - encompassing hugely diverse groups including the Arab Spring and the
Occupy Wall Street movement. We're not sure how those fighting for democracy
would react to being grouped together with the chap pictured below...

Time Editor Rick Stengel said in a statement:

Is there a global tipping point for frustration? Everywhere, it seems, people
said they'd had enough. They dissented; they demanded; they did not despair,
even when the answers came back in a cloud of tear gas or a hail of bullets.
They literally embodied the idea that individual action can bring collective,
colossal change.

13.32We've just heard that Antonio Horta-Osorio will return to his job as chief
executive of Lloyds, and is expected back in January. He stepped down from the
job last month due to "extreme fatigue".

13.28 Merkel says there are no quick, easy solutions tot he debt crisis - it
will last years. On a slightly cheerier note, she says that Europe can overcome
the crisis if it shows patience and sticks with plans for fiscal union.

13.10 BREAKING ...

Angela Merkel is now addressing the German parliament in a debate about the
agreements on eurozone fiscal union made in Brussels last Friday.

She said the process to create closer union between eurozone countries is an
"irreversible" process - and that Britain"remains an important partner in the
EU" despite our refusal to back an EU treaty.

13.05 It's a bumper day for bond auctions - Germany has also sold (EURO)4.2bn of
two-year government debt, with an average yield of 0.29pc, even lower than the
0.39 yield last month.

As a compare and contrast, investors demanded yields of 6.47pc to buy five-year
Italian bonds earlier today (see 10.10 post)...

The German cabinet has also agreed to restart the country's banking
stabilisation fund, to make help available to the six German banks which
European regulators have identified as needing more capital.

12.55 Christmas is approaching - is it t for a bit of peace on earth and
goodwill to all men? Not in the corridors of Westminster, where James Kirkup
reports political machinations are carrying on with their usual vigour.

It won't happen immediately, but could the Conservatives be considering trading
in their Lib Dem coalition partners for the Democratic Unionists of Northern
Ireland? He writes:

One note of frustration has been sounded this morning by Peter Bone, who raises
an intriguing notion:

Last night, we had the DUP for us and the Lib Dems against us. Maybe that is a
change in coalition partners we need down the line.

The Lib Dems have 57 MPs and the DUP have eight, so swapping yellow for orange
is not a direct exchange: it would only be viable if the Tories increased their
numbers from today's 305.

In the latter days of the last general election, there was talk in Tory circles
of a deal with the Unionists if - as was then expected - the party ended up just
inches from a Commons majority. That expectation was, of course, wrong. But
could an arrangement with the Unionists one day return to the fore?

12.46 There were plenty of questions on the subject at PMQs - our jobs editor
Louisa Peacock has put together this insightful graph on youth unemployment
since 2001. You can see the whole story here .

12.29 PM pressed on unemployment again, he says the economy would be in bigger
trouble if Labour's policy of extra spending had been followed because UK would
be paying higher interest rates on debt.

12.24 A question on the EU veto! Cameron is told that the people of Dudley
"thank him" for using the veto, prompting PM to question what Labour's policy is
on the eurozone debt crisis.

12.21 After question on Olympics, Cameron says the Games could "drive jobs and
growth" outside London if tourists can be attracted to other parts of the
country, such as York.

12.17 Backbenchers having their say now on topics including debt management
companies, the price of alcohol in shops and the national curriculum. PM says he
"notes" letter in newspapers this morning and is looking at the "broader
question" of low-cost alcohol.

12.13 Still waiting for a detailed discussion on Europe, but the PM now quoting
from Miliband's own New Year message. That included a pledge that Labour's
fightback "would begin in Scotland". Oh dear. "What his party want for Christmas
is a new leader," says Cameron. Cue more laughter.

12.12 The Prime Minister says he "makes no apology for standing up for Britain"
by using the veto in Brussels last week.

12.10 Cameron's response is met by laughter from his own benches - "No-one in
this House is surprised that the Conservatives and Lib Dems don't agree on
Europe. It's not that bad, it's not like we're brothers."

12.08 Ed Miliband constantly quoting New Year message for 2011 from David
Cameron and prompts howls of laughter when he says its "good to see the Deputy
Prime Minister back in the House".

12.07 Prime Minister adds: "Whoever was in Government now would have to be
making reductions in government spending. it's all very well complaining about
unemployment but if you don't take steps to cut spending there would be even
more unemployment."

12.05 David Cameron says Government will do "everything we can to get people
back into work" after Ed Miliband presses him on the new unemployment figures.

12.00 Last PMQ's of the year about to begin, and Nick Clegg has arrived.....

11.55Kathleen Brooks, research director at FOREX.com, wrote a prescient comment
on the euro/dollar exchange rate first thing this morning - the single currency
has now dropped below $1.30 and she sets out what that means:

Although we are entering a hefty couple of days for economic data the key thing
that everyone is looking at is the euro, it has tumbled in the last 24 hours..

$1.30 is a key psychological level for the single currency and hasn't been
breached for 11 months, if we see it fall through here it signals a couple of
things: 1, the debt crisis has escalated and 2, market sentiment towards
euro-based assets has taken another turn for the worse.

11.52 The euro's decline (see 11.36) has now taken it below the
psychologically-important $1.30 mark. Sterling, meanwhile, is at a nine-month
high against the euro.

11.40 The UK also sold bonds this morning - with record low interest rates,
according to Sky News's economics editor, Ed Conway:

11.36 The euro is on a slide, falling to as low as $1.305 against the dollar.
That is the lowest point since January 12. Michael Hewson, an analystat CMC
Markets, said the fall was "surprising", because it should have happened
earlier.

The slide in the single currency over the past 24 hours is surprising in so far
that it has taken so long to come about.

Against a backdrop of concerns about ratings downgrades, a lack of large scale
European Central Bank intervention, and Angela Merkel's reiteration that there
would be no increase in the new bailout fund, it was news out of the United
States that really helped push things along.

11.30 A worrying sign that all is still not well with Spanish banks. According
to Spain's central bank, the amount owed by Spanish banks to the European
Central Bank, the lender of last resort, surged by 28.8pc in November to
(EURO)98bn (£82bn).

11.25 Italian reporter Fabrizio Goria says scientists in Switzerland are not the
only people searching for the God particle - eurozone leaders could do with a
miracle too. Via Twitter:

11:22 European shares are all down this morning:

The FTSE 100 has fallen 0.9pc to 5,440 points, while the CAC slipped 1.4pc in
Paris and the DAX dropped 0.8pc.

Bond yields in Italy also rose, indicating investors believe they are a riskier
investment, climbing to 7.1pc.

11.20 It is not just the UK Coalition that is under stress from the eurozone
crisis. In Germany, a senior leader of the Free Democrats - which share power
with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union - has resigned. Christian
Lindner was general secretary of the FDP and, at only 32, was seen as future
leader of the party.

11.16 Lots of European Central Bank headlines coming through on the wires - both
Jens Weidmann, ECB member and the head of Germany's central bank, and Klaas
Knot, a member of the ECB's Governing Council, have been speaking.

Mr Knot has said the eurozone bail-out fund or contributions to the IMF have to
be at least (EURO)1 trillion. The crisis will be solved if the rescue funds are
increased, he said, according to Reuters

Mr Weidmann has said it is "absurd" to discuss Germany returning to the
Deutschmark, and there is "no Plan B" to keeping the eurozone together.

He also totally quashed hopes that the ECB is just waiting for its chance to
start buying unlimited amounts of European government bonds.

He said it is "astonishing" people think market confidence will be won by
"breaking the rules".

11.08 The overhaul of another European government due to the debt crisis appears
to have been prevented. Finland's government has survived a vote of
no-confidence in parliament over its handling of the debt crisis.

Lawmakers voted 116-73 in favor of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's party. The
no-confidence motion was tabled by the opposition The Finns party which opposes
bailouts for cash-strapped eurozone members.

10.50 Some interesting comments from Ireland on the European treaty and David
Cameron's use of the veto to protect the City. Finance minister Michael Noonan
said Ireland is "prepared to talk" with the EU about the introduction of a tax
on financial transactions - a measure vehemently opposed by the UK - but thinks
Ireland could be put at a disadvantage if the City is not covered.

We are prepared to talk about the tax, but obviously there will be disadvantages
for Ireland if a financial transaction tax will be applied in Dublin and not be
applied in London as well.

10.34 That yield of 6.47pc on the Italian bond auction was the highest since May
1997 by the way, worrying signs for the eurozone and a sign that leaders are
still a long way from solving the crisis.

10.10 Mario Monti may have spoken too soon on Italian bond yields (see 09.20
post) - the country successfully sold (EURO)3bn of government bonds maturing in
five years - but paid a high price to do so.

The yield, or interest rate Italy had to offer investors to get the bond sale
away, increased to 6.47pc, up from 6.29pc at a sale of similar debt in
mid-November.

10.00 A reminder that we've got Prime Minster's Questions at midday - should be
a lively session, especially if Nick Clegg is in attendance, unlike at Monday's
address to the house on Europe...

09.45 More on those unemployment figures:

The number of women out of surged by 45,000 between August and October to reach
1.1m, the highest figure since 1988.

The young were also badly hit with the number of 16 to 24 year-olds out of work
reaching 1.026m between August and October - the highest since records began in
1992 and a rise of 54,000 on the previous quarter, the statistics out on
Wednesday revealed.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month also increased by
3,000 to 1.6m, the highest total since the start of 2010, the figures showed.

09.35 BREAKING ...

The latest UK unemployment figures are out and they show the number of people
out of work rose by 128,000 to 2.64m, the highest figure since 1994.

However the unemployment rate held steady ay 8.3pc, below economists' forecasts
of a rise to 8.4pc.

09.20 Noone ever said Italy's Mario Monti was in for an easy ride - but he's
already had to make changes to his (EURO)33bn austerity package to pacify union
anger amid a wave of strikes this week.

The changes to the "Save Italy" package of cuts will make the cuts less harsh
for pensioners and poor families, he said last night. The government will raise
the ceiling under which pensions are inflation linked to (EURO)1,400 a month
from (EURO)936.

The government will also scrap a homeowners tax on low-income families with
children, and pay for the measures with a tax on foreign properties and a
"solidarity tax" on pension contributions over (EURO)200,000.

He also said it would take time for bond markets to respond to the changes -
yields on 10-year Italian government debt have been trading above 7pc again this
week.

We have been able to integrate suggestions to reinforce the 'Save Italy'
measures to make them more equitable.

I'm confident markets will react positively to Italy's efforts, even if not
today or tomorrow. The reduction in interest rates we are hoping for will be
seen in the coming months, and they will have a strong anti-recession effect.

Italy's Mario Monti has given some concessions on austerity measures

08.50 Staying with the politics of the PM's decision to keep Britain out of a
new treaty on closer fiscal union among eurozone countries, Deputy Prime
Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg has warned it would spell the
end of the party if he brought down the Coalition over the Europe.

Chris Hope and James Kirkup report:

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

08.35 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan has more on the latest ructions Cameron's
veto of EU treaty change is causing in the Coalition. He writes:

Now, apparently, Nick Clegg's aim is to get Britain back to the table in Europe.
As Andrew Grice reports in the Independent, the aim is to "pick up the pieces".
He might even want to get a new deal of the 27 - something which, given the
state of last weekend's deal, doesn't even look that unlikely.

Benedict also writesthat David Cameron will be up in front of the 1922 Committee
of Tory backbenchers today:

They will remind him that for some time he has talked a good game about using
the crisis as an opportunity to seek a repatriation of powers: now is the time
to deliver.

08.30 Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, will address the German parliament
today about the agreements made at Friday's EU summit to start the process of
stabilising the eurozone by agreeing closer central control of member states'
finances.

Mrs Merkel has been warned by members of her own party not to expect new
measures to sail past German MPs when the time comes, particularly on handing
over budget sovereignty to Brussels.

Bundestag speaker Norbert Lammert from her Christian Democrats party (CDU),
said:

The Bundestag will study whether constitutional problems could arise from the EU
Commission or a European currency commissar intervening directly in national
budgets and parliament's control of the budget.

08.20 The euro has also fallen again today, dropping to a fresh 11-month low
against the dollar at $1.3007 - yesterday the single currency fell to its lowest
level against the dollar since January.

The euro also fell to its lowest for more than nine months against the pound,
trading at 84p.

08.05 Markets have opened lower in London this morning:

The FTSE 100 slid 0.9pc to 5,443 points shortly after trading started.

07.55Alex Salmond, first minister of Scotland, has clearly not got the memo that
last week's treaty agreement is starting to look shaky. On BBC Radio 4 this
morning he accused David Cameron of "Irresponsible posturing"

The PM was "spooked by Boris Johnson looking for his [Cameron's] job", Mr
Salmond said.

He went on to say that if Scotland got its independence it would stay in the
pound and would only join the euro if the economic conditions were right and the
Scottish people voted for it.

Which is a bit of a volte face from his party's long-standing commitment to
taking Scotland into the euro...

07.50 With the feeling growing that last week's not-yet-a-treaty is already a
damp squib, the Telegraph's Jeremy Warner predicts another eurozone crisis is
only weeks away . He writes:

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

The system has essentially broken down, but it is as if eurozone policymakers
are still fumbling around in the boot for solutions, rather than looking under
the bonnet.

There was no fiscal compact of any significance agreed last weekend. Nor was
there any progress made in providing a credible backstop. Even with the extra
funds which European leaders are laughably promising via the IMF "back door" (as
if they cannot trust themselves with their own money), the financial firewall
remains dwarfed by the ever-growing size of the problem.

To survive, the eurozone needs urgently to find some way of internally sharing
the burden of its debts. Two years after the crisis began, progress remains as
elusive as ever.

07.40 It doesn't often happen, but the Financial Times and the Daily Mail have
taken the same line on events in Europe in this morning's papers.

Both say cracks are starting to show in the agreement reached between 26 of the
27 EU nations last Friday, with Britain the odd one out, as governments have to
put forward the changes to their own parliaments and electorates.

Now, the FT says, " the pressure is acute in non-eurozone countries  where at
least four governments warned that the precise text would determine whether they
could sign up or otherwise join the UK on the sidelines."

The Czech leader Petr Necas said "there is not much more than a blank sheet of
paper" on offer at the moment.

Within the euro, Ireland's PM Enda Kenny was facing calls to put the plans for
more central control over tax abd spending to a referendum, and Holland's leader
Mark Rutte also under pressure.

07.30 Looking ahead to European markets opening, shares are set to open slightly
lower according to the futures market:

The FTSE 100 is expected to open down 0.5pc at 5,461 points, the CAC to fall
0.5pc and the DAX to lose 0.5pc.

07.20 And despite the fallout over David Cameron's EU veto, Michel Barnier,
European Commissioner responsible for internal market and services, sees an EU
single market with the UK firmly inside :

The UK has always been a strong supporter of Europe's single market, perhaps the
EU's greatest achievement to date. This successful market counts for 500m
consumers and 22m businesses.

We built this single market together with the full support of successive British
Governments by scrapping national veto powers in European decision-making.

Because that is the only way to make everyone around the table negotiate. In
every country, there are vested interests arguing for vetoes which would
translate into obstacles to trade to the detriment of growth and jobs.

Margaret Thatcher understood this well and it is why she supported the move to
qualified majority voting. It would be worrying if the UK lost the ability to
work with others in Europe for the causes it holds dear.

07.15 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard and Louise Armitstead report that the eurozone
rescue may cost the UK an extra £30bn :

The fund revealed in its official Survey Magazine that non-euro countries would
put up a quarter of all new money under the EU summit deal.

"European leaders agreed to make bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as
(EURO)200bn -with (EURO)150bn contributed by eurozone members and (EURO)50bn
from other members of the EU," it said.

The report relied on a briefing by IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who was in the
room with EU leaders during last Friday's summit talks. Britain is the EU's only
large economy outside the euro.

The EU statement contained no reference to the (EURO)50bn figure for
non-eurozone states. "If Britain has really agreed to this, it is a huge deal,"
said Julian Callow at Barclays Capital.

07.05 Asian markets traded lower today, after the Federal Reserve ruled out new
measure to help the US economy.

Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4pc to 8,519.13 points, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.2pc
and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1pc.

US stocks gave up gains yesterday after the Fed made clear it was not offering
any new steps to help the economy .

The Fed said that the US economy, while improving, is still weak. Unemployment
remains high, and it remains vulnerable to the European debt crisis, which could
push the continent into a recession and slow US growth.

Analysts said markets were disappointed that the Fed refrained from a third
round of large-scale purchases of Treasury securities, dubbed quantitative
easing III or QE3.

Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings in Hong Kong, said:

I think QE3 would be a welcome change to the status quo. I think the market was
disappointed

The Dow Jones fell 0.6pc to close at 11,954.94 and the S&P 500 fell 0.9pc.

07.00 Here's a quick look at this morning's business headlines:

Telegraph:Euro rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn

Financial Times (£): Cracks emerge in EU treaty agreement

Guardian:IMF slashes growth forecast for Greece

The Times (£): Cameron faces new euro vote in weeks

The Daily Mail: Euro in a tailspin

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 5:42 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Italy's borrowing costs jump at bond auction as EU attempts to forge a 'fiscal
union' fails to convince markets it can solve the debt crisis, while 'opt out'
Britain secures record low interest rates at gilt sale.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson, Graham Ruddick and Matthew Sparkes

LENGTH: 5040 words


· Euro falls to low for the year vs. dollar and pound
· Italian bond yields highest since 1997 at auction
· UK bond auction secures record low interest rates
· Cameron: no apology for using EU veto on treaty
· Eurozone rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn
· UK unemployement at 17-year high

EU leaders need to come up with a better solution for the eurozone debt
crisis...

Latest

17.34 Greece is lagging behind its targets, warns the IMF's mission chief Paul
Thomsen, adding that delay in reforms was the main reason. He said Greece must
move more aggresively in closing down redundant state enterprises and proceeding
to involuntary redundancies.

17.19 Strong demand for safe havens saw banks' dollar borrowing triple today at
the ECB's weekly loan offering. A total of 12 banks used the ECB's seven-day
dollar swap line, borrowing $5.122 billion - three times the $1.602 billion
borrowed last week.

The surge came two weeks after central banks slashed the cost of accessing the
swap line and as the cost of raising dollars from the market rose, making
funding via the ECB more attractive. Laurence Mutkin, strategist at Morgan
Stanley, said:

Until year-end there's an aversion generally to expanding balance sheets so this
is exactly the kind of time you would expect market pricing to be unattractive
relative to these official tenders.

Dependence on the ECB as a source of dollars has grown as the debt crisis raging
in the eurozone has pushed US money market funds to cut back their lending into
the currency bloc, spurring the ECB to step up its support for banks.

17.06 And it's not only the FTSE 100 that's plunging, but gold as well. Garry
White tweets that it's now tumbled back to its July level, before the dramatic
rise we saw throughout Autumn.

16.59 And a graph showing just the FTSE 100 since the start of December. It's
been an eratic few days, but with a clear downward trend since David Cameron's
veto in the early hours of the morning on Friday.

16.52Time for the end-of-day markets graph, which is starting to show a trend
downwards over the last few days in Europe.

16.43 European markets have now closed for the day, with rising unemployment in
the UK and the threat of

The FTSE 100 is off 2.25pc, the DAX fell 1.72pc and the CAC slipped 3.33pc.

Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said:

Political leaders and central bankers seem to have got stuck in a quagmire of
indecision so as a result financial markets gave up on their lack of resolve
today. The prospect of the usual Christmas rally has almost completely
disappeared as the prospect of a full scale European sovereign debt melt down in
the near future became more of a reality.

16.31 Perhaps in response to the rumours floating around on Twitter of an
iminent French downgrade, the country's foreign minister, Alain Juppe, has said
that losing its AAA rating would be bad news but "not a cataclysm". Speaking to
Les Echos he said:

It wouldn't be good news, but it wouldn't be a cataclysm either. The United
States lost their triple-A and still manage to borrow on the markets in good
conditions.

French foreign minister, Alain Juppe

16.16 As the euro continues to slide against the dollar and markets tumble in
the last hour of trading, this note from Kathleen Brooks, research director at
Forex.com, helps shed some light on the causes:

We are in full risk aversion mode. The break below 1.30 in EURUSD highlights the
escalation in the eurozone debt crisis. But where it goes from here depends on
how traders digest the vast amount of commentary coming from Europe's political
classes.

On balance the most important comments (i.e., the ones that come from Germany)
are negative. Firstly, Merkel ruled out a swift solution to the debt crisis when
she addressed the Bundestag earlier. She said it will take years to solve.

So strains remain and as we head towards the end of the year there is a triple
whammy of fears on investors' mind: a failed Italian bond auction in Q1, a
collapse of a bank and 3, sovereign downgrades.

The note also includes this graph, showing the worrying rise in French banks'
borrowing from the ECB.

16.08 There are rumours circulating on Twitter (the natural habitat of the
rumour) that a French downgrade is on the way. The Financial Times'sSam Jones
says:

16.05 The Christmas catering at the French Finance Ministry is the latest victim
of austerity cuts designed to save the country's AAA credit rating.

Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said they had to lead by example, so would
serve simple biscuits rather than the petits fours traditionally on offer at
holiday events. It will also shun paper New Year cards in favour of electronic
greetings.

Obviously in this period of extreme budget constraints and crisis, the state has
got to cut back as much as possible.

15.37 A quick graph showing the tumble the euro has taken so far in December.
Having started the month at $1.3446 it's now slipped to $1.2984.

15.25 Insurer Legal & General has just released its economic forecasts for 2012.
Bad news, I'm afraid. Economist Tim Drayson says the OBR's prediction of 0.7pc
growth in the UK are "too optimistic" and warns of a difficult year for Italy
and France.

The euro area problems don't just affect Europe. Europe is a major trading area
for the US, China and the UK. European banks have been major providers of credit
to the global economy. These problems will be felt globally.

Even in the unlikely event of Europe's leaders finding an immediate and
comprehensive solution to the debt crisis, a lot of damage has already been
done.

15.15 Amid all the gloom and uncertainty, one piece of good news for consumers
today is the falling oil price. Brent Crude for January delivery is down $2.89
to $106.65 per barrel, primarily due to the strengthening of the dollar.

14.55 News coming out of Frankfurt on Commerzbank, which is Germany's second
biggest bank but is understood to be financially fragile. It has boosted its
core capital by (EURO)700m (£588m) through the repurchase of hybrid securities.

14.50 More on the IMF - they are to send a "small team" to Rome next week to
meet the new government and receive updates on the progress of austerity
measures.

14.44 The chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard,
has issued a warning on austerity measures that could be used as future
ammunition for the Labour party against the Coalition's spending cuts. Mr
Blanchard warned that austerity measures must be a "long, drawn out process"
because otherwise they "kill growth". He added: "It is very clear we don't want
to do it too fast."

Chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard.

14.43The US markets have picked up where they left off yesterday: in the red, as
troubles in Europe continue to concern investors.

Five minutes into trade, the Dow Jones was down 0.38pc, the S&P 500 lost 0.39pc
and the Nasdaq trimmed 0.58pc.

14.24 Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Euro Group and prime minister of
Luxembourg, has warned that if the euro collapses then the entire European Union
will be at risk. Speaking in the Luxembourg parliament he said:

If the euro falls - and it won't - then the entire European unification project
is at risk in its substance and in its essence.

I'm fundamentally convinced that if we don't manage in the coming years to make
it sustainable in the future, the entire European unification will crumble again
into pieces.

Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the Euro Group and prime minister of
Luxembourg.

14:12 More news from Lloyds, they have announced that the Co-Op is the preferred
bidder for the 632 of bank branches they are selling. So, expect the Co-Op bank
to have a much greater prominence on Britain's high streets.

14.11 An update from Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock:

If you think Britain's youth unemployment figures are bad, spare a thought for
Spain, where almost half of all under-25s are out of work.

Official figures said this morning the unemployment rate for 16 to 24 year olds
in the UK was 22.0pc between August and October. This equates to 1.03m under-25s
out of work. It's been rising steadily since the recession.

But over in Spain, youth unemployment stands at 48.9pc according to Eurostat.
That's one in every two young people out of work. Ouch.

14.02During PMQs earlier today David Cameron insisted he would make no apology
for "standing up for Britain" by deploying veto to block proposed changes to the
EU treaty.

He was accused of making a "catastrophic mistake" by Labour leader Ed Miliband,
who urged him to re-enter negotiations with the other 26 EU states to try to get
a better deal for Britain. We have a full story on the lively session on our
politics page.

13.52 Time magazine named "The Protester" as its 2011 Person of the Year this
afternoon - encompassing hugely diverse groups including the Arab Spring and the
Occupy Wall Street movement. We're not sure how those fighting for democracy
would react to being grouped together with the chap pictured below...

Time Editor Rick Stengel said in a statement:

Is there a global tipping point for frustration? Everywhere, it seems, people
said they'd had enough. They dissented; they demanded; they did not despair,
even when the answers came back in a cloud of tear gas or a hail of bullets.
They literally embodied the idea that individual action can bring collective,
colossal change.

13.32We've just heard that Antonio Horta-Osorio will return to his job as chief
executive of Lloyds, and is expected back in January. He stepped down from the
job last month due to "extreme fatigue".

13.28 Merkel says there are no quick, easy solutions tot he debt crisis - it
will last years. On a slightly cheerier note, she says that Europe can overcome
the crisis if it shows patience and sticks with plans for fiscal union.

13.10 BREAKING ...

Angela Merkel is now addressing the German parliament in a debate about the
agreements on eurozone fiscal union made in Brussels last Friday.

She said the process to create closer union between eurozone countries is an
"irreversible" process - and that Britain"remains an important partner in the
EU" despite our refusal to back an EU treaty.

13.05 It's a bumper day for bond auctions - Germany has also sold (EURO)4.2bn of
two-year government debt, with an average yield of 0.29pc, even lower than the
0.39 yield last month.

As a compare and contrast, investors demanded yields of 6.47pc to buy five-year
Italian bonds earlier today (see 10.10 post)...

The German cabinet has also agreed to restart the country's banking
stabilisation fund, to make help available to the six German banks which
European regulators have identified as needing more capital.

12.55 Christmas is approaching - is it t for a bit of peace on earth and
goodwill to all men? Not in the corridors of Westminster, where James Kirkup
reports political machinations are carrying on with their usual vigour.

It won't happen immediately, but could the Conservatives be considering trading
in their Lib Dem coalition partners for the Democratic Unionists of Northern
Ireland? He writes:

One note of frustration has been sounded this morning by Peter Bone, who raises
an intriguing notion:

Last night, we had the DUP for us and the Lib Dems against us. Maybe that is a
change in coalition partners we need down the line.

The Lib Dems have 57 MPs and the DUP have eight, so swapping yellow for orange
is not a direct exchange: it would only be viable if the Tories increased their
numbers from today's 305.

In the latter days of the last general election, there was talk in Tory circles
of a deal with the Unionists if - as was then expected - the party ended up just
inches from a Commons majority. That expectation was, of course, wrong. But
could an arrangement with the Unionists one day return to the fore?

12.46 There were plenty of questions on the subject at PMQs - our jobs editor
Louisa Peacock has put together this insightful graph on youth unemployment
since 2001. You can see the whole story here .

12.29 PM pressed on unemployment again, he says the economy would be in bigger
trouble if Labour's policy of extra spending had been followed because UK would
be paying higher interest rates on debt.

12.24 A question on the EU veto! Cameron is told that the people of Dudley
"thank him" for using the veto, prompting PM to question what Labour's policy is
on the eurozone debt crisis.

12.21 After question on Olympics, Cameron says the Games could "drive jobs and
growth" outside London if tourists can be attracted to other parts of the
country, such as York.

12.17 Backbenchers having their say now on topics including debt management
companies, the price of alcohol in shops and the national curriculum. PM says he
"notes" letter in newspapers this morning and is looking at the "broader
question" of low-cost alcohol.

12.13 Still waiting for a detailed discussion on Europe, but the PM now quoting
from Miliband's own New Year message. That included a pledge that Labour's
fightback "would begin in Scotland". Oh dear. "What his party want for Christmas
is a new leader," says Cameron. Cue more laughter.

12.12 The Prime Minister says he "makes no apology for standing up for Britain"
by using the veto in Brussels last week.

12.10 Cameron's response is met by laughter from his own benches - "No-one in
this House is surprised that the Conservatives and Lib Dems don't agree on
Europe. It's not that bad, it's not like we're brothers."

12.08 Ed Miliband constantly quoting New Year message for 2011 from David
Cameron and prompts howls of laughter when he says its "good to see the Deputy
Prime Minister back in the House".

12.07 Prime Minister adds: "Whoever was in Government now would have to be
making reductions in government spending. it's all very well complaining about
unemployment but if you don't take steps to cut spending there would be even
more unemployment."

12.05 David Cameron says Government will do "everything we can to get people
back into work" after Ed Miliband presses him on the new unemployment figures.

12.00 Last PMQ's of the year about to begin, and Nick Clegg has arrived.....

11.55Kathleen Brooks, research director at FOREX.com, wrote a prescient comment
on the euro/dollar exchange rate first thing this morning - the single currency
has now dropped below $1.30 and she sets out what that means:

Although we are entering a hefty couple of days for economic data the key thing
that everyone is looking at is the euro, it has tumbled in the last 24 hours..

$1.30 is a key psychological level for the single currency and hasn't been
breached for 11 months, if we see it fall through here it signals a couple of
things: 1, the debt crisis has escalated and 2, market sentiment towards
euro-based assets has taken another turn for the worse.

11.52 The euro's decline (see 11.36) has now taken it below the
psychologically-important $1.30 mark. Sterling, meanwhile, is at a nine-month
high against the euro.

11.40 The UK also sold bonds this morning - with record low interest rates,
according to Sky News's economics editor, Ed Conway:

11.36 The euro is on a slide, falling to as low as $1.305 against the dollar.
That is the lowest point since January 12. Michael Hewson, an analystat CMC
Markets, said the fall was "surprising", because it should have happened
earlier.

The slide in the single currency over the past 24 hours is surprising in so far
that it has taken so long to come about.

Against a backdrop of concerns about ratings downgrades, a lack of large scale
European Central Bank intervention, and Angela Merkel's reiteration that there
would be no increase in the new bailout fund, it was news out of the United
States that really helped push things along.

11.30 A worrying sign that all is still not well with Spanish banks. According
to Spain's central bank, the amount owed by Spanish banks to the European
Central Bank, the lender of last resort, surged by 28.8pc in November to
(EURO)98bn (£82bn).

11.25 Italian reporter Fabrizio Goria says scientists in Switzerland are not the
only people searching for the God particle - eurozone leaders could do with a
miracle too. Via Twitter:

11:22 European shares are all down this morning:

The FTSE 100 has fallen 0.9pc to 5,440 points, while the CAC slipped 1.4pc in
Paris and the DAX dropped 0.8pc.

Bond yields in Italy also rose, indicating investors believe they are a riskier
investment, climbing to 7.1pc.

11.20 It is not just the UK Coalition that is under stress from the eurozone
crisis. In Germany, a senior leader of the Free Democrats - which share power
with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union - has resigned. Christian
Lindner was general secretary of the FDP and, at only 32, was seen as future
leader of the party.

11.16 Lots of European Central Bank headlines coming through on the wires - both
Jens Weidmann, ECB member and the head of Germany's central bank, and Klaas
Knot, a member of the ECB's Governing Council, have been speaking.

Mr Knot has said the eurozone bail-out fund or contributions to the IMF have to
be at least (EURO)1 trillion. The crisis will be solved if the rescue funds are
increased, he said, according to Reuters

Mr Weidmann has said it is "absurd" to discuss Germany returning to the
Deutschmark, and there is "no Plan B" to keeping the eurozone together.

He also totally quashed hopes that the ECB is just waiting for its chance to
start buying unlimited amounts of European government bonds.

He said it is "astonishing" people think market confidence will be won by
"breaking the rules".

11.08 The overhaul of another European government due to the debt crisis appears
to have been prevented. Finland's government has survived a vote of
no-confidence in parliament over its handling of the debt crisis.

Lawmakers voted 116-73 in favor of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's party. The
no-confidence motion was tabled by the opposition The Finns party which opposes
bailouts for cash-strapped eurozone members.

10.50 Some interesting comments from Ireland on the European treaty and David
Cameron's use of the veto to protect the City. Finance minister Michael Noonan
said Ireland is "prepared to talk" with the EU about the introduction of a tax
on financial transactions - a measure vehemently opposed by the UK - but thinks
Ireland could be put at a disadvantage if the City is not covered.

We are prepared to talk about the tax, but obviously there will be disadvantages
for Ireland if a financial transaction tax will be applied in Dublin and not be
applied in London as well.

10.34 That yield of 6.47pc on the Italian bond auction was the highest since May
1997 by the way, worrying signs for the eurozone and a sign that leaders are
still a long way from solving the crisis.

10.10 Mario Monti may have spoken too soon on Italian bond yields (see 09.20
post) - the country successfully sold (EURO)3bn of government bonds maturing in
five years - but paid a high price to do so.

The yield, or interest rate Italy had to offer investors to get the bond sale
away, increased to 6.47pc, up from 6.29pc at a sale of similar debt in
mid-November.

10.00 A reminder that we've got Prime Minster's Questions at midday - should be
a lively session, especially if Nick Clegg is in attendance, unlike at Monday's
address to the house on Europe...

09.45 More on those unemployment figures:

The number of women out of surged by 45,000 between August and October to reach
1.1m, the highest figure since 1988.

The young were also badly hit with the number of 16 to 24 year-olds out of work
reaching 1.026m between August and October - the highest since records began in
1992 and a rise of 54,000 on the previous quarter, the statistics out on
Wednesday revealed.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month also increased by
3,000 to 1.6m, the highest total since the start of 2010, the figures showed.

09.35 BREAKING ...

The latest UK unemployment figures are out and they show the number of people
out of work rose by 128,000 to 2.64m, the highest figure since 1994.

However the unemployment rate held steady ay 8.3pc, below economists' forecasts
of a rise to 8.4pc.

09.20 Noone ever said Italy's Mario Monti was in for an easy ride - but he's
already had to make changes to his (EURO)33bn austerity package to pacify union
anger amid a wave of strikes this week.

The changes to the "Save Italy" package of cuts will make the cuts less harsh
for pensioners and poor families, he said last night. The government will raise
the ceiling under which pensions are inflation linked to (EURO)1,400 a month
from (EURO)936.

The government will also scrap a homeowners tax on low-income families with
children, and pay for the measures with a tax on foreign properties and a
"solidarity tax" on pension contributions over (EURO)200,000.

He also said it would take time for bond markets to respond to the changes -
yields on 10-year Italian government debt have been trading above 7pc again this
week.

We have been able to integrate suggestions to reinforce the 'Save Italy'
measures to make them more equitable.

I'm confident markets will react positively to Italy's efforts, even if not
today or tomorrow. The reduction in interest rates we are hoping for will be
seen in the coming months, and they will have a strong anti-recession effect.

Italy's Mario Monti has given some concessions on austerity measures

08.50 Staying with the politics of the PM's decision to keep Britain out of a
new treaty on closer fiscal union among eurozone countries, Deputy Prime
Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg has warned it would spell the
end of the party if he brought down the Coalition over the Europe.

Chris Hope and James Kirkup report:

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

08.35 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan has more on the latest ructions Cameron's
veto of EU treaty change is causing in the Coalition. He writes:

Now, apparently, Nick Clegg's aim is to get Britain back to the table in Europe.
As Andrew Grice reports in the Independent, the aim is to "pick up the pieces".
He might even want to get a new deal of the 27 - something which, given the
state of last weekend's deal, doesn't even look that unlikely.

Benedict also writesthat David Cameron will be up in front of the 1922 Committee
of Tory backbenchers today:

They will remind him that for some time he has talked a good game about using
the crisis as an opportunity to seek a repatriation of powers: now is the time
to deliver.

08.30 Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, will address the German parliament
today about the agreements made at Friday's EU summit to start the process of
stabilising the eurozone by agreeing closer central control of member states'
finances.

Mrs Merkel has been warned by members of her own party not to expect new
measures to sail past German MPs when the time comes, particularly on handing
over budget sovereignty to Brussels.

Bundestag speaker Norbert Lammert from her Christian Democrats party (CDU),
said:

The Bundestag will study whether constitutional problems could arise from the EU
Commission or a European currency commissar intervening directly in national
budgets and parliament's control of the budget.

08.20 The euro has also fallen again today, dropping to a fresh 11-month low
against the dollar at $1.3007 - yesterday the single currency fell to its lowest
level against the dollar since January.

The euro also fell to its lowest for more than nine months against the pound,
trading at 84p.

08.05 Markets have opened lower in London this morning:

The FTSE 100 slid 0.9pc to 5,443 points shortly after trading started.

07.55Alex Salmond, first minister of Scotland, has clearly not got the memo that
last week's treaty agreement is starting to look shaky. On BBC Radio 4 this
morning he accused David Cameron of "Irresponsible posturing"

The PM was "spooked by Boris Johnson looking for his [Cameron's] job", Mr
Salmond said.

He went on to say that if Scotland got its independence it would stay in the
pound and would only join the euro if the economic conditions were right and the
Scottish people voted for it.

Which is a bit of a volte face from his party's long-standing commitment to
taking Scotland into the euro...

07.50 With the feeling growing that last week's not-yet-a-treaty is already a
damp squib, the Telegraph's Jeremy Warner predicts another eurozone crisis is
only weeks away . He writes:

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

The system has essentially broken down, but it is as if eurozone policymakers
are still fumbling around in the boot for solutions, rather than looking under
the bonnet.

There was no fiscal compact of any significance agreed last weekend. Nor was
there any progress made in providing a credible backstop. Even with the extra
funds which European leaders are laughably promising via the IMF "back door" (as
if they cannot trust themselves with their own money), the financial firewall
remains dwarfed by the ever-growing size of the problem.

To survive, the eurozone needs urgently to find some way of internally sharing
the burden of its debts. Two years after the crisis began, progress remains as
elusive as ever.

07.40 It doesn't often happen, but the Financial Times and the Daily Mail have
taken the same line on events in Europe in this morning's papers.

Both say cracks are starting to show in the agreement reached between 26 of the
27 EU nations last Friday, with Britain the odd one out, as governments have to
put forward the changes to their own parliaments and electorates.

Now, the FT says, " the pressure is acute in non-eurozone countries  where at
least four governments warned that the precise text would determine whether they
could sign up or otherwise join the UK on the sidelines."

The Czech leader Petr Necas said "there is not much more than a blank sheet of
paper" on offer at the moment.

Within the euro, Ireland's PM Enda Kenny was facing calls to put the plans for
more central control over tax abd spending to a referendum, and Holland's leader
Mark Rutte also under pressure.

07.30 Looking ahead to European markets opening, shares are set to open slightly
lower according to the futures market:

The FTSE 100 is expected to open down 0.5pc at 5,461 points, the CAC to fall
0.5pc and the DAX to lose 0.5pc.

07.20 And despite the fallout over David Cameron's EU veto, Michel Barnier,
European Commissioner responsible for internal market and services, sees an EU
single market with the UK firmly inside :

The UK has always been a strong supporter of Europe's single market, perhaps the
EU's greatest achievement to date. This successful market counts for 500m
consumers and 22m businesses.

We built this single market together with the full support of successive British
Governments by scrapping national veto powers in European decision-making.

Because that is the only way to make everyone around the table negotiate. In
every country, there are vested interests arguing for vetoes which would
translate into obstacles to trade to the detriment of growth and jobs.

Margaret Thatcher understood this well and it is why she supported the move to
qualified majority voting. It would be worrying if the UK lost the ability to
work with others in Europe for the causes it holds dear.

07.15 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard and Louise Armitstead report that the eurozone
rescue may cost the UK an extra £30bn :

The fund revealed in its official Survey Magazine that non-euro countries would
put up a quarter of all new money under the EU summit deal.

"European leaders agreed to make bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as
(EURO)200bn -with (EURO)150bn contributed by eurozone members and (EURO)50bn
from other members of the EU," it said.

The report relied on a briefing by IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who was in the
room with EU leaders during last Friday's summit talks. Britain is the EU's only
large economy outside the euro.

The EU statement contained no reference to the (EURO)50bn figure for
non-eurozone states. "If Britain has really agreed to this, it is a huge deal,"
said Julian Callow at Barclays Capital.

07.05 Asian markets traded lower today, after the Federal Reserve ruled out new
measure to help the US economy.

Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4pc to 8,519.13 points, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.2pc
and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1pc.

US stocks gave up gains yesterday after the Fed made clear it was not offering
any new steps to help the economy .

The Fed said that the US economy, while improving, is still weak. Unemployment
remains high, and it remains vulnerable to the European debt crisis, which could
push the continent into a recession and slow US growth.

Analysts said markets were disappointed that the Fed refrained from a third
round of large-scale purchases of Treasury securities, dubbed quantitative
easing III or QE3.

Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings in Hong Kong, said:

I think QE3 would be a welcome change to the status quo. I think the market was
disappointed

The Dow Jones fell 0.6pc to close at 11,954.94 and the S&P 500 fell 0.9pc.

07.00 Here's a quick look at this morning's business headlines:

Telegraph:Euro rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn

Financial Times (£): Cracks emerge in EU treaty agreement

Guardian:IMF slashes growth forecast for Greece

The Times (£): Cameron faces new euro vote in weeks

The Daily Mail: Euro in a tailspin

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 1:07 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Italy's borrowing costs jump at bond auction as EU attempts to forge a 'fiscal
union' fails to convince markets it can solve the debt crisis, while 'opt out'
Britain secures record low interest rates at gilt sale.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Graham Ruddick

LENGTH: 3289 words


· Euro falls to low for the year vs. dollar and pound
· Italian bond yields highest since 1997 at auction
· UK bond auction secures record low interest rates
· Eurozone rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn
· UK unemployement at 17-year high                                          ·
Ireland warns on transaction tax

Latest

12.55 Christmas is approaching - is it t for a bit of peace on earth and
goodwill to all men? Not in the corridors of Westminster, where James Kirkup
reports political machinations are carrying on with their usual vigour.

It won't happen immediately, but could the Conservatives be considering trading
in their Lib Dem coaltion partners for the Democratic Unionists of Northern
Ireland? He writes:

One note of frustration has been sounded this morning by Peter Bone, who raises
an intriguing notion:

Last night, we had the DUP for us and the Lib Dems against us. Maybe that is a
change in coalition partners we need down the line.

The Lib Dems have 57 MPs and the DUP have eight, so swapping yellow for orange
is not a direct exchange: it would only be viable if the Tories increased their
numbers from today's 305.

In the latter days of the last general election, there was talk in Tory circles
of a deal with the Unionists if - as was then expected - the party ended up just
inches from a Commons majority. That expectation was, of course, wrong. But
could an arrangement with the Unionists one day return to the fore?

12.46 There were plenty of questions on the subject at PMQs - our jobs editor
Louisa Peacock has put together this insightful graph on youth unemployment
since 2001. You can use an interactive version here .

12.29 PM pressed on unemployment again, he says the economy would be in bigger
trouble if Labour's policy of extra spending had been followed because UK would
be paying higher interest rates on debt.

12.24 A question on the EU veto! Cameron is told that the people of Dudley
"thank him" for using the veto, prompting PM to question what Labour's policy is
on the eurozone debt crisis.

12.21 After question on Olympics, Cameron says the Games could "drive jobs and
growth" outside London if tourists can be attracted to other parts of the
country, such as York.

12.17 Backbenchers having their say now on topics including debt management
companies, the price of alcohol in shops and the national curriculum. PM says he
"notes" letter in newspapers this morning and is looking at the "broader
question" of low-cost alcohol.

12.13 Still waiting for a detailed discussion on Europe, but the PM now quoting
from Miliband's own New Year message. That included a pledge that Labour's
fightback "would begin in Scotland". Oh dear. "What his party want for Christmas
is a new leader," says Cameron. Cue more laughter.

12.10 Cameron's response is met by laughter from his own benches - "No-one in
this House is surprised that the Conservatives and Lib Dems don't agree on
Europe. It's not that bad, it's not like we're brothers."

12.08 Ed Miliband constantly quoting New Year message for 2011 from David
Cameron and prompts howls of laughter when he says its "good to see the Deputy
Prime Minister back in the House".

12.07 Prime Minister adds: "Whoever was in Governnment now would have to be
making reductions in government spending. it's all very well complaining about
unemployment but if you don't take steps to cut spending there would be even
more unemployment."

12.05 David Cameron says Government will do "everything we can to get people
back into work" after Ed Miliband presses him on the new unemployment figures.

12.00 Last PMQ's of the year about to begin, and Nick Clegg has arrived.....

11.55Kathleen Brooks, research director at FOREX.com, wrote a prescient comment
on the euro/dollar exchange rate first thing this morning - the single currency
has now dropped below $1.30 and she sets out what that means:

Although we are entering a hefty couple of days for economic data the key thing
that everyone is looking at is the euro, it has tumbled in the last 24 hours..

$1.30 is a key psychological level for the single currency and hasn't been
breached for 11 months, if we see it fall through here it signals a couple of
things: 1, the debt crisis has escalated and 2, market sentiment towards
euro-based assets has taken another turn for the worse.

11.52 The euro's decline (see 11.36) has now taken it below the
psychologically-important $1.30 mark. Sterling, meanwhile, is at a nine-month
high against the euro.

11.40 The UK also sold bonds this morning - with record low interest rates,
according to Sky News's economics editor, Ed Conway:

11.36 The euro is on a slide, falling to as low as $1.305 against the dollar.
That is the lowest point since January 12. Michael Hewson, an analystat CMC
Markets, said the fall was "surprising", because it should have happened
earlier.

The slide in the single currency over the past 24 hours is surprising in so far
that it has taken so long to come about.

Against a backdrop of concerns about ratings downgrades, a lack of large scale
European Central Bank intervention, and Angela Merkel's reiteration that there
would be no increase in the new bailout fund, it was news out of the United
States that really helped push things along.

11.30 A worrying sign that all is still not well with Spanish banks. According
to Spain's central bank, the amount owed by Spanish banks to the European
Central Bank, the lender of last resort, surged by 28.8pc in November to
(EURO)98bn (£82bn).

11.25 Italian reporter Fabrizio Goria says scientists in Switzerland are not the
only people searching for the God particle - eurozone leaders could do with a
miracle too. Via Twitter:

11:22 European shares are all down this morning:

The FTSE 100 has fallen 0.9pc to 5,440 points, while the CAC slipped 1.4pc in
Paris and the DAX dropped 0.8pc.

Bond yields in Italy also rose, indicating investors believe they are a riskier
investment, climbing to 7.1pc.

11.20 It is not just the UK Coalition that is under stress from the eurozone
crisis. In Germany, a senior leader of the Free Democrats - which share power
with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union - has resigned. Christian
Lindner was general secretary of the FDP and, at only 32, was seen as future
leader of the party.

11.16 Lots of European Central Bank headlines coming through on the wires - both
Jens Weidmann, ECB member and the head of Germany's central bank, and Klaas
Knot, a member of the ECB's Governing Council, have been speaking.

Mr Knot has said the eurozone bail-out fund or contributions to the IMF have to
be at least (EURO)1 trillion. The crisis will be solved if the rescue funds are
increased, he said, according to Reuters

Mr Weidmann has said it is "absurd" to discuss Germnay returning to the
Deutschmark, and there is "no Plan B" to keeping the eurozone together.

He also totally quashed hopes that the ECB is just waiting for its chance to
start buying unlimited amounts of European government bonds.

He said it is "astonishing" people think market confidence will be won by
"breaking the rules".

11.08 The overhaul of another European government due to the debt crisis appears
to have been prevented. Finland's government has survived a vote of
no-confidence in parliament over its handling of the debt crisis.

Lawmakers voted 116-73 in favor of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's party. The
no-confidence motion was tabled by the opposition The Finns party which opposes
bailouts for cash-strapped eurozone members.

10.50 Some interesting comments from Ireland on the European treaty and David
Cameron's use of the veto to protect the City. Finance minister Michael Noonan
said Ireland is "prepared to talk" with the EU about the introduction of a tax
on financial transactions - a measure vehemently opposed by the UK - but thinks
Ireland could be put at a disadvantage if the City is not covered.

We are prepared to talk about the tax, but obviously there will be disadvantages
for Ireland if a financial transaction tax will be applied in Dublin and not be
applied in London as well.

10.34 That yield of 6.47pc on the Italian bond auction was the highest since May
1997 by the way, worrying signs for the eurozone and a sign that leaders are
still a long way from solving the crisis.

10.10 Mario Monti may have spoken too soon on Italian bond yields (see 09.20
post) - the country successfully sold (EURO)3bn of government bonds maturing in
five years - but paid a high price to do so.

The yield, or interest rate Italy had to offer investors to get the bond sale
away, increased to 6.47pc, up from 6.29pc at a sale of similar debt in
mid-November.

10.00 A reminder that we've got Prime Minster's Questions at midday - should be
a lively session, especially if Nick Clegg is in attendance, unlike at Monday's
address to the house on Europe...

09.45 More on those unemployment figures:

The number of women out of surged by 45,000 between August and October to reach
1.1m, the highest figure since 1988.

The young were also badly hit with the number of 16 to 24 year-olds out of work
reaching 1.026m between August and October - the highest since records began in
1992 and a rise of 54,000 on the previous quarter, the statistics out on
Wednesday revealed.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month also increased by
3,000 to 1.6m, the highest total since the start of 2010, the figures showed.

09.35 BREAKING ...

The latest UK unemployment figures are out and they show the number of people
out of work rose by 128,000 to 2.64m, the highest figure since 1994.

However the unemployment rate held steady ay 8.3pc, below economists' forecasts
of a rise to 8.4pc.

09.20 Noone ever said Italy's Mario Monti was in for an easy ride - but he's
already had to make changes to his (EURO)33bn austerity package to pacify union
anger amid a wave of strikes this week.

The changes to the "Save Italy" package of cuts will make the cuts less harsh
for pensioners and poor families, he said last night. The government will raise
the ceiling under which pensions are inflation linked to (EURO)1,400 a month
from (EURO)936.

The government will also scrap a homeowners tax on low-income families with
children, and pay for the measures with a tax on foreign properties and a
"solidarity tax" on pension contributions over (EURO)200,000.

He also said it would take time for bond markets to respond to the changes -
yields on 10-year Italian government debt have been trading above 7pc again this
week.

We have been able to integrate suggestions to reinforce the 'Save Italy'
measures to make them more equitable.

I'm confident markets will react positively to Italy's efforts, even if not
today or tomorrow. The reduction in interest rates we are hoping for will be
seen in the coming months, and they will have a strong anti-recession effect.

Italy's Mario Monti has given some concessions on austerity measures

08.50 Staying with the politics of the PM's decision to keep Britain out of a
new treaty on closer fiscal union among eurozone countries, Deputy Prime
Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg has warned it would spell the
end of the party if he brought down the Coalition over the Europe.

Chris Hope and James Kirkup report:

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

08.35 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan has more on the latest ructions Cameron's
veto of EU treaty change is causing in the Coalition. He writes:

Now, apparently, Nick Clegg's aim is to get Britain back to the table in Europe.
As Andrew Grice reports in the Independent, the aim is to "pick up the pieces".
He might even want to get a new deal of the 27 - something which, given the
state of last weekend's deal, doesn't even look that unlikely.

Benedict also writesthat David Cameron will be up in front of the 1922 Committee
of Tory backbenchers today:

They will remind him that for some time he has talked a good game about using
the crisis as an opportunity to seek a repatriation of powers: now is the time
to deliver.

08.30 Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, will address the German parliament
today about the agreements made at Friday's EU summit to start the process of
stabilising the eurozone by agreeing closer central control of member states'
finances.

Mrs Merkel has been warned by members of her own party not to expect new
measures to sail past German MPs when the time comes, particularly on handing
over budget sovereignty to Brussels.

Bundestag speaker Norbert Lammert from her Christian Democrats party (CDU),
said:

The Bundestag will study whether constitutional problems could arise from the EU
Commission or a European currency commissar intervening directly in national
budgets and parliament's control of the budget.

08.20 The euro has also fallen again today, dropping to a fresh 11-month low
against the dollar at $1.3007 - yesterday the single currency fell to its lowest
level against the dollar since January.

The euro also fell to its lowest for more than nine months against the pound,
trading at 84p.

08.05 Markets have opened lower in London this morning:

The FTSE 100 slid 0.9pc to 5,443 points shortly after trading started.

07.55Alex Salmond, first minister of Scotland, has clearly not got the memo that
last week's treaty agreement is starting to look shaky. On BBC Radio 4 this
morning he accused David Cameron of "Irresponsible posturing"

The PM was "spooked by Boris Johnson looking for his [Cameron's] job", Mr
Salmond said.

He went on to say that if Scotland got its independence it would stay in the
pound and would only join the euro if the economic conditions were right and the
Scottish people voted for it.

Which is a bit of a volte face from his party's long-standing commitment to
taking Scotland into the euro...

07.50 With the feeling growing that last week's not-yet-a-treaty is already a
damp squib, the Telegraph's Jeremy Warner predicts another eurozone crisis is
only weeks away . He writes:

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

The system has essentially broken down, but it is as if eurozone policymakers
are still fumbling around in the boot for solutions, rather than looking under
the bonnet.

There was no fiscal compact of any significance agreed last weekend. Nor was
there any progress made in providing a credible backstop. Even with the extra
funds which European leaders are laughably promising via the IMF "back door" (as
if they cannot trust themselves with their own money), the financial firewall
remains dwarfed by the ever-growing size of the problem.

To survive, the eurozone needs urgently to find some way of internally sharing
the burden of its debts. Two years after the crisis began, progress remains as
elusive as ever.

07.40 It doesn't often happen, but the Financial Times and the Daily Mail have
taken the same line on events in Europe in this morning's papers.

Both say cracks are starting to show in the agreement reached between 26 of the
27 EU nations last Friday, with Britain the odd one out, as governments have to
put forward the changes to their own parliaments and electorates.

Now, the FT says, " the pressure is acute in non-eurozone countries  where at
least four governments warned that the precise text would determine whether they
could sign up or otherwise join the UK on the sidelines."

The Czech leader Petr Necas said "there is not much more than a blank sheet of
paper" on offer at the moment.

Within the euro, Ireland's PM Enda Kenny was facing calls to put the plans for
more central control over tax abd spending to a referendum, and Holland'sleader
Mark Rutte also under pressure.

07.30 Looking ahead to European markets opening, shares are set to open slightly
lower according to the futures market:

The FTSE 100 is expected to open down 0.5pc at 5,461 points, the CAC to fall
0.5pc and the DAX to lose 0.5pc.

07.20 And despite the fallout over David Cameron's EU veto, Michel Barnier,
European Commissioner responsible for internal market and services, sees an EU
single market with the UK firmly inside :

The UK has always been a strong supporter of Europe's single market, perhaps the
EU's greatest achievement to date. This successful market counts for 500m
consumers and 22m businesses.

We built this single market together with the full support of successive British
Governments by scrapping national veto powers in European decision-making.

Because that is the only way to make everyone around the table negotiate. In
every country, there are vested interests arguing for vetoes which would
translate into obstacles to trade to the detriment of growth and jobs.

Margaret Thatcher understood this well and it is why she supported the move to
qualified majority voting. It would be worrying if the UK lost the ability to
work with others in Europe for the causes it holds dear.

07.15 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard and Louise Armitstead report that the eurozone
rescue may cost the UK an extra £30bn :

The fund revealed in its official Survey Magazine that non-euro countries would
put up a quarter of all new money under the EU summit deal.

"European leaders agreed to make bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as
(EURO)200bn -with (EURO)150bn contributed by eurozone members and (EURO)50bn
from other members of the EU," it said.

The report relied on a briefing by IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who was in the
room with EU leaders during last Friday's summit talks. Britain is the EU's only
large economy outside the euro.

The EU statement contained no reference to the (EURO)50bn figure for
non-eurozone states. "If Britain has really agreed to this, it is a huge deal,"
said Julian Callow at Barclays Capital.

07.05 Asian markets traded lower today, after the Federal Reserve ruled out new
measure to help the US economy.

Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4pc to 8,519.13 points, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.2pc
and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1pc.

US stocks gave up gains yesterday after the Fed made clear it was not offering
any new steps to help the economy .

The Fed said that the US economy, while improving, is still weak. Unemployment
remains high, and it remains vulnerable to the European debt crisis, which could
push the continent into a recession and slow US growth.

Analysts said markets were disappointed that the Fed refrained from a third
round of large-scale purchases of Treasury securities, dubbed quantitative
easing III or QE3.

Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings in Hong Kong, said:

I think QE3 would be a welcome change to the status quo. I think the market was
disappointed

The Dow Jones fell 0.6pc to close at 11,954.94 and the S&P 500 fell 0.9pc.

07.00 Here's a quick look at this morning's business headlines:

Telegraph:Euro rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn

Financial Times (£): Cracks emerge in EU treaty agreement

Guardian:IMF slashes growth forecast for Greece

The Times (£): Cameron faces new euro vote in weeks

The Daily Mail: Euro in a tailspin

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 12:57 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Italy's borrowing costs jump at bond auction as EU attempts to forge a 'fiscal
union' fails to convince markets it can solve the debt crisis, while 'opt out'
Britain secures record low interest rates at gilt sale.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Graham Ruddick

LENGTH: 3100 words


· Eurozone rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn
· UK unemployement at 17-year high                                          ·
Germany's Merkel to address German parliament
· Italian bond yields highest since 1997
· UK gilt auction secures record low interest rates
· Ireland warns on transaction tax

Latest

12.46 There were plenty of questions on the subject at PMQs - our jobs editor
Louisa Peacock has put together this insightful graph on youth unemployment
since 2001. You can use an interactive version here .

12.29 PM pressed on unemployment again, he says the economy would be in bigger
trouble if Labour's policy of extra spending had been followed because UK would
be paying higher interest rates on debt.

12.24 A question on the EU veto! Cameron is told that the people of Dudley
"thank him" for using the veto, prompting PM to question what Labour's policy is
on the eurozone debt crisis.

12.21 After question on Olympics, Cameron says the Games could "drive jobs and
growth" outside London if tourists can be attracted to other parts of the
country, such as York.

12.17 Backbenchers having their say now on topics including debt management
companies, the price of alcohol in shops and the national curriculum. PM says he
"notes" letter in newspapers this morning and is looking at the "broader
question" of low-cost alcohol.

12.13 Still waiting for a detailed discussion on Europe, but the PM now quoting
from Miliband's own New Year message. That included a pledge that Labour's
fightback "would begin in Scotland". Oh dear. "What his party want for Christmas
is a new leader," says Cameron. Cue more laughter.

12.10 Cameron's response is met by laughter from his own benches - "No-one in
this House is surprised that the Conservatives and Lib Dems don't agree on
Europe. It's not that bad, it's not like we're brothers."

12.08 Ed Miliband constantly quoting New Year message for 2011 from David
Cameron and prompts howls of laughter when he says its "good to see the Deputy
Prime Minister back in the House".

12.07 Prime Minister adds: "Whoever was in Governnment now would have to be
making reductions in government spending. it's all very well complaining about
unemployment but if you don't take steps to cut spending there would be even
more unemployment."

12.05 David Cameron says Government will do "everything we can to get people
back into work" after Ed Miliband presses him on the new unemployment figures.

12.00 Last PMQ's of the year about to begin, and Nick Clegg has arrived.....

11.55Kathleen Brooks, research director at FOREX.com, wrote a prescient comment
on the euro/dollar exchange rate first thing this morning - the single currency
has now dropped below $1.30 and she sets out what that means:

Although we are entering a hefty couple of days for economic data the key thing
that everyone is looking at is the euro, it has tumbled in the last 24 hours..

$1.30 is a key psychological level for the single currency and hasn't been
breached for 11 months, if we see it fall through here it signals a couple of
things: 1, the debt crisis has escalated and 2, market sentiment towards
euro-based assets has taken another turn for the worse.

11.52 The euro's decline (see 11.36) has now taken it below the
psychologically-important $1.30 mark. Sterling, meanwhile, is at a nine-month
high against the euro.

11.40 The UK also sold bonds this morning - with record low interest rates,
according to Sky News's economics editor, Ed Conway:

11.36 The euro is on a slide, falling to as low as $1.305 against the dollar.
That is the lowest point since January 12. Michael Hewson, an analystat CMC
Markets, said the fall was "surprising", because it should have happened
earlier.

The slide in the single currency over the past 24 hours is surprising in so far
that it has taken so long to come about.

Against a backdrop of concerns about ratings downgrades, a lack of large scale
European Central Bank intervention, and Angela Merkel's reiteration that there
would be no increase in the new bailout fund, it was news out of the United
States that really helped push things along.

11.30 A worrying sign that all is still not well with Spanish banks. According
to Spain's central bank, the amount owed by Spanish banks to the European
Central Bank, the lender of last resort, surged by 28.8pc in November to
(EURO)98bn (£82bn).

11.25 Italian reporter Fabrizio Goria says scientists in Switzerland are not the
only people searching for the God particle - eurozone leaders could do with a
miracle too. Via Twitter:

11:22 European shares are all down this morning:

The FTSE 100 has fallen 0.9pc to 5,440 points, while the CAC slipped 1.4pc in
Paris and the DAX dropped 0.8pc.

Bond yields in Italy also rose, indicating investors believe they are a riskier
investment, climbing to 7.1pc.

11.20 It is not just the UK Coalition that is under stress from the eurozone
crisis. In Germany, a senior leader of the Free Democrats - which share power
with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union - has resigned. Christian
Lindner was general secretary of the FDP and, at only 32, was seen as future
leader of the party.

11.16 Lots of European Central Bank headlines coming through on the wires - both
Jens Weidmann, ECB member and the head of Germany's central bank, and Klaas
Knot, a member of the ECB's Governing Council, have been speaking.

Mr Knot has said the eurozone bail-out fund or contributions to the IMF have to
be at least (EURO)1 trillion. The crisis will be solved if the rescue funds are
increased, he said, according to Reuters

Mr Weidmann has said it is "absurd" to discuss Germnay returning to the
Deutschmark, and there is "no Plan B" to keeping the eurozone together.

He also totally quashed hopes that the ECB is just waiting for its chance to
start buying unlimited amounts of European government bonds.

He said it is "astonishing" people think market confidence will be won by
"breaking the rules".

11.08 The overhaul of another European government due to the debt crisis appears
to have been prevented. Finland's government has survived a vote of
no-confidence in parliament over its handling of the debt crisis.

Lawmakers voted 116-73 in favor of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's party. The
no-confidence motion was tabled by the opposition The Finns party which opposes
bailouts for cash-strapped eurozone members.

10.50 Some interesting comments from Ireland on the European treaty and David
Cameron's use of the veto to protect the City. Finance minister Michael Noonan
said Ireland is "prepared to talk" with the EU about the introduction of a tax
on financial transactions - a measure vehemently opposed by the UK - but thinks
Ireland could be put at a disadvantage if the City is not covered.

We are prepared to talk about the tax, but obviously there will be disadvantages
for Ireland if a financial transaction tax will be applied in Dublin and not be
applied in London as well.

10.34 That yield of 6.47pc on the Italian bond auction was the highest since May
1997 by the way, worrying signs for the eurozone and a sign that leaders are
still a long way from solving the crisis.

10.10 Mario Monti may have spoken too soon on Italian bond yields (see 09.20
post) - the country successfully sold (EURO)3bn of government bonds maturing in
five years - but paid a high price to do so.

The yield, or interest rate Italy had to offer investors to get the bond sale
away, increased to 6.47pc, up from 6.29pc at a sale of similar debt in
mid-November.

10.00 A reminder that we've got Prime Minster's Questions at midday - should be
a lively session, especially if Nick Clegg is in attendance, unlike at Monday's
address to the house on Europe...

09.45 More on those unemployment figures:

The number of women out of surged by 45,000 between August and October to reach
1.1m, the highest figure since 1988.

The young were also badly hit with the number of 16 to 24 year-olds out of work
reaching 1.026m between August and October - the highest since records began in
1992 and a rise of 54,000 on the previous quarter, the statistics out on
Wednesday revealed.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month also increased by
3,000 to 1.6m, the highest total since the start of 2010, the figures showed.

09.35 BREAKING ...

The latest UK unemployment figures are out and they show the number of people
out of work rose by 128,000 to 2.64m, the highest figure since 1994.

However the unemployment rate held steady ay 8.3pc, below economists' forecasts
of a rise to 8.4pc.

09.20 Noone ever said Italy's Mario Monti was in for an easy ride - but he's
already had to make changes to his (EURO)33bn austerity package to pacify union
anger amid a wave of strikes this week.

The changes to the "Save Italy" package of cuts will make the cuts less harsh
for pensioners and poor families, he said last night. The government will raise
the ceiling under which pensions are inflation linked to (EURO)1,400 a month
from (EURO)936.

The government will also scrap a homeowners tax on low-income families with
children, and pay for the measures with a tax on foreign properties and a
"solidarity tax" on pension contributions over (EURO)200,000.

He also said it would take time for bond markets to respond to the changes -
yields on 10-year Italian government debt have been trading above 7pc again this
week.

We have been able to integrate suggestions to reinforce the 'Save Italy'
measures to make them more equitable.

I'm confident markets will react positively to Italy's efforts, even if not
today or tomorrow. The reduction in interest rates we are hoping for will be
seen in the coming months, and they will have a strong anti-recession effect.

Italy's Mario Monti has given some concessions on austerity measures

08.50 Staying with the politics of the PM's decision to keep Britain out of a
new treaty on closer fiscal union among eurozone countries, Deputy Prime
Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg has warned it would spell the
end of the party if he brought down the Coalition over the Europe.

Chris Hope and James Kirkup report:

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

08.35 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan has more on the latest ructions Cameron's
veto of EU treaty change is causing in the Coalition. He writes:

Now, apparently, Nick Clegg's aim is to get Britain back to the table in Europe.
As Andrew Grice reports in the Independent, the aim is to "pick up the pieces".
He might even want to get a new deal of the 27 - something which, given the
state of last weekend's deal, doesn't even look that unlikely.

Benedict also writesthat David Cameron will be up in front of the 1922 Committee
of Tory backbenchers today:

They will remind him that for some time he has talked a good game about using
the crisis as an opportunity to seek a repatriation of powers: now is the time
to deliver.

08.30 Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, will address the German parliament
today about the agreements made at Friday's EU summit to start the process of
stabilising the eurozone by agreeing closer central control of member states'
finances.

Mrs Merkel has been warned by members of her own party not to expect new
measures to sail past German MPs when the time comes, particularly on handing
over budget sovereignty to Brussels.

Bundestag speaker Norbert Lammert from her Christian Democrats party (CDU),
said:

The Bundestag will study whether constitutional problems could arise from the EU
Commission or a European currency commissar intervening directly in national
budgets and parliament's control of the budget.

08.20 The euro has also fallen again today, dropping to a fresh 11-month low
against the dollar at $1.3007 - yesterday the single currency fell to its lowest
level against the dollar since January.

The euro also fell to its lowest for more than nine months against the pound,
trading at 84p.

08.05 Markets have opened lower in London this morning:

The FTSE 100 slid 0.9pc to 5,443 points shortly after trading started.

07.55Alex Salmond, first minister of Scotland, has clearly not got the memo that
last week's treaty agreement is starting to look shaky. On BBC Radio 4 this
morning he accused David Cameron of "Irresponsible posturing"

The PM was "spooked by Boris Johnson looking for his [Cameron's] job", Mr
Salmond said.

He went on to say that if Scotland got its independence it would stay in the
pound and would only join the euro if the economic conditions were right and the
Scottish people voted for it.

Which is a bit of a volte face from his party's long-standing commitment to
taking Scotland into the euro...

07.50 With the feeling growing that last week's not-yet-a-treaty is already a
damp squib, the Telegraph's Jeremy Warner predicts another eurozone crisis is
only weeks away . He writes:

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

The system has essentially broken down, but it is as if eurozone policymakers
are still fumbling around in the boot for solutions, rather than looking under
the bonnet.

There was no fiscal compact of any significance agreed last weekend. Nor was
there any progress made in providing a credible backstop. Even with the extra
funds which European leaders are laughably promising via the IMF "back door" (as
if they cannot trust themselves with their own money), the financial firewall
remains dwarfed by the ever-growing size of the problem.

To survive, the eurozone needs urgently to find some way of internally sharing
the burden of its debts. Two years after the crisis began, progress remains as
elusive as ever.

07.40 It doesn't often happen, but the Financial Times and the Daily Mail have
taken the same line on events in Europe in this morning's papers.

Both say cracks are starting to show in the agreement reached between 26 of the
27 EU nations last Friday, with Britain the odd one out, as governments have to
put forward the changes to their own parliaments and electorates.

Now, the FT says, " the pressure is acute in non-eurozone countries  where at
least four governments warned that the precise text would determine whether they
could sign up or otherwise join the UK on the sidelines."

The Czech leader Petr Necas said "there is not much more than a blank sheet of
paper" on offer at the moment.

Within the euro, Ireland's PM Enda Kenny was facing calls to put the plans for
more central control over tax abd spending to a referendum, and Holland'sleader
Mark Rutte also under pressure.

07.30 Looking ahead to European markets opening, shares are set to open slightly
lower according to the futures market:

The FTSE 100 is expected to open down 0.5pc at 5,461 points, the CAC to fall
0.5pc and the DAX to lose 0.5pc.

07.20 And despite the fallout over David Cameron's EU veto, Michel Barnier,
European Commissioner responsible for internal market and services, sees an EU
single market with the UK firmly inside :

The UK has always been a strong supporter of Europe's single market, perhaps the
EU's greatest achievement to date. This successful market counts for 500m
consumers and 22m businesses.

We built this single market together with the full support of successive British
Governments by scrapping national veto powers in European decision-making.

Because that is the only way to make everyone around the table negotiate. In
every country, there are vested interests arguing for vetoes which would
translate into obstacles to trade to the detriment of growth and jobs.

Margaret Thatcher understood this well and it is why she supported the move to
qualified majority voting. It would be worrying if the UK lost the ability to
work with others in Europe for the causes it holds dear.

07.15 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard and Louise Armitstead report that the eurozone
rescue may cost the UK an extra £30bn :

The fund revealed in its official Survey Magazine that non-euro countries would
put up a quarter of all new money under the EU summit deal.

"European leaders agreed to make bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as
(EURO)200bn -with (EURO)150bn contributed by eurozone members and (EURO)50bn
from other members of the EU," it said.

The report relied on a briefing by IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who was in the
room with EU leaders during last Friday's summit talks. Britain is the EU's only
large economy outside the euro.

The EU statement contained no reference to the (EURO)50bn figure for
non-eurozone states. "If Britain has really agreed to this, it is a huge deal,"
said Julian Callow at Barclays Capital.

07.05 Asian markets traded lower today, after the Federal Reserve ruled out new
measure to help the US economy.

Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4pc to 8,519.13 points, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.2pc
and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1pc.

US stocks gave up gains yesterday after the Fed made clear it was not offering
any new steps to help the economy .

The Fed said that the US economy, while improving, is still weak. Unemployment
remains high, and it remains vulnerable to the European debt crisis, which could
push the continent into a recession and slow US growth.

Analysts said markets were disappointed that the Fed refrained from a third
round of large-scale purchases of Treasury securities, dubbed quantitative
easing III or QE3.

Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings in Hong Kong, said:

I think QE3 would be a welcome change to the status quo. I think the market was
disappointed

The Dow Jones fell 0.6pc to close at 11,954.94 and the S&P 500 fell 0.9pc.

07.00 Here's a quick look at this morning's business headlines:

Telegraph:Euro rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn

Financial Times (£): Cracks emerge in EU treaty agreement

Guardian:IMF slashes growth forecast for Greece

The Times (£): Cameron faces new euro vote in weeks

The Daily Mail: Euro in a tailspin

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 11:44 AM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
More EU countries are questioning last week's treaty agreement to centralise tax
and spending powers, as concern grows over the UK's contribution to eurozone
bail-outs and Angela Merkel prepares to address the German parliament.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Graham Ruddick

LENGTH: 2608 words


· Eurozone rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn
· EU's Barnier: we want UK in the single market
· Germany's Merkel to address German parliament
· Support for treaty change wavers in non-euro states
· Italian bond yields highest since 1997, as UK gilt auction secures record low
interest rates                                           · Election would finish
us, Clegg tells Lib Dems

Latest

11.40 The UK also sold bonds this morning - with record low interest rates,
according to Sky News's economics editor, Ed Conway:

11.36 The euro is on a slide, falling to as low as $1.305 against the dollar.
That is the lowest point since January 12. Michael Hewson, an analystat CMC
Markets, said the fall was "surprising", because it should have happened
earlier.

The slide in the single currency over the past 24 hours is surprising in so far
that it has taken so long to come about.

Against a backdrop of concerns about ratings downgrades, a lack of large scale
European Central Bank intervention, and Angela Merkel's reiteration that there
would be no increase in the new bailout fund, it was news out of the United
States that really helped push things along.

11.30 A worrying sign that all is still not well with Spanish banks. According
to Spain's central bank, the amount owed by Spanish banks to the European
Central Bank, the lender of last resort, surged by 28.8pc in November to
(EURO)98bn (£82bn).

11.25 Italian reporter Fabrizio Goria says scientists in Switzerland are not the
only people searching for the God particle - eurozone leaders could do with a
miracle too. Via Twitter:

11:22 European shares are all down this morning:

The FTSE 100 has fallen 0.9pc to 5,440 points, while the CAC slipped 1.4pc in
Paris and the DAX dropped 0.8pc.

Bond yields in Italy also rose, indicating investors believe they are a riskier
investment, climbing to 7.1pc.

11.20 It is not just the UK Coalition that is under stress from the eurozone
crisis. In Germany, a senior leader of the Free Democrats - which share power
with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union - has resigned. Christian
Lindner was general secretary of the FDP and, at only 32, was seen as future
leader of the party.

11.16 Lots of European Central Bank headlines coming through on the wires - both
Jens Weidmann, ECB member and the head of Germany's central bank, and Klaas
Knot, a member of the ECB's Governing Council, have been speaking.

Mr Knot has said the eurozone bail-out fund or contributions to the IMF have to
be at least (EURO)1 trillion. The crisis will be solved if the rescue funds are
increased, he said, according to Reuters

Mr Weidmann has said it is "absurd" to discuss Germnay returning to the
Deutschmark, and there is "no Plan B" to keeping the eurozone together.

He also totally quashed hopes that the ECB is just waiting for its chance to
start buying unlimited amounts of European government bonds.

He said it is "astonishing" people think market confidence will be won by
"breaking the rules".

11.08 The overhaul of another European government due to the debt crisis appears
to have been prevented. Finland's government has survived a vote of
no-confidence in parliament over its handling of the debt crisis.

Lawmakers voted 116-73 in favor of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's party. The
no-confidence motion was tabled by the opposition The Finns party which opposes
bailouts for cash-strapped eurozone members.

10.50 Some interesting comments from Ireland on the European treaty and David
Cameron's use of the veto to protect the City. Finance minister Michael Noonan
said Ireland is "prepared to talk" with the EU about the introduction of a tax
on financial transactions - a measure vehemently by the UK - but thinks Ireland
could be put at a disadvantage if the City is not covered.

We are prepared to talk about the tax, but obviously there will be disadvantages
for Ireland if a financial transaction tax will be applied in Dublin and not be
applied in London as well.

10.34 That yield of 6.47pc on the Italian bond auction was the highest since May
1997 by the way, worrying signs for the eurozone and a sign that leaders are
still a long way from solving the crisis.

10.10 Mario Monti may have spoken too soon on Italian bond yields (see 09.20
post) - the country successfully sold (EURO)3bn of government bonds maturing in
five years - but paid a high price to do so.

The yield, or interest rate Italy had to offer investors to get the bond sale
away, increased to 6.47pc, up from 6.29pc at a sale of similar debt in
mid-November.

10.00 A reminder that we've got Prime Minster's Questions at midday - should be
a lively session, especially if Nick Clegg is in attendance, unlike at Monday's
address to the house on Europe...

09.45 More on those unemployment figures:

The number of women out of surged by 45,000 between August and October to reach
1.1m, the highest figure since 1988.

The young were also badly hit with the number of 16 to 24 year-olds out of work
reaching 1.026m between August and October - the highest since records began in
1992 and a rise of 54,000 on the previous quarter, the statistics out on
Wednesday revealed.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month also increased by
3,000 to 1.6m, the highest total since the start of 2010, the figures showed.

09.35 BREAKING ...

The latest UK unemployment figures are out and they show the number of people
out of work rose by 128,000 to 2.64m, the highest figure since 1994.

However the unemployment rate held steady ay 8.3pc, below economists' forecasts
of a rise to 8.4pc.

09.20 Noone ever said Italy's Mario Monti was in for an easy ride - but he's
already had to make changes to his (EURO)33bn austerity package to pacify union
anger amid a wave of strikes this week.

The changes to the "Save Italy" package of cuts will make the cuts less harsh
for pensioners and poor families, he said last night. The government will raise
the ceiling under which pensions are inflation linked to (EURO)1,400 a month
from (EURO)936.

The government will also scrap a homeowners tax on low-income families with
children, and pay for the measures with a tax on foreign properties and a
"solidarity tax" on pension contributions over (EURO)200,000.

He also said it would take time for bond markets to respond to the changes -
yields on 10-year Italian government debt have been trading above 7pc again this
week.

We have been able to integrate suggestions to reinforce the 'Save Italy'
measures to make them more equitable.

I'm confident markets will react positively to Italy's efforts, even if not
today or tomorrow. The reduction in interest rates we are hoping for will be
seen in the coming months, and they will have a strong anti-recession effect.

Italy's Mario Monti has given some concessions on austerity measures

08.50 Staying with the politics of the PM's decision to keep Britain out of a
new treaty on closer fiscal union among eurozone countries, Deputy Prime
Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg has warned it would spell the
end of the party if he brought down the Coalition over the Europe.

Chris Hope and James Kirkup report:

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

08.35 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan has more on the latest ructions Cameron's
veto of EU treaty change is causing in the Coalition. He writes:

Now, apparently, Nick Clegg's aim is to get Britain back to the table in Europe.
As Andrew Grice reports in the Independent, the aim is to "pick up the pieces".
He might even want to get a new deal of the 27 - something which, given the
state of last weekend's deal, doesn't even look that unlikely.

Benedict also writesthat David Cameron will be up in front of the 1922 Committee
of Tory backbenchers today:

They will remind him that for some time he has talked a good game about using
the crisis as an opportunity to seek a repatriation of powers: now is the time
to deliver.

08.30 Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, will address the German parliament
today about the agreements made at Friday's EU summit to start the process of
stabilising the eurozone by agreeing closer central control of member states'
finances.

Mrs Merkel has been warned by members of her own party not to expect new
measures to sail past German MPs when the time comes, particularly on handing
over budget sovereignty to Brussels.

Bundestag speaker Norbert Lammert from her Christian Democrats party (CDU),
said:

The Bundestag will study whether constitutional problems could arise from the EU
Commission or a European currency commissar intervening directly in national
budgets and parliament's control of the budget.

08.20 The euro has also fallen again today, dropping to a fresh 11-month low
against the dollar at $1.3007 - yesterday the single currency fell to its lowest
level against the dollar since January.

The euro also fell to its lowest for more than nine months against the pound,
trading at 84p.

08.05 Markets have opened lower in London this morning:

The FTSE 100 slid 0.9pc to 5,443 points shortly after trading started.

07.55Alex Salmond, first minister of Scotland, has clearly not got the memo that
last week's treaty agreement is starting to look shaky. On BBC Radio 4 this
morning he accused David Cameron of "Irresponsible posturing"

The PM was "spooked by Boris Johnson looking for his [Cameron's] job", Mr
Salmond said.

He went on to say that if Scotland got its independence it would stay in the
pound and would only join the euro if the economic conditions were right and the
Scottish people voted for it.

Which is a bit of a volte face from his party's long-standing commitment to
taking Scotland into the euro...

07.50 With the feeling growing that last week's not-yet-a-treaty is already a
damp squib, the Telegraph's Jeremy Warner predicts another eurozone crisis is
only weeks away . He writes:

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

The system has essentially broken down, but it is as if eurozone policymakers
are still fumbling around in the boot for solutions, rather than looking under
the bonnet.

There was no fiscal compact of any significance agreed last weekend. Nor was
there any progress made in providing a credible backstop. Even with the extra
funds which European leaders are laughably promising via the IMF "back door" (as
if they cannot trust themselves with their own money), the financial firewall
remains dwarfed by the ever-growing size of the problem.

To survive, the eurozone needs urgently to find some way of internally sharing
the burden of its debts. Two years after the crisis began, progress remains as
elusive as ever.

07.40 It doesn't often happen, but the Financial Times and the Daily Mail have
taken the same line on events in Europe in this morning's papers.

Both say cracks are starting to show in the agreement reached between 26 of the
27 EU nations last Friday, with Britain the odd one out, as governments have to
put forward the changes to their own parliaments and electorates.

Now, the FT says, " the pressure is acute in non-eurozone countries  where at
least four governments warned that the precise text would determine whether they
could sign up or otherwise join the UK on the sidelines."

The Czech leader Petr Necas said "there is not much more than a blank sheet of
paper" on offer at the moment.

Within the euro, Ireland's PM Enda Kenny was facing calls to put the plans for
more central control over tax abd spending to a referendum, and Holland'sleader
Mark Rutte also under pressure.

07.30 Looking ahead to European markets opening, shares are set to open slightly
lower according to the futures market:

The FTSE 100 is expected to open down 0.5pc at 5,461 points, the CAC to fall
0.5pc and the DAX to lose 0.5pc.

07.20 And despite the fallout over David Cameron's EU veto, Michel Barnier,
European Commissioner responsible for internal market and services, sees an EU
single market with the UK firmly inside :

The UK has always been a strong supporter of Europe's single market, perhaps the
EU's greatest achievement to date. This successful market counts for 500m
consumers and 22m businesses.

We built this single market together with the full support of successive British
Governments by scrapping national veto powers in European decision-making.

Because that is the only way to make everyone around the table negotiate. In
every country, there are vested interests arguing for vetoes which would
translate into obstacles to trade to the detriment of growth and jobs.

Margaret Thatcher understood this well and it is why she supported the move to
qualified majority voting. It would be worrying if the UK lost the ability to
work with others in Europe for the causes it holds dear.

07.15 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard and Louise Armitstead report that the eurozone
rescue may cost the UK an extra £30bn :

The fund revealed in its official Survey Magazine that non-euro countries would
put up a quarter of all new money under the EU summit deal.

"European leaders agreed to make bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as
(EURO)200bn -with (EURO)150bn contributed by eurozone members and (EURO)50bn
from other members of the EU," it said.

The report relied on a briefing by IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who was in the
room with EU leaders during last Friday's summit talks. Britain is the EU's only
large economy outside the euro.

The EU statement contained no reference to the (EURO)50bn figure for
non-eurozone states. "If Britain has really agreed to this, it is a huge deal,"
said Julian Callow at Barclays Capital.

07.05 Asian markets traded lower today, after the Federal Reserve ruled out new
measure to help the US economy.

Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4pc to 8,519.13 points, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.2pc
and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1pc.

US stocks gave up gains yesterday after the Fed made clear it was not offering
any new steps to help the economy .

The Fed said that the US economy, while improving, is still weak. Unemployment
remains high, and it remains vulnerable to the European debt crisis, which could
push the continent into a recession and slow US growth.

Analysts said markets were disappointed that the Fed refrained from a third
round of large-scale purchases of Treasury securities, dubbed quantitative
easing III or QE3.

Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings in Hong Kong, said:

I think QE3 would be a welcome change to the status quo. I think the market was
disappointed

The Dow Jones fell 0.6pc to close at 11,954.94 and the S&P 500 fell 0.9pc.

07.00 Here's a quick look at this morning's business headlines:

Telegraph:Euro rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn

Financial Times (£): Cracks emerge in EU treaty agreement

Guardian:IMF slashes growth forecast for Greece

The Times (£): Cameron faces new euro vote in weeks

The Daily Mail: Euro in a tailspin

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 11:31 AM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
More EU countries are questioning last week's treaty agreement to centralise tax
and spending powers, as concern grows over the UK's contribution to eurozone
bail-outs and Angela Merkel prepares to address the German parliament.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Graham Ruddick

LENGTH: 2430 words


· Eurozone rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn
· EU's Barnier: we want UK in the single market
· Germany's Merkel to address German parliament
· Support for treaty change wavers in non-euro states
· Italian bond yields highest since 1997
· Election would finish us, Clegg tells Lib Dems

Latest

11.25 Italian reporter Fabrizio Goria says scientists in Switzerland are not the
only people searching for the God particle - eurozone leaders could do with a
miracle too. Via Twitter:

11:22 European shares are all down this morning:

The FTSE 100 has fallen 0.9pc to 5,440 points, while the CAC slipped 1.4pc in
Paris and the DAX dropped 0.8pc.

Bond yields in Italy also rose, indicating investors believe they are a riskier
investment, climbing to 7.1pc.

11.20 It is not just the UK Coalition that is under stress from the eurozone
crisis. In Germany, a senior leader of the Free Democrats - which share power
with Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union - has resigned. Christian
Lindner was general secretary of the FDP and, at only 32, was seen as future
leader of the party.

11.16 Lots of European Central Bank headlines coming through on the wires - both
Jens Weidmann, ECB member and the head of Germany's central bank, and Klaas
Knot, a member of the ECB's Governing Council, have been speaking.

Mr Knot has said the eurozone bail-out fund or contributions to the IMF have to
be at least (EURO)1 trillion. The crisis will be solved if the rescue funds are
increased, he said, according to Reuters

Mr Weidmann has said it is "absurd" to discuss Germnay returning to the
Deutschmark, and there is "no Plan B" to keeping the eurozone together.

He also totally quashed hopes that the ECB is just waiting for its chance to
start buying unlimited amounts of European government bonds.

He said it is "astonishing" people think market confidence will be won by
"breaking the rules".

11.08 The overhaul of another European government due to the debt crisis appears
to have been prevented. Finland's government has survived a vote of
no-confidence in parliament over its handling of the debt crisis.

Lawmakers voted 116-73 in favor of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's party. The
no-confidence motion was tabled by the opposition The Finns party which opposes
bailouts for cash-strapped eurozone members.

10.50 Some interesting comments from Ireland on the European treaty and David
Cameron's use of the veto to protect the City. Finance minister Michael Noonan
said Ireland is "prepared to talk" with the EU about the introduction of a tax
on financial transactions - a measure vehemently by the UK - but thinks Ireland
could be put at a disadvantage if the City is not covered.

We are prepared to talk about the tax, but obviously there will be disadvantages
for Ireland if a financial transaction tax will be applied in Dublin and not be
applied in London as well.

10.34 That yield of 6.47pc on the Italian bond auction was the highest since May
1997 by the way, worrying signs for the eurozone and a sign that leaders are
still a long way from solving the crisis.

10.10 Mario Monti may have spoken too soon on Italian bond yields (see 09.20
post) - the country successfully sold (EURO)3bn of government bonds maturing in
five years - but paid a high price to do so.

The yield, or interest rate Italy had to offer investors to get the bond sale
away, increased to 6.47pc, up from 6.29pc at a sale of similar debt in
mid-November.

10.00 A reminder that we've got Prime Minster's Questions at midday - should be
a lively session, especially if Nick Clegg is in attendance, unlike at Monday's
address to the house on Europe...

09.45 More on those unemployment figures:

The number of women out of surged by 45,000 between August and October to reach
1.1m, the highest figure since 1988.

The young were also badly hit with the number of 16 to 24 year-olds out of work
reaching 1.026m between August and October - the highest since records began in
1992 and a rise of 54,000 on the previous quarter, the statistics out on
Wednesday revealed.

The number of people claiming jobseeker's allowance last month also increased by
3,000 to 1.6m, the highest total since the start of 2010, the figures showed.

09.35 BREAKING ...

The latest UK unemployment figures are out and they show the number of people
out of work rose by 128,000 to 2.64m, the highest figure since 1994.

However the unemployment rate held steady ay 8.3pc, below economists' forecasts
of a rise to 8.4pc.

09.20 Noone ever said Italy's Mario Monti was in for an easy ride - but he's
already had to make changes to his (EURO)33bn austerity package to pacify union
anger amid a wave of strikes this week.

The changes to the "Save Italy" package of cuts will make the cuts less harsh
for pensioners and poor families, he said last night. The government will raise
the ceiling under which pensions are inflation linked to (EURO)1,400 a month
from (EURO)936.

The government will also scrap a homeowners tax on low-income families with
children, and pay for the measures with a tax on foreign properties and a
"solidarity tax" on pension contributions over (EURO)200,000.

He also said it would take time for bond markets to respond to the changes -
yields on 10-year Italian government debt have been trading above 7pc again this
week.

We have been able to integrate suggestions to reinforce the 'Save Italy'
measures to make them more equitable.

I'm confident markets will react positively to Italy's efforts, even if not
today or tomorrow. The reduction in interest rates we are hoping for will be
seen in the coming months, and they will have a strong anti-recession effect.

Italy's Mario Monti has given some concessions on austerity measures

08.50 Staying with the politics of the PM's decision to keep Britain out of a
new treaty on closer fiscal union among eurozone countries, Deputy Prime
Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg has warned it would spell the
end of the party if he brought down the Coalition over the Europe.

Chris Hope and James Kirkup report:

The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

08.35 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan has more on the latest ructions Cameron's
veto of EU treaty change is causing in the Coalition. He writes:

Now, apparently, Nick Clegg's aim is to get Britain back to the table in Europe.
As Andrew Grice reports in the Independent, the aim is to "pick up the pieces".
He might even want to get a new deal of the 27 - something which, given the
state of last weekend's deal, doesn't even look that unlikely.

Benedict also writesthat David Cameron will be up in front of the 1922 Committee
of Tory backbenchers today:

They will remind him that for some time he has talked a good game about using
the crisis as an opportunity to seek a repatriation of powers: now is the time
to deliver.

08.30 Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, will address the German parliament
today about the agreements made at Friday's EU summit to start the process of
stabilising the eurozone by agreeing closer central control of member states'
finances.

Mrs Merkel has been warned by members of her own party not to expect new
measures to sail past German MPs when the time comes, particularly on handing
over budget sovereignty to Brussels.

Bundestag speaker Norbert Lammert from her Christian Democrats party (CDU),
said:

The Bundestag will study whether constitutional problems could arise from the EU
Commission or a European currency commissar intervening directly in national
budgets and parliament's control of the budget.

08.20 The euro has also fallen again today, dropping to a fresh 11-month low
against the dollar at $1.3007 - yesterday the single currency fell to its lowest
level against the dollar since January.

The euro also fell to its lowest for more than nine months against the pound,
trading at 84p.

08.05 Markets have opened lower in London this morning:

The FTSE 100 slid 0.9pc to 5,443 points shortly after trading started.

07.55Alex Salmond, first minister of Scotland, has clearly not got the memo that
last week's treaty agreement is starting to look shaky. On BBC Radio 4 this
morning he accused David Cameron of "Irresponsible posturing"

The PM was "spooked by Boris Johnson looking for his [Cameron's] job", Mr
Salmond said.

He went on to say that if Scotland got its independence it would stay in the
pound and would only join the euro if the economic conditions were right and the
Scottish people voted for it.

Which is a bit of a volte face from his party's long-standing commitment to
taking Scotland into the euro...

07.50 With the feeling growing that last week's not-yet-a-treaty is already a
damp squib, the Telegraph's Jeremy Warner predicts another eurozone crisis is
only weeks away . He writes:

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

The system has essentially broken down, but it is as if eurozone policymakers
are still fumbling around in the boot for solutions, rather than looking under
the bonnet.

There was no fiscal compact of any significance agreed last weekend. Nor was
there any progress made in providing a credible backstop. Even with the extra
funds which European leaders are laughably promising via the IMF "back door" (as
if they cannot trust themselves with their own money), the financial firewall
remains dwarfed by the ever-growing size of the problem.

To survive, the eurozone needs urgently to find some way of internally sharing
the burden of its debts. Two years after the crisis began, progress remains as
elusive as ever.

07.40 It doesn't often happen, but the Financial Times and the Daily Mail have
taken the same line on events in Europe in this morning's papers.

Both say cracks are starting to show in the agreement reached between 26 of the
27 EU nations last Friday, with Britain the odd one out, as governments have to
put forward the changes to their own parliaments and electorates.

Now, the FT says, " the pressure is acute in non-eurozone countries  where at
least four governments warned that the precise text would determine whether they
could sign up or otherwise join the UK on the sidelines."

The Czech leader Petr Necas said "there is not much more than a blank sheet of
paper" on offer at the moment.

Within the euro, Ireland's PM Enda Kenny was facing calls to put the plans for
more central control over tax abd spending to a referendum, and Holland'sleader
Mark Rutte also under pressure.

07.30 Looking ahead to European markets opening, shares are set to open slightly
lower according to the futures market:

The FTSE 100 is expected to open down 0.5pc at 5,461 points, the CAC to fall
0.5pc and the DAX to lose 0.5pc.

07.20 And despite the fallout over David Cameron's EU veto, Michel Barnier,
European Commissioner responsible for internal market and services, sees an EU
single market with the UK firmly inside :

The UK has always been a strong supporter of Europe's single market, perhaps the
EU's greatest achievement to date. This successful market counts for 500m
consumers and 22m businesses.

We built this single market together with the full support of successive British
Governments by scrapping national veto powers in European decision-making.

Because that is the only way to make everyone around the table negotiate. In
every country, there are vested interests arguing for vetoes which would
translate into obstacles to trade to the detriment of growth and jobs.

Margaret Thatcher understood this well and it is why she supported the move to
qualified majority voting. It would be worrying if the UK lost the ability to
work with others in Europe for the causes it holds dear.

07.15 Ambrose Evans-Pritchard and Louise Armitstead report that the eurozone
rescue may cost the UK an extra £30bn :

The fund revealed in its official Survey Magazine that non-euro countries would
put up a quarter of all new money under the EU summit deal.

"European leaders agreed to make bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as
(EURO)200bn -with (EURO)150bn contributed by eurozone members and (EURO)50bn
from other members of the EU," it said.

The report relied on a briefing by IMF chief Christine Lagarde, who was in the
room with EU leaders during last Friday's summit talks. Britain is the EU's only
large economy outside the euro.

The EU statement contained no reference to the (EURO)50bn figure for
non-eurozone states. "If Britain has really agreed to this, it is a huge deal,"
said Julian Callow at Barclays Capital.

07.05 Asian markets traded lower today, after the Federal Reserve ruled out new
measure to help the US economy.

Japan's Nikkei fell 0.4pc to 8,519.13 points, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.2pc
and Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dipped 0.1pc.

US stocks gave up gains yesterday after the Fed made clear it was not offering
any new steps to help the economy .

The Fed said that the US economy, while improving, is still weak. Unemployment
remains high, and it remains vulnerable to the European debt crisis, which could
push the continent into a recession and slow US growth.

Analysts said markets were disappointed that the Fed refrained from a third
round of large-scale purchases of Treasury securities, dubbed quantitative
easing III or QE3.

Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings in Hong Kong, said:

I think QE3 would be a welcome change to the status quo. I think the market was
disappointed

The Dow Jones fell 0.6pc to close at 11,954.94 and the S&P 500 fell 0.9pc.

07.00 Here's a quick look at this morning's business headlines:

Telegraph:Euro rescue may cost UK an extra £30bn

Financial Times (£): Cracks emerge in EU treaty agreement

Guardian:IMF slashes growth forecast for Greece

The Times (£): Cameron faces new euro vote in weeks

The Daily Mail: Euro in a tailspin

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 10:58 AM GMT

Nick Clegg would have done better at summit because he is 'professionally
trained EU negotiator', Chris Huhne says;
Nick Clegg would have done better at the Brussels summit than David Cameron
because he is a a "professionally trained negotiator for the EU", a Cabinet
minister has said.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 408 words


Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat Climate Change secretary, also suggested the
Prime Minister had turned Britain into a "billy no mates" for wielding his veto
last week during the Brussels summit.

The Lib Dems are furious after Mr Cameron cut the UK adrift from its 26 European
Union partners because of its objections to a new tax on financial transaction.

Mr Huhne told The Daily Telegraph: "The one thing you cannot teach Nick about is
negotiations, he is a professionally trained negotiator for the EU, he knows how
to handle things.

"There is an old adage about negotiations - you are either at the table or on
the menu. We have to make sure as things go on we can protect our interests. We
need to look at what is happening in the business community and the impact on
British influence."

He added: "Isolation is not a good posture - playing billy no mates is no fun
and is not effective in defending British interests." It was very important "to
make sure you are in the room if things are being decided", he said.

Lib Dem president Tim Farron criticised Mr Cameron for leading the Tories out of
the European European People's Party in the European Parliament in 2009, which
meant that he was not in talks before the Brussels summit with other EPP
supporters Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy.

He said: "Cameron had 'lose, lose' as his choice on Thursday night, so it was no
surprise that he lost. But the overwhelming cause of it was probably the
decision to leave the EPP.

"Merkel and Sarkozy should see Cameron as their comrade. It was a very, very
silly thing to have done. That was an unwise decision." Mr Farron suggested that
the Lib Dems would like to have a "closer input in the future" about other high
level summits with the EU.

Earlier the Deputy Prime Minister had told a private meeting of more than 100
MPs and peers: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today."

His speech, which was applauded by the meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems
on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the UK Independence Party.

Mr Clegg added that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives
over David Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

Mr Clegg's public attacks on Mr Cameron over Europe have raised questions about
the future of the Coalition but the Deputy Prime Minister told his party he
intends to remain in power with the Conservatives until the election due in
2015.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Does Clegg's absence signal the genesis of a new coalition?;
The eurozone crisis has brought Labour and the Lib Dems closer than they ever
expected

BYLINE: MARY RIDDELL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1191 words


Where's Clegg? As the cry rose from the Labour benches, the Deputy Prime
Minister was in his office, having a security briefing and catching up with
phone calls. His TV was off as David Cameron told the Commons why he had wielded
the veto that parted Britain from mainstream Europe.

Nick Clegg informed the PM yesterday morning that he would be staying away.
According to a senior Lib Dem source, a "voiceless" Clegg would have been put in
"an incredibly uncomfortable position" by crowing Tory Eurosceptics. Instead, an
empty seat spoke for him. There is no lasting Coalition rift, advisers claim:
the show goes on. But it became clear yesterday that nothing could be the same
again.

The penchant for being absent from the room, whether in Brussels or Westminster,
gives the air of a spectral government. And indeed, like Ebenezer Scrooge,
Cameron has been assailed by the undead. As the Prime Minister explained why he
said No to Europe, three spirits of Christmas mustered. The Ghost of Christmas
Past is played by Margaret Thatcher, whose handbagging of European leaders still
elicits Tory reverence.

Even so, the hardline Bruges speech which ultimately led to her demise seems a
billet doux to Europe compared with her successor's ultimatum. Britain, in her
words, "does not dream of some cosy, isolated existence on the fringes of the
European Community". Yet that is exactly where Cameron has placed it.

The role of the Ghost of Christmas Present has been filled in melodramatic style
by Clegg, whose sanguine first reaction to the Euro-bombshell gave way to
dress-down Sunday, in which he berated the PM for a deal that imperilled the
City and manufacturing and risked making Britain a global "pygmy". Yesterday, as
Clegg exercised his own veto, the stage was set for spirit number three.

Dickens's A Christmas Carol could be a Labour tract. Not only does it feature a
cameo part for Gordon Brown as the chain-swathed ghost of Jacob Marley, "doomed
to wander without rest or peace", but the book's theme, an indictment of
19th-century industrial capitalism, prefigures the critique of 21stcentury
predatory capitalism advanced by Ed Miliband. Cast (or so he must hope) as The
Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come, it fell to Miliband to terrify Cameron with dire
visions of the future if he fails to learn the lessons of his folly. Miliband,
conscious that he needed a gamechanging moment, impressed hard-toplease
Cleggites. "He wasn't bad at all. Braver than we thought he'd be," said one
senior source.

That muted compliment opens up a new battlefront in British politics. The
contempt in which Euro-leaders held Cameron's bulldoggerel offers a rare chance
to the centre-Left. Having seen his political bartering, and his explanation
yesterday, critics would hesitate to send the PM to haggle for a fake Rolex in a
Bangkok market. Many business leaders remain appalled, the City is at risk,
links with Washington will weaken, and Britain looks about as mighty as the Isle
of Eigg.

Were all this not so serious, the centre- Left should feel as if Christmas
arrived early. Yet Clegg is in a bind. What is the Coalition for, if not the
national interest? His assertion that the PM's veto runs directly counter to
that interest marks a profound shift. As a senior ally puts it, Lib Dems have
shown that they can "lift the veil".

The question is what may lie behind it. Lib Dem anger, already mounting, may yet
gather a lethal momentum. Clegg, now level-pegging in some polls with Ukip,
cannot afford to exercise his own nuclear option, but nor will he play poodle to
Cameron's bulldog. Churchillian rhetoric, over-played in this drama, can at
least be adapted to the Coalition's prospects. Though not the end, this looks
like the beginning of the end.

Enter Ed Miliband, whose refusal to say that Labour would have signed up to
Europe's plan to save the euro threw Cameron a lifeline that he duly grabbed in
the Commons debate. While Europe's austerity deal is an anti-growth agenda, that
was never the issue at stake. Miliband should have said initially that he would
have retained top-table influence and sanctioned fiscal measures from which
Britain would have been exempt. Instead, he appeared constrained by a Europhobic
public mood and, perhaps, by his party's own Eurosceptic roots.

Now, however, a new alliance beckons. Leading Lib Dems regard yesterday's events
as a test of Miliband's intentions. In this game of truth or dare, Clegg chose
to quit the PM's side in his hour of need. His henchmen now expect some
indication of respect from Labour. Early cries that Clegg was "spineless" did
not encourage them, but the Lib Dem mood is to watch and wait. Once, hope of any
Lib/ Lab meeting of minds would have seemed forlorn.

With many of Labour's most eloquent Europhiles, not least his brother, David, on
the sidelines, Miliband's shadow cabinet contains voices ranging from the
nuanced Europhilia of Douglas Alexander to the more ambivalent stance of Ed
Balls, who has lumped Cameron and European leaders together under the general
heading of "catastrophic".

Even before yesterday, there were renewed signs of a Cleggiband consensus.
Although the two leaders have not met since Remembrance Sunday, senior-level
contact between the two camps is growing, with Lib Dems grumbling to their
opposite numbers that Cameron has behaved to Clegg "like a CEO who won't consult
his chairman".

Europe has given the parties the reason they have lacked for a rapprochement.
Some Cleggites will not lightly forgive Miliband for his past animosity, and
powerful figures on each side claim that the other party will dump its leader
after the election. Even so, Miliband's declaration that "he agrees with Nick"
is significant.

Lib Dems now envisage cross-party co-operation, perhaps involving Lord Mandelson
and Vince Cable on industrial policy. In the longer run, both parties are
talking up a centre-Left coalition after the next election. In an interview for
the forthcoming Fabian Review, Ed Balls - once scornful of "Liberals" - tells me
that he is eager for a deal right now.

Balls is no fan of coalitions, but asked whether he would favour a Lib/Lab
government in 2015, he says: "You could do it tomorrow. What's happening is
dangerous and against the national interest. If you can form that consensus
tomorrow, I'd be part of it like a shot."

That conversation took place before the PM boarded the Eurostar for Brussels. It
seems likely that the shadow chancellor is now even more inclined to think that
the Coalition will collapse before 2015. There are many obstacles ahead. If the
eurozone hits bigger trouble, then voters may decide, however rashly, that
Cameron's exit was wise. The worse the prospects for Britain, the higher the
potential political dividend for the Tories.

In A Christmas Carol, a redeemed Scrooge sends a top-class fowl to the Cratchit
home for the festive dinner. To his critics' mind, the only prize turkey in this
chilling seasonal saga is a Prime Minister who has put the nation's prosperity
at risk. The future of the centre-Left rests on persuading voters that is true.

Comment on Mary Riddell's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday

The left must call the right's bluff - and challenge the EU

BYLINE: Owen Jonesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 897 words

ABSTRACT

Owen Jones: Why is it only Tory Eurosceptics that are highlighting Europe's lack
of democracy? It's time to back people, not the City

FULL TEXT

The fallout from David Cameron's "non" once again reveals one of the big myths
of British politics. All critics of the European Union in its current form are
swivel-eyed Little Englanders, the sorts of people who leave comments on online
forums assailing "lefties", immigrants and the "great climate change swindle".
Or think Jacob Rees-Mogg, the sort of Tory MP who exists to make sure Labour's
core vote comes out on election day, who declared that Cameron was the toast of
Somerset. That's your classic EU critic, or so the uncritical pro-EU liberal
lobby would have us believe.

The depressing debate on the EU treaty has focused on how the rightwing
backbenchers of a Conservative party that failed to win the general election are
more powerful than zealously pro-European Liberal Democrat government ministers.
The Lib Dems have swallowed just about every dose of Tory poison - swingeing
cuts, the VAT hike, trebling tuition fees, privatising the NHS, and so on - so
it wasn't inconceivable they'd back this too. But uncritically propping up the
most Eurosceptic government ever proved too ludicrous even for this rag-tag
bunch of opportunists, and Nick Clegg went from accepting the deal to synthetic
outrage within 48 hours (when it was too late, of course).

All the criticisms have focused on Cameron abandoning Britain's place at the
negotiating table. Those on the left should have no truck with Cameron's
position. It was about defending the pre-eminent power of the City, whose firms
provide more than half the Conservatives' funding. Despite empty government
rhetoric about Britain going back to "making things", the City still calls the
shots.

But that does not mean the left should be applauding the EU treaty. It could
hardly be more disastrous for the European left. At a stroke, it effectively
abolishes social democratic governments in the eurozone. As Paul Mason put it,
"by enshrining in national and international law the need for balanced budgets
and near-zero structural deficits, the eurozone has outlawed expansionary fiscal
policy". Furthermore, all eurozone budgets must be submitted to the unelected
European Commission for approval.

There will be those who believe that a fiscal stimulus in the current economic
climate would be disastrous, and they are entitled to that view. But it is up to
the people of Europe to decide at the ballot box. As Economist columnist Baghote
points out, it would become "pointless" to vote for a party that advocates
"Keynesian stimulus policies or tax cuts". It's difficult to disagree with his
understated conclusion: "That feels politically very dodgy to me."

Frightening stuff, but French Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande
has handed Europe's leftwing critics the treaty a lifeline. He has committed to
renegotiating the treaty if he wins next year's presidential elections and, as
things stand, he's the hot favourite. Among his suggestions are measures to
boost growth, a bigger role for the European Central Bank, and the issuing of
eurobonds. It's certainly a start. Rather than allowing the debate to be
dominated by the City, Labour's leadership should be making common cause with
its French sister party.

But more broadly, now is an opportunity for the left to stop abandoning the EU
debate to Ukip and Tory rightwingers like the NHS-hating Daniel Hannan. It is a
travesty that highlighting the EU's palpable lack of democracy has become a
rightwing issue. Why should European commissioners nobody elected issue diktats?
Here the left can call the right's bluff. Why not call for the abolition of the
commission in favour of an administration made up of elected members of the
European parliament, for example?

Successive treaties have enshrined "free competition", which in practice
promotes the privatisation of public services. Take the Lisbon treaty, which
includes the following clause: "A European framework law shall establish the
liberalisation of a specific service." One of the main reasons the French people
rejected the European constitution in 2005 was precisely because much of the
left rejected its neoliberalism.

Want to reverse the almost universally unpopular privatisation of our railways?
You're going to have to take on EU directive 9/440 first, which makes it a legal
requirement for private companies to be able to run train services. Treaties and
directives that make privatisation a political necessity must be renegotiated.

The left used to have a position on the European project. After all, it was Ted
Heath's Tory government that took Britain into the European Economic Community
in 1973. When Labour offered the British people a say on it in 1975, cabinet
ministers were able to campaign on the basis of their conscience. Labour's 1983
manifesto pledged withdrawal and while Neil Kinnock ended up as a European
commissioner, he was once a fervent critic of the common market.

Opposing the EU as it is currently constituted doesn't put have to put you in
the same boat as Rees-Mogg, Hannan and Ukip's Nigel Farage. Rather than backing
withdrawal, the left should argue for a Europe built around the interests of
working people, not major corporations. After the treaty debacle, it's time to
make the case as loudly as possible.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               December 13, 2011
                                 First Edition

Like it or not, the PM was never stronger. He should exploit it;
Comment

BYLINE: Ian Birrell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 260 words


David Cameron is in a stronger position today than he was before he went to
Brussels. Not just in his party, where a leader never loved by his troops has
suddenly won heroic status by standing up to French intransigence, as shown in
yesterday's parliamentary debate. But also in Britain at large, where - like it
or not - most people remain hostile to closer European union.

His Coalition colleagues, however, look weaker than ever. The Liberal Democrats
have endured humiliating reversals on economic strategy, on higher education and
on political reform, while they lacked courage to speak out on difficult issues
such as immigration. Now if they want to stay in government their
exhausted-looking leader must sacrifice his most cherished ideal. Has his party
any ideological baggage left to jettison? While the Prime Minister remains
committed to coalition government for this parliament there is an alternative.
He could allow the fissures to widen and hope the battered Liberal Democrats
decide enough is enough. For if an election could be provoked as a result, the
dissolution of the Coalition would be in the UK's long-term interests.

Consider the politics. To the left is a Labour Party with a foundering leader
who remains trapped by his past, has failed to connect with the electorate and
is stuck with outmoded economic policies. To the right, the headbangers of Ukip
have been rendered even more irrelevant than usual. And in the centre, a
pygmyish party that has lost any sense of purpose and would be fighting on the
basis of closer European ties.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Ian Birrell: Like it or not, the PM has never been stronger. He should exploit
it;
Since the referendum, the Lib Dems have been a destructive presence, endlessly
opposing ideas

BYLINE: Ian Birrell

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 714 words


When George Osborne addressed Cabinet last week, he compared the proposed deal
to salvage the euro and safeguard our futures with a doctor coming upon a
patient who had suffered a heart attack and telling him to cut down on eating
chips. But in truth, no one really knows if the latest proposed cure for Europe
will work or not.

Only one thing is certain: David Cameron is in a stronger position today than he
was before he went to Brussels. Not just in his party, where a leader never
loved by his troops has suddenly won heroic status by standing up to French
intransigence - as shown in yesterday's parliamentary debate. But also in the
country at large, where like it or not most people remain hostile to closer
European union.

His coalition colleagues, however, look weaker than ever. The Liberal Democrats
have endured humiliating reversals on economic strategy, on higher education and
on political reform, while they lacked courage to speak out on difficult issues
such as immigration. Now if they want to stay in government their
exhausted-looking leader must sacrifice his most cherished ideal. Has his party
any ideological baggage left to jettison?

Talking to Tory cabinet ministers over the weekend, they repeated the
Coalition's mantra that a party is at its strongest when it is weakest. Just as
after the referendum reversal on proportional representation in May, the
presumption is they must throw their partners a few treats to keep them sweet
and ensure the Government remains intact.

No one believes this more than the Prime Minister, who remains committed to
coalition government for this parliament. He believes it is in the national
interest and that it is vital not to spook tremulous markets, given the fragile
state of the economy.

But there is an alternative. Mr Cameron could allow the fissures to widen and
hope the battered Liberal Democrats decide enough is enough. For if an election
could be provoked as a result, the dissolution of the Coalition would be in the
long-term interests of the nation. After an impressive start, the Liberal
Democrats have been a crushing disappointment in government. They have lost
their nerve along with any sense of what they stand for. Since the referendum
they have been a destructive presence, endlessly opposing ideas but rarely
offering constructive alternatives. "Always negative, never putting forward
anything positive," as one key insider put it.

The only coalition policy a Conservative administration would not have
introduced has been the welcome raising of tax thresholds for low earners. The
Liberal Democrats have blocked deregulation designed to spur economic growth,
stymied decentralisation to increase public participation in politics and
opposed vital public-service reform.

Tory modernisation is jeopardised by their coalition colleagues constantly
claiming to be saving the nation from the nasty party. Often, their charges are
wrong, but the damage is done. To take one random example, it was Mr Cameron who
stomped on the idea of reducing the 50 per cent tax rate for high earners, not
Liberal Democrats like Vince Cable and Chris Huhne.

Conventional wisdom says voters punish any party that engineers an unnecessary
election, especially in such dark days. But this feels like one of those
viewpoints that generates great discussion but has minimal effect on outcome.
There seems something rather patronising about the idea that, in a fit of pique,
voters could not act in their own best interests.

And consider the politics. To the left is a Labour Party with a foundering
leader who remains trapped by his past, has failed to connect with the
electorate and is stuck with outmoded economic policies. To the right, the
headbangers of Ukip have been rendered even more irrelevant than usual. And in
the centre, a pygmyish party that has lost any sense of purpose and would be
fighting on the basis of closer European ties.

Mr Cameron is not a man scared to take risks, as we saw again last week. He
should ponder if it is really worth limping on for another three years with a
crippled coalition, held back by a party with liberalism in its genes but
panic-stricken conservatism clouding its brain. Surely a government with the
mandate and power to transform Britain would be more in the national interest?

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Like it or not, the PM has never been stronger. He should exploit it;
COMMENT

BYLINE: IAN BIRRELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words


When George Osborne addressed Cabinet last week, he compared the proposed deal
to salvage the euro and safeguard our futures with a doctor coming upon a
patient who had suffered a heart attack and telling him to cut down on eating
chips. But in truth, no one really knows if the latest proposed cure for Europe
will work or not.

Only one thing is certain: David Cameron is in a stronger position today than he
was before he went to Brussels. Not just in his party, where a leader never
loved by his troops has suddenly won heroic status by standing up to French
intransigence - as shown in yesterday's parliamentary debate. But also in the
country at large, where like it or not most people remain hostile to closer
European union.

His coalition colleagues, however, look weaker than ever. The Liberal Democrats
have endured humiliating reversals on economic strategy, on higher education and
on political reform, while they lacked courage to speak out on difficult issues
such as immigration. Now if they want to stay in government their
exhausted-looking leader must sacrifice his most cherished ideal. Has his party
any ideological baggage left to jettison?

Talking to Tory cabinet ministers over the weekend, they repeated the
Coalition's mantra that a party is at its strongest when it is weakest. Just as
after the referendum reversal on proportional representation in May, the
presumption is they must throw their partners a few treats to keep them sweet
and ensure the Government remains intact.

No one believes this more than the Prime Minister, who remains committed to
coalition government for this parliament. He believes it is in the national
interest and that it is vital not to spook tremulous markets, given the fragile
state of the economy.

But there is an alternative. Mr Cameron could allow the fissures to widen and
hope the battered Liberal Democrats decide enough is enough. For if an election
could be provoked as a result, the dissolution of the Coalition would be in the
long-term interests of the nation. After an impressive start, the Liberal
Democrats have been a crushing disappointment in government. They have lost
their nerve along with any sense of what they stand for. Since the referendum
they have been a destructive presence, endlessly opposing ideas but rarely
offering constructive alternatives. "Always negative, never putting forward
anything positive," as one key insider put it.

The only coalition policy a Conservative administration would not have
introduced has been the welcome raising of tax thresholds for low earners. The
Liberal Democrats have blocked deregulation designed to spur economic growth,
stymied decentralisation to increase public participation in politics and
opposed vital public-service reform.

Tory modernisation is jeopardised by their coalition colleagues constantly
claiming to be saving the nation from the nasty party. Often, their charges are
wrong, but the damage is done. To take one random example, it was Mr Cameron who
stomped on the idea of reducing the 50 per cent tax rate for high earners, not
Liberal Democrats like Vince Cable and Chris Huhne.

Conventional wisdom says voters punish any party that engineers an unnecessary
election, especially in such dark days. But this feels like one of those
viewpoints that generates great discussion but has minimal effect on outcome.
There seems something rather patronising about the idea that, in a fit of pique,
voters could not act in their own best interests.

And consider the politics. To the left is a Labour Party with a foundering
leader who remains trapped by his past, has failed to connect with the
electorate and is stuck with outmoded economic policies. To the right, the
headbangers of Ukip have been rendered even more irrelevant than usual. And in
the centre, a pygmyish party that has lost any sense of purpose and would be
fighting on the basis of closer European ties.

Mr Cameron is not a man scared to take risks, as we saw again last week. He
should ponder if it is really worth limping on for another three years with a
crippled coalition, held back by a party with liberalism in its genes but
panic-stricken conservatism clouding its brain. Surely a government with the
mandate and power to transform Britain would be more in the national interest?

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

PM stood up to EU bullies

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 490 words


£50 LETTER

WHETHER he is right or wrong, well done David Cameron for standing up to the
eurozone bullies.

At long last it appears we have someone who will put this country first. THE
were once great names sun, Venus and But the latest has been 22b. I think
harder. Kepler like the house STEVEN by What is disappointing is Ed Miliband and
his cronies immediately saying the Prime Minister has ruined this country.

Look at their record - massive debt, unlimited immigration, our own British
people homeless. The list could go on.

COLIN BODLE by email

CONGRATULATIONS to David Cameron on standing up to the EU heavyweights. He has
done what is best for this country.

As for Nick Clegg snivelling about being bitterly disappointed, we all know his
dream is to be ruled by Brussels.

That would mean we would have no say in anything to do with the UK - and cost us
millions to boot. Heaven help us if he ever becomes PM.

HELEN PATERSON Dunfermline

SARKOZY and Merkel have tried to reform the EU like a pair of plutocrats, with
Britain relegated to subordinacy alongside Romania and Bulgaria.

However, David Cameron, right, has finally stood up to be counted and refused to
submit to the moral blackmail of the German hausfrau and the midget Frenchman.

Now serious decisions must be made.

Do we finally reject the contract that costs us billions for little return
except impositions against our interests, or do we reluctantly acquiesce to our
new overlords in waiting?

Does Cameron have the strength to make Britain great again as an independent
nation? Perhaps now is the time.

DAVID DUNCAN Aberdeen

ALL of Europe has given in to Germany and Britain stands alone - it's not the
first time and it won't be the last. I must commend Mr Cameron for standing up
for our interests in the face of almost insurmountable odds. Truly, this was his
finest hour.

GORDON WALLIS Dundee

THIS EU veto by Cameron has to be another political ploy. It looks like he has
done this to appear the 'good guy' to the British public and at the same time
appease those in his own party who were calling for a referendum.

JIM McDOUGALL Greenock

SEEING Nick Clegg and co wringing their hands and chanting "we're all doomed"
makes me sick.

Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel engineered Britain to the sidelines rather
than compromise. But we should concentrate on getting GB to the position where
our economic policies will show the world that, small as we are, we have got
things right.

HARRY HODGE by email

COME on, people - surely you are not falling for Mr Cameron's phony bravado? The
only political party that would end all this EU madness and get Britain back to
being a proud, independent nation is UKIP.

MICHAEL HASTIE Cadder, Glasgow impositions he is or well acquiesce

THE planets were once given great names like the sun, Venus and Mars.

But the latest discovery has been named Kepler 22b. I think NASA must try
harder. Kepler 22b sounds like the house next door.

STEVEN HAWKSWORTH by email

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 11:53 PM GMT

Debt crisis: as it happened December 13, 2011;
The US Fed kept interest rates near to zero, but warned that 'strains in global
financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks', as the IMF
lowered growth forecasts for Greece.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson Matthew Sparkes and Harry Wilson

LENGTH: 5870 words


· Barroso: UK demands for City threaten single market
· US Fed leaves interest rates near to zero
· City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists
· Cabinet clashes over Europe after Cameron's veto
· Cameron rules out referendum on EU membership
· Greek bondholders fail to reach deal with Athens

Latest

23.48 That's it from today's live blog. We'll be back tomorrow. Log on to our
financial crisis page for more news and analysis.

Goodnight.

21.15 US stocks ended lower in a volatile session today after the Fed gave no
hints of new stimulus measures to offset the effects of the worsening European
debt crisis.

The Dow Jones was down 0.55pc, the S&P 500 lost 0.87pc and the Nasdaq slipped by
1.26pc.

21.01Forget David Cameron's veto, another eurozone crisis is only weeks away,
writes Jeremy Warner .

Leaders in the European Union will not take the measures towards fiscal union
that would save their ailing economies.

What was agreed was some minor strengthening of the Maastricht framework for
governing monetary union, though some aspects of the original "stability and
growth pact" have actually been watered down. The maximum fine that can be
imposed for breach of the rules has been reduced from 0.5 per cent of GDP
annually to 0.2 per cent.

It is only a matter of time - I'd give it no more than a week or two into the
new year - before the financial and accompanying economic contagion breaks out
anew, very likely in even more virulent form.

19.59 The US markets haven't taken the US Fed statement well...

The Dow Jones is down 0.12pc at 12,007.31, the S&P 500 is off 0.38pc at 1,231.71
and the Nasdaq has fallen 0.6pc to 2,596.53.

Domonick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management Institute, said:

My view is the Fed message is almost word for word from last month, no change. I
personally think that's good. I don't know why markets are reacting negatively
since there was no indication of QE3 ahead of the meeting, despite rumors
running around today.

19.52 A bit of reaction to the US Fed statement here from Robert Phipps,
director at Per Sterling Capital Management:

Underwhelming. They gave the economy a very slight upgrade, but it sort of took
the wind out of domestic equities, probably because some were hoping that they
would hint at another QE-like program.

It seems like most of what's happening in equities has to do with the overseas
markets. The game is still across the Atlantic, this is still all about Europe.

19.25 The Fed has left interest rates near zero - where they've been for around
three years. In a statement it warns that there are still problems, such as high
unemployment and slowing global economic growth, but that hiring and consumer
spending have improved slightly:

While indicators point to some improvement in overall labor market conditions,
the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending has continued to
advance, but business fixed investment appears to be increasing less rapidly and
the housing sector remains depressed. Strains in global financial markets
continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.

19.19 The US Federal Reserve has released its FOMC statement : it's kept rates
ultra-low amid "moderate" economic expansion.

19.16The IMF adds that Greece has reached the limit of what it can achieve
through increasing taxes, and needs to refocus its austerity program on spending
cuts. It revised growth estimates for 2011 down to -6pc, and -3pc next year.

Poul Thomsen said that Greece's structural reforms so far have fallen short of
expectations, but added it was unclear yet whether new austerity measures would
have to be taken next year.

19.11 The IMF has denied that it's in talks for a second rescue package for
Greece. "The mission here is not for a discussion on a new program... There's no
request for a new program," said Poul Thomsen, head of the IMF's mission to
Greece.

19.03 Greek bank NBG is seeking (EURO)1 billion from a state support fund,
planning to issue the equivalent amount of preferred shares in return.

A spokesman explained that the funds would be drawn from a package set up in
2008 that's only open until the end of the year:

A general board meeting has been called for December 22 with the aim of drawing
the remaining funds which the bank is entitled to, under the preferred shares
programme. NBG in 2009 had estimated that it did not require funds and had only
drawn (EURO)350 million from the package. The economic situation has now led us
to request equal treatment as other banks have.

NBG last month said it had lost (EURO)1.346 billion euros in the first nine
months of the year after factoring in a write-down on its Greek government debt.
Greek lenders Alpha and Eurobank have respectively drawn (EURO)950 and (EURO)970
million from the state support package.

18.47 The boss of Poundland, chief executive Jim McCarthy, doesn't anticipate
any improvement in Britain's consumer environment until 2014 and says that the
UK is in recession:

I wouldn't be surprised if it took until 2014 before any changes in the economy
started to be felt by the consumer in a positive way. That means they've got
more money in their pocket than they need and that they have the confidence to
spend it. I think there's quite a lot of pain for all the people in this country
up until that point.

It looks like, it walks like, it sounds like, it feels like, so it's a
recession. Regardless of what the technicalities are, we are in a recession, the
consumer feels no confidence whatsoever. A recession isn't so much of a threat
to us as it can be to other retailers because we perform strongly. But it's a
fact we perform even better when times are good.

18.07 This video shows Cabinet ministers avoiding questions about a coalition
rift this morning. None seem particularly happy to talk...

17.39Corzine says he was "stunned" when he realised the amount of money that had
gone missing.

I was stunned. And the first of my knowledge of segregated funds being out of
reconciliation was the evening, the 30th [the day before MF Global filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection].

17.32The BBC is running a wonderful slideshow of top economists' favourite
graphs of 2011 . It's a lot more interesting than it sounds, honestly.

17.24 MF Global's top three executives have told a Senate committee they have no
idea what happened to the $1.2bn of client funds that were found to be missing
following the broker's collapse. The firm's former chief executive, Jon Corzine,
told the committee he had never authorised the transfer of client funds to the
broker's own account.

"I never gave instructions that anyone could misconstrue."

17.15 The Dutch finance minister says the government will cut spending further
after a government think-tank claimed the country is slipping into recession.

Jan Kees de Jager says the Cabinet would consider ending tax deductions for
mortgage debt in order to bring the country's budget deficit below the 3pc of
GDP threshold specified by Europe. The Netherlands' national debt is relatively
low, but personal debt is high because of mortgages.

De Jager was responding to a report by the country's Bureau for Economic Policy
Analysis that said the economy began shrinking in the third quarter and won't
return to growth until mid-2012. The report assumed Europe will "muddle through"
its financial crisis without the euro collapsing.

17.02 And just the FTSE 100...

16.57Time for the customary end-of-day graph showing the European markets'
performance...

16.46 European markets have now closed for the day. Earlier this afternoon they
were all in positive territory, but France and Germany slipped into the red
before the close of trading after Angela Merkel spoke against raising the
funding limit for Europe's future bail-out fund.

The FTSE 100 ended the day up 1.15pc, the DAX fell 0.19pc and the CAC slipped
0.35pc.

Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said:

The FTSE bounced back today despite seeing some poor economic data and the euro
continuing its downward spiral. The main contributor to the slightly contrarian
bullish sentiment today was a Spanish bond auction that much better than
expected indicating that despite the turmoil there's still demand for European
government debt.

However, as soon as the FTSE was rallying to a triple digit gain it was quick to
reject its highs showing that even though we're set to end in positive
territory, nerves are still frayed from the EU summit at the end of last week.
With credit ratings agencies circling the eurozone and its banks the outlook
remains exceptionally uncertain.

16.11 Fitch has cut the long-term foreign and local currency credit outlooks on
Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Lithuania to stable from positive
citing Europe's weakening economic and financial outlook. Ed Parker, sovereign
ratings analyst, said in a statement:

Strong economic and financial linkages mean that countries in central and
eastern Europe are being adversely affected by downward revisions to economic
growth prospects and heightened financial stress in the eurozone.

16.01 The US Federal Reserve is expected to hold interest rates near zero at its
last meeting of the year as the eurozone debt crisis shows the fragile recovery
is not insulated from shocks elsewhere in the world, writes Richard Blackden in
New York.

With the exception of Mitt Romney, those Republicans vying to take on President
Barack Obama next year have made clear they're no friend of this Fed. It's too
interventionist, is debasing the dollar, punishing the country's savers and
institutionally secretive.

The crisis of the euro is the latest - and by far the most dangerous - shock to
hit the US economy this year. With the US recovery far from secure, the Fed will
keep the stimulus it has in place and possibly extend it.

15.46The news that Merkel has said 'no' to the idea of raising the firepower of
the ESM has caused the euro to slide against the dollar, falling dramatically to
$1.314 in just a few minutes - it's lowest point since January. John McCarthy,
managing director of currency trading at ING Groep NV in New York, said:

You continue to see strains within the euro group. A division means a lower
euro. The euro was already a little weaker and once we got convincingly through
$1.3170, it dropped more.

15.41 Angela Merkel has rejected the possibility of raising the funding limit of
the European Stability Mechanism, the successor to the EFSF bail-out fund. The
ESM is due to come into effect in the middle of 2012 with a (EURO)500 billion
pot.

15.34 Just as a quick aside, in light of Van Rompuy's statement today that the
ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of the
eurozone, this chart puts UK inflation into perspective with other key European
countries.

15.30 The French economy would shrink by as much as a fifth and one million
could be put out of work if the country left the euro, according to a
think-tank. The Instit Montaigne warned France would lose between 6pc and 19pc
of its GDP if it abandoned the eurozone, a move backed by far-right presidential
candidate Marine Le Pen.

Euro exit: far-right politician, Marine Le Pen, supports the move that could
cost one million jobs

15.17 The Czech Republic's finance minister, Miroslav Kalousek, has gone on
national television to insist the country must contribute (EURO)3.5bn towards an
IMF aid package to the eurozone.

I'm deeply convinced that we must not slam the door on Europe. (At the same
time) if we give out the loan, we must negotiate its conditions. We cannot
afford to be the only ones in Europe to say 'no'.

15.11 Fund managers are gearing up for another 12 months of the eurozone crisis.
A survey by the Association of Investment Companies found that 86pc of managers
expect Europe's sovereign debt problems to dominate markets in 2012. Katherine
Garrett-Cox, chief executive of Alliance Trust, says the crisis will "roll
forward inexorably into 2012:

Looking forward, we do believe that the Eurozone leaders will eventually produce
a solution that will adequately calm investors' anxieties about the future of
the Euro project. However, we do not expect that this will happen without the
markets having been further tested, and this will be demonstrated through
continued volatility of equity prices.

Garrett-Cox: eurozone crisis will "roll forward inexorably into 2012"

15.02 The Cabinet clashed over Europe today after David Cameron's veto, writes
Rowena Mason:

Liberal Democrat and Conservatives ministers fought out their differences over
Europe at the first meeting of the Cabinet since David Cameron vetoed Britain's
entry into a new treaty.

Senior Liberal Democrats are unhappy that they were not briefed enough in
advance about the Prime Minister's negotiating position and tactics. Chris
Huhne, the Liberal Democrat energy secretary, is understood to have been
outspoken about this, as tensions over Europe ran high for about an hour.

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader, spoke at the
meeting, facing his Cabinet colleagues for the first time since he avoided Mr
Cameron's speech to parliament on Europe on Monday.

14.52 The US markets have opened for the day, being nudged upwards despite
retail sales figures showing a smaller than expected rise in November when they
emerged less than an hour ago.

The Dow Jones is up 0.78pc, the S&P 500 has risen 0.77pc and the Nasdaq is
0.93pc higher.

Meanwhile, in Europe, the FTSE 100 is up 1.28pc, the DAX by 0.82pc and the CAC
is 0.19pc higher.

14.43 Japan is reported to have bought (EURO)290m (£247m) of the (EURO)1.97bn of
bonds sold by the EFSF this morning, according to Reuters. The sale is said to
have received demand for just over three times the amount of paper on offer.
Before any one gets carried away about the success of the sale, it should be
remembered this is only a three-month loan. Not exactly the long-term funding
the eurozone needs.

14.35 Despite shoppers flocking to stores over the Thanksgiving weekend, US
retail sales rose less than expected in November.

Total retail sales increased 0.2pc after rising by an upwardly revised 0.6pc in
October, the Commerce Department. The sales growth was the weakest in any month
since June.

Millan Mulraine, a strategist at TD Securities in New York, said: "It's fairly
disappointing given that all the evidence was pointing to fairly strong gains
during the month."

Economists have warned the 'Thanksgiving' shopping frenzy may not last through
the festive season, citing high unemployment. Consumer spending accounts for
more than two-thirds of US economic activity.

No doubt the Fed has factored the figures into its assessment.

14.23 We mentioned earlier that Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European
Commission, warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand
for protection of the City threatens the single market. Here's the video:

14.15 A German union leader has warned Chancellor Angela Merkel that austerity
cuts aren't the only solution.

Michael Sommer, chief of the DGB umbrella union group, warned the leader of
Europe's biggest economy that she needs to spur growth to overcome the debt
crisis.

He urged Merkel to push for an "active growth policy" favoring investment and
creating new jobs.

14.02The ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of
the eurozone, EC President Herman Van Rompuy has said:

The central bank is a stability instrument, stability in terms of their (focus
on) inflation and stability with regard to the eurozone.

We will see the full scope of decisions that have already been taken when it
comes to liquidity for banks, even over a three-year period. That is completely
unprecedented but that is what the European Central Bank did in the name of
stability.

13.54 Wall Street is poised to open higher after sharp falls yesterday, with Dow
Jones futures up around 0.5pc ahead of the latest US Fed's assessment of the
economy. The final FOMC meeting of the year is not expected to reveal any fresh
economic stimulus as signs of recovery are offset by eurozone debt woes.

The FTSE 100 is trading up 0.9pc at 5479.05, the DAX is 0.7pc higher and the CAC
40 has risen a modest 0.18pc after falling 2.6pc yesterday.

13.47 An update from Richard Orange in Sweden now, pointing out that David
Cameron isn't the only European leader sceptical about the benefits of signing
the proposed EU treaty.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt has refused to commit Sweden to joining the
proposed EU treaty in his first report to to parliament, despite strong internal
pressure from within his own party:

My position is that it's important to know exactly what consequences this will
have before we sign an agreement. Some people think we should say no, some
people think we should say yes.

Mr Reinfeldt's deputy, Jan Bjorkland, this morning made an impassioned call in
an article in Svenska Dagbladet that Sweden shouldn't side with a UK that is
"adrift" and "in a minority":

The company of the British is too little to hold in your hand when global
competition is increasing and Asia's major powers are growing stronger. Swedish
influence in European cooperation is under threat. Therefore, Sweden should join
the EU stability pact.

Even if Mr Reinfeldt is persuaded to back the pact, his minority government will
need to sway the opposition to win a parliamentary vote.

Marie Granlund, spokesman for the opposition Social Democrats on Europe, said
she believed signing the pact would go against Sweden's vote against the euro in
its referendum in 2003.

It's against what the Swedish people have voted in the referendum. We have
stability already, and we don't want the European court to tell Sweden what we
should do.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt

13:26 More on this morning's Cabinet meeting. Mr Cameron's spokesman said the
atmosphere was "the same as usual" - really?

Asked if there would be any attempt to bolster the role of the Nick Clegg in
future European Council negotiations, he said there was "one seat and that is
the seat for the head of state for the country". [The spokesman might like to
remember that the Queen is Britain's head of state. Mr Cameron is Her Majesty's
representative].

But added, that there was "some discussion" on the process for future
negotiations because Coalition Government made it "more complicated".

Clearly, we will have to think about that process and how we do things. The
negotiating strategy was agreed with the Deputy Prime Minister. The DPM was on
the phone to other European counterparts on Wednesday and Thursday setting out
our position, so he was involved.

We do think they are reasonable demands. We were not asking for an opt out, we
were asking for a level playing field.

Happier days: Number 10 insists atmosphere in Cabinet was "same as usual"

13.14 ECB governing council member and head of the Slovak central bank, Jozef
Makuch, says rating agency downgrades of eurozone members would not be
"catastrophic" for the ECB. He adds that the ECB will not be able to launch a QE
programme without a change of law:

Without a change to our mandate set by law, we can't carry out massive bond buys
or FED-style quantitative easing.

12.58 Has George Soros done it again? TheWall Street Journal thinks the
legendary hedge fund manager, along with US investment bank JP Morgan, may have
made a quick profit on eurozone sovereign debt after the demise of US broker MF
Global.

Not so sad now: Soros still knows a good trade when he sees one

12.30 Failure of Greek bondholder talks has pushed the euro down. Here's an
acerbic tweet on the latest eurozone happenings from Zerohedge:

12.18 Sources quoted by Reuters say talks in Athens between Greek government
officials and bondholders have ended without a deal. Banker involved in the
talks says "consultations" will continue.

12.12 The consequences of a eurozone break-up are "horrifying" even for Germany,
says M&G Investments Jim Leaviss, who warns of the looming threat of a major run
on Europe's banks:

Greece can default but it mustn't leave the Euro. If it does we'll see runs on
Europe's banks that dwarf what we've seen so far.

Bank runs: a picture of things to come, warns M&G.

12.02 Latest on today's Cabinet meeting, the first since David Cameron vetoed
the EU treaty on Friday, from our Political Correspondent, Rowena Mason.

Prime Minister's spokesman says Cabinet had "a good conversation", with a debate
for about an hour on what to do next about Europe. Cameron spoke first, followed
by Osborne, then Clegg.

11.51 Even hedge funds have turned on David Cameron. The FT's Hedge Fund
Correspondent, Sam Jones, tweets that millionaire hedge fund manager and major
Lib Dem donor, Paul Marshall, has attacked Mr Cameron's handling of the EU
treaty negotiations.

11.45 The bond market is definitely not convinced that Friday's deal on fiscal
controls in the eurozone will solve the debt crisis anytime soon.

Yields on European government debt widened again today - Italian yields are now
trading at 7.1pc, according to Reuters data (although at 6.6pc according to
Bloomberg, which is using a different contract).

Spanish, French and German bond yields all widened this morning, indicating
investors see the debt as more risky.

When Italy's yields first went over the 7pc level it caused panic in the markets
because other eurozone nations whose borrowing costs have reached that level
have ended up seeking bail-outs.

11.30 Our Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock, says something else that is certain to
inflame Government tensions will be tomorrow's unemployment figures, which are
expected to be rather grim.

Analysts predict the total number of people out of work has risen by 140,000
between August and October, taking UK unemployment to 8.4pc, a 0.1pc climb from
the previous quarter.

A survey from Manpower today suggests the labour market is sitting on a
knife-edge with eight in 10 firms planning no hires at all in the next quarter.

Mr Cameron will need to convince the markets he is doing all he can to stimulate
growth and jobs creation.

11.14 Europe's day of reckoning cannot be postponed by more ECB purchases of
government, says Anthony Peters, strategist at SwissInvest

Am I alone in being concerned that everyone seems to be clamouring for the ECB
to resort to bond purchases as the "magic bullet" when every other "magic
bullet" has so far failed to offer reprieve?

Let's face it; QE has not saved Japan, QE has not saved the UK and QE has not
saved the US either. All that QE really seems to have done is to postpone
Judgement Day.

11.05 As mentioned earlier, Jose Manuel Barroso, president European Commission,
has warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand for
protection of the City threaten the single market:

The United Kingdom, in exchange for giving its agreement, asked for a specific
protocol on financial services which, as presented, was a risk to the integrity
of the internal market. This made compromise impossible.

10.55 Japan, which has enough problems of its own, has called on EU leaders to
do more to shore up its finances and give markets and the rest of the
international community confidence that the debt crisis will not get any worse.

Such guarantees should be in place before non-EU countries will give more to the
IMF to prop up European nations, the country's finance minister Jun Azumi said.
He added:

Without European countries showing exactly how much would be needed to deal with
the crisis, we would not be able to move on to the next step involving the IMF.
The EU must make further efforts to convince markets.

10.50 Britain in or out, who cares says Evolution's Gary Jenkins, pointing out
that whatever Europe's leaders agree may not be enough to calm markets:

the market seems to be questioning the effectiveness of regulation and whether
the solidarity goes far enough. After all, reliance on self-discipline and
self-regulation hasn't worked too well recently, and it remains uncertain
exactly how the EU will enforce fiscal discipline going forward. Not sure that
imposing a fine on the likes of Greece would actually achieve much....

10.45 From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter, highlighting the wide variation in
European countries wealth:

10.05 Britain is still top dog in the EU for something - inflation... From Sky
News's Ed Conway:

09.55 European markets are rather struggling to find direction this morning
after yesterday's sharp sell-off:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.3pc at 5,443 points, the CAC is down 0.3pc in Paris and the
German DAX added 0.3pc.

09.40 And while we were watching Strasbourg, the UK inflation figures have come
out:

Consumer price index (CPI) inflation fell back to 4.8pc in November from 5pc in
October, as price rises in food, transport and clothing eased back.

The Office for National Statistics said food and non-alcoholic drinks prices
rose at the slowest pave since July 2010.

09.35 And defending the Brits?The tireless Nigel Farrage of UKIP. With customary
restraint, he says:

You've decided to be on the Titanic ... we're outside, on the LoveBoat

And he tweets:

09.30 And one more euro luminary for good measure - Joseph Daul, head of the
EPP, the biggest bloc in the European Parliament and a close ally of Nicolas
Sarkozy, has called for Britain's rebate to be cut.

From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter:

09.20 A slightly less colourful EU character has also given his tuppence worth -
Herman Van Rompuy, head of the European Council (the group of 27 EU leaders).

He said he's aiming for the intergovernmental treaty for more central fiscal
control in the eurozone to be signed by the beginning of March.

A review of the (EURO)500bn (£423bn) ceiling on the eurozone's bail-out funds
will also be completed by then, he said.

09.10 It's a galaxy of euro stars speaking today - and one is obviously trying
to give Britain a lesson in "two can play at that game".

Former Belgian PM and leading liberal MEP Guy Verhofstadt has refused to speak
English today, as he usually does in the European Parliament. From Bruno
Waterfield via Twitter:

And another classic form Mr Verhof in Strasbourg - Mr Cameron has made the
"blunder of a lifetime" leaving the negotiating table. He says:

Either you are invited to the table as a guest or else you are part of the menu.

08.55 The head of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso has been speaking
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning - he says the UK's demands
for safeguards on financial services "posed a risk to the EU's internal market".

From Bruno Waterfield in Brussels via Twitter:

This contradicts David Cameron's claim that what he was trying to uphold was the
single market...

Barroso also said the fiscal compact agreed between the rest of the EU on Friday
is "not enough in itself" - growth must be restored and employment promoted to
get the eurozone back on an even keel.

08.30 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan says this morning's Cabinet meeting will
be awkward - but that the Coalition is not at risk of breaking up. He reports:

The Cabinet will meet in half an hour, and Nick Clegg will have to face the
colleagues he missed yesterday. Will Mr Cameron allow a free for all, or will
they carry on as if nothing happened?

But for all the awkwardness, the Coalition appears to have survived the Great
Snub. There is little evidence that the Government is fragmenting - instead, the
Lib Dems are claiming they must stick about to "rebuild bridges" with Europe.

The key dispute is still over whether or not to allow the 26 other European
countries to use the two main EU institutions, the European Court of Justice and
the European Commission, to enforce their new deal. Initially, David Cameron had
ruled that out, but yesterday, No 10 appeared to be shifting its stance.

In his statement, Dave said that "we will look constructively at any proposals
with an open mind", while No 10 admits that it is almost inevitable - the new
treaty would otherwise be unenforceable. As one aide tells the Times, there is a
"sense of inevitability" towards the move.

08.20 Also coming up later today is the US Federal Reserve's monthly decision on
interest rates and whether to start printing even more money to shore up the
economy.

We won't get the figures until 19.15 London time, but economists expect the Fed
to sit on its hands this month, because of recent encouraging figures on
employment and consumer spending.

The Fed has held interest rates close to zero since December 2008 and has bought
$2.3 trillion (£1.5 trillion) of bonds via quantitative easing to try and
encourage economic growth.

08.00 London markets are now open for the day and trading slightly higher:

The FTSE 100 was up 0.2pc to 5,440 points shortly after trading started.

07.45 Nicolas Sarkozy, known for his noisy outbursts at EU summits, is trying a
new tactic - playing it cool.

The president of France now says he is sanguine about whether France keeps its
prized AAA credit rating. Presumably with a Gallic shrug, Mr Sarkozy told Le
Monde:

It would be one more difficulty but not insurmountable. We would face such a
situation coolly and calmly.

07.35 Inflation figures out today are expected to fall, but to show price rises
still remain above the Bank of England's target, in spite of supermarket price
wars and lower petrol prices.

The consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation is expected to come in at
4.8pc when the Office for National Statistics releases the closely watched data,
down from 5pc the previous month but still well above the Bank of England's 2pc
goal.

According to the AA, the price of unleaded petrol fell slightly to an average of
133.7p per litre in November, contributing to a 0.1pc drop in the CPI
calculations of economists at Investec Securities.

07.30 Yesterday's report into the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland by the FSA
is still grabbing headlines - as David Cameron said in the Commons, it reminds
people of the need for close control of financial regulation.

Jeremy Warner says the bank's downfall was primarily due to bad management and
poor regulation, but that  the overall atmosphere of easy credit also pushed it
along :

When I first came into financial journalism, there used to be something called
"the forty-year rule".

This dictated that really serious banking crises only came round once every four
decades because this was the length of time it took for all institutional memory
- banking as well as regulatory - of the last one entirely to die out.

Put another way, crises happen when the last of the generation that remembers
the previous one finally retires and gives way to the thrusting young turks.

In the case of RBS, overlaying it all was a political climate that gave full
licence to and even glorified the "light touch", anything goes, regulation of
the age. Give bankers an inch, and they will take a mile; give them a mile and
they'll take down the world.

07.25 While James Kirkup writes of a Coalition at odds :

The Prime Minister signalled he was prepared to give ground to the Liberal
Democrats by not obstructing other EU nations as they tried to implement the
reforms.

But in a calculated snub, the Deputy Prime Minister did not attend Mr Cameron's
statement, saying afterward they "clearly did not agree" about the the summit.

Mr Cameron told MPs he alone among EU leaders had refused to back a new treaty
to create a "fiscal union" among the eurozone nations because he was not offered
legal safeguards for the City.

"The right answer was no treaty," he insisted, although he accepted Britain's
veto would make new budget rules meant to save the euro "more difficult to
enforce".

07.20 Louise Armitstead reports thatEuropean ministers have warned the City of
London will not be shielded by David Cameron's veto of the Brussels summit
proposals:

Amid chaotic confusion over the relevance of the Brussels summit, including
Britain's veto, Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner said: "If
[Britain's] move was intended to prevent bankers and financial corporations of
the City from being regulated, that's not going to happen."

He added: "We must all draw the lessons from the ongoing crisis and help to
solve it and this goes for the financial sector as well."

However, Nicolas Sarkozy said Britain's effort to protect its financial services
sector would create a lasting rift. The French prime minister told Le Monde:
"There are now clearly two Europes. One wants more solidarity between its
members and more regulation. The other is attached only to the logic of the
single market."

07.10 Looking ahead to stock markets opening, the futures markets expect a
pretty flat start to the day:

The FTSE 100 is set to open up less than 0.1pc at 5,443 points.

07.05 Asian markets fell for a second day, after warnings yesterday by credit
ratings agencies that the eurozone still needs a fix for its short-term
problems.

Japan's Nikkei fell 1.1pc to 8,552.81, Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1pc and
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.4pc. Benchmarks in mainland China, Singapore,
Taiwan and Indonesia also fell.

Optimism over the EU summit deal evaporated on Monday when credit rating
agencies Moody's and Fitch both said the plan for more central control over the
tax and spending powers of eurozone nations was insufficient.

It would not materially address the crushing debt loads of some nations or their
rising borrowing costs, the agencies said.

Moody's warned that it will review all EU governments' ratings for possible
downgrades in early 2012 - a threat that analysts said was particularly
worrisome to France, a major contributor to the European Financial Stability
Facility - aka the bailout fund.

A downgrade of France's triple-A rating could hurt its ability to fulfill its
commitments to the fund.

Tom Kaan of Louis Capital Markets in Hong Kong said:

If France loses its triple A rating, you will have a problem with the EFSF fund,
the one that was supposed to be the 'bazooka' in order to buy up bonds issued by
peripheral countries.

He said British Prime Minister David Cameron's decision to reject the proposed
EU treaty  threw doubts about the plan's workability into the equation, adding:

The UK veto has basically thrown everything into a little bit of nervousness. At
the end of the day, nothing came about.

07.00 It's not easy being in a marriage of convenience, as French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have demonstrated.

But as this morning's papers show, while all seems steady in the Merkozy camp,
another political partnership - between David Cameron and Nick Clegg, is showing
signs of strain :

The Telegraph:City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists / Coalition at
odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron

The Financial Times: Cameron veto exposes coalition rift

The Guardian: Recriminations mount over EU summit veto

The Times: Cameron to offer Clegg a way back on Europe

The Independent: Clegg's day of rage

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 9:28 PM GMT

Why David Cameron's EU veto was good news for the SNP;
The Prime Minister's act of defiance could provide Alex Salmond with the 'wedge'
issue he's been looking for, writes James Kanagasooriam.

BYLINE: By James Kanagasooriam

LENGTH: 495 words


The Prime Minister's veto in Brussels last week could, in time, provide momentum
and direction to the SNP-led campaign for Scottish independence. While the Tory
Right may be pleased with David Cameron's act of defiance, the decision to use
the UK's veto at the proposed treaty could - inadvertently - provide Alex
Salmond with the "wedge" issue he's been looking for.

The First Minister has already criticised the PM for leaving Scotland " shut out
of the room " during negotiations. These words may well constitute the opening
remarks of a campaign to establish a new, independent Scottish foreign policy.
With the PM making the radical move with regards to the EU, Mr Salmond can now
shadow the policies of the rest of Europe and thereby set Scotland on a
trajectory which is manifestly different to the rest of the UK.

Support for Scottish independence is a contingent and pragmatic beast. By
shifting Scotland's attentions towards Europe, Mr Salmond might address the
concerns of supporters worried about a loss of clout and influence
post-separation. Already it's obvious there are natural affinities between the
parliaments of Brussels and Holyrood. Both are chronically expensive and
architecturally suspect; but more seriously the modern operations and voting
system of Holyrood feel closer to Brussels than traditional Westminster. Could
you even imagine the EU flag flying outside Westminster ? It's also worth noting
that Scotland is the only region of the UK which barely registers a UKIP
presence .

A recent Populus poll shows how different Scottish attitudes are to the rest of
the UK when it comes to Europe. While 57 per cent in the UK back the PM's use of
the veto, only 45 per cent of Scottish voters do. Tellingly the level of support
for the PM's decision is at least 10 per cent lower in Scotland than in any
other region - including the North where, in the general election, the
Conservatives polled badly. Throughout the Populus poll Scottish voters
consistently rated Mr Cameron's actions more negatively than any other region of
the UK. The polling numbers don't, however, suggest that all Scottish voters are
unequivocally pro-European; just that there's a Scottish "premium" of support
for Europe over and above the general level of support in the rest of the UK. Mr
Salmond could now decide to exploit this premium in his campaign for Scottish
independence.

The Tory Right has been full of praise for the PM recently. But it's unlikely
that their praise would have been so fulsome had they thought that the use of
the UK's veto could help bring about the demise of the Union. The creation of an
EU-free, Tory-dominated England and an independent Scotland would indeed be
"splendid isolation" - just not as the PM or Conservative bank-benchers had ever
imagined.

James Kanagasooriam is a Westminster anorak with an interest in all things
political. He writes in a personal capacity.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 8:54 PM GMT

Election would finish us, Nick Clegg tells Lib Dems;
The Liberal Democrats would cease to exist as a party if they brought down the
Coalition over Europe and triggered an early election, Nick Clegg warned his MPs
last night.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope and James Kirkup

LENGTH: 487 words


The Deputy Prime Minister told a private meeting of more than 100 MPs and peers
that he would not play "Russian roulette" with the Conservatives over David
Cameron's rejection of a new European treaty.

He said: "I don't want to be the last leader of the Liberal Democrats by
provoking a general election today." His speech, which was applauded by the
meeting, came as a poll put the Lib Dems on just 12 per cent, just ahead of the
UK Independence Party.

Mr Clegg's public attacks on Mr Cameron over Europe have raised questions about
the future of the Coalition but the Deputy Prime Minister told his party he
intends to remain in power with the Conservatives until the election due in
2015.

Earlier, Mr Clegg had seemed to backtrack from his former position by ordering
his MPs to back a Commons motion "commending" Mr Cameron for rejecting the
treaty. Mr Clegg has denounced Mr Cameron's refusal to endorse a treaty aimed at
creating a fiscal union between eurozone countries, suggesting the decision
could harm British interests.

But Liberal Democrat MPs were told to vote in favour of a Commons motion
describing the Prime Minister's veto as "a vital means of defending the national
interests of the UK".

Senior European politicians said Britain should be stripped of the rebate first
won by Baroness Thatcher as a punishment for vetoing the EU treaty. José Manuel
Barroso, the President of the EU, said Mr Cameron's demands for special
protections for the City threatened to undermine the EU single market.

Lib Dems were also ordered to back a motion for "a rebalancing of the
relationship with our European neighbours", echoing the calls of eurosceptic
Tories.

It was tabled by the Ulster Unionists and backed by the Conservatives, while
Labour were opposed. To avoid the spectacle of Coalition MPs voting both ways -
and a government defeat - Lib Dem MPs were whipped to vote in favour, too.

The decision exposed Mr Clegg to allegations that he has had three positions on
the treaty in five days. Having initially given Mr Cameron lukewarm support on
Friday, a Lib Dem backlash forced him to criticise the Prime Minister on Sunday.

A party spokesman last night played down the order. "We are not going to change
the whipping arrangement we always have, where government ministers operate on
the same whip unless specified in the Coalition agreement, in a vote of little
consequence," he said.

In the European Parliament, a senior French politician warned that Britain will
pay a price for Mr Cameron's veto. Joseph Daul, the French MEP who leads the
centre-Right European People's Party, said the veto should mean that Britain is
made to pay more towards the EU.

Under a deal struck by Baroness Thatcher in 1984, Britain receives an annual
rebate on its EU contributions. Mr Daul told MEPs that because Mr Cameron had
"abandoned solidarity", he could not expect the rebate - worth almost £3
billion this year - to continue.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 7:21 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Lib Dems seek more influence at negotiating table in Europe, as ministers clash
at first Cabinet meeting since veto.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson Matthew Sparkes and Harry Wilson

LENGTH: 5404 words


· Barroso: UK demands for City threaten single market
· City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists
· Cabinet clashes over Europe after Cameron's veto
· Cameron rules out referendum on EU membership
· Markets mixed as still no euro financial backstop
· Greek bondholders fail to reach deal with Athens

Latest

19.19 The US Federal Reserve has released its statememt: it's kept rates
ultra-low amid "moderate" economic expansion.

19.16The IMF adds that Greece has reached the limit of what it can achieve
through increasing taxes, and needs to refocus its austerity program on spending
cuts. It revised growth estimates for 2011 down to -6pc, and -3pc next year.

Poul Thomsen said that Greece's structural reforms so far have fallen short of
expectations, but added it was unclear yet whether new austerity measures would
have to be taken next year.

19.11 The IMF has denied that it's in talks for a second rescue package for
Greece. "The mission here is not for a discussion on a new program... There's no
request for a new program," said Poul Thomsen, head of the IMF's mission to
Greece.

19.03 Greek bank NBG is seeking (EURO)1 billion from a state support fund,
planning to issue the equivalent amount of preferred shares in return.

A spokesman explained that the funds would be drawn from a package set up in
2008 that's only open until the end of the year:

A general board meeting has been called for December 22 with the aim of drawing
the remaining funds which the bank is entitled to, under the preferred shares
programme. NBG in 2009 had estimated that it did not require funds and had only
drawn (EURO)350 million from the package. The economic situation has now led us
to request equal treatment as other banks have.

NBG last month said it had lost (EURO)1.346 billion euros in the first nine
months of the year after factoring in a write-down on its Greek government debt.
Greek lenders Alpha and Eurobank have respectively drawn (EURO)950 and (EURO)970
million from the state support package.

18.47 The boss of Poundland, chief executive Jim McCarthy, doesn't anticipate
any improvement in Britain's consumer environment until 2014 and says that the
UK is in recession:

I wouldn't be surprised if it took until 2014 before any changes in the economy
started to be felt by the consumer in a positive way. That means they've got
more money in their pocket than they need and that they have the confidence to
spend it. I think there's quite a lot of pain for all the people in this country
up until that point.

It looks like, it walks like, it sounds like, it feels like, so it's a
recession. Regardless of what the technicalities are, we are in a recession, the
consumer feels no confidence whatsoever. A recession isn't so much of a threat
to us as it can be to other retailers because we perform strongly. But it's a
fact we perform even better when times are good.

18.07 This video shows Cabinet ministers avoiding questions about a coalition
rift this morning. None seem particularly happy to talk...

17.39Corzine says he was "stunned" when he realised the amount of money that had
gone missing.

I was stunned. And the first of my knowledge of segregated funds being out of
reconciliation was the evening, the 30th [the day before MF Global filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection].

17.32The BBC is running a wonderful slideshow of top economists' favourite
graphs of 2011 . It's a lot more interesting than it sounds, honestly.

17.24 MF Global's top three executives have told a Senate committee they have no
idea what happened to the $1.2bn of client funds that were found to be missing
following the broker's collapse. The firm's former chief executive, Jon Corzine,
told the committee he had never authorised the transfer of client funds to the
broker's own account.

"I never gave instructions that anyone could misconstrue."

17.15 The Dutch finance minister says the government will cut spending further
after a government think-tank claimed the country is slipping into recession.

Jan Kees de Jager says the Cabinet would consider ending tax deductions for
mortgage debt in order to bring the country's budget deficit below the 3pc of
GDP threshold specified by Europe. The Netherlands' national debt is relatively
low, but personal debt is high because of mortgages.

De Jager was responding to a report by the country's Bureau for Economic Policy
Analysis that said the economy began shrinking in the third quarter and won't
return to growth until mid-2012. The report assumed Europe will "muddle through"
its financial crisis without the euro collapsing.

17.02 And just the FTSE 100...

16.57Time for the customary end-of-day graph showing the European markets'
performance...

16.46 European markets have now closed for the day. Earlier this afternoon they
were all in positive territory, but France and Germany slipped into the red
before the close of trading after Angela Merkel spoke against raising the
funding limit for Europe's future bail-out fund.

The FTSE 100 ended the day up 1.15pc, the DAX fell 0.19pc and the CAC slipped
0.35pc.

Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said:

The FTSE bounced back today despite seeing some poor economic data and the euro
continuing its downward spiral. The main contributor to the slightly contrarian
bullish sentiment today was a Spanish bond auction that much better than
expected indicating that despite the turmoil there's still demand for European
government debt.

However, as soon as the FTSE was rallying to a triple digit gain it was quick to
reject its highs showing that even though we're set to end in positive
territory, nerves are still frayed from the EU summit at the end of last week.
With credit ratings agencies circling the eurozone and its banks the outlook
remains exceptionally uncertain.

16.11 Fitch has cut the long-term foreign and local currency credit outlooks on
Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Lithuania to stable from positive
citing Europe's weakening economic and financial outlook. Ed Parker, sovereign
ratings analyst, said in a statement:

Strong economic and financial linkages mean that countries in central and
eastern Europe are being adversely affected by downward revisions to economic
growth prospects and heightened financial stress in the eurozone.

16.01 The US Federal Reserve is expected to hold interest rates near zero at its
last meeting of the year as the eurozone debt crisis shows the fragile recovery
is not insulated from shocks elsewhere in the world, writes Richard Blackden in
New York.

With the exception of Mitt Romney, those Republicans vying to take on President
Barack Obama next year have made clear they're no friend of this Fed. It's too
interventionist, is debasing the dollar, punishing the country's savers and
institutionally secretive.

The crisis of the euro is the latest - and by far the most dangerous - shock to
hit the US economy this year. With the US recovery far from secure, the Fed will
keep the stimulus it has in place and possibly extend it.

15.46The news that Merkel has said 'no' to the idea of raising the firepower of
the ESM has caused the euro to slide against the dollar, falling dramatically to
$1.314 in just a few minutes - it's lowest point since January. John McCarthy,
managing director of currency trading at ING Groep NV in New York, said:

You continue to see strains within the euro group. A division means a lower
euro. The euro was already a little weaker and once we got convincingly through
$1.3170, it dropped more.

15.41 Angela Merkel has rejected the possibility of raising the funding limit of
the European Stability Mechanism, the successor to the EFSF bail-out fund. The
ESM is due to come into effect in the middle of 2012 with a (EURO)500 billion
pot.

15.34 Just as a quick aside, in light of Van Rompuy's statement today that the
ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of the
eurozone, this chart puts UK inflation into perspective with other key European
countries.

15.30 The French economy would shrink by as much as a fifth and one million
could be put out of work if the country left the euro, according to a
think-tank. The Instit Montaigne warned France would lose between 6pc and 19pc
of its GDP if it abandoned the eurozone, a move backed by far-right presidential
candidate Marine Le Pen.

Euro exit: far-right politician, Marine Le Pen, supports the move that could
cost one million jobs

15.17 The Czech Republic's finance minister, Miroslav Kalousek, has gone on
national television to insist the country must contribute (EURO)3.5bn towards an
IMF aid package to the eurozone.

I'm deeply convinced that we must not slam the door on Europe. (At the same
time) if we give out the loan, we must negotiate its conditions. We cannot
afford to be the only ones in Europe to say 'no'.

15.11 Fund managers are gearing up for another 12 months of the eurozone crisis.
A survey by the Association of Investment Companies found that 86pc of managers
expect Europe's sovereign debt problems to dominate markets in 2012. Katherine
Garrett-Cox, chief executive of Alliance Trust, says the crisis will "roll
forward inexorably into 2012:

Looking forward, we do believe that the Eurozone leaders will eventually produce
a solution that will adequately calm investors' anxieties about the future of
the Euro project. However, we do not expect that this will happen without the
markets having been further tested, and this will be demonstrated through
continued volatility of equity prices.

Garrett-Cox: eurozone crisis will "roll forward inexorably into 2012"

15.02 The Cabinet clashed over Europe today after David Cameron's veto, writes
Rowena Mason:

Liberal Democrat and Conservatives ministers fought out their differences over
Europe at the first meeting of the Cabinet since David Cameron vetoed Britain's
entry into a new treaty.

Senior Liberal Democrats are unhappy that they were not briefed enough in
advance about the Prime Minister's negotiating position and tactics. Chris
Huhne, the Liberal Democrat energy secretary, is understood to have been
outspoken about this, as tensions over Europe ran high for about an hour.

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader, spoke at the
meeting, facing his Cabinet colleagues for the first time since he avoided Mr
Cameron's speech to parliament on Europe on Monday.

14.52 The US markets have opened for the day, being nudged upwards despite
retail sales figures showing a smaller than expected rise in November when they
emerged less than an hour ago.

The Dow Jones is up 0.78pc, the S&P 500 has risen 0.77pc and the Nasdaq is
0.93pc higher.

Meanwhile, in Europe, the FTSE 100 is up 1.28pc, the DAX by 0.82pc and the CAC
is 0.19pc higher.

14.43 Japan is reported to have bought (EURO)290m (£247m) of the (EURO)1.97bn of
bonds sold by the EFSF this morning, according to Reuters. The sale is said to
have received demand for just over three times the amount of paper on offer.
Before any one gets carried away about the success of the sale, it should be
remembered this is only a three-month loan. Not exactly the long-term funding
the eurozone needs.

14.35 Despite shoppers flocking to stores over the Thanksgiving weekend, US
retail sales rose less than expected in November.

Total retail sales increased 0.2pc after rising by an upwardly revised 0.6pc in
October, the Commerce Department. The sales growth was the weakest in any month
since June.

Millan Mulraine, a strategist at TD Securities in New York, said: "It's fairly
disappointing given that all the evidence was pointing to fairly strong gains
during the month."

Economists have warned the 'Thanksgiving' shopping frenzy may not last through
the festive season, citing high unemployment. Consumer spending accounts for
more than two-thirds of US economic activity.

No doubt the Fed has factored the figures into its assessment.

14.23 We mentioned earlier that Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European
Commission, warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand
for protection of the City threatens the single market. Here's the video:

14.15 A German union leader has warned Chancellor Angela Merkel that austerity
cuts aren't the only solution.

Michael Sommer, chief of the DGB umbrella union group, warned the leader of
Europe's biggest economy that she needs to spur growth to overcome the debt
crisis.

He urged Merkel to push for an "active growth policy" favoring investment and
creating new jobs.

14.02The ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of
the eurozone, EC President Herman Van Rompuy has said:

The central bank is a stability instrument, stability in terms of their (focus
on) inflation and stability with regard to the eurozone.

We will see the full scope of decisions that have already been taken when it
comes to liquidity for banks, even over a three-year period. That is completely
unprecedented but that is what the European Central Bank did in the name of
stability.

13.54 Wall Street is poised to open higher after sharp falls yesterday, with Dow
Jones futures up around 0.5pc ahead of the latest US Fed's assessment of the
economy. The final FOMC meeting of the year is not expected to reveal any fresh
economic stimulus as signs of recovery are offset by eurozone debt woes.

The FTSE 100 is trading up 0.9pc at 5479.05, the DAX is 0.7pc higher and the CAC
40 has risen a modest 0.18pc after falling 2.6pc yesterday.

13.47 An update from Richard Orange in Sweden now, pointing out that David
Cameron isn't the only European leader sceptical about the benefits of signing
the proposed EU treaty.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt has refused to commit Sweden to joining the
proposed EU treaty in his first report to to parliament, despite strong internal
pressure from within his own party:

My position is that it's important to know exactly what consequences this will
have before we sign an agreement. Some people think we should say no, some
people think we should say yes.

Mr Reinfeldt's deputy, Jan Bjorkland, this morning made an impassioned call in
an article in Svenska Dagbladet that Sweden shouldn't side with a UK that is
"adrift" and "in a minority":

The company of the British is too little to hold in your hand when global
competition is increasing and Asia's major powers are growing stronger. Swedish
influence in European cooperation is under threat. Therefore, Sweden should join
the EU stability pact.

Even if Mr Reinfeldt is persuaded to back the pact, his minority government will
need to sway the opposition to win a parliamentary vote.

Marie Granlund, spokesman for the opposition Social Democrats on Europe, said
she believed signing the pact would go against Sweden's vote against the euro in
its referendum in 2003.

It's against what the Swedish people have voted in the referendum. We have
stability already, and we don't want the European court to tell Sweden what we
should do.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt

13:26 More on this morning's Cabinet meeting. Mr Cameron's spokesman said the
atmosphere was "the same as usual" - really?

Asked if there would be any attempt to bolster the role of the Nick Clegg in
future European Council negotiations, he said there was "one seat and that is
the seat for the head of state for the country". [The spokesman might like to
remember that the Queen is Britain's head of state. Mr Cameron is Her Majesty's
representative].

But added, that there was "some discussion" on the process for future
negotiations because Coalition Government made it "more complicated".

Clearly, we will have to think about that process and how we do things. The
negotiating strategy was agreed with the Deputy Prime Minister. The DPM was on
the phone to other European counterparts on Wednesday and Thursday setting out
our position, so he was involved.

We do think they are reasonable demands. We were not asking for an opt out, we
were asking for a level playing field.

Happier days: Number 10 insists atmosphere in Cabinet was "same as usual"

13.14 ECB governing council member and head of the Slovak central bank, Jozef
Makuch, says rating agency downgrades of eurozone members would not be
"catastrophic" for the ECB. He adds that the ECB will not be able to launch a QE
programme without a change of law:

Without a change to our mandate set by law, we can't carry out massive bond buys
or FED-style quantitative easing.

12.58 Has George Soros done it again? TheWall Street Journal thinks the
legendary hedge fund manager, along with US investment bank JP Morgan, may have
made a quick profit on eurozone sovereign debt after the demise of US broker MF
Global.

Not so sad now: Soros still knows a good trade when he sees one

12.30 Failure of Greek bondholder talks has pushed the euro down. Here's an
acerbic tweet on the latest eurozone happenings from Zerohedge:

12.18 Sources quoted by Reuters say talks in Athens between Greek government
officials and bondholders have ended without a deal. Banker involved in the
talks says "consultations" will continue.

12.12 The consequences of a eurozone break-up are "horrifying" even for Germany,
says M&G Investments Jim Leaviss, who warns of the looming threat of a major run
on Europe's banks:

Greece can default but it mustn't leave the Euro. If it does we'll see runs on
Europe's banks that dwarf what we've seen so far.

Bank runs: a picture of things to come, warns M&G.

12.02 Latest on today's Cabinet meeting, the first since David Cameron vetoed
the EU treaty on Friday, from our Political Correspondent, Rowena Mason.

Prime Minister's spokesman says Cabinet had "a good conversation", with a debate
for about an hour on what to do next about Europe. Cameron spoke first, followed
by Osborne, then Clegg.

11.51 Even hedge funds have turned on David Cameron. The FT's Hedge Fund
Correspondent, Sam Jones, tweets that millionaire hedge fund manager and major
Lib Dem donor, Paul Marshall, has attacked Mr Cameron's handling of the EU
treaty negotiations.

11.45 The bond market is definitely not convinced that Friday's deal on fiscal
controls in the eurozone will solve the debt crisis anytime soon.

Yields on European government debt widened again today - Italian yields are now
trading at 7.1pc, according to Reuters data (although at 6.6pc according to
Bloomberg, which is using a different contract).

Spanish, French and German bond yields all widened this morning, indicating
investors see the debt as more risky.

When Italy's yields first went over the 7pc level it caused panic in the markets
because other eurozone nations whose borrowing costs have reached that level
have ended up seeking bail-outs.

11.30 Our Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock, says something else that is certain to
inflame Government tensions will be tomorrow's unemployment figures, which are
expected to be rather grim.

Analysts predict the total number of people out of work has risen by 140,000
between August and October, taking UK unemployment to 8.4pc, a 0.1pc climb from
the previous quarter.

A survey from Manpower today suggests the labour market is sitting on a
knife-edge with eight in 10 firms planning no hires at all in the next quarter.

Mr Cameron will need to convince the markets he is doing all he can to stimulate
growth and jobs creation.

11.14 Europe's day of reckoning cannot be postponed by more ECB purchases of
government, says Anthony Peters, strategist at SwissInvest

Am I alone in being concerned that everyone seems to be clamouring for the ECB
to resort to bond purchases as the "magic bullet" when every other "magic
bullet" has so far failed to offer reprieve?

Let's face it; QE has not saved Japan, QE has not saved the UK and QE has not
saved the US either. All that QE really seems to have done is to postpone
Judgement Day.

11.05 As mentioned earlier, Jose Manuel Barroso, president European Commission,
has warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand for
protection of the City threaten the single market:

The United Kingdom, in exchange for giving its agreement, asked for a specific
protocol on financial services which, as presented, was a risk to the integrity
of the internal market. This made compromise impossible.

10.55 Japan, which has enough problems of its own, has called on EU leaders to
do more to shore up its finances and give markets and the rest of the
international community confidence that the debt crisis will not get any worse.

Such guarantees should be in place before non-EU countries will give more to the
IMF to prop up European nations, the country's finance minister Jun Azumi said.
He added:

Without European countries showing exactly how much would be needed to deal with
the crisis, we would not be able to move on to the next step involving the IMF.
The EU must make further efforts to convince markets.

10.50 Britain in or out, who cares says Evolution's Gary Jenkins, pointing out
that whatever Europe's leaders agree may not be enough to calm markets:

the market seems to be questioning the effectiveness of regulation and whether
the solidarity goes far enough. After all, reliance on self-discipline and
self-regulation hasn't worked too well recently, and it remains uncertain
exactly how the EU will enforce fiscal discipline going forward. Not sure that
imposing a fine on the likes of Greece would actually achieve much....

10.45 From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter, highlighting the wide variation in
European countries wealth:

10.05 Britain is still top dog in the EU for something - inflation... From Sky
News's Ed Conway:

09.55 European markets are rather struggling to find direction this morning
after yesterday's sharp sell-off:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.3pc at 5,443 points, the CAC is down 0.3pc in Paris and the
German DAX added 0.3pc.

09.40 And while we were watching Strasbourg, the UK inflation figures have come
out:

Consumer price index (CPI) inflation fell back to 4.8pc in November from 5pc in
October, as price rises in food, transport and clothing eased back.

The Office for National Statistics said food and non-alcoholic drinks prices
rose at the slowest pave since July 2010.

09.35 And defending the Brits?The tireless Nigel Farrage of UKIP. With customary
restraint, he says:

You've decided to be on the Titanic ... we're outside, on the LoveBoat

And he tweets:

09.30 And one more euro luminary for good measure - Joseph Daul, head of the
EPP, the biggest bloc in the European Parliament and a close ally of Nicolas
Sarkozy, has called for Britain's rebate to be cut.

From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter:

09.20 A slightly less colourful EU character has also given his tuppence worth -
Herman Van Rompuy, head of the European Council (the group of 27 EU leaders).

He said he's aiming for the intergovernmental treaty for more central fiscal
control in the eurozone to be signed by the beginning of March.

A review of the (EURO)500bn (£423bn) ceiling on the eurozone's bail-out funds
will also be completed by then, he said.

09.10 It's a galaxy of euro stars speaking today - and one is obviously trying
to give Britain a lesson in "two can play at that game".

Former Belgian PM and leading liberal MEP Guy Verhofstadt has refused to speak
English today, as he usually does in the European Parliament. From Bruno
Waterfield via Twitter:

And another classic form Mr Verhof in Strasbourg - Mr Cameron has made the
"blunder of a lifetime" leaving the negotiating table. He says:

Either you are invited to the table as a guest or else you are part of the menu.

08.55 The head of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso has been speaking
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning - he says the UK's demands
for safeguards on financial services "posed a risk to the EU's internal market".

From Bruno Waterfield in Brussels via Twitter:

This contradicts David Cameron's claim that what he was trying to uphold was the
single market...

Barroso also said the fiscal compact agreed between the rest of the EU on Friday
is "not enough in itself" - growth must be restored and employment promoted to
get the eurozone back on an even keel.

08.30 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan says this morning's Cabinet meeting will
be awkward - but that the Coalition is not at risk of breaking up. He reports:

The Cabinet will meet in half an hour, and Nick Clegg will have to face the
colleagues he missed yesterday. Will Mr Cameron allow a free for all, or will
they carry on as if nothing happened?

But for all the awkwardness, the Coalition appears to have survived the Great
Snub. There is little evidence that the Government is fragmenting - instead, the
Lib Dems are claiming they must stick about to "rebuild bridges" with Europe.

The key dispute is still over whether or not to allow the 26 other European
countries to use the two main EU institutions, the European Court of Justice and
the European Commission, to enforce their new deal. Initially, David Cameron had
ruled that out, but yesterday, No 10 appeared to be shifting its stance.

In his statement, Dave said that "we will look constructively at any proposals
with an open mind", while No 10 admits that it is almost inevitable - the new
treaty would otherwise be unenforceable. As one aide tells the Times, there is a
"sense of inevitability" towards the move.

08.20 Also coming up later today is the US Federal Reserve's monthly decision on
interest rates and whether to start printing even more money to shore up the
economy.

We won't get the figures until 19.15 London time, but economists expect the Fed
to sit on its hands this month, because of recent encouraging figures on
employment and consumer spending.

The Fed has held interest rates close to zero since December 2008 and has bought
$2.3 trillion (£1.5 trillion) of bonds via quantitative easing to try and
encourage economic growth.

08.00 London markets are now open for the day and trading slightly higher:

The FTSE 100 was up 0.2pc to 5,440 points shortly after trading started.

07.45 Nicolas Sarkozy, known for his noisy outbursts at EU summits, is trying a
new tactic - playing it cool.

The president of France now says he is sanguine about whether France keeps its
prized AAA credit rating. Presumably with a Gallic shrug, Mr Sarkozy told Le
Monde:

It would be one more difficulty but not insurmountable. We would face such a
situation coolly and calmly.

07.35 Inflation figures out today are expected to fall, but to show price rises
still remain above the Bank of England's target, in spite of supermarket price
wars and lower petrol prices.

The consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation is expected to come in at
4.8pc when the Office for National Statistics releases the closely watched data,
down from 5pc the previous month but still well above the Bank of England's 2pc
goal.

According to the AA, the price of unleaded petrol fell slightly to an average of
133.7p per litre in November, contributing to a 0.1pc drop in the CPI
calculations of economists at Investec Securities.

07.30 Yesterday's report into the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland by the FSA
is still grabbing headlines - as David Cameron said in the Commons, it reminds
people of the need for close control of financial regulation.

Jeremy Warner says the bank's downfall was primarily due to bad management and
poor regulation, but that  the overall atmosphere of easy credit also pushed it
along :

When I first came into financial journalism, there used to be something called
"the forty-year rule".

This dictated that really serious banking crises only came round once every four
decades because this was the length of time it took for all institutional memory
- banking as well as regulatory - of the last one entirely to die out.

Put another way, crises happen when the last of the generation that remembers
the previous one finally retires and gives way to the thrusting young turks.

In the case of RBS, overlaying it all was a political climate that gave full
licence to and even glorified the "light touch", anything goes, regulation of
the age. Give bankers an inch, and they will take a mile; give them a mile and
they'll take down the world.

07.25 While James Kirkup writes of a Coalition at odds :

The Prime Minister signalled he was prepared to give ground to the Liberal
Democrats by not obstructing other EU nations as they tried to implement the
reforms.

But in a calculated snub, the Deputy Prime Minister did not attend Mr Cameron's
statement, saying afterward they "clearly did not agree" about the the summit.

Mr Cameron told MPs he alone among EU leaders had refused to back a new treaty
to create a "fiscal union" among the eurozone nations because he was not offered
legal safeguards for the City.

"The right answer was no treaty," he insisted, although he accepted Britain's
veto would make new budget rules meant to save the euro "more difficult to
enforce".

07.20 Louise Armitstead reports thatEuropean ministers have warned the City of
London will not be shielded by David Cameron's veto of the Brussels summit
proposals:

Amid chaotic confusion over the relevance of the Brussels summit, including
Britain's veto, Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner said: "If
[Britain's] move was intended to prevent bankers and financial corporations of
the City from being regulated, that's not going to happen."

He added: "We must all draw the lessons from the ongoing crisis and help to
solve it and this goes for the financial sector as well."

However, Nicolas Sarkozy said Britain's effort to protect its financial services
sector would create a lasting rift. The French prime minister told Le Monde:
"There are now clearly two Europes. One wants more solidarity between its
members and more regulation. The other is attached only to the logic of the
single market."

07.10 Looking ahead to stock markets opening, the futures markets expect a
pretty flat start to the day:

The FTSE 100 is set to open up less than 0.1pc at 5,443 points.

07.05 Asian markets fell for a second day, after warnings yesterday by credit
ratings agencies that the eurozone still needs a fix for its short-term
problems.

Japan's Nikkei fell 1.1pc to 8,552.81, Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1pc and
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.4pc. Benchmarks in mainland China, Singapore,
Taiwan and Indonesia also fell.

Optimism over the EU summit deal evaporated on Monday when credit rating
agencies Moody's and Fitch both said the plan for more central control over the
tax and spending powers of eurozone nations was insufficient.

It would not materially address the crushing debt loads of some nations or their
rising borrowing costs, the agencies said.

Moody's warned that it will review all EU governments' ratings for possible
downgrades in early 2012 - a threat that analysts said was particularly
worrisome to France, a major contributor to the European Financial Stability
Facility - aka the bailout fund.

A downgrade of France's triple-A rating could hurt its ability to fulfill its
commitments to the fund.

Tom Kaan of Louis Capital Markets in Hong Kong said:

If France loses its triple A rating, you will have a problem with the EFSF fund,
the one that was supposed to be the 'bazooka' in order to buy up bonds issued by
peripheral countries.

He said British Prime Minister David Cameron's decision to reject the proposed
EU treaty  threw doubts about the plan's workability into the equation, adding:

The UK veto has basically thrown everything into a little bit of nervousness. At
the end of the day, nothing came about.

07.00 It's not easy being in a marriage of convenience, as French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have demonstrated.

But as this morning's papers show, while all seems steady in the Merkozy camp,
another political partnership - between David Cameron and Nick Clegg, is showing
signs of strain :

The Telegraph:City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists / Coalition at
odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron

The Financial Times: Cameron veto exposes coalition rift

The Guardian: Recriminations mount over EU summit veto

The Times: Cameron to offer Clegg a way back on Europe

The Independent: Clegg's day of rage

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 4:58 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Britain's demand for special treatment for financial services would have harmed
the single market, said European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso, as the
Cabinet meets amid splits over Europe.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson Matthew Sparkes and Harry Wilson

LENGTH: 4689 words


· Barroso: UK demands for City threaten single market
· City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists
· Cabinet clashes over Europe after Cameron's veto
· Cameron rules out referendum on EU membership
· Markets tread water as still no euro financial backstop
· Greek bondholders fail to reach deal with Athens

Latest

16.57Time for the customary end-of-day graph showing the European markets'
performance...

16.46 European markets have now closed for the day. Earlier this afternoon they
were all in positive territory, but France and Germany slipped into the red
before the close of trading after Angela Merkel spoke against raising the
funding limit for Europe's future bail-out fund.

The FTSE 100 ended the day up 1.15pc, the DAX fell 0.19pc and the CAC slipped
0.35pc.

Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads, said:

The FTSE bounced back today despite seeing some poor economic data and the euro
continuing its downward spiral. The main contributor to the slightly contrarian
bullish sentiment today was a Spanish bond auction that much better than
expected indicating that despite the turmoil there's still demand for European
government debt.

However, as soon as the FTSE was rallying to a triple digit gain it was quick to
reject its highs showing that even though we're set to end in positive
territory, nerves are still frayed from the EU summit at the end of last week.
With credit ratings agencies circling the eurozone and its banks the outlook
remains exceptionally uncertain.

16.11 Fitch has cut the long-term foreign and local currency credit outlooks on
Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Lithuania to stable from positive
citing Europe's weakening economic and financial outlook. Ed Parker, sovereign
ratings analyst, said in a statement:

Strong economic and financial linkages mean that countries in central and
eastern Europe are being adversely affected by downward revisions to economic
growth prospects and heightened financial stress in the eurozone.

16.01 The US Federal Reserve is expected to hold interest rates near zero at its
last meeting of the year as the eurozone debt crisis shows the fragile recovery
is not insulated from shocks elsewhere in the world, writes Richard Blackden in
New York.

With the exception of Mitt Romney, those Republicans vying to take on President
Barack Obama next year have made clear they're no friend of this Fed. It's too
interventionist, is debasing the dollar, punishing the country's savers and
institutionally secretive.

The crisis of the euro is the latest - and by far the most dangerous - shock to
hit the US economy this year. With the US recovery far from secure, the Fed will
keep the stimulus it has in place and possibly extend it.

15.46The news that Merkel has said 'no' to the idea of raising the firepower of
the ESM has caused the euro to slide against the dollar, falling dramatically to
$1.314 in just a few minutes - it's lowest point since January. John McCarthy,
managing director of currency trading at ING Groep NV in New York, said:

You continue to see strains within the euro group. A division means a lower
euro. The euro was already a little weaker and once we got convincingly through
$1.3170, it dropped more.

15.41 Angela Merkel has rejected the possibility of raising the funding limit of
the European Stability Mechanism, the successor to the EFSF bail-out fund. The
ESM is due to come into effect in the middle of 2012 with a (EURO)500 billion
pot.

15.34 Just as a quick aside, in light of Van Rompuy's statement today that the
ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of the
eurozone, this chart puts UK inflation into perspective with other key European
countries.

15.30 The French economy would shrink by as much as a fifth and one million
could be put out of work if the country left the euro, according to a
think-tank. The Instit Montaigne warned France would lose between 6pc and 19pc
of its GDP if it abandoned the eurozone, a move backed by far-right presidential
candidate Marine Le Pen.

Euro exit: far-right politician, Marine Le Pen, supports the move that could
cost one million jobs

15.17 The Czech Republic's finance minister, Miroslav Kalousek, has gone on
national television to insist the country must contribute (EURO)3.5bn towards an
IMF aid package to the eurozone.

I'm deeply convinced that we must not slam the door on Europe. (At the same
time) if we give out the loan, we must negotiate its conditions. We cannot
afford to be the only ones in Europe to say 'no'.

15.11 Fund managers are gearing up for another 12 months of the eurozone crisis.
A survey by the Association of Investment Companies found that 86pc of managers
expect Europe's sovereign debt problems to dominate markets in 2012. Katherine
Garrett-Cox, chief executive of Alliance Trust, says the crisis will "roll
forward inexorably into 2012:

Looking forward, we do believe that the Eurozone leaders will eventually produce
a solution that will adequately calm investors' anxieties about the future of
the Euro project. However, we do not expect that this will happen without the
markets having been further tested, and this will be demonstrated through
continued volatility of equity prices.

Garrett-Cox: eurozone crisis will "roll forward inexorably into 2012"

15.02 The Cabinet clashed over Europe today after David Cameron's veto, writes
Rowena Mason:

Liberal Democrat and Conservatives ministers fought out their differences over
Europe at the first meeting of the Cabinet since David Cameron vetoed Britain's
entry into a new treaty.

Senior Liberal Democrats are unhappy that they were not briefed enough in
advance about the Prime Minister's negotiating position and tactics. Chris
Huhne, the Liberal Democrat energy secretary, is understood to have been
outspoken about this, as tensions over Europe ran high for about an hour.

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader, spoke at the
meeting, facing his Cabinet colleagues for the first time since he avoided Mr
Cameron's speech to parliament on Europe on Monday.

14.52 The US markets have opened for the day, being nudged upwards despite
retail sales figures showing a smaller than expected rise in November when they
emerged less than an hour ago.

The Dow Jones is up 0.78pc, the S&P 500 has risen 0.77pc and the Nasdaq is
0.93pc higher.

Meanwhile, in Europe, the FTSE 100 is up 1.28pc, the DAX by 0.82pc and the CAC
is 0.19pc higher.

14.43 Japan is reported to have bought (EURO)290m (£247m) of the (EURO)1.97bn of
bonds sold by the EFSF this morning, according to Reuters. The sale is said to
have received demand for just over three times the amount of paper on offer.
Before any one gets carried away about the success of the sale, it should be
remembered this is only a three-month loan. Not exactly the long-term funding
the eurozone needs.

14.35 Despite shoppers flocking to stores over the Thanksgiving weekend, US
retail sales rose less than expected in November.

Total retail sales increased 0.2pc after rising by an upwardly revised 0.6pc in
October, the Commerce Department. The sales growth was the weakest in any month
since June.

Millan Mulraine, a strategist at TD Securities in New York, said: "It's fairly
disappointing given that all the evidence was pointing to fairly strong gains
during the month."

Economists have warned the 'Thanksgiving' shopping frenzy may not last through
the festive season, citing high unemployment. Consumer spending accounts for
more than two-thirds of US economic activity.

No doubt the Fed has factored the figures into its assessment.

14.23 We mentioned earlier that Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European
Commission, warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand
for protection of the City threatens the single market. Here's the video:

14.15 A German union leader has warned Chancellor Angela Merkel that austerity
cuts aren't the only solution.

Michael Sommer, chief of the DGB umbrella union group, warned the leader of
Europe's biggest economy that she needs to spur growth to overcome the debt
crisis.

He urged Merkel to push for an "active growth policy" favoring investment and
creating new jobs.

14.02The ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of
the eurozone, EC President Herman Van Rompuy has said:

The central bank is a stability instrument, stability in terms of their (focus
on) inflation and stability with regard to the eurozone.

We will see the full scope of decisions that have already been taken when it
comes to liquidity for banks, even over a three-year period. That is completely
unprecedented but that is what the European Central Bank did in the name of
stability.

13.54 Wall Street is poised to open higher after sharp falls yesterday, with Dow
Jones futures up around 0.5pc ahead of the latest US Fed's assessment of the
economy. The final FOMC meeting of the year is not expected to reveal any fresh
economic stimulus as signs of recovery are offset by eurozone debt woes.

The FTSE 100 is trading up 0.9pc at 5479.05, the DAX is 0.7pc higher and the CAC
40 has risen a modest 0.18pc after falling 2.6pc yesterday.

13.47 An update from Richard Orange in Sweden now, pointing out that David
Cameron isn't the only European leader sceptical about the benefits of signing
the proposed EU treaty.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt has refused to commit Sweden to joining the
proposed EU treaty in his first report to to parliament, despite strong internal
pressure from within his own party:

My position is that it's important to know exactly what consequences this will
have before we sign an agreement. Some people think we should say no, some
people think we should say yes.

Mr Reinfeldt's deputy, Jan Bjorkland, this morning made an impassioned call in
an article in Svenska Dagbladet that Sweden shouldn't side with a UK that is
"adrift" and "in a minority":

The company of the British is too little to hold in your hand when global
competition is increasing and Asia's major powers are growing stronger. Swedish
influence in European cooperation is under threat. Therefore, Sweden should join
the EU stability pact.

Even if Mr Reinfeldt is persuaded to back the pact, his minority government will
need to sway the opposition to win a parliamentary vote.

Marie Granlund, spokesman for the opposition Social Democrats on Europe, said
she believed signing the pact would go against Sweden's vote against the euro in
its referendum in 2003.

It's against what the Swedish people have voted in the referendum. We have
stability already, and we don't want the European court to tell Sweden what we
should do.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt

13:26 More on this morning's Cabinet meeting. Mr Cameron's spokesman said the
atmosphere was "the same as usual" - really?

Asked if there would be any attempt to bolster the role of the Nick Clegg in
future European Council negotiations, he said there was "one seat and that is
the seat for the head of state for the country". [The spokesman might like to
remember that the Queen is Britain's head of state. Mr Cameron is Her Majesty's
representative].

But added, that there was "some discussion" on the process for future
negotiations because Coalition Government made it "more complicated".

Clearly, we will have to think about that process and how we do things. The
negotiating strategy was agreed with the Deputy Prime Minister. The DPM was on
the phone to other European counterparts on Wednesday and Thursday setting out
our position, so he was involved.

We do think they are reasonable demands. We were not asking for an opt out, we
were asking for a level playing field.

Happier days: Number 10 insists atmosphere in Cabinet was "same as usual"

13.14 ECB governing council member and head of the Slovak central bank, Jozef
Makuch, says rating agency downgrades of eurozone members would not be
"catastrophic" for the ECB. He adds that the ECB will not be able to launch a QE
programme without a change of law:

Without a change to our mandate set by law, we can't carry out massive bond buys
or FED-style quantitative easing.

12.58 Has George Soros done it again? TheWall Street Journal thinks the
legendary hedge fund manager, along with US investment bank JP Morgan, may have
made a quick profit on eurozone sovereign debt after the demise of US broker MF
Global.

Not so sad now: Soros still knows a good trade when he sees one

12.30 Failure of Greek bondholder talks has pushed the euro down. Here's an
acerbic tweet on the latest eurozone happenings from Zerohedge:

12.18 Sources quoted by Reuters say talks in Athens between Greek government
officials and bondholders have ended without a deal. Banker involved in the
talks says "consultations" will continue.

12.12 The consequences of a eurozone break-up are "horrifying" even for Germany,
says M&G Investments Jim Leaviss, who warns of the looming threat of a major run
on Europe's banks:

Greece can default but it mustn't leave the Euro. If it does we'll see runs on
Europe's banks that dwarf what we've seen so far.

Bank runs: a picture of things to come, warns M&G.

12.02 Latest on today's Cabinet meeting, the first since David Cameron vetoed
the EU treaty on Friday, from our Political Correspondent, Rowena Mason.

Prime Minister's spokesman says Cabinet had "a good conversation", with a debate
for about an hour on what to do next about Europe. Cameron spoke first, followed
by Osborne, then Clegg.

11.51 Even hedge funds have turned on David Cameron. The FT's Hedge Fund
Correspondent, Sam Jones, tweets that millionaire hedge fund manager and major
Lib Dem donor, Paul Marshall, has attacked Mr Cameron's handling of the EU
treaty negotiations.

11.45 The bond market is definitely not convinced that Friday's deal on fiscal
controls in the eurozone will solve the debt crisis anytime soon.

Yields on European government debt widened again today - Italian yields are now
trading at 7.1pc, according to Reuters data (although at 6.6pc according to
Bloomberg, which is using a different contract).

Spanish, French and German bond yields all widened this morning, indicating
investors see the debt as more risky.

When Italy's yields first went over the 7pc level it caused panic in the markets
because other eurozone nations whose borrowing costs have reached that level
have ended up seeking bail-outs.

11.30 Our Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock, says something else that is certain to
inflame Government tensions will be tomorrow's unemployment figures, which are
expected to be rather grim.

Analysts predict the total number of people out of work has risen by 140,000
between August and October, taking UK unemployment to 8.4pc, a 0.1pc climb from
the previous quarter.

A survey from Manpower today suggests the labour market is sitting on a
knife-edge with eight in 10 firms planning no hires at all in the next quarter.

Mr Cameron will need to convince the markets he is doing all he can to stimulate
growth and jobs creation.

11.14 Europe's day of reckoning cannot be postponed by more ECB purchases of
government, says Anthony Peters, strategist at SwissInvest

Am I alone in being concerned that everyone seems to be clamouring for the ECB
to resort to bond purchases as the "magic bullet" when every other "magic
bullet" has so far failed to offer reprieve?

Let's face it; QE has not saved Japan, QE has not saved the UK and QE has not
saved the US either. All that QE really seems to have done is to postpone
Judgement Day.

11.05 As mentioned earlier, Jose Manuel Barroso, president European Commission,
has warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand for
protection of the City threaten the single market:

The United Kingdom, in exchange for giving its agreement, asked for a specific
protocol on financial services which, as presented, was a risk to the integrity
of the internal market. This made compromise impossible.

10.55 Japan, which has enough problems of its own, has called on EU leaders to
do more to shore up its finances and give markets and the rest of the
international community confidence that the debt crisis will not get any worse.

Such guarantees should be in place before non-EU countries will give more to the
IMF to prop up European nations, the country's finance minister Jun Azumi said.
He added:

Without European countries showing exactly how much would be needed to deal with
the crisis, we would not be able to move on to the next step involving the IMF.
The EU must make further efforts to convince markets.

10.50 Britain in or out, who cares says Evolution's Gary Jenkins, pointing out
that whatever Europe's leaders agree may not be enough to calm markets:

the market seems to be questioning the effectiveness of regulation and whether
the solidarity goes far enough. After all, reliance on self-discipline and
self-regulation hasn't worked too well recently, and it remains uncertain
exactly how the EU will enforce fiscal discipline going forward. Not sure that
imposing a fine on the likes of Greece would actually achieve much....

10.45 From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter, highlighting the wide variation in
European countries wealth:

10.05 Britain is still top dog in the EU for something - inflation... From Sky
News's Ed Conway:

09.55 European markets are rather struggling to find direction this morning
after yesterday's sharp sell-off:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.3pc at 5,443 points, the CAC is down 0.3pc in Paris and the
German DAX added 0.3pc.

09.40 And while we were watching Strasbourg, the UK inflation figures have come
out:

Consumer price index (CPI) inflation fell back to 4.8pc in November from 5pc in
October, as price rises in food, transport and clothing eased back.

The Office for National Statistics said food and non-alcoholic drinks prices
rose at the slowest pave since July 2010.

09.35 And defending the Brits?The tireless Nigel Farrage of UKIP. With customary
restraint, he says:

You've decided to be on the Titanic ... we're outside, on the LoveBoat

And he tweets:

09.30 And one more euro luminary for good measure - Joseph Daul, head of the
EPP, the biggest bloc in the European Parliament and a close ally of Nicolas
Sarkozy, has called for Britain's rebate to be cut.

From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter:

09.20 A slightly less colourful EU character has also given his tuppence worth -
Herman Van Rompuy, head of the European Council (the group of 27 EU leaders).

He said he's aiming for the intergovernmental treaty for more central fiscal
control in the eurozone to be signed by the beginning of March.

A review of the (EURO)500bn (£423bn) ceiling on the eurozone's bail-out funds
will also be completed by then, he said.

09.10 It's a galaxy of euro stars speaking today - and one is obviously trying
to give Britain a lesson in "two can play at that game".

Former Belgian PM and leading liberal MEP Guy Verhofstadt has refused to speak
English today, as he usually does in the European Parliament. From Bruno
Waterfield via Twitter:

And another classic form Mr Verhof in Strasbourg - Mr Cameron has made the
"blunder of a lifetime" leaving the negotiating table. He says:

Either you are invited to the table as a guest or else you are part of the menu.

08.55 The head of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso has been speaking
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning - he says the UK's demands
for safeguards on financial services "posed a risk to the EU's internal market".

From Bruno Waterfield in Brussels via Twitter:

This contradicts David Cameron's claim that what he was trying to uphold was the
single market...

Barroso also said the fiscal compact agreed between the rest of the EU on Friday
is "not enough in itself" - growth must be restored and employment promoted to
get the eurozone back on an even keel.

08.30 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan says this morning's Cabinet meeting will
be awkward - but that the Coalition is not at risk of breaking up. He reports:

The Cabinet will meet in half an hour, and Nick Clegg will have to face the
colleagues he missed yesterday. Will Mr Cameron allow a free for all, or will
they carry on as if nothing happened?

But for all the awkwardness, the Coalition appears to have survived the Great
Snub. There is little evidence that the Government is fragmenting - instead, the
Lib Dems are claiming they must stick about to "rebuild bridges" with Europe.

The key dispute is still over whether or not to allow the 26 other European
countries to use the two main EU institutions, the European Court of Justice and
the European Commission, to enforce their new deal. Initially, David Cameron had
ruled that out, but yesterday, No 10 appeared to be shifting its stance.

In his statement, Dave said that "we will look constructively at any proposals
with an open mind", while No 10 admits that it is almost inevitable - the new
treaty would otherwise be unenforceable. As one aide tells the Times, there is a
"sense of inevitability" towards the move.

08.20 Also coming up later today is the US Federal Reserve's monthly decision on
interest rates and whether to start printing even more money to shore up the
economy.

We won't get the figures until 19.15 London time, but economists expect the Fed
to sit on its hands this month, because of recent encouraging figures on
employment and consumer spending.

The Fed has held interest rates close to zero since December 2008 and has bought
$2.3 trillion (£1.5 trillion) of bonds via quantitative easing to try and
encourage economic growth.

08.00 London markets are now open for the day and trading slightly higher:

The FTSE 100 was up 0.2pc to 5,440 points shortly after trading started.

07.45 Nicolas Sarkozy, known for his noisy outbursts at EU summits, is trying a
new tactic - playing it cool.

The president of France now says he is sanguine about whether France keeps its
prized AAA credit rating. Presumably with a Gallic shrug, Mr Sarkozy told Le
Monde:

It would be one more difficulty but not insurmountable. We would face such a
situation coolly and calmly.

07.35 Inflation figures out today are expected to fall, but to show price rises
still remain above the Bank of England's target, in spite of supermarket price
wars and lower petrol prices.

The consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation is expected to come in at
4.8pc when the Office for National Statistics releases the closely watched data,
down from 5pc the previous month but still well above the Bank of England's 2pc
goal.

According to the AA, the price of unleaded petrol fell slightly to an average of
133.7p per litre in November, contributing to a 0.1pc drop in the CPI
calculations of economists at Investec Securities.

07.30 Yesterday's report into the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland by the FSA
is still grabbing headlines - as David Cameron said in the Commons, it reminds
people of the need for close control of financial regulation.

Jeremy Warner says the bank's downfall was primarily due to bad management and
poor regulation, but that  the overall atmosphere of easy credit also pushed it
along :

When I first came into financial journalism, there used to be something called
"the forty-year rule".

This dictated that really serious banking crises only came round once every four
decades because this was the length of time it took for all institutional memory
- banking as well as regulatory - of the last one entirely to die out.

Put another way, crises happen when the last of the generation that remembers
the previous one finally retires and gives way to the thrusting young turks.

In the case of RBS, overlaying it all was a political climate that gave full
licence to and even glorified the "light touch", anything goes, regulation of
the age. Give bankers an inch, and they will take a mile; give them a mile and
they'll take down the world.

07.25 While James Kirkup writes of a Coalition at odds :

The Prime Minister signalled he was prepared to give ground to the Liberal
Democrats by not obstructing other EU nations as they tried to implement the
reforms.

But in a calculated snub, the Deputy Prime Minister did not attend Mr Cameron's
statement, saying afterward they "clearly did not agree" about the the summit.

Mr Cameron told MPs he alone among EU leaders had refused to back a new treaty
to create a "fiscal union" among the eurozone nations because he was not offered
legal safeguards for the City.

"The right answer was no treaty," he insisted, although he accepted Britain's
veto would make new budget rules meant to save the euro "more difficult to
enforce".

07.20 Louise Armitstead reports thatEuropean ministers have warned the City of
London will not be shielded by David Cameron's veto of the Brussels summit
proposals:

Amid chaotic confusion over the relevance of the Brussels summit, including
Britain's veto, Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner said: "If
[Britain's] move was intended to prevent bankers and financial corporations of
the City from being regulated, that's not going to happen."

He added: "We must all draw the lessons from the ongoing crisis and help to
solve it and this goes for the financial sector as well."

However, Nicolas Sarkozy said Britain's effort to protect its financial services
sector would create a lasting rift. The French prime minister told Le Monde:
"There are now clearly two Europes. One wants more solidarity between its
members and more regulation. The other is attached only to the logic of the
single market."

07.10 Looking ahead to stock markets opening, the futures markets expect a
pretty flat start to the day:

The FTSE 100 is set to open up less than 0.1pc at 5,443 points.

07.05 Asian markets fell for a second day, after warnings yesterday by credit
ratings agencies that the eurozone still needs a fix for its short-term
problems.

Japan's Nikkei fell 1.1pc to 8,552.81, Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1pc and
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.4pc. Benchmarks in mainland China, Singapore,
Taiwan and Indonesia also fell.

Optimism over the EU summit deal evaporated on Monday when credit rating
agencies Moody's and Fitch both said the plan for more central control over the
tax and spending powers of eurozone nations was insufficient.

It would not materially address the crushing debt loads of some nations or their
rising borrowing costs, the agencies said.

Moody's warned that it will review all EU governments' ratings for possible
downgrades in early 2012 - a threat that analysts said was particularly
worrisome to France, a major contributor to the European Financial Stability
Facility - aka the bailout fund.

A downgrade of France's triple-A rating could hurt its ability to fulfill its
commitments to the fund.

Tom Kaan of Louis Capital Markets in Hong Kong said:

If France loses its triple A rating, you will have a problem with the EFSF fund,
the one that was supposed to be the 'bazooka' in order to buy up bonds issued by
peripheral countries.

He said British Prime Minister David Cameron's decision to reject the proposed
EU treaty  threw doubts about the plan's workability into the equation, adding:

The UK veto has basically thrown everything into a little bit of nervousness. At
the end of the day, nothing came about.

07.00 It's not easy being in a marriage of convenience, as French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have demonstrated.

But as this morning's papers show, while all seems steady in the Merkozy camp,
another political partnership - between David Cameron and Nick Clegg, is showing
signs of strain :

The Telegraph:City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists / Coalition at
odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron

The Financial Times: Cameron veto exposes coalition rift

The Guardian: Recriminations mount over EU summit veto

The Times: Cameron to offer Clegg a way back on Europe

The Independent: Clegg's day of rage

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 2:53 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Britain's demand for special treatment for financial services would have harmed
the single market, said European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso, as the
Cabinet meets amid splits over Europe.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson Matthew Sparkes and Harry Wilson

LENGTH: 3731 words


· Barroso: UK demands for City threaten single market
· City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists
· Coalition at odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron
· Cameron rules out referendum on EU membership
· Markets tread water as still no euro financial backstop
· Greek bondholders fail to reach deal with Athens

Latest

14.52 The US markets have opened for the day, being nudged upwards despite
retail sales figures showing a smaller than expected rise in November when they
emerged less than an hour ago.

The Dow Jones is up 0.78pc, the S&P 500 has risen 0.77pc and the Nasdaq is
0.93pc higher.

Meanwhile, in Europe, the FTSE 100 is up 1.28pc, the DAX by 0.82pc and the CAC
is 0.19pc higher.

14.43 Japan is reported to have bought (EURO)290m (£247m) of the (EURO)1.97bn of
bonds sold by the EFSF this morning, according to Reuters. The sale is said to
have received demand for just over three times the amount of paper on offer.
Before any one gets carried away about the success of the sale, it should be
remembered this is only a three-month loan. Not exactly the long-term funding
the eurozone needs.

14.35 Despite shoppers flocking to stores over the Thanksgiving weekend, US
retail sales rose less than expected in November.

Total retail sales increased 0.2pc after rising by an upwardly revised 0.6pc in
October, the Commerce Department. The sales growth was the weakest in any month
since June.

Millan Mulraine, a strategist at TD Securities in New York, said: "It's fairly
disappointing given that all the evidence was pointing to fairly strong gains
during the month."

Economists have warned the 'Thanksgiving' shopping frenzy may not last through
the festive season, citing high unemployment. Consumer spending accounts for
more than two-thirds of US economic activity.

No doubt the Fed has factored the figures into its assessment.

14.23 We mentioned earlier that Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European
Commission, warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand
for protection of the City threatens the single market. Here's the video:

14.15 A German union leader has warned Chancellor Angela Merkel that austerity
cuts aren't the only solution.

Michael Sommer, chief of the DGB umbrella union group, warned the leader of
Europe's biggest economy that she needs to spur growth to overcome the debt
crisis.

He urged Merkel to push for an "active growth policy" favoring investment and
creating new jobs.

14.02The ECB's role is both to fight inflation and to promote the stability of
the eurozone, EC President Herman Van Rompuy has said:

The central bank is a stability instrument, stability in terms of their (focus
on) inflation and stability with regard to the eurozone.

We will see the full scope of decisions that have already been taken when it
comes to liquidity for banks, even over a three-year period. That is completely
unprecedented but that is what the European Central Bank did in the name of
stability.

13.54 Wall Street is poised to open higher after sharp falls yesterday, with Dow
Jones futures up around 0.5pc ahead of the latest US Fed's assessment of the
economy. The final FOMC meeting of the year is not expected to reveal any fresh
economic stimulus as signs of recovery are offset by eurozone debt woes.

The FTSE 100 is trading up 0.9pc at 5479.05, the DAX is 0.7pc higher and the CAC
40 has risen a modest 0.18pc after falling 2.6pc yesterday.

13.47 An update from Richard Orange in Sweden now, pointing out that David
Cameron isn't the only European leader sceptical about the benefits of signing
the proposed EU treaty.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt has refused to commit Sweden to joining the
proposed EU treaty in his first report to to parliament, despite strong internal
pressure from within his own party:

My position is that it's important to know exactly what consequences this will
have before we sign an agreement. Some people think we should say no, some
people think we should say yes.

Mr Reinfeldt's deputy, Jan Bjorkland, this morning made an impassioned call in
an article in Svenska Dagbladet that Sweden shouldn't side with a UK that is
"adrift" and "in a minority":

The company of the British is too little to hold in your hand when global
competition is increasing and Asia's major powers are growing stronger. Swedish
influence in European cooperation is under threat. Therefore, Sweden should join
the EU stability pact.

Even if Mr Reinfeldt is persuaded to back the pact, his minority government will
need to sway the opposition to win a parliamentary vote.

Marie Granlund, spokesman for the opposition Social Democrats on Europe, said
she believed signing the pact would go against Sweden's vote against the euro in
its referendum in 2003.

It's against what the Swedish people have voted in the referendum. We have
stability already, and we don't want the European court to tell Sweden what we
should do.

Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt

13:26 More on this morning's Cabinet meeting. Mr Cameron's spokesman said the
atmosphere was "the same as usual" - really?

Asked if there would be any attempt to bolster the role of the Nick Clegg in
future European Council negotiations, he said there was "one seat and that is
the seat for the head of state for the country". [The spokesman might like to
remember that the Queen is Britain's head of state. Mr Cameron is Her Majesty's
representative].

But added, that there was "some discussion" on the process for future
negotiations because Coalition Government made it "more complicated".

Clearly, we will have to think about that process and how we do things. The
negotiating strategy was agreed with the Deputy Prime Minister. The DPM was on
the phone to other European counterparts on Wednesday and Thursday setting out
our position, so he was involved.

We do think they are reasonable demands. We were not asking for an opt out, we
were asking for a level playing field.

Happier days: Number 10 insists atmosphere in Cabinet was "same as usual"

13.14 ECB governing council member and head of the Slovak central bank, Jozef
Makuch, says rating agency downgrades of eurozone members would not be
"catastrophic" for the ECB. He adds that the ECB will not be able to launch a QE
programme without a change of law:

Without a change to our mandate set by law, we can't carry out massive bond buys
or FED-style quantitative easing.

12.58 Has George Soros done it again? TheWall Street Journal thinks the
legendary hedge fund manager, along with US investment bank JP Morgan, may have
made a quick profit on eurozone sovereign debt after the demise of US broker MF
Global.

Not so sad now: Soros still knows a good trade when he sees one

12.30 Failure of Greek bondholder talks has pushed the euro down. Here's an
acerbic tweet on the latest eurozone happenings from Zerohedge:

12.18 Sources quoted by Reuters say talks in Athens between Greek government
officials and bondholders have ended without a deal. Banker involved in the
talks says "consultations" will continue.

12.12 The consequences of a eurozone break-up are "horrifying" even for Germany,
says M&G Investments Jim Leaviss, who warns of the looming threat of a major run
on Europe's banks:

Greece can default but it mustn't leave the Euro. If it does we'll see runs on
Europe's banks that dwarf what we've seen so far.

Bank runs: a picture of things to come, warns M&G.

12.02 Latest on today's Cabinet meeting, the first since David Cameron vetoed
the EU treaty on Friday, from our Political Correspondent, Rowena Mason.

Prime Minister's spokesman says Cabinet had "a good conversation", with a debate
for about an hour on what to do next about Europe. Cameron spoke first, followed
by Osborne, then Clegg.

11.51 Even hedge funds have turned on David Cameron. The FT's Hedge Fund
Correspondent, Sam Jones, tweets that millionaire hedge fund manager and major
Lib Dem donor, Paul Marshall, has attacked Mr Cameron's handling of the EU
treaty negotiations.

11.45 The bond market is definitely not convinced that Friday's deal on fiscal
controls in the eurozone will solve the debt crisis anytime soon.

Yields on European government debt widened again today - Italian yields are now
trading at 7.1pc, according to Reuters data (although at 6.6pc according to
Bloomberg, which is using a different contract).

Spanish, French and German bond yields all widened this morning, indicating
investors see the debt as more risky.

When Italy's yields first went over the 7pc level it caused panic in the markets
because other eurozone nations whose borrowing costs have reached that level
have ended up seeking bail-outs.

11.30 Our Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock, says something else that is certain to
inflame Government tensions will be tomorrow's unemployment figures, which are
expected to be rather grim.

Analysts predict the total number of people out of work has risen by 140,000
between August and October, taking UK unemployment to 8.4pc, a 0.1pc climb from
the previous quarter.

A survey from Manpower today suggests the labour market is sitting on a
knife-edge with eight in 10 firms planning no hires at all in the next quarter.

Mr Cameron will need to convince the markets he is doing all he can to stimulate
growth and jobs creation.

11.14 Europe's day of reckoning cannot be postponed by more ECB purchases of
government, says Anthony Peters, strategist at SwissInvest

Am I alone in being concerned that everyone seems to be clamouring for the ECB
to resort to bond purchases as the "magic bullet" when every other "magic
bullet" has so far failed to offer reprieve?

Let's face it; QE has not saved Japan, QE has not saved the UK and QE has not
saved the US either. All that QE really seems to have done is to postpone
Judgement Day.

11.05 As mentioned earlier, Jose Manuel Barroso, president European Commission,
has warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand for
protection of the City threaten the single market:

The United Kingdom, in exchange for giving its agreement, asked for a specific
protocol on financial services which, as presented, was a risk to the integrity
of the internal market. This made compromise impossible.

10.55 Japan, which has enough problems of its own, has called on EU leaders to
do more to shore up its finances and give markets and the rest of the
international community confidence that the debt crisis will not get any worse.

Such guarantees should be in place before non-EU countries will give more to the
IMF to prop up European nations, the country's finance minister Jun Azumi said.
He added:

Without European countries showing exactly how much would be needed to deal with
the crisis, we would not be able to move on to the next step involving the IMF.
The EU must make further efforts to convince markets.

10.50 Britain in or out, who cares says Evolution's Gary Jenkins, pointing out
that whatever Europe's leaders agree may not be enough to calm markets:

the market seems to be questioning the effectiveness of regulation and whether
the solidarity goes far enough. After all, reliance on self-discipline and
self-regulation hasn't worked too well recently, and it remains uncertain
exactly how the EU will enforce fiscal discipline going forward. Not sure that
imposing a fine on the likes of Greece would actually achieve much....

10.45 From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter, highlighting the wide variation in
European countries wealth:

10.05 Britain is still top dog in the EU for something - inflation... From Sky
News's Ed Conway:

09.55 European markets are rather struggling to find direction this morning
after yesterday's sharp sell-off:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.3pc at 5,443 points, the CAC is down 0.3pc in Paris and the
German DAX added 0.3pc.

09.40 And while we were watching Strasbourg, the UK inflation figures have come
out:

Consumer price index (CPI) inflation fell back to 4.8pc in November from 5pc in
October, as price rises in food, transport and clothing eased back.

The Office for National Statistics said food and non-alcoholic drinks prices
rose at the slowest pave since July 2010.

09.35 And defending the Brits?The tireless Nigel Farrage of UKIP. With customary
restraint, he says:

You've decided to be on the Titanic ... we're outside, on the LoveBoat

And he tweets:

09.30 And one more euro luminary for good measure - Joseph Daul, head of the
EPP, the biggest bloc in the European Parliament and a close ally of Nicolas
Sarkozy, has called for Britain's rebate to be cut.

From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter:

09.20 A slightly less colourful EU character has also given his tuppence worth -
Herman Van Rompuy, head of the European Council (the group of 27 EU leaders).

He said he's aiming for the intergovernmental treaty for more central fiscal
control in the eurozone to be signed by the beginning of March.

A review of the (EURO)500bn (£423bn) ceiling on the eurozone's bail-out funds
will also be completed by then, he said.

09.10 It's a galaxy of euro stars speaking today - and one is obviously trying
to give Britain a lesson in "two can play at that game".

Former Belgian PM and leading liberal MEP Guy Verhofstadt has refused to speak
English today, as he usually does in the European Parliament. From Bruno
Waterfield via Twitter:

And another classic form Mr Verhof in Strasbourg - Mr Cameron has made the
"blunder of a lifetime" leaving the negotiating table. He says:

Either you are invited to the table as a guest or else you are part of the menu.

08.55 The head of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso has been speaking
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning - he says the UK's demands
for safeguards on financial services "posed a risk to the EU's internal market".

From Bruno Waterfield in Brussels via Twitter:

This contradicts David Cameron's claim that what he was trying to uphold was the
single market...

Barroso also said the fiscal compact agreed between the rest of the EU on Friday
is "not enough in itself" - growth must be restored and employment promoted to
get the eurozone back on an even keel.

08.30 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan says this morning's Cabinet meeting will
be awkward - but that the Coalition is not at risk of breaking up. He reports:

The Cabinet will meet in half an hour, and Nick Clegg will have to face the
colleagues he missed yesterday. Will Mr Cameron allow a free for all, or will
they carry on as if nothing happened?

But for all the awkwardness, the Coalition appears to have survived the Great
Snub. There is little evidence that the Government is fragmenting - instead, the
Lib Dems are claiming they must stick about to "rebuild bridges" with Europe.

The key dispute is still over whether or not to allow the 26 other European
countries to use the two main EU institutions, the European Court of Justice and
the European Commission, to enforce their new deal. Initially, David Cameron had
ruled that out, but yesterday, No 10 appeared to be shifting its stance.

In his statement, Dave said that "we will look constructively at any proposals
with an open mind", while No 10 admits that it is almost inevitable - the new
treaty would otherwise be unenforceable. As one aide tells the Times, there is a
"sense of inevitability" towards the move.

08.20 Also coming up later today is the US Federal Reserve's monthly decision on
interest rates and whether to start printing even more money to shore up the
economy.

We won't get the figures until 19.15 London time, but economists expect the Fed
to sit on its hands this month, because of recent encouraging figures on
employment and consumer spending.

The Fed has held interest rates close to zero since December 2008 and has bought
$2.3 trillion (£1.5 trillion) of bonds via quantitative easing to try and
encourage economic growth.

08.00 London markets are now open for the day and trading slightly higher:

The FTSE 100 was up 0.2pc to 5,440 points shortly after trading started.

07.45 Nicolas Sarkozy, known for his noisy outbursts at EU summits, is trying a
new tactic - playing it cool.

The president of France now says he is sanguine about whether France keeps its
prized AAA credit rating. Presumably with a Gallic shrug, Mr Sarkozy told Le
Monde:

It would be one more difficulty but not insurmountable. We would face such a
situation coolly and calmly.

07.35 Inflation figures out today are expected to fall, but to show price rises
still remain above the Bank of England's target, in spite of supermarket price
wars and lower petrol prices.

The consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation is expected to come in at
4.8pc when the Office for National Statistics releases the closely watched data,
down from 5pc the previous month but still well above the Bank of England's 2pc
goal.

According to the AA, the price of unleaded petrol fell slightly to an average of
133.7p per litre in November, contributing to a 0.1pc drop in the CPI
calculations of economists at Investec Securities.

07.30 Yesterday's report into the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland by the FSA
is still grabbing headlines - as David Cameron said in the Commons, it reminds
people of the need for close control of financial regulation.

Jeremy Warner says the bank's downfall was primarily due to bad management and
poor regulation, but that  the overall atmosphere of easy credit also pushed it
along :

When I first came into financial journalism, there used to be something called
"the forty-year rule".

This dictated that really serious banking crises only came round once every four
decades because this was the length of time it took for all institutional memory
- banking as well as regulatory - of the last one entirely to die out.

Put another way, crises happen when the last of the generation that remembers
the previous one finally retires and gives way to the thrusting young turks.

In the case of RBS, overlaying it all was a political climate that gave full
licence to and even glorified the "light touch", anything goes, regulation of
the age. Give bankers an inch, and they will take a mile; give them a mile and
they'll take down the world.

07.25 While James Kirkup writes of a Coalition at odds :

The Prime Minister signalled he was prepared to give ground to the Liberal
Democrats by not obstructing other EU nations as they tried to implement the
reforms.

But in a calculated snub, the Deputy Prime Minister did not attend Mr Cameron's
statement, saying afterward they "clearly did not agree" about the the summit.

Mr Cameron told MPs he alone among EU leaders had refused to back a new treaty
to create a "fiscal union" among the eurozone nations because he was not offered
legal safeguards for the City.

"The right answer was no treaty," he insisted, although he accepted Britain's
veto would make new budget rules meant to save the euro "more difficult to
enforce".

07.20 Louise Armitstead reports thatEuropean ministers have warned the City of
London will not be shielded by David Cameron's veto of the Brussels summit
proposals:

Amid chaotic confusion over the relevance of the Brussels summit, including
Britain's veto, Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner said: "If
[Britain's] move was intended to prevent bankers and financial corporations of
the City from being regulated, that's not going to happen."

He added: "We must all draw the lessons from the ongoing crisis and help to
solve it and this goes for the financial sector as well."

However, Nicolas Sarkozy said Britain's effort to protect its financial services
sector would create a lasting rift. The French prime minister told Le Monde:
"There are now clearly two Europes. One wants more solidarity between its
members and more regulation. The other is attached only to the logic of the
single market."

07.10 Looking ahead to stock markets opening, the futures markets expect a
pretty flat start to the day:

The FTSE 100 is set to open up less than 0.1pc at 5,443 points.

07.05 Asian markets fell for a second day, after warnings yesterday by credit
ratings agencies that the eurozone still needs a fix for its short-term
problems.

Japan's Nikkei fell 1.1pc to 8,552.81, Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1pc and
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.4pc. Benchmarks in mainland China, Singapore,
Taiwan and Indonesia also fell.

Optimism over the EU summit deal evaporated on Monday when credit rating
agencies Moody's and Fitch both said the plan for more central control over the
tax and spending powers of eurozone nations was insufficient.

It would not materially address the crushing debt loads of some nations or their
rising borrowing costs, the agencies said.

Moody's warned that it will review all EU governments' ratings for possible
downgrades in early 2012 - a threat that analysts said was particularly
worrisome to France, a major contributor to the European Financial Stability
Facility - aka the bailout fund.

A downgrade of France's triple-A rating could hurt its ability to fulfill its
commitments to the fund.

Tom Kaan of Louis Capital Markets in Hong Kong said:

If France loses its triple A rating, you will have a problem with the EFSF fund,
the one that was supposed to be the 'bazooka' in order to buy up bonds issued by
peripheral countries.

He said British Prime Minister David Cameron's decision to reject the proposed
EU treaty  threw doubts about the plan's workability into the equation, adding:

The UK veto has basically thrown everything into a little bit of nervousness. At
the end of the day, nothing came about.

07.00 It's not easy being in a marriage of convenience, as French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have demonstrated.

But as this morning's papers show, while all seems steady in the Merkozy camp,
another political partnership - between David Cameron and Nick Clegg, is showing
signs of strain :

The Telegraph:City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists / Coalition at
odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron

The Financial Times: Cameron veto exposes coalition rift

The Guardian: Recriminations mount over EU summit veto

The Times: Cameron to offer Clegg a way back on Europe

The Independent: Clegg's day of rage

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT

Debt crisis: live;
Britain's demand for special treatment for financial services would have harmed
the single market, said European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso, as the
Cabinet meets amid splits over Europe.

BYLINE: By Amy Wilson and Harry Wilson

LENGTH: 2711 words


· Barroso: UK demands for City threaten single market
· City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists
· Coalition at odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron
· Cameron rules out referendum on EU membership
· Markets tread water as still no euro financial backstop

Latest

12.58 Has George Soros done it again? The Wall Street Journal thinks the
legendary hedge fund manager, along with US investment bank JP Morgan, may have
made a quick profit on eurozone sovereign debt after the demise of US broker MF
Global.

Not so sad now: Soros still knows a good trade when he sees one

12.30 Failure of Greek bondholder talks has pushed the euro down. Here's an
acerbic tweet on the latest eurozone happenings from Zerohedge:

12.18 Sources quoted by Reuters say talks in Athens between Greek government
officials and bondholders have ended without a deal. Banker involved in the
talks says "consultations" will continue.

12.12 The consequences of a eurozone break-up are "horrifying" even for Germany,
says M&G Investments Jim Leaviss, who warns of the looming threat of a major run
on Europe's banks:

Greece can default but it mustn't leave the Euro. If it does we'll see runs on
Europe's banks that dwarf what we've seen so far.

Bank runs: a picture of things to come, warns M&G.

12.02 Latest on today's Cabinet meeting, the first since David Cameron vetoed
the EU treaty on Friday, from our Political Correspondent, Rowena Mason.

Prime Minister's spokesman says Cabinet had "a good conversation", with a debate
for about an hour on what to do next about Europe. Cameron spoke first, followed
by Osborne, then Clegg.

11.51 Even hedge funds have turned on David Cameron. The FT's Hedge Fund
Correspondent, Sam Jones, tweets that millionaire hedge fund manager and major
Lib Dem donor, Paul Marshall, has attacked Mr Cameron's handling of the EU
treaty negotiations.

11.45 The bond market is definitely not convinced that Friday's deal on fiscal
controls in the eurozone will solve the debt crisis anytime soon.

Yields on European government debt widened again today - Italian yields are now
trading at 7.1pc, according to Reuters data (although at 6.6pc according to
Bloomberg, which is using a different contract).

Spanish, French and German bond yields all widened this morning, indicating
investors see the debt as more risky.

When Italy's yields first went over the 7pc level it caused panic in the markets
because other eurozone nations whose borrowing costs have reached that level
have ended up seeking bail-outs.

11.30 Our Jobs Editor, Louisa Peacock, says something else that is certain to
inflame Government tensions will be tomorrow's unemployment figures, which are
expected to be rather grim.

Analysts predict the total number of people out of work has risen by 140,000
between August and October, taking UK unemployment to 8.4pc, a 0.1pc climb from
the previous quarter.

A survey from Manpower today suggests the labour market is sitting on a
knife-edge with eight in 10 firms planning no hires at all in the next quarter.

Mr Cameron will need to convince the markets he is doing all he can to stimulate
growth and jobs creation.

11.14 Europe's day of reckoning cannot be postponed by more ECB purchases of
government, says Anthony Peters, strategist at SwissInvest

Am I alone in being concerned that everyone seems to be clamouring for the ECB
to resort to bond purchases as the "magic bullet" when every other "magic
bullet" has so far failed to offer reprieve?

Let's face it; QE has not saved Japan, QE has not saved the UK and QE has not
saved the US either. All that QE really seems to have done is to postpone
Judgement Day.

11.05 As mentioned earlier, Jose Manuel Barroso, president European Commission,
has warned in a speech to the European Parliament that Britiain's demand for
protection of the City threaten the single market:

The United Kingdom, in exchange for giving its agreement, asked for a specific
protocol on financial services which, as presented, was a risk to the integrity
of the internal market. This made compromise impossible.

10.55 Japan, which has enough problems of its own, has called on EU leaders to
do more to shore up its finances and give markets and the rest of the
international community confidence that the debt crisis will not get any worse.

Such guarantees should be in place before non-EU countries will give more to the
IMF to prop up European nations, the country's finance minister Jun Azumi said.
He added:

Without European countries showing exactly how much would be needed to deal with
the crisis, we would not be able to move on to the next step involving the IMF.
The EU must make further efforts to convince markets.

10.50 Britain in or out, who cares says Evolution's Gary Jenkins, pointing out
that whatever Europe's leaders agree may not be enough to calm markets:

the market seems to be questioning the effectiveness of regulation and whether
the solidarity goes far enough. After all, reliance on self-discipline and
self-regulation hasn't worked too well recently, and it remains uncertain
exactly how the EU will enforce fiscal discipline going forward. Not sure that
imposing a fine on the likes of Greece would actually achieve much....

10.45 From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter, highlighting the wide variation in
European countries wealth:

10.05 Britain is still top dog in the EU for something - inflation... From Sky
News's Ed Conway:

09.55 European markets are rather struggling to find direction this morning
after yesterday's sharp sell-off:

The FTSE 100 is up 0.3pc at 5,443 points, the CAC is down 0.3pc in Paris and the
German DAX added 0.3pc.

09.40 And while we were watching Strasbourg, the UK inflation figures have come
out:

Consumer price index (CPI) inflation fell back to 4.8pc in November from 5pc in
October, as price rises in food, transport and clothing eased back.

The Office for National Statistics said food and non-alcoholic drinks prices
rose at the slowest pave since July 2010.

09.35 And defending the Brits?The tireless Nigel Farrage of UKIP. With customary
restraint, he says:

You've decided to be on the Titanic ... we're outside, on the LoveBoat

And he tweets:

09.30 And one more euro luminary for good measure - Joseph Daul, head of the
EPP, the biggest bloc in the European Parliament and a close ally of Nicolas
Sarkozy, has called for Britain's rebate to be cut.

From Bruno Waterfield via Twitter:

09.20 A slightly less colourful EU character has also given his tuppence worth -
Herman Van Rompuy, head of the European Council (the group of 27 EU leaders).

He said he's aiming for the intergovernmental treaty for more central fiscal
control in the eurozone to be signed by the beginning of March.

A review of the (EURO)500bn (£423bn) ceiling on the eurozone's bail-out funds
will also be completed by then, he said.

09.10 It's a galaxy of euro stars speaking today - and one is obviously trying
to give Britain a lesson in "two can play at that game".

Former Belgian PM and leading liberal MEP Guy Verhofstadt has refused to speak
English today, as he usually does in the European Parliament. From Bruno
Waterfield via Twitter:

And another classic form Mr Verhof in Strasbourg - Mr Cameron has made the
"blunder of a lifetime" leaving the negotiating table. He says:

Either you are invited to the table as a guest or else you are part of the menu.

08.55 The head of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso has been speaking
at the European Parliament in Strasbourg this morning - he says the UK's demands
for safeguards on financial services "posed a risk to the EU's internal market".

From Bruno Waterfield in Brussels via Twitter:

This contradicts David Cameron's claim that what he was trying to uphold was the
single market...

Barroso also said the fiscal compact agreed between the rest of the EU on Friday
is "not enough in itself" - growth must be restored and employment promoted to
get the eurozone back on an even keel.

08.30 The Telegraph's Benedict Brogan says this morning's Cabinet meeting will
be awkward - but that the Coalition is not at risk of breaking up. He reports:

The Cabinet will meet in half an hour, and Nick Clegg will have to face the
colleagues he missed yesterday. Will Mr Cameron allow a free for all, or will
they carry on as if nothing happened?

But for all the awkwardness, the Coalition appears to have survived the Great
Snub. There is little evidence that the Government is fragmenting - instead, the
Lib Dems are claiming they must stick about to "rebuild bridges" with Europe.

The key dispute is still over whether or not to allow the 26 other European
countries to use the two main EU institutions, the European Court of Justice and
the European Commission, to enforce their new deal. Initially, David Cameron had
ruled that out, but yesterday, No 10 appeared to be shifting its stance.

In his statement, Dave said that "we will look constructively at any proposals
with an open mind", while No 10 admits that it is almost inevitable - the new
treaty would otherwise be unenforceable. As one aide tells the Times, there is a
"sense of inevitability" towards the move.

08.20 Also coming up later today is the US Federal Reserve's monthly decision on
interest rates and whether to start printing even more money to shore up the
economy.

We won't get the figures until 19.15 London time, but economists expect the Fed
to sit on its hands this month, because of recent encouraging figures on
employment and consumer spending.

The Fed has held interest rates close to zero since December 2008 and has bought
$2.3 trillion (£1.5 trillion) of bonds via quantitative easing to try and
encourage economic growth.

08.00 London markets are now open for the day and trading slightly higher:

The FTSE 100 was up 0.2pc to 5,440 points shortly after trading started.

07.45 Nicolas Sarkozy, known for his noisy outbursts at EU summits, is trying a
new tactic - playing it cool.

The president of France now says he is sanguine about whether France keeps its
prized AAA credit rating. Presumably with a Gallic shrug, Mr Sarkozy told Le
Monde:

It would be one more difficulty but not insurmountable. We would face such a
situation coolly and calmly.

07.35 Inflation figures out today are expected to fall, but to show price rises
still remain above the Bank of England's target, in spite of supermarket price
wars and lower petrol prices.

The consumer prices index (CPI) measure of inflation is expected to come in at
4.8pc when the Office for National Statistics releases the closely watched data,
down from 5pc the previous month but still well above the Bank of England's 2pc
goal.

According to the AA, the price of unleaded petrol fell slightly to an average of
133.7p per litre in November, contributing to a 0.1pc drop in the CPI
calculations of economists at Investec Securities.

07.30 Yesterday's report into the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland by the FSA
is still grabbing headlines - as David Cameron said in the Commons, it reminds
people of the need for close control of financial regulation.

Jeremy Warner says the bank's downfall was primarily due to bad management and
poor regulation, but that  the overall atmosphere of easy credit also pushed it
along :

When I first came into financial journalism, there used to be something called
"the forty-year rule".

This dictated that really serious banking crises only came round once every four
decades because this was the length of time it took for all institutional memory
- banking as well as regulatory - of the last one entirely to die out.

Put another way, crises happen when the last of the generation that remembers
the previous one finally retires and gives way to the thrusting young turks.

In the case of RBS, overlaying it all was a political climate that gave full
licence to and even glorified the "light touch", anything goes, regulation of
the age. Give bankers an inch, and they will take a mile; give them a mile and
they'll take down the world.

07.25 While James Kirkup writes of a Coalition at odds :

The Prime Minister signalled he was prepared to give ground to the Liberal
Democrats by not obstructing other EU nations as they tried to implement the
reforms.

But in a calculated snub, the Deputy Prime Minister did not attend Mr Cameron's
statement, saying afterward they "clearly did not agree" about the the summit.

Mr Cameron told MPs he alone among EU leaders had refused to back a new treaty
to create a "fiscal union" among the eurozone nations because he was not offered
legal safeguards for the City.

"The right answer was no treaty," he insisted, although he accepted Britain's
veto would make new budget rules meant to save the euro "more difficult to
enforce".

07.20 Louise Armitstead reports thatEuropean ministers have warned the City of
London will not be shielded by David Cameron's veto of the Brussels summit
proposals:

Amid chaotic confusion over the relevance of the Brussels summit, including
Britain's veto, Olli Rehn, the EU's economic affairs commissioner said: "If
[Britain's] move was intended to prevent bankers and financial corporations of
the City from being regulated, that's not going to happen."

He added: "We must all draw the lessons from the ongoing crisis and help to
solve it and this goes for the financial sector as well."

However, Nicolas Sarkozy said Britain's effort to protect its financial services
sector would create a lasting rift. The French prime minister told Le Monde:
"There are now clearly two Europes. One wants more solidarity between its
members and more regulation. The other is attached only to the logic of the
single market."

07.10 Looking ahead to stock markets opening, the futures markets expect a
pretty flat start to the day:

The FTSE 100 is set to open up less than 0.1pc at 5,443 points.

07.05 Asian markets fell for a second day, after warnings yesterday by credit
ratings agencies that the eurozone still needs a fix for its short-term
problems.

Japan's Nikkei fell 1.1pc to 8,552.81, Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1pc and
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 dropped 1.4pc. Benchmarks in mainland China, Singapore,
Taiwan and Indonesia also fell.

Optimism over the EU summit deal evaporated on Monday when credit rating
agencies Moody's and Fitch both said the plan for more central control over the
tax and spending powers of eurozone nations was insufficient.

It would not materially address the crushing debt loads of some nations or their
rising borrowing costs, the agencies said.

Moody's warned that it will review all EU governments' ratings for possible
downgrades in early 2012 - a threat that analysts said was particularly
worrisome to France, a major contributor to the European Financial Stability
Facility - aka the bailout fund.

A downgrade of France's triple-A rating could hurt its ability to fulfill its
commitments to the fund.

Tom Kaan of Louis Capital Markets in Hong Kong said:

If France loses its triple A rating, you will have a problem with the EFSF fund,
the one that was supposed to be the 'bazooka' in order to buy up bonds issued by
peripheral countries.

He said British Prime Minister David Cameron's decision to reject the proposed
EU treaty  threw doubts about the plan's workability into the equation, adding:

The UK veto has basically thrown everything into a little bit of nervousness. At
the end of the day, nothing came about.

07.00 It's not easy being in a marriage of convenience, as French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have demonstrated.

But as this morning's papers show, while all seems steady in the Merkozy camp,
another political partnership - between David Cameron and Nick Clegg, is showing
signs of strain :

The Telegraph:City not shielded by Cameron's veto, EU insists / Coalition at
odds as Nick Clegg snubs David Cameron

The Financial Times: Cameron veto exposes coalition rift

The Guardian: Recriminations mount over EU summit veto

The Times: Cameron to offer Clegg a way back on Europe

The Independent: Clegg's day of rage

06.55 Good morning and welcome back to live coverage of the global debt crisis.

Debt crisis live: archive

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

EUROPE a€˜PLOTS ITS REVENGE ON THE CITYa€[TM]

BYLINE: By Daniel Martin Whitehall Correspondent

LENGTH: 560 words


Senior Europeans are calling for Britain to be driven out of the EU following
David Camerona€[TM]s decision to wield his veto.

Others say it is time for the eurozone countries to get their own back on the UK
by implementing regulations which will cripple the City of London.

They say Britain will be increasingly isolated because it will be barred from
key meetings of the other 26 nations, dominated by France and Germany.

Martin Schultz, the German MEP who will become president of the European
Parliament next year, said: a€˜I doubt in the long term whether Britain will
stay in the EU. The EU can, if necessary, do without Britain, but Britain would
have more difficulty without the EU.a€[TM]

Gunther Krichbaum, chairman of the German parliamenta€[TM]s EU committee, added:
a€˜The British must now decide whether they are for or against Europe.a€[TM]
Others are calling for Britain to be punished for the Prime Ministera€[TM]s
actions. Elmar Brok, a German Christian Democrat MP close to Chancellor Angela
Merkel, said the EU a€˜must marginalise Britain, so that the country comes to
feel its loss of influencea€[TM].

Britain will be excluded from monthly meetings of the new a€˜euro-plusa€[TM]
bloc, the eurozone members plus other EU members who want to join.

Many of their decisions will be wider than action needed to prop up the euro,
meaning the UK will be absent when key decisions are taken about its future. Any
decision taken by the a€˜euro-plusa€[TM] bloc will have enough support to be
voted through at EU level, leaving Britain powerless to veto it.

Some European diplomats believe these decisions could include those affecting
financial services, meaning the UK would be excluded from talks about actions
which could cripple the City.

One diplomat said: a€˜Cameron sank the treaty talks with a demand for
protections for the City of London. The resulting grouping will be a
battering-ram to force through EU decisions, taken by qualified majority voting.
Ita€[TM]s ironic really.a€[TM]

Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the Franco-German leader of the European Greens, said:
a€˜Now we must put pressure on the British and force them, by implementing tough
regulations on financial markets, to decide if they want out of the EU or if
they want to stay inside.a€[TM]

The UKa€[TM]s financial services industry employs two million and accounts for
10 per cent of gross domestic product. Such services contributed a _635billion
trade surplus last year.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said there was a real risk the UK
economy would face a sustained vendetta.

He added: a€˜The big problem wea€[TM]ve got now is wea€[TM]re still members of
the EU, wea€[TM]re still subject to all of their laws, we are more unpopular
than wea€[TM]ve ever been as a member of the union, wea€[TM]re in a permanent
voting minority and that very industry that Cameron sought to protect is now
very seriously under threat. Therea€[TM]s going to be retribution.

a€˜Every time now the bond markets switch in this long running euro saga I can
see the finger of blame being pointed at those awful Anglo Saxons and I fear we
will see legislation on our foreign exchange business. I suspect within the next
few months wea€[TM]re going to being asking a bigger question; not should we
have gone along with this so called rescue plan but should we be members of this
union at all.a€[TM]

a€˜Shopping list of powersa€[TM]

a€˜More unpopular than wea€[TM]ve ever beena€[TM]

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

SO WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO US NEXT?

LENGTH: 681 words


ANALYSIS

JAMES SLACK

THE increasingly bitter fallout from the Prime Ministera€[TM]s historic decision
to veto a new EU treaty on fiscal union could have huge ramifications for the
Coalition and Britain. Here, we examine the key questions.

Can the Coalition survive?

After the poisonous briefing operation by senior Lib Dems over the weekend, many
Tories will be unhappy about spending a moment longer in partnership with Nick
Clegga€[TM]s party. In the short term, however, the Coalition will almost
certainly limp on.

The europhile Lib Dems are doing appallingly in the polls and would face
annihilation if they forced an election which would be dominated by Europe a€" a
subject on which they are entirely out of touch with public opinion. By
contrast, David Cameron has never been in a stronger position and a€" with the
appeal of UKIP blunted a€" could hope to win outright.

But with the economy in such a parlous state, he is unlikely to consider now the
right time to go to the country. The coalition agreement also makes it
enormously hard for the Tories to dissolve the partnership unilaterally.

Can Britain defend itself?

German and French politicians, in particular, are making dark threats about
bombarding the City with new regulations as punishment for Mr Camerona€[TM]s
veto. President Sarkozy has long envied Londona€[TM]s dominance and would love
to strangle it with red tape.

Worryingly, the EU can pass economic, social and employment legislation (with
the exception of new taxes) by qualified majority voting. This means Britain
would be powerless to veto an attack on its interests by the eurozone 17 and
their allies while remaining within the EU.

Brussels would need to be aware that mounting such an assault would spark a
clamour in Britain to leave the EU altogether. Some claim this is Sarkozya€[TM]s
long-term goal and that he wants us out.

The EUa€[TM]s proposed tax on financial transactions a€" a key reason why Mr
Cameron vetoed the treaty a€" could not be introduced without Britaina€[TM]s
approval.

can we demand repatriation of powers from Brussels?

Given how EU diktats on employment law, fisheries and agriculture stifle
economic growth and cost Britain billions in wasted expenditure, ita€[TM]s
certainly highly desirable.

Ita€[TM]s also true that an opportunity might present itself in the
not-too-distant future. Brussels wants to use existing EU institutions to
enforce its new a€˜accorda€[TM] on fiscal union a€" a move which needs British
approval.

In theory, we could demand something of substance on employment or immigration
rules in return. Tory backbenchers are already relishing such a scenario, which
would be backed by most voters. But the Lib Dems would fiercely resist such a
move.

Could Britain leave the EU?

Ita€[TM]s no longer unthinkable, and the Lisbon Treaty explicitly opened the
possibility of a countrya€[TM]s withdrawal. Much will depend on whether Brussels
- by, for example, hobbling the City - forces the governmenta€[TM]s hand.

Some Tory MPs would like Britain to have a trading relationship only with the EU
while in addition looking to do more business with India, Brazil and other
emerging economies.

Such a dramatic move could happen only after a General Election as the merest
mention of withdrawal by Mr Cameron would destroy the Coalition. It would also
inevitably involve a referendum which, on current polling, would most likely
lead to a vote in favour of leaving.

Would we be marginalised?

Only if you believe the Lib Dem spin. Senior figures spent the weekend parroting
the line that a Britain on the fringes of Europe would also lose influence in
Washington.

Ita€[TM]s true the U.S. has long considered Britain, its oldest ally, to be
Americaa€[TM]s eyes and ears in Brussels. But neither the U.S. nor the EU is
going to stop trading with an entrepreneurial, low-regulation Britain or its
60million consumers.

There also remains the strong prospect of both the euro imploding and the EU
tearing itself apart over the new a€˜accorda€[TM], which could require a
referendum in some member states.

By comparison, dealing with a UK freed from Brussels would be wonderfully
straightforward.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Early morning call that rang alarm bells for Clegg and the future of the
Coalition

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1434 words


WITH a young family, a busy job and a successful wife, Nick Clegg will have been
used to an early start. But few awakenings would have been as unwelcome as the
phone call on Friday.

The Deputy Prime Minister was alone, away from his family in his flat in his
Sheffield constituency at four o'clock in the morning, when the phone rang.

On the line was David Cameron, who had just walked out of a meeting with his
fellow European Union leaders at a summit in Brussels.

Mr Cameron told his Liberal Democrat deputy that he had refused to agree to a
revised version of the Lisbon Treaty because of a lack of safeguards for the
City.

The terms of that phone call - which was not minuted by officials - will
exercise historians for years. On Friday, Downing Street aides said Mr Clegg did
not raise any objections in that conversation.

But the Lib Dems say they were not given the chance. They say the veto was
presented by Mr Cameron as a fait accompli. The pair had a short "matter of fact
conversation", and that was that. Any veto of the veto was out of the question.

One Lib Dem source said: "It had already been done by then. It was presented as
'this is how it has gone. This is the decision I have taken.' In a 4am phone
call, Nick Clegg does not have the chance to bring 27 nations back around the
negotiating table."

Later that morning, Mr Clegg filmed a short television clip during which he
expressed his "regret" that a deal could not be done in Brussels.

He added that Britain's demands for safeguards were "modest and reasonable", and
said he regretted that it proved impossible for agreement to be reached,
although the Coalition remained "united".

He was soon to wish he had spoken more robustly, as throughout Friday, the
airwaves and blogs were dominated by Tory Eurosceptics crowing at the deal won
by Mr Cameron. Some were even suggesting that it marked the beginning of the end
for Britain's involvement in Europe altogether.

By the evening, Mr Cameron had returned to Britain and was being toasted by 30
other Tory MPs - including arch-Eurosceptic Andrew Rosindell - at a dinner at
Chequers, his official residence. In contrast, Mr Clegg had been forced to give
another interview, in which he started to express his frustration with the deal.
He warned that Eurosceptics should "be careful what they wish for, because
clearly there is potentially an increased risk of a two-speed Europe in which
Britain's position becomes more marginalised, and in the long run that would be
bad for growth and jobs in this country".

The Lib Dems woke to grim headlines on Saturday morning, particularly from The
Sun, which reprised its famous "Up Yours Delors" headline - which marked
Margaret Thatcher's clashes with European officials in Brussels - with a mockup
of David Cameron as Winston Churchill flicking a V-sign under the headline "Up
EURs".

There followed a series of phone calls throughout the day, with the Lib Dems
desperately trying to find a way to retrieve the situation, and ensure that the
party's pro-European voice in the Coalition was not drowned out.

With all the Lib Dem Cabinet ministers dispersed around the country in their
constituency offices, aides set up a series of conference calls.

First all the Lib Dem Cabinet ministers, including Vince Cable, the Business
Secretary, spoke.

Then senior Lib Dem MPs were called, along with party grandees such as Lord
Ashdown.

By Saturday tea time, a strategy had been agreed. Mr Clegg would have to go on
the attack to ensure that the Coalition was not allowed to be dictated to by
Conservative Eurosceptics.

The first editions of the Sunday morning papers deepened the gloom. A poll in
the Independent on Sunday showed Mr Clegg's personal rating had slumped well
behind those of Mr Cameron and Ed Miliband.

The party itself was polling at just 10 per cent, behind Labour (40 per cent),
the Conservatives (36 per cent) and "other parties", including the UK
Independence Party and the Greens (14 per cent).

Vince Cable, who was said to have demanded from the Cabinet earlier last week
that protecting the City would not be a deal breaker at the summit, was quoted
attacking the veto as a ''pyrrhic victory''.

There was a degree of choreography to what followed. The Tories, for their part,
understood the difficulties Mr Clegg was under and stood down William Hague, the
Foreign Secretary, who was due to have been interviewed on the Andrew Marr Show
yesterday on BBC 1, in favour of Mr Clegg.

There were suggestions that Downing Street aides had approved what Mr Clegg
would say.

On the show, Mr Clegg could barely contain his fury over the veto. The contrast
in his comments was marked. Mr Clegg made clear he was "bitterly disappointed"
by the outcome of the summit, and warned that "there is a danger that the UK
will be isolated and marginalised within the European Union".

He warned that if the Conservatives listened to the Eurosceptics and led Britain
out of the EU, it would make the country an irrelevance and a pygmy, and even
weaken the special relationship with the United States.

Lord Ashdown, the former Lib Dem leader, kept up the assault on the Tories
moments later, suggesting on the Murnaghan programme on Sky News that Mr Cameron
had put the interests of part of his party ahead of the national interest.

He contrasted Mr Cameron's position with that of John Major, the former Tory
prime minister, who tackled his party's Euro rebels in the early 1990s to force
the Maastricht treaty through the Commons. Mr Cameron could have got any deal
through Parliament with Labour's backing, he said.

"I'm afraid to say, and it pains me to say so, Mr Cameron has acted as the
leader of the Conservative Party, not the Prime Minister of Britain," he said.

For now, resignations seem off the agenda. Lib Dem aides were ringing around
yesterday denying that Mr Cable was planning to resign today.

But there is no doubt that the Coalition has been plunged into the most serious
crisis since it was formed.

Suddenly there are questions about its future. Lord Oakeshott, the
formerTreasury spokesman, suggested on the BBC's Politics Show that the row
"could" break up the Coalition.

One Lib Dem aide gave the Coalition a 90 per cent chance of keeping going until
the likely next general election in 2015, suggesting that the party had to put
the national interest above its own ideological concerns.

"It is a very, very difficult time for the Coalition," he said. "No one is happy
in the Lib Dems.

"But I don't think it serves the country, the Lib Dems or the Conservatives to
bring down the Government over this when there is such a big job to do in Europe
and a big challenge domestically."

Editorial Comment: Page 23

Nick Clegg Friday

"What we were simply seeking was a level playing field so that the rules that
apply to the City of London apply evenly to all other financial services centres
in Europe. I thought that was reasonable. The Prime Minister put that forward as
a reasonable package, it is a pity that other countries chose not to take up
that suggestion because that would have allowed us to move together as a club of
27."

"The demands Britain made for safeguards, on which the Coalition Government was
united, were modest and reasonable. They were safeguards for the single market,
not just the UK."

Nick Clegg yesterday

"I am bitterly disappointed by the outcome ... because I think there is now a
real danger that over time the United Kingdom will be isolated and marginalised
within the European Union. I don't think that's good for jobs, in the City or
elsewhere; I don't think it's good for growth; I don't think it's good for
families up and down the country."

"I think a Britain which leaves the EU will be considered to be irrelevant by
Washington and will be considered a pygmy in the world when I want us to stand
tall and lead in the world."

Pygmy The etymology of one little word

Nick Clegg said Britain would be a "pygmy" in the world if it left the EU.

Derived from the Greek word Pygmaios - a mythical race of dwarves - the term
pygmy applies to a range of peoples across west and central Africa, south-east
Asia, South America and Australasia. True pygmies are forest dwellers in which
men grow to no more than 59in tall and practise a hunter-gatherer lifestyle.
Other diminutive people groups are known as pygmoid.

Among the best known examples are the Twa and Mbuti peoples of Rwanda, Burundi
and Democratic Republic of Congo.

With their lifestyle already under threat from logging, agriculture and
conservation policies, pygmies in Africa in particular have in some countries
been the victims of systematic discrimination, including slavery.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An animated Nick Clegg on the BBC's Andrew Marr Show yesterday. The
Deputy Prime Minister could barely contain his fury over the veto. 'There is a
danger that the UK will be isolated and marginalised within the EU,' he said
JEFF OVERS/BBC/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Staunch eurosceptic Joan collins has [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 79 words


STAUNCH eurosceptic Joan Collins has nothing but praise for David Cameron's
stance at last week's Brussels summit when he vetoed the proposed EU treaty to
bail out the eurozone.

"Congratulations David Cameron 4 standing up to the EU bloated bureaucracy
bullies," she wrote on Twitter afterwards. "Finally a PM who puts Britain
first." Judging by the response from her followers, you can tell why the UK
Independence party has just overtaken the Lib Dems in the opinions polls too.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

Europe in crisis: Party pressure and gloating Eurosceptics spur Clegg on: Attack
on Cameron driven by senior Lib Dems' anger Tories insist coalition will survive
'aftershock'

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 999 words


Conservatives and even fellow Liberal Democrats expressed surprise yesterday at
the ferocity of Nick Clegg's attack on the prime minister following negotiations
in Brussels last week, although insiders at No 10 were playing down the
long-term damage to the coalition.

The deputy prime minister let David Cameron have it with both barrels during a
BBC interview, expressing bitter disappointment at the prime minister's decision
to cut Britain adrift from Europe. Clegg said: "I don't think that's good for
jobs, in the City or elsewhere, I don't think it's good for growth or for
families."

It was "ludicrous" to demand that the EU 26 did not use the union's
institutions, Clegg said, suggesting that Cameron was only marginalising Britain
still further.

Tories are calling Clegg's intervention an "aftershock" and not much more.
Cameron spoke to Clegg before the latter's appearance on the Andrew Marr Show
and so knew the attack was coming, although the strength of the comments was
unexpected.

He is said to have understood that the deputy prime minister needed to shore up
support from those in his party deeply unhappy at the turn of events.

Lib Dems are intrigued by the deputy prime minister's change of language. Some
of his closest aides counsel against him talking up his pro-European credentials
because they believe they do not chime with the majority of the British public.

Yesterday a poll for the Mail on Sunday said 62% of respondents were supportive
of the prime minister's strategy in Brussels. In another opinion poll for
ComRes, Ukip polled above the Lib Dems for the first time.

On Friday, individuals in the party in favour of a hush-hush Europhilia briefed
the media that they believed the prime minister had done his best and the
problem had been the French.

By Sunday morning the message had changed, with Clegg saying he could have got a
better deal.

In the intervening hours, aides say, various issues had upset the Lib Dem
leader. Some say it was the gathering of Eurosceptic Tory backbenchers at
Chequers on Friday evening, filing dispatches of the good humour of the party,
that incensed the Conservatives' coalition partners.

For others, Clegg was swayed by his mentor and former party leader Paddy
Ashdown, who spoke for many activists when he gave splenetic comments to the
Guardian on Friday night. Clegg's first job in politics was in Brussels, where a
visit by Lord Ashdown got the young Liberal hooked on his party's particular
blend of internationalism. It's also not hard to imagine Clegg's wife, Miriam
Gonzalez Durantez - who has worked as a European diplomat - also urging him to
go further.

But in addition, there was the rumoured threat of a Vince Cable resignation,
which gathered pace over the weekend. Such a threat, first aired in a column by
Will Hutton, has been vehemently denied, but Clegg needs to be certain of
keeping hold of Cable to ensure the implementation of key Lib Dem policies.

Whatever the reason for the hardening of Clegg's stance, the question of
coalition collapse is probably no nearer: there is now a fixed-term parliament
of five years and to short-circuit it would require a parliamentary vote only
achievable in the unlikelihood of Tory and Labour strategists both believing it
was in their interests.

Instead, Tories inside No 10 are relaxed about the Clegg "aftershock", seeing it
as a little local difficulty. Instead, they suggest, they will continue to rub
along as they have learned to do over the 19 months of the coalition. They also
point to "domestic policy wins" that the Lib Dems will be seen to have gained
with the announcement of additional funding for the pupil premium, which sees
extra resources devoted to the most vulnerable children. Even though the subject
is also close to the heart of education secretary, Michael Gove, it will be the
Lib Dems who will announce it.

But Clegg's intervention will inevitably affect the coalition. Some are
comparing it to the dynamic that nearly rent the coalition asunder over the
alternative vote. In that case, the prime minister looked like he was being too
accommodating to his coalition partners, to his own party members' displeasure,
before at the last moment intervening in such a way that delighted the Tories
and knocked the Lib Dems sideways.

In the immediate future, Clegg is going to be pushing to get into the room to
negotiate alongside the other 26 members of the EU. Cable has already challenged
the prime minister once about his stance on Europe inside the cabinet, and such
challenges are likely to intensify with the Lib Dems convinced that Cameron's
veto will deter companies from investing in the UK. Should the economy continue
to worsen, Lib Dems suggest, they will be more outspoken in their view that the
decision in Brussels last week made matters worse.

Among the Tories, the MEP Daniel Hannan believes Britain has an opportunity to
reclaim powers from the 26 by demanding concessions in return for future
co-operation. John Redwood, MP for Wokingham, has already called for the
government to start "renegotiating a new relationship with the EU".

Officials from the Foreign Office are holding meetings with the Fresh Start
group of Eurosceptic MPs to discuss which policies Westminster could potentially
reclaim control over. The group was set up by Cameron's former press secretary,
George Eustice, and two other Tory MPs, the former MEP Chris Heaton-Harris and
backbencher Andrea Leadsom.

Yesterday the Europe minister, David Lidington, told a Sunday newspaper: "It is
not only about repatriation. There is a case for that, but there are other cases
where you don't need formal repatriation to deliver more power back into UK
hands."

As Clegg hits the phones to seek help from international leaders in ensuring the
UK is still engaged in Europe, backbenchers continue to make headway at home in
exactly the opposite pursuit.

Captions:

Arch Eurosceptic John Redwood has already called on David Cameron to start
'renegotiating a new relationship with the EU'

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cam is a hero ...but what next?

BYLINE: TREVOR Kavanagh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 668 words


THANKS Sarko. You may be a treacherous tin-pot tyrant and fake fair-weather
friend but you have done Britain a favour.

David Cameron is a hero today with Tory MPs and voters of all parties.

He has done what people across Europe crave from their leaders - and put their
interests above those of the Brussels elite.

Looking at Mr Cameron's body language as he left Brussels empty-handed, this was
not exactly what he intended.

You could almost read the thought bubble over his head: "What the hell have I
done?"

Whatever it was, there is no turning back. We cannot return, cap in hand, to
Brussels. They wouldn't let us get away with it if we did.

Britain seems friendless. The Coalition is splintering.

Yet in a series of polls, two-thirds of voters think Mr Cameron got it right.
They want a referendum now and they want to get out of the EU.

Polls are only snapshots. But these plot the inevitable sequence of events
Britain will follow in the months and years to come.

Sarko is determined to throttle the UK financial industry. We can't afford to
let him.

Hook

These are not just greedy bankers who deserve a kicking.

They include respectable pension funds and insurance giants who glue the world
economy together.

They pay 10p in every pound gathered by the UK taxman. France wants to grab
£30BILLION of that for Brussels to squander.

Even Nick Clegg, who is now squirming on the hook, thinks that is unacceptable.
So, for all his preposterous protests, does Ed Miliband.

David Cameron had no alternative but to use the veto.

That is already history. The PM's task today is to decide what to do next in the
British national interest.

As Foreign Secretary William Hague said after a previous EU stitch-up, he
"cannot let matters rest".

If Britain is isolated, how do we ensure we survive and flourish? Do we wait for
Brussels to take revenge, as it will, or strike first to protect our exposed
economy?

If we are heading for the exit, what do we take with us and what do we leave
behind?

Our only priority must be to safeguard Britain as a great trading nation. None
of this will be easy.

Chancellor George Osborne is already cutting corporation tax on company profits
from 28p to 24p in the Pound over five years.

Why not do it sooner - attracting global enterprise and giving a huge boost to
jobs?

Why not slash it to 12.5p like Ireland, where it has helped haul the economy out
of the mire?

Brussels would go bonkers but what do we have to lose?

As Labour MP Graham Allen points out, Britain freed from EU tentacles could
become a magnet for foreign investment.

"Britain's place as the offshore Cayman Islands of Europe is now certain," he
said, only half joking.

Outside the EU, we wouldn't need to repatriate powers.

The UK would be free to go its own way, leaving the EU to complete its sad
transition from industrial revolution to industrial museum.

First there is the small matter of the Coalition. And the likes of Ken Clarke,
who is fit to burst.

Nick Clegg vows to "fight tooth and nail" to stop Britain leaving his beloved
European Union.

Extinct

But after last week, along with the rest of us, the Lib Dem leader must have
realised Mr Cameron can only be pushed so far.

The Lib Dems have learned to enjoy ministerial power and chauffeured limos.

Are they ready to give them up in return for electoral oblivion? Yesterday they
slipped dangerously below the anti-EU party, UKIP. There is now a real risk they
could become extinct like the original Liberals.

As for Mr Clarke, he has been utterly wrong on Europe from the start. The
currency is doomed and so perhaps is the EU.

Mr Cameron has been courageous enough to call Europe's bluff.

Now he must call Ken's.

LAST week's seedy Brussels joke about swinging sums up the corruption at the
heart of Europe. David Cameron was portrayed by a French official as a man who
"goes to a wife-swapping party without taking his own wife".

Only a country that celebrates the orgyloving antics of fallen presidential
candidate and alleged rapist Dominique Strauss-Kahn could come up with that one.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 12, 2011 Monday 7:32 PM GMT

Does Nick Clegg's absence signal the genesis of a new coalition?;
The eurozone crisis has brought Labour and the Lib Dems closer than they ever
expected.

BYLINE: By Mary Riddell

LENGTH: 1183 words


Where's Clegg? As the cry rose from the Labour benches, the Deputy Prime
Minister was in his office, having a security briefing and catching up with
phone calls. His TV was off as David Cameron told the Commons why he had wielded
the veto that parted Britain from mainstream Europe.

Nick Clegg informed the PM yesterday morning that he would be staying away.
According to a senior Lib Dem source, a "voiceless" Clegg would have been put in
"an incredibly uncomfortable position" by crowing Tory Eurosceptics. Instead, an
empty seat spoke for him. There is no lasting Coalition rift, advisers claim:
the show goes on. But it became clear yesterday that nothing could be the same
again.

The penchant for being absent from the room, whether in Brussels or Westminster,
gives the air of a spectral government. And indeed, like Ebenezer Scrooge,
Cameron has been assailed by the undead. As the Prime Minister explained why he
said No to Europe, three spirits of Christmas mustered. The Ghost of Christmas
Past is played by Margaret Thatcher, whose handbagging of European leaders still
elicits Tory reverence.

Even so, the hardline Bruges speech which ultimately led to her demise seems a
billet doux to Europe compared with her successor's ultimatum. Britain, in her
words, "does not dream of some cosy, isolated existence on the fringes of the
European Community". Yet that is exactly where Cameron has placed it.

The role of the Ghost of Christmas Present has been filled in melodramatic style
by Clegg, whose sanguine first reaction to the Euro-bombshell gave way to
dress-down Sunday, in which he berated the PM for a deal that imperilled the
City and manufacturing and risked making Britain a global "pygmy". Yesterday, as
Clegg exercised his own veto, the stage was set for spirit number three.

Dickens's A Christmas Carol could be a Labour tract. Not only does it feature a
cameo part for Gordon Brown as the chain-swathed ghost of Jacob Marley, "doomed
to wander without rest or peace", but the book's theme, an indictment of
19th-century industrial capitalism, prefigures the critique of 21st-century
predatory capitalism advanced by Ed Miliband. Cast (or so he must hope) as The
Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come, it fell to Miliband to terrify Cameron with dire
visions of the future if he fails to learn the lessons of his folly. Miliband,
conscious that he needed a game-changing moment, impressed hard-to-please
Cleggites. "He wasn't bad at all. Braver than we thought he'd be," said one
senior source.

That muted compliment opens up a new battlefront in British politics. The
contempt in which Euro-leaders held Cameron's bulldoggerel offers a rare chance
to the centre-Left. Having seen his political bartering, and his explanation
yesterday, critics would hesitate to send the PM to haggle for a fake Rolex in a
Bangkok market. Many business leaders remain appalled, the City is at risk,
links with Washington will weaken, and Britain looks about as mighty as the Isle
of Eigg.

Were all this not so serious, the centre-Left should feel as if Christmas
arrived early. Yet Clegg is in a bind. What is the Coalition for, if not the
national interest? His assertion that the PM's veto runs directly counter to
that interest marks a profound shift. As a senior ally puts it, Lib Dems have
shown that they can "lift the veil".

The question is what may lie behind it. Lib Dem anger, already mounting, may yet
gather a lethal momentum. Clegg, now level-pegging in some polls with Ukip,
cannot afford to exercise his own nuclear option, but nor will he play poodle to
Cameron's bulldog. Churchillian rhetoric, over-played in this drama, can at
least be adapted to the Coalition's prospects. Though not the end, this looks
like the beginning of the end.

Enter Ed Miliband, whose refusal to say that Labour would have signed up to
Europe's plan to save the euro threw Cameron a lifeline that he duly grabbed in
the Commons debate. While Europe's austerity deal is an anti-growth agenda, that
was never the issue at stake. Miliband should have said initially that he would
have retained top-table influence and sanctioned fiscal measures from which
Britain would have been exempt. Instead, he appeared constrained by a Europhobic
public mood and, perhaps, by his party's own Eurosceptic roots.

Now, however, a new alliance beckons. Leading Lib Dems regard yesterday's events
as a test of Miliband's intentions. In this game of truth or dare, Clegg chose
to quit the PM's side in his hour of need. His henchmen now expect some
indication of respect from Labour. Early cries that Clegg was "spineless" did
not encourage them, but the Lib Dem mood is to watch and wait. Once, hope of any
Lib/Lab meeting of minds would have seemed forlorn.

With many of Labour's most eloquent Europhiles, not least his brother, David, on
the sidelines, Miliband's shadow cabinet contains voices ranging from the
nuanced Europhilia of Douglas Alexander to the more ambivalent stance of Ed
Balls, who has lumped Cameron and European leaders together under the general
heading of "catastrophic".

Even before yesterday, there were renewed signs of a Cleggiband consensus.
Although the two leaders have not met since Remembrance Sunday, senior-level
contact between the two camps is growing, with Lib Dems grumbling to their
opposite numbers that Cameron has behaved to Clegg "like a CEO who won't consult
his chairman".

Europe has given the parties the reason they have lacked for a rapprochement.
Some Cleggites will not lightly forgive Miliband for his past animosity, and
powerful figures on each side claim that the other party will dump its leader
after the election. Even so, Miliband's declaration that "he agrees with Nick"
is significant.

Lib Dems now envisage cross-party co-operation, perhaps involving Lord Mandelson
and Vince Cable on industrial policy. In the longer run, both parties are
talking up a centre-Left coalition after the next election. In an interview for
the forthcoming Fabian Review, Ed Balls - once scornful of "Liberals" - tells me
that he is eager for a deal right now.

Balls is no fan of coalitions, but asked whether he would favour a Lib/Lab
government in 2015, he says: "You could do it tomorrow. What's happening is
dangerous and against the national interest. If you can form that consensus
tomorrow, I'd be part of it like a shot."

That conversation took place before the PM boarded the Eurostar for Brussels. It
seems likely that the shadow chancellor is now even more inclined to think that
the Coalition will collapse before 2015. There are many obstacles ahead. If the
eurozone hits bigger trouble, then voters may decide, however rashly, that
Cameron's exit was wise. The worse the prospects for Britain, the higher the
potential political dividend for the Tories.

In A Christmas Carol, a redeemed Scrooge sends a top-class fowl to the Cratchit
home for the festive dinner. To his critics' mind, the only prize turkey in this
chilling seasonal saga is a Prime Minister who has put the nation's prosperity
at risk. The future of the centre-Left rests on persuading voters that is true.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 12, 2011 Monday 6:32 AM GMT

EU summit: Nick Clegg's rude awakening;
With a young family, a busy job and a successful wife, Nick Clegg will have been
used to an early start. But few awakenings would have been as unwelcome as the
phone call on Friday.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 1069 words


The Deputy Prime Minister was alone, away from his family in his flat in his
Sheffield constituency at four o'clock in the morning, when the phone rang.

On the line was David Cameron, who had just walked out of a meeting with his
fellow European Union leaders, at a summit in Brussels.

Mr Cameron told his Liberal Democrat deputy that he had refused to agree to a
revised version of the Lisbon treaty because of a lack of safeguards for the
City.

The terms of that phone call - which was not minuted by officials - will
exercise historians for years. On Friday, Downing Street aides said Mr Clegg did
not raise any objections in that conversation.

But the Lib Dems say they were not given the chance. They say the veto was
presented by Mr Cameron as a fait accompli, the pair had a short "matter of fact
conversation", and that was that. Any veto of the veto was out of the question.

One Lib Dem source said: "It had already been done by then. It was presented as
'this is how it has gone. This is the decision I have taken'. In a 4am phone
call, Nick Clegg does not have the chance to bring 27 nations back around the
negotiating table."

Later that morning, Mr Clegg filmed a short television clip during which he
expressed his "regret" that a deal could not be done in Brussels.

He added that Britain's demands for safeguards were "modest and reasonable", and
said he regretted that it proved impossible for agreement to be reached,
although the Coalition remained "united".

He was soon to wish he had spoken more robustly, as throughout Friday, the
airwaves and blogs were dominated by Tory Eurosceptics, crowing at the deal won
by Mr Cameron. Some were even suggesting that it marked the beginning of the end
for Britain's involvement in Europe altogether.

By the evening, Mr Cameron had returned to Britain and was being toasted by 30
other Tory MPs - including arch-Eurosceptic Andrew Rosindell - at a dinner at
Chequers, his official residence. In contrast, Mr Clegg had been forced to give
another interview, in which he started to express his frustration with the deal.

He warned that Eurosceptics should "be careful what they wish for, because
clearly there is potentially an increased risk of a two-speed Europe in which

Britain's position becomes more marginalised, and in the long-run that would

be bad for growth and jobs in this country". The Lib Dems woke to grim headlines
on Saturday morning, particularly from the Sun which reprised its famous "Up
Yours Delors" headline - which marked the birth of the EU - with a mock-up of
David Cameron as Winston Churchill flicking a V-sign under the headline "Up
EURs".

There followed a series of phone calls throughout the day, with the Lib Dems
desperately trying to find a way to retrieve the situation, and ensure that the
party's pro-European voice in the Coalition was not drowned out.

With all the Lib Dem Cabinet ministers dispersed around the country in their
constituency offices, aides set up a series of conference calls.

Firstly all the Lib Dem Cabinet ministers, including Vince Cable, the Business
secretary, spoke.

Then senior Lib Dem MPs were called, along with party grandees such as Lord
Ashdown.

By Saturday tea time, a strategy had been agreed. Mr Clegg would have to go on
the attack to ensure that the Coalition was not allowed to be dictated to by
Conservative Eurosceptics.

The first editions of the Sunday morning papers deepened the gloom. A poll in
the Independent on Sunday showed Mr Clegg's personal rating had slumped well
behind Mr Cameron's and Ed Miliband's.

The party itself was polling at just 10 per cent, behind Labour (40 per cent),
the Conservatives (36 per cent) and "other parties" including the UK
Independence Party and the Greens (14 per cent).

Vince Cable, who is said to have demanded from the Cabinet earlier last week
that protecting the City would not be a deal breaker at the summit, was quoted
attacking the veto as a ''pyrrhic victory''.

There was a degree of choreography to what followed. The Tories, for their part,
understood the difficulties Mr Clegg was under and stood down William Hague, the
Foreign Secretary, who was due to have been interviewed on the Andrew Marr Show
yesterday on BBC 1, in favour of Mr Clegg.

There were suggestions that Downing Street aides had approved what Mr Clegg
would say.

On the show, Mr Clegg could barely contain his fury over the veto. The contrast
in his comments was marked. Mr Clegg made clear he was "bitterly disappointed"
by the outcome of the summit, and warned that "there is a danger that the UK
will be isolated and marginalised within the European Union".

He warned that if the Conservatives listened to the Eurosceptics and led Britain
out of the EU, it would make the country an irrelevance and a pygmy, and even
weaken the special relationship with the United States.

Lord Ashdown, the former Lib Dem leader, kept up the assault on the Tories
moments later, suggesting on the Murnaghan programme on Sky News that Mr Cameron
had put the interests of part of his party ahead of the national interest.

He contrasted Mr Cameron's position with that of John Major, the former Tory
Prime Minister, who tackled his party's Euro rebels in the early 1990s to force
the Maastricht treaty through the Commons. Mr Cameron could have got any deal
through Parliament with Labour's backing, he said.

"I'm afraid to say, and it pains me to say so, Mr Cameron has acted as the
leader of the Conservative Party, not the Prime Minister of Britain," he said.

For now, resignations seem off the agenda. Lib Dem aides were ringing around
yesterday denying that Mr Cable was planning to resign today.

But there is no doubt that the Coalition has been plunged into the most serious
crisis since it was formed.

Suddenly there are questions about its future. Lord Oakeshott, the former
Treasury spokesman, suggested on the BBC's Politics Show that the row "could"
break up the Coalition.

Last night one Lib Dem aide gave the Coalition a 90 per cent chance of keeping
going until the likely next general election in 2015, suggesting that the party
has to put the national interest above its own ideological concerns.

He added: "It is a very, very difficult time for the Coalition. No one is happy
in the Lib Dems.

"But I don't think it serves the country, the Lib Dems or the Conservatives to
bring down the Government over this when there is such as big job to do in
Europe and a big challenge domestically."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 11, 2011 Sunday 2:49 AM GMT

After Brussels, Cameron takes refuge in his country retreat;
Two dinners, 24 hours apart, and the audiences could scarcely be more different.

BYLINE: Jane Merrick, Matt Chorley, Brian Brady

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 3095 words


As David Cameron sank into one of the outsized dining chairs around the table in
the oak-panelled room in his country residence at Chequers on Friday night, the
mood could hardly have been different from that 24 hours earlier in the
utilitarian surroundings of the Justus Lipsius building in Brussels.

Thirty Conservative backbench MPs - including the arch-Eurosceptic Andrew
Rosindell, but also the moderate rising star Jesse Norman - joined the Prime
Minister for a supper of salmon, beef and red wine. The invitations had been
sent out a week earlier, but the timing of the dinner was curious, suggesting
that Mr Cameron always believed that the EU summit to reach a deal on solving
the eurozone crisis would not stretch into the weekend. He, apparently, expected
to walk away from Brussels with nothing.

Where, on Thursday, Mr Cameron ate mainly in silence bored by what he called the
"blah blah blah" of technicalities as fellow EU leaders thrashed out the new
treaty, the Prime Minister turned on his gregarious charm with his MPs, many of
them potential troublemakers from the independent-minded 2010 intake. The PM had
drunk only black coffee during the nine-hour summit dinner, refraining from
alcohol while some other leaders "knocked it back", according to one observer.
On Friday, in the cosy warmth of his Buckinghamshire dining room, the claret
flowed. In Brussels, Nicolas Sarkozy had refused to shake Mr Cameron's hand, on
camera, while he and Angela Merkel had shared an awkward lift ride at 5am as the
summit ended.

At Chequers, Tory MPs, delighted that Mr Cameron had used Britain's veto for the
first time to stand up to the German Chancellor and French President, cheered
their leader. The Prime Minister cracked jokes about his handbagging of the
Eurocrats, and everyone laughed.

It is clear where Mr Cameron felt more comfortable, and which group the Prime
Minister had wanted to lavish attention on. In October, Conservative MPs had
inflicted a humiliating Commons rebellion over an EU referendum. No 10 aides
insisted that the Chequers supper was just a normal, regular event for
backbenchers - but the truth is that he cannot risk losing their confidence, and
now faces a difficult few months attempting to fend off calls for him to
renegotiate powers from Brussels and call a referendum.

When the Prime Minister awoke in his countryside retreat yesterday morning, he
will have been cheered by the headlines in The Sun - "Up Eurs" - and the Daily
Mail - "The day he put Britain first"; less so by those in the centre-left
press, and those on the Continent. Mr Cameron, aided by his closest tacticians
George Osborne and Ed Llewellyn, had scored a significant political victory for
his party at home.

But this could be a tactical, short-term triumph, which appeared to be
unravelling last night, with Nick Clegg's fury at how Mr Cameron had failed to
secure what seemed like an achievable diplomatic point in Brussels. There are
also signs of a strategic failure, and the source for this failure must be
traced back six years this month, to the point where he secured the Tory
leadership.

Mr Cameron had won over MPs on the right of his party, who had backed Liam Fox
in the earlier stages of the leadership contest, with a promise to leave the
European People's Party, the centre-right grouping in the European Parliament,
and set up a new, more EU-sceptic body. At the time, this seemed like an easy
promise. It certainly delivered him a victory over his rival David Davis. In
2009, however, a year before the 2010 election, it became clear that the only
other parties the Conservatives could join up with were right-wing Czech and
Polish parties whose members had questionable records on anti-Semitism and
homophobia. More importantly, Mr Cameron was deserting the EPP, whose members
included Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy, and with it the chance for
extra "face time" with the two leading drivers of reform in Europe. It is an
interesting question as to whether Mr Cameron could have helped to shape the
opinion of Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy - but he certainly would have enjoyed a
greater degree of closeness to them that was clearly lacking on Thursday.

To illustrate this, the EPP held its annual congress in the southern French port
of Marseille on Wednesday and Thursday, on the eve of the summit. Not only were
the French and German leaders present but also the European Commission head,
Jose Manuel Barroso. On Wednesday evening, Mrs Merkel took a telephone call from
US President Barack Obama, specifically to discuss the summit that was happening
in Brussels the next day. Would it, diplomats and observers are asking this
weekend, have made a difference if Mr Cameron had enjoyed a glass of champagne
with the German Chancellor later that evening?

The shadow Foreign Secretary, Douglas Alexander, who has friends in the
diplomatic service from his time as Europe minister, said: "The roots of
Cameron's fateful decision on Thursday lie deep in his failure to fully
modernise the Conservative Party. To secure the leadership he promised to take
his party out of the EPP and ever since he has been following his party, not
leading it. The idea that any point in the foreseeable future that there is any
goodwill to the British Prime Minister to allow any repatriation of powers is
risible.

"If you are driving looking over your right shoulder, eventually you are going
to drive the car into a wall. That's what David Cameron did on Thursday night."

When he became Prime Minister 18 months ago, many - especially those in the
Foreign Office - were braced for the new, Conservative-led, more Eurosceptic
coalition government. But there was pleasant surprise: William Hague, who pinned
the 2001 Tory election campaign on keeping the pound, adopted a more "realist"
posture, say those in Whitehall. But there was still the sense that the new
British Government was not doing enough work with its French and German
counterparts. There was the famous joke by Mr Osborne about the French
President's height, when he removed a stool from behind a lectern at a Spectator
event, claiming it was for the 5ft 5in Mr Sarkozy. He lodged a formal complaint,
and none of this helped wider Continental relations. A furious Lib Dem member of
the Government said last night: "We are paying the price of several years,
certainly 18 months, of cocking a snook at the rest of Europe. That's the reason
they are angry and they have got their own back."

At the same time, Mr Cameron has been under pressure from the right wing of his
party to do more for its cause. The 81-strong rebellion in October came after
months of apparent capitulation to the Lib Dem wing of the coalition. The
Commons revolt gave Mr Cameron a hint of what was to come, should he continue to
resist their demands on Europe, the biggest issue to strike fear in the heart of
a Conservative leader.

So, it seems, the plan was to go into Thursday's summit with something that
would delight the right-wing MPs, while appearing "reasonable" enough for
coalition unity and support. But the plan itself had to be kept under wraps,
sources suggest, in case it leaked out beforehand and Tory MPs demanded more.

At the same time, the coalition had to remain united. In the weeks before the
summit, Nick Clegg and Mr Cameron were said to have launched a bout of "tag-team
telephone diplomacy", though it appears the multilingual Lib Dem was more
enthusiastic about picking up the receiver. He is thought to have put his
language skills to good use speaking to counterparts in Spain, Holland and
Finland. But aides admit it was too little, too late. "Some leg work was done
... clearly not enough."

One person who they failed to win over was Vince Cable, the Business Secretary,
and, along with Chris Huhne, one of the more rebellious Lib Dem members of the
Cabinet. It is understood Mr Cable raised his concerns with colleagues that too
much weight was being placed on protecting the City of London at the expense of
the rest of the British economy. There is no suggestion that Mr Cable will
resign over this issue, but friends say this is a significant setback in the
harmony of the coalition.

Having packed the PM off with the agreed British position - no repatriation of
powers, asking only for "moderate and necessary safeguards" - Mr Clegg was
confident an agreement could be reached. But he was in the dark about Mr
Cameron's strategy of springing the British document on fellow countries at the
last minute.

George Osborne declared on Wednesday that Britain's preference was for a treaty
of 27 rather than 17 - one that had legitimacy, with all EU nations taking part,
but did not involve the transfer of powers from Britain to Brussels that would
trigger a referendum back home. Yet no one was clear what was in the British
proposals. For Mr Osborne, a brilliant political tactician and "war gamer", this
seemed the perfect plan.

The Prime Minister, who had flown into Brussels on Thursday afternoon after
watching his son, Elwen, play a mouse in his school nativity play, went straight
into a meeting with Mr Sarkozy and Mrs Merkel ahead of the dinner at 8.10pm. It
was during this 45-minute meeting that Mr Cameron first outlined his demands.

According to sources, Mr Sarkozy and Mrs Merkel seemed surprised by the scale of
the safeguards he sought - effectively blanket protection for the City of London
from any EU regulation - and British officials realised the formal summit was
going to be "very difficult". One EU diplomat said: "The writing was on the
wall. Cameron overbid. What he wanted was never going to happen."

Another added: "Everyone round the table was mystified. They were all asking the
same question: what does Cameron get out of this?"

One safeguard demanded by Mr Cameron concerned the implementation of the Vickers
report to reform Britain's banks. In particular, it is understood that Mr
Sarkozy wanted to impose a cap on the level of capital that banks could hold
which was less than the minimum 10 per cent level recommended by Vickers to
protect banks from future shocks.

Crucially, Mr Cameron was alone in the room, save for the advice of his closest
aides and EU advisers on the end of a BlackBerry email. The group consisted of
Sir Jon Cunliffe, his EU adviser, who will soon become head of UK representation
in Brussels, John Casson, the PM's private secretary on foreign affairs, Ed
Llewellyn, his chief of staff with a specialist foreign affairs background, and
his press secretary, Gabby Bertin. As the meeting dragged on into the early
hours of the morning, even the Prime Minister's famed quick feet seemed to
stumble.

One familiar with how events unfolded on Thursday evening said: "Cameron started
off the supper harping on about financial regulation which got everybody's backs
up." But a No 10 aide defended the strategy. "We were always going to offer
something reasonable. We didn't go in with a huge list of demands. We were very
reasonable and are confident of our reasonableness. They were simply not
prepared to budge. We have to achieve these safeguards if there was going to be
any treaty. If that hadn't happened without safeguards it would have been really
dangerous for us."

The meeting finally ended shortly after 5am. Mr Cameron, who had failed to get
any backing for his demands to protect the City, had used his veto to oppose a
new "compact" involving 17 eurozone countries, plus six nations with aspirations
to join the single currency, although three other countries would later follow
suit. As the French leader hurried to call a press conference to announce a deal
had been reached, the PM called Mr Clegg. Nothing could prepare him for the
bombshell from the PM declaring he had walked away from the other 26 member
states. As Mr Cameron hung up to prepare for his press conference, the scale of
the error dawned on his deputy.

"Diplomacy requires experience and judgement at critical moments," said a senior
Lib Dem source. "It also requires allies and good chemistry which can only be
built over time. Clearly this is not a skill that the Conservatives have as yet
acquired."

At 11.30am on Friday, Mr Clegg issued a statement which expressed "regret that
last night it proved to be impossible to find a way forward". The unspoken
implication was that his boss was to blame. But as excited Tory right-wingers
lined up in the TV studios to declare the outcome a historic victory for
Britain, a frustrated Mr Clegg went further in a recorded film clip to slap down
"Eurosceptics who might be rubbing their hands in glee about the outcome of the
summit". In a series of calls with Mr Cameron in the past 48 hours, he has made
clear his concern that the result could be devastating for Britain.

But a No 10 aide said defiantly: "People say he was isolated, and yes he was
isolated, and that is a good thing. There is a reason why we are not in the
euro. But we are not outside the 26. We will still go to European Council. It is
a complete myth that things have changed."

Mr Cameron may be happy to be isolated in Europe, but there is also a
possibility that his behaviour in Brussels will go down badly in Washington. US
input into the saga could unnerve Downing Street. It is in the US's interests
for the euro to be shored up. The White House pointedly refused to comment on
the veto, but stressed EU leaders must "act conclusively and decisively to
resolve" the crisis.

What happens next? The EU negotiations are not over. Between now and the next
round of negotiations in March, the Tory right will demand more defiance from
their Prime Minister. At the same time, a furious Mr Clegg and his Lib Dem
cabinet colleagues will attempt to drag Mr Cameron in the opposite direction,
and save some of Britain's reputation in Europe. On the Continent, there is a
lot of anxiety, tension and anger towards Mr Cameron. Le Monde's editorial
yesterday said: "Maybe it is time for Britain to get out. Why should they have a
commissioner? Why should they have a say?"

As one Lib Dem government member pointed out, if the euro collapses, the events
of Thursday will be irrelevant. But if the eurozone stabilises, the focus in
Britain will swing back to the tensions in the coalition. A referendum would
break it apart. The Lib Dem source said: "All of this could be yesterday's news
depending on what happens to the eurozone. If the eurozone does manage to get
back on its feet, then our predicament will be very serious indeed." And for Mr
Cameron, there will be no retreat to the fireside comfort of Chequers.

Press verdict: How the papers reacted to the UK's veto

Germany

Heilbronner Stimme

"Britain decouples from Europe," it said, with a picture of a British carriage
separating from the European train.

France

Le Monde

"Great Britain isolated like never before," it said. "Britain ... does not
believe in the European idea."

Spain

El Pais

"The crisis serves to weaken a prime minister who does not have the full support
of his own party due to the rise of Eurosceptics."

UK

The sun "Up Eurs" it said yesterday. "Bulldog PM sticks up for Britain." It
speculated on what may follow Cameron antagonising his EU peers.

Daily Mail "The day he put Britain first", it said, above a picture of Cameron.
Against angry Eurocrats, he "defended British interests".

Daily Telegraph "Cameron stands as the lone man of Europe," it said. It was a
move back to "splendid isolation" in Europe.

Shades of blue: Six Tories to watch on EU relations

Andrew Rosindell

Dressed his bull terrier in a Union Jack waistcoat in the 2005 election. As
international director of the highly Eurosceptic European Foundation, he urged
Cameron, pre-summit, to show some "bulldog spirit" in Brussels.

Swivel-eyed rating: 5/5

Bill Cash

Grand old man of Tory Euroscepticism, who cut his teeth as ringleader of the
Maastricht treaty revolt that almost unseated John Major. Founded the European
Foundation in 1993. Certain to pounce on the latest twist to press the case for
change.

Swivel-eyed rating: 4/5

Chris Heaton-Harris

Still a Eurosceptic, but the former MEP realises the value of EU links and
avoids intemperate criticism. Angered ardent Eurosceptics in May with a
watered-down motion supportive of Cameron before an EU summit on bailouts.

Swivel-eyed rating: 2/5

George Eustice

Former campaign director for the anti-euro "No" campaign and Ukip candidate,
he's a moderate who once stood for the European Parliament. Keen to protect the
City in the face of closer eurozone co-operation. Experience as Cameron aide
will ensure loyalty.

Swivel-eyed rating: 2/5

Ken Clarke

Bogeyman of the Eurosceptic extremists, he has defied anti-Europe rhetoric since
helping Ted Heath win key votes on entry to the EEC. Now President of the
Conservative Europe Group. Cool response to Cameron veto underlines his
lingering threat to stability.

Swivel-eyed rating: 1/5

Lord (Chris) Patten

Urbane, sensible, Europhile Tory, and former European commissioner who shuns
Clarke's combative approach to Eurosceptics. Service in Brussels and Hong Kong
has given him a more rounded world-view than many of his colleagues.

Swivel-eyed rating: 0/5

The need to spend a penny: When the call of duty trumps the call of nature

If David Cameron showed any sign of discomfort as he sat around the table with
fellow EU leaders on Thursday night, the cause may not have been only an
increasing feeling of isolation: a source revealed that the Prime Minister was
"desperate for a pee" during the marathon dinner summit in the Justus Lipsius
building in Brussels.

It is understood that Mr Cameron used his full bladder as a device to keep him
focused for the nine-hour session. It's not the first time the PM has used this
rather unorthodox method. He did the same thing when he delivered his "no-notes"
make-or-break speech to his party conference in 2007, which stopped Gordon Brown
from calling a snap election and saved his own leadership.

He picked up the technique from watching a documentary that the BBC's Michael
Cockerell had made 10 years earlier about Enoch Powell. The veteran broadcaster
wrote: "I said to Powell that I had heard he always liked to make a big speech
on a full bladder. 'Absolutely,' he replied, 'you should do nothing to decrease
the tension before making a big speech. If anything you should seek to increase
it.'"

Other public figures have adopted their own methods. Alastair Campbell used a
bent-open paper-clip to prick his hand while giving evidence to the Foreign
Affairs select committee over the David Kelly affair in 2003. And David Dimbleby
hums to himself before he goes on air to stretch his vocal cords.

Jane Merrick

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               December 11, 2011
                                 First Edition

After Brussels, Cameron takes refuge in his country retreat;
The inside story Two dinners, 24 hours apart, and the audiences could scarcely
be more different. Jane Merrick, Matt Chorley and Brian Brady report 'Clearly,
diplomacy is not a skill that the Conservatives have as yet acquired'

BYLINE: Jane Merrick, Matt Chorley and Brian Brady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3095 words


As David Cameron sank into one of the outsized dining chairs around the table in
the oak-panelled room in his country residence at Chequers on Friday night, the
mood could hardly have been different from that 24 hours earlier in the
utilitarian surroundings of the Justus Lipsius building in Brussels.

Thirty Conservative backbench MPs - including the arch-Eurosceptic Andrew
Rosindell, but also the moderate rising star Jesse Norman - joined the Prime
Minister for a supper of salmon, beef and red wine. The invitations had been
sent out a week earlier, but the timing of the dinner was curious, suggesting
that Mr Cameron always believed that the EU summit to reach a deal on solving
the eurozone crisis would not stretch into the weekend. He, apparently, expected
to walk away from Brussels with nothing.

Where, on Thursday, Mr Cameron ate mainly in silence bored by what he called the
"blah blah blah" of technicalities as fellow EU leaders thrashed out the new
treaty, the Prime Minister turned on his gregarious charm with his MPs, many of
them potential troublemakers from the independent-minded 2010 intake. The PM had
drunk only black coffee during the nine-hour summit dinner, refraining from
alcohol while some other leaders "knocked it back", according to one observer.
On Friday, in the cosy warmth of his Buckinghamshire dining room, the claret
flowed. In Brussels, Nicolas Sarkozy had refused to shake Mr Cameron's hand, on
camera, while he and Angela Merkel had shared an awkward lift ride at 5am as the
summit ended.

At Chequers, Tory MPs, delighted that Mr Cameron had used Britain's veto for the
first time to stand up to the German Chancellor and French President, cheered
their leader. The Prime Minister cracked jokes about his handbagging of the
Eurocrats, and everyone laughed.

It is clear where Mr Cameron felt more comfortable, and which group the Prime
Minister had wanted to lavish attention on. In October, Conservative MPs had
inflicted a humiliating Commons rebellion over an EU referendum. No 10 aides
insisted that the Chequers supper was just a normal, regular event for
backbenchers - but the truth is that he cannot risk losing their confidence, and
now faces a difficult few months attempting to fend off calls for him to
renegotiate powers from Brussels and call a referendum.

When the Prime Minister awoke in his countryside retreat yesterday morning, he
will have been cheered by the headlines in The Sun - "Up Eurs" - and the Daily
Mail - "The day he put Britain first"; less so by those in the centre-left
press, and those on the Continent. Mr Cameron, aided by his closest tacticians
George Osborne and Ed Llewellyn, had scored a significant political victory for
his party at home.

But this could be a tactical, short-term triumph, which appeared to be
unravelling last night, with Nick Clegg's fury at how Mr Cameron had failed to
secure what seemed like an achievable diplomatic point in Brussels. There are
also signs of a strategic failure, and the source for this failure must be
traced back six years this month, to the point where he secured the Tory
leadership.

Mr Cameron had won over MPs on the right of his party, who had backed Liam Fox
in the earlier stages of the leadership contest, with a promise to leave the
European People's Party, the centre-right grouping in the European Parliament,
and set up a new, more EU-sceptic body. At the time, this seemed like an easy
promise. It certainly delivered him a victory over his rival David Davis. In
2009, however, a year before the 2010 election, it became clear that the only
other parties the Conservatives could join up with were right-wing Czech and
Polish parties whose members had questionable records on anti-Semitism and
homophobia. More importantly, Mr Cameron was deserting the EPP, whose members
included Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy, and with it the chance for
extra "face time" with the two leading drivers of reform in Europe. It is an
interesting question as to whether Mr Cameron could have helped to shape the
opinion of Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy - but he certainly would have enjoyed a
greater degree of closeness to them that was clearly lacking on Thursday.

To illustrate this, the EPP held its annual congress in the southern French port
of Marseille on Wednesday and Thursday, on the eve of the summit. Not only were
the French and German leaders present but also the European Commission head,
Jose Manuel Barroso. On Wednesday evening, Mrs Merkel took a telephone call from
US President Barack Obama, specifically to discuss the summit that was happening
in Brussels the next day. Would it, diplomats and observers are asking this
weekend, have made a difference if Mr Cameron had enjoyed a glass of champagne
with the German Chancellor later that evening?

The shadow Foreign Secretary, Douglas Alexander, who has friends in the
diplomatic service from his time as Europe minister, said: "The roots of
Cameron's fateful decision on Thursday lie deep in his failure to fully
modernise the Conservative Party. To secure the leadership he promised to take
his party out of the EPP and ever since he has been following his party, not
leading it. The idea that any point in the foreseeable future that there is any
goodwill to the British Prime Minister to allow any repatriation of powers is
risible.

"If you are driving looking over your right shoulder, eventually you are going
to drive the car into a wall. That's what David Cameron did on Thursday night."

When he became Prime Minister 18 months ago, many - especially those in the
Foreign Office - were braced for the new, Conservative-led, more Eurosceptic
coalition government. But there was pleasant surprise: William Hague, who pinned
the 2001 Tory election campaign on keeping the pound, adopted a more "realist"
posture, say those in Whitehall. But there was still the sense that the new
British Government was not doing enough work with its French and German
counterparts. There was the famous joke by Mr Osborne about the French
President's height, when he removed a stool from behind a lectern at a Spectator
event, claiming it was for the 5ft 5in Mr Sarkozy. He lodged a formal complaint,
and none of this helped wider Continental relations. A furious Lib Dem member of
the Government said last night: "We are paying the price of several years,
certainly 18 months, of cocking a snook at the rest of Europe. That's the reason
they are angry and they have got their own back."

At the same time, Mr Cameron has been under pressure from the right wing of his
party to do more for its cause. The 81-strong rebellion in October came after
months of apparent capitulation to the Lib Dem wing of the coalition. The
Commons revolt gave Mr Cameron a hint of what was to come, should he continue to
resist their demands on Europe, the biggest issue to strike fear in the heart of
a Conservative leader.

So, it seems, the plan was to go into Thursday's summit with something that
would delight the right-wing MPs, while appearing "reasonable" enough for
coalition unity and support. But the plan itself had to be kept under wraps,
sources suggest, in case it leaked out beforehand and Tory MPs demanded more.

At the same time, the coalition had to remain united. In the weeks before the
summit, Nick Clegg and Mr Cameron were said to have launched a bout of "tag-team
telephone diplomacy", though it appears the multilingual Lib Dem was more
enthusiastic about picking up the receiver. He is thought to have put his
language skills to good use speaking to counterparts in Spain, Holland and
Finland. But aides admit it was too little, too late. "Some leg work was done
... clearly not enough."

One person who they failed to win over was Vince Cable, the Business Secretary,
and, along with Chris Huhne, one of the more rebellious Lib Dem members of the
Cabinet. It is understood Mr Cable raised his concerns with colleagues that too
much weight was being placed on protecting the City of London at the expense of
the rest of the British economy. There is no suggestion that Mr Cable will
resign over this issue, but friends say this is a significant setback in the
harmony of the coalition.

Having packed the PM off with the agreed British position - no repatriation of
powers, asking only for "moderate and necessary safeguards" - Mr Clegg was
confident an agreement could be reached. But he was in the dark about Mr
Cameron's strategy of springing the British document on fellow countries at the
last minute.

George Osborne declared on Wednesday that Britain's preference was for a treaty
of 27 rather than 17 - one that had legitimacy, with all EU nations taking part,
but did not involve the transfer of powers from Britain to Brussels that would
trigger a referendum back home. Yet no one was clear what was in the British
proposals. For Mr Osborne, a brilliant political tactician and "war gamer", this
seemed the perfect plan.

The Prime Minister, who had flown into Brussels on Thursday afternoon after
watching his son, Elwen, play a mouse in his school nativity play, went straight
into a meeting with Mr Sarkozy and Mrs Merkel ahead of the dinner at 8.10pm. It
was during this 45-minute meeting that Mr Cameron first outlined his demands.

According to sources, Mr Sarkozy and Mrs Merkel seemed surprised by the scale of
the safeguards he sought - effectively blanket protection for the City of London
from any EU regulation - and British officials realised the formal summit was
going to be "very difficult". One EU diplomat said: "The writing was on the
wall. Cameron overbid. What he wanted was never going to happen."

Another added: "Everyone round the table was mystified. They were all asking the
same question: what does Cameron get out of this?"

One safeguard demanded by Mr Cameron concerned the implementation of the Vickers
report to reform Britain's banks. In particular, it is understood that Mr
Sarkozy wanted to impose a cap on the level of capital that banks could hold
which was less than the minimum 10 per cent level recommended by Vickers to
protect banks from future shocks.

Crucially, Mr Cameron was alone in the room, save for the advice of his closest
aides and EU advisers on the end of a BlackBerry email. The group consisted of
Sir Jon Cunliffe, his EU adviser, who will soon become head of UK representation
in Brussels, John Casson, the PM's private secretary on foreign affairs, Ed
Llewellyn, his chief of staff with a specialist foreign affairs background, and
his press secretary, Gabby Bertin. As the meeting dragged on into the early
hours of the morning, even the Prime Minister's famed quick feet seemed to
stumble.

One familiar with how events unfolded on Thursday evening said: "Cameron started
off the supper harping on about financial regulation which got everybody's backs
up." But a No 10 aide defended the strategy. "We were always going to offer
something reasonable. We didn't go in with a huge list of demands. We were very
reasonable and are confident of our reasonableness. They were simply not
prepared to budge. We have to achieve these safeguards if there was going to be
any treaty. If that hadn't happened without safeguards it would have been really
dangerous for us."

The meeting finally ended shortly after 5am. Mr Cameron, who had failed to get
any backing for his demands to protect the City, had used his veto to oppose a
new "compact" involving 17 eurozone countries, plus six nations with aspirations
to join the single currency, although three other countries would later follow
suit. As the French leader hurried to call a press conference to announce a deal
had been reached, the PM called Mr Clegg. Nothing could prepare him for the
bombshell from the PM declaring he had walked away from the other 26 member
states. As Mr Cameron hung up to prepare for his press conference, the scale of
the error dawned on his deputy.

"Diplomacy requires experience and judgement at critical moments," said a senior
Lib Dem source. "It also requires allies and good chemistry which can only be
built over time. Clearly this is not a skill that the Conservatives have as yet
acquired."

At 11.30am on Friday, Mr Clegg issued a statement which expressed "regret that
last night it proved to be impossible to find a way forward". The unspoken
implication was that his boss was to blame. But as excited Tory right-wingers
lined up in the TV studios to declare the outcome a historic victory for
Britain, a frustrated Mr Clegg went further in a recorded film clip to slap down
"Eurosceptics who might be rubbing their hands in glee about the outcome of the
summit". In a series of calls with Mr Cameron in the past 48 hours, he has made
clear his concern that the result could be devastating for Britain.

But a No 10 aide said defiantly: "People say he was isolated, and yes he was
isolated, and that is a good thing. There is a reason why we are not in the
euro. But we are not outside the 26. We will still go to European Council. It is
a complete myth that things have changed."

Mr Cameron may be happy to be isolated in Europe, but there is also a
possibility that his behaviour in Brussels will go down badly in Washington. US
input into the saga could unnerve Downing Street. It is in the US's interests
for the euro to be shored up. The White House pointedly refused to comment on
the veto, but stressed EU leaders must "act conclusively and decisively to
resolve" the crisis.

What happens next? The EU negotiations are not over. Between now and the next
round of negotiations in March, the Tory right will demand more defiance from
their Prime Minister. At the same time, a furious Mr Clegg and his Lib Dem
cabinet colleagues will attempt to drag Mr Cameron in the opposite direction,
and save some of Britain's reputation in Europe. On the Continent, there is a
lot of anxiety, tension and anger towards Mr Cameron. Le Monde's editorial
yesterday said: "Maybe it is time for Britain to get out. Why should they have a
commissioner? Why should they have a say?"

As one Lib Dem government member pointed out, if the euro collapses, the events
of Thursday will be irrelevant. But if the eurozone stabilises, the focus in
Britain will swing back to the tensions in the coalition. A referendum would
break it apart. The Lib Dem source said: "All of this could be yesterday's news
depending on what happens to the eurozone. If the eurozone does manage to get
back on its feet, then our predicament will be very serious indeed." And for Mr
Cameron, there will be no retreat to the fireside comfort of Chequers.

PRESS VERDICT

How the papers reacted to the UK's veto

GERMANY

Heilbronner Stimme

"Britain decouples from Europe," it said, with a picture of a British carriage
separating from the European train.

FRANCE

Le Monde

"Great Britain isolated like never before," it said. "Britain ... does not
believe in the European idea."

SPAIN

El Pais

"The crisis serves to weaken a prime minister who does not have the full support
of his own party due to the rise of Eurosceptics."

THE SUN

"Up Eurs" it said yesterday. "Bulldog PM sticks up for Britain." It speculated
on what may follow Cameron antagonising his EU peers.

DAILY MAIL

"The day he put Britain first", it said, above a picture of Cameron. Against
angry Eurocrats, he "defended British interests".

DAILY TELEGRAPH

"Cameron stands as the lone man of Europe," it said. It was a move back to
"splendid isolation" in Europe.

SHADES OF BLUE

Six Tories to watch on EU relations

ANDREW ROSINDELL

Dressed his bull terrier in a Union Jack waistcoat in the 2005 election. As
international director of the highly Eurosceptic European Foundation, he urged
Cameron, pre-summit, to show some "bulldog spirit" in Brussels.

Swivel-eyed rating: 5/5

BILL CASH

Grand old man of Tory Euroscepticism, who cut his teeth as ringleader of the
Maastricht treaty revolt that almost unseated John Major. Founded the European
Foundation in 1993. Certain to pounce on the latest twist to press the case for
change.

Swivel-eyed rating: 4/5

CHRIS HEATON HARRIS

Still a Eurosceptic, but the former MEP realises the value of EU links and
avoids intemperate criticism. Angered ardent Eurosceptics in May with a
watered-down motion supportive of Cameron before an EU summit on bailouts.

Swivel-eyed rating: 2/5

GEORGE EUSTICE

Former campaign director for the anti-euro "No" campaign and Ukip candidate,
he's a moderate who once stood for the European Parliament. Keen to protect the
City in the face of closer eurozone co-operation. Experience as Cameron aide
will ensure loyalty.

Swivel-eyed rating: 2/5

KEN CLARKE

Bogeyman of the Eurosceptic extremists, he has defied anti-Europe rhetoric since
helping Ted Heath win key votes on entry to the EEC. Now President of the
Conservative Europe Group. Cool response to Cameron veto underlines his
lingering threat to stability.

Swivel-eyed rating: 1/5

LORD (CHRIS) PATTEN

Urbane, sensible, Europhile Tory, and former European commissioner who shuns
Clarke's combative approach to Eurosceptics. Service in Brussels and Hong Kong
has given him a more rounded world-view than many of his colleagues.

Swivel-eyed rating: 0/5

THE NEED TO SPEND A PENNY

When the call of duty trumps the call of nature

If David Cameron showed any sign of discomfort as he sat around the table with
fellow EU leaders on Thursday night, the cause may not have been only an
increasing feeling of isolation: a source revealed that the Prime Minister was
"desperate for a pee" during the marathon dinner summit in the Justus Lipsius
building in Brussels.

It is understood that Mr Cameron used his full bladder as a device to keep him
focused for the nine-hour session. It's not the first time the PM has used this
rather unorthodox method. He did the same thing when he delivered his "no-notes"
make-or-break speech to his party conference in 2007, which stopped Gordon Brown
from calling a snap election and saved his own leadership.

He picked up the technique from watching a documentary that the BBC's Michael
Cockerell had made 10 years earlier about Enoch Powell (pictured). The veteran
broadcaster wrote: "I said to Powell that I had heard he always liked to make a
big speech on a full bladder. 'Absolutely,' he replied, 'you should do nothing
to decrease the tension before making a big speech. If anything you should seek
to increase it.'"

Other public figures have adopted their own methods. Alastair Campbell used a
bent-open paper-clip to prick his hand while giving evidence to the Foreign
Affairs select committee after the death of David Kelly in 2003. And David
Dimbleby hums to himself before he goes on air to stretch his vocal cords.

Jane Merrick

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday

SIR HUMPHREY WILL ALREADY BE FIGHTING THIS WITH EVERY FIBRE OF HIS BEING

LENGTH: 1174 words


DANIEL HANNAN

DENIS MacShane, the Brussels-friendly former Europe Minister, grasped the
implications immediately. 'There is now little point in Britain staying in the
EU,' he observed glumly.

Given how he and other Euro-enthusiasts have framed their argument over the past
20 years, it's hard to see how he could reach any other conclusion. Supporters
of closer union have always advanced an irreducible belief: Britain, they
argued, must always be present at the table when rules that affect us are
negotiated. There is, though, a flip side to that argument: If we can't be
present at the table, we shouldn't accept the rules.

No one in the British Government planned or expected the breakdown on Friday
morning. The Prime Minister had been keen to reach a deal. So keen, indeed, that
he had given up any notion of repatriating power. He had dropped the idea of
opting out of regulations on financial services. The only fig-leaf he held out
for was an assurance that the City of London wouldn't be specifically
disadvantaged by the new rules that the other leaders were asking him to agree.

Our Euro-fanatical Foreign Office mandarins were well satisfied. The PM had been
reduced to making a demand that was simply a restatement of the status quo.
Surely the other leaders would recognise a good deal when they saw one? Even
Nick Clegg was happy. It looked like an optical trick, a cover for the surrender
of massive new powers to the EU.

Yet, incredibly, Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel still weren't satisfied; and
there could be only one reason why. They really do have it in for the City,
which they think of as a parasitical growth which lures away their best and
brightest graduates every year.

Had they not wanted to maim our financial services industry Z which generates
nearly 12 per cent of all our tax revenues and is one of the few sectors with
the locomotive power to drag Britain back to growth Z they'd happily have given
David Cameron the assurances he sought.

Think through the implications for a moment. Our tactic of influencing from
within has ended in a total and spectacular failure. Despite our repeated
concessions Z and despite our having chipped in 612.5 billion to the Irish,
Greek and Portuguese bailouts to prop up a currency that we hadn't joined Z we
were none the less in a minority of one. Being proved right had made us more
resented than ever.

What clearer proof could there be that making concessions so as to win influence
in the EU doesn't work? The concessions are pocketed but the demands become
shriller.

Our Brussels officials will now be working furiously to reverse the decision, in
substance if not in theory. They will argue that, having made our point, we
should allow the eurozone states to use the institutions, mechanisms and
procedures of the EU to advance their aims.

The other countries won't want to start all over again, with a new legal basis,
new structures, new staff. Sir Humphrey will want to give them what they ask so
as to regain their good will and (more important, from his point of view) to
bring Britain back into their counsels.

This, though, is to miss the magnitude of what has happened. David Cameron
offered everything he could and was still spurned. He acted with courage and
patriotism in resisting the peer pressure that predominates on these occasions.
Sneakily to give way now would alienate all sides. If the other states want to
use EU structures, they will have to pay Britain's price; and that price should
be the repatriation of substantial powers.

A completely new entity is taking shape, based around what Herman Van Rompuy
calls 'European economic government', and JosŽ Manuel Barroso calls 'fiscal
federalism'. Let's call it the Fiscal Union, or FU. For that, indeed, must be
how it often seems to its constituent peoples.

You're Irish and you don't see why your taxes are going up to repay European
bankers and bondholders? FU! You're Italian and you're wondering why Brussels
has imposed a government on you that doesn't contain a single elected
politician? FU! You're Greek and you'd prefer a devaluation to the present
endless crisis? FU!

As the FU takes form, its members will want to start co-ordinating their
political as well as their economic affairs. Instead of having two parallel
systems in operation, they will want to shift competences from the EU to the FU.
Simply by refusing to take part, the United Kingdom could find itself recovering
its independence. The EU wouldn't break up, but it would be drained of power,
left as a kind of amplified free trade zone. Which is, of course, precisely what
most of us wanted all along.

Such an outcome, though, will require a sustained effort of will. The United
Kingdom will have to negotiate hard-headedly, facilitating a closer federation
on its doorstep in return for getting powers back.

Two domestic forces stand in the way of such an outcome. First, those Liberal
Democrats who, unlike Denis MacShane, won't accept the logic of this reverse.
Having assured us that we needed to sign up to everything or risk isolation,
they seem remarkably reluctant to accept that isolation has happened anyway.

This is because Europe, for them, isn't really an economic issue, or even a
political one, but a tribal one. It's not so much that they like the Brussels
system, it's that they dislike the people who oppose it. Hence the constant
complaints following the veto, from Lord Oakeshott, Lord Ashdown and the other
hoary-headed Lib Dem grandees about 'the influence of the Eurosceptics'. Having
defined the question in their own minds as a culture war between sensible
progressives and bigoted Blimps, they have become almost impervious to
developments on the ground.

STILL, what are they going to do about it? Opinion polls now show Nick Clegg
slugging it out with UKIP for third place. If he wants to walk out and prompt a
General Election, good luck to him.

The second and more serious obstacle in the way of a renegotiation is the civil
service Z and, in particular, its Brussels arm, UKREP. For these exquisitely
educated officials, exclusion from the top table is personal, not theoretical.
They will resist what they would regard as a downgrade with every fibre in their
being.

Then again, their advice has lost much of its lustre. Their strategy has again
and again proved detrimental to the national interest.

By contrast, the Prime Minister, having followed his instincts, finds himself in
a stronger and more popular position than at any time since the Election.

I hope that David Cameron, like Denis MacShane, follows through the logic of
what has happened. There is no future for Britain as a leader in the EU.

We can be a friend and sponsor to European integration, but our place is in the
wider world, exploiting the growing markets of developing and Anglosphere
nations, rediscovering the global vocation which our parents took for granted.

We are tied to peoples on every continent by custom and law, by affinity and
affection, by blood and speech. Let us raise our eyes to those older and more
distant horizons.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday

...AND MORE MISERY AS HE FACES LOSING TO UKIP

LENGTH: 215 words


Embattled Nick Clegg faces further trouble on Thursday with the threat of the
Liberal Democrats being beaten by anti-EU party UKIP in a key by-election.

Support for the pro-EU Lib Dems has collapsed in the Feltham and Heston
constituency in West London, according to a Mail on Sunday poll by Survation.

The Lib Dems have slumped to a dismal seven per cent, level-pegging with UKIP.
In last year's General Election, the Lib Dems received twice as many votes on 14
per cent, with UKIP on just two per cent.

It would be a major embarrassment for Mr Clegg if Lib Dem candidate Roger Crouch
is beaten by UKIP's Andrew Charalambous.

The poll slump could not have come at a worse time for Mr Clegg, who was left
reeling by David Cameron's decision to defy France and Germany and veto the EU
treaty change.

The Survation poll indicates that Labour leader Ed Miliband's candidate, wealthy
City accountant Seema Malhotra, is on course for a thumping victory over the
Conservatives. Labour support is on 53 per cent, a nine per cent increase since
the General Election, with the Tories on 29 per cent, down five per cent.

Survation interviewed 511 people by phone in Feltham and Heston between
Wednesday and Friday. One third of the survey was conducted after Mr Cameron
wielded the veto at the Brussels summit.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday

Rich and powerful feeding far right

BYLINE: John Millington

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 420 words


The extremist group, which has been cited by Norwegian mass murderer Anders
Behring Breivik as an inspiration and has links with anti-Islamic groups abroad,
pretends to be a grass-roots community organisation - but it has been funded by
millionaire Ann Marchini and former investment fund director Alan Ayling. The
aim of the pair was to influence and help shape the organisation to make it
appear more credible in the political arena. Ms Marchini operates a buy-to-let
empire in Highgate, London, and is believed to operate under a pseudonym -
although her lawyers deny this.

She is a member of the far-right British Freedom Party and friend of chairman
Paul Weston. The EDL is looking to stand in elections in the near future and Ms
Marchini is believed to have been trying to foster closer links between the two
organisations. Mr Ayling, who has been operating under the name Alan Lake, used
to be director of Pacific Capital investment and is an IT expert. He was
questioned last year by Scotland Yard detectives into possible links he had to
Breivik. Mr Ayling denied any such links and said he believed the brutal
massacre to be "wrong." He said on Norwegian immigration policy: "You let
dangerous people who will not share your values, who will destroy your society
and take your freedom. You will have to pay the price for that." Former UK
Independence Party candidate Mr Weston tried to distance himself from the
situation, describing Mr Breivik as "a psychopathic lunatic." Speaking to the
Morning Star about the story which first appeared in the Sunday Times, Hope Not
Hate spokesman Matthew Collins pointed out that the EDL has established links
with the anti-Islamic "global crusader movement." "Alan Lake has become less
important, in terms of a global crusader movement," said Mr Collins. "The EDL
has now jumped into bed with Paul Weston - quite a wealthy man." Mr Collins said
he was not worried about the EDL standing in elections as it would "poll very
badly" and had less than 1,000 members - well down on the group's own official
estimates. But he said fascists and the far right in Britain had changed their
focus in recent years. "It's not about nazis and hating Jews," he said. "It is
about extremist Christian identity political types who see themselves as
crusaders against Islam. "With this unpleasant English nationalism - the EDL,
English Democrats and the British Freedom Party - chuck in this evangelical
hatred of Islam and it makes it difficult for traditional anti-fascists to deal
with."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Unmasked: wealthy backers behind far-right league;
A City investor and a property tycoon are trying to turn the English Defence
League from a rabble into a political force

BYLINE: Dipesh Gadher; Robin Henry; Mark Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1056 words


A PROPERTY tycoon and a Citybased financier quizzed by police over his links to
the gunman who slaughtered 69 people in Norway are exposed today as key figures
behind the rise of the far-right English Defence League (EDL).

A Sunday Times investigation has revealed that Ann Marchini, a mother from
Highgate, north London, and Alan Ayling, a former director of an investment
fund, have sought to mould the thuggish anti-Muslim group into a credible
political force.

They are both linked to the murky world of the online "counter-jihad" movement
from which Anders Behring Breivik drew ideological inspiration before committing
his massacre in Norway in July. They have remained in the shadows until now by
using aliases on the internet to mask their true identities.

Breivik repeatedly mentioned the EDL in his 1,600-page "manifesto" and once
belonged to an Oslo-based offshoot called the Norwegian Defence League.

The EDL, whose support has mushroomed since it was formed in Luton in 2009, has
organised a string of protests against what it perceives as the growing
"Islamisation" of Britain.

Many have descended into violence perpetrated by a hard core of football
hooligans.

However, the "brains" behind the group - which plans to field candidates at the
next council elections - come from a different background.

Marchini, who is thought to be in her fifties, runs a buyto-let property empire
from her £1.6m mock-Tudor home in Highgate, a leafy suburb usually associated
with liberals. Marchini, who is believed to be divorced from an Italian banker,
operates under at least two aliases: "Gaia", the Earth goddess from Greek
mythology, and "Dominique Devaux".

She is said to have helped organise a "pivotal" meeting between EDL figures and
antijihad thinkers in July 2009 and recently attended a discussion where the EDL
agreed to consider an electoral pact with the right-wing British Freedom party
(BFP).

A report by Gaia on the BFP website states that Stephen Lennon, the EDL leader,
"explained that the EDL need to move up a notch - they cannot go on forever
staging street demos. They are still widely perceived as a rabble, and as such
cannot possibly obtain funding or be taken seriously by the political class".

Marchini was photographed alongside Lennon, 28, at a farright demonstration this
year and the image was posted on the website of Hope Not Hate, an anti-fascist
group. Her name and address also appeared on a leaked list of EDL donors.

The 2009 EDL meeting took place at the £500,000 flat of Ayling in the Barbican
in central London. Lennon attended with two relatives from Luton.

Paul Ray, who claims to be a founder of the EDL, was also there. He says he
travelled to the venue from Highgate with Marchini, whom he knew at the time as
"Ann", "Gaia" or "Dominique". He says he had previously stayed for "a few
months" at one of her rental flats on British Street in Bow, east London.

Ray regards the Barbican meeting as "pivotal". "It was the key people being
brought together," he said. "It was bringing together the ideological and
political side with the boots on the ground."

Two days after the meeting, Ray received an email from "Dominique Devaux", using
the account "gaia2600@hotmail.com". "Still very interested in helping EDF [sic]
grow as a movement," it stated. It was signed off by "Ann".

Another email, seen by The Sunday Times, gives a mobile number used by Marchini
for letting her properties.

Ayling, 57, has been operating under the alias "Alan Lake". He is an IT expert
and was a director of Pacific Capital Investment Management until January this
year. The fund was dissolved in August.

Last month Ayling was interviewed by officers from Scotland Yard at the behest
of Norwegian police who were investigating whether he was a possible "mentor" of
Breivik.

Paal-Fredrik Kraby, an Oslo police prosecutor, confirmed that "the man known as
Alan Lake" had been questioned. "But his real name is not for us to give to the
press," he said.

In an interview with a Norwegian newspaper nine days ago, Lake denied having any
contact with Breivik. However, he admitted to having met a prolific anti-Islam
blogger called "Fjordman". "People ought to read him, he is good," Lake said.
Breivik named Fjordman 111 times in his manifesto.

In the same interview, Lake said Breivik was "wrong", but added the following
about Norway's immigration policies: "You let in dangerous people who do not
share your values, who will destroy your society and take your freedom. You will
have to pay the price for that."

When shown a photograph of Lake last week, two separate sources at the Barbican
confirmed that the man in the picture was Ayling. A man inside his flat denied
he was Ayling when contacted over the intercom and refused to step outside.
Ayling did not respond to a written list of questions.

Norwegian police say Lake was interviewed in London as a "witness". They have
also spoken at length to Ray, 35, who voluntarily flew to Oslo to try to clear
his name after speculation that he could have unwittingly inspired Breivik.

The Norwegian gunman, 32, who has been declared insane by psychiatrists, claimed
in his manifesto that he once had an English mentor called "Richard (the
Lionhearted)". Ray, a bornagain Christian who subsequently fell out with the
EDL, runs a blog called Lionheart.

When The Sunday Times first approached Marchini about her EDL links on November
30, she slammed the door shut on a reporter. Last week, she and her son, Paolo,
hung up at least three times when contacted by telephone.

On Friday, a lawyer for Marchini said: "Ann Marchini does not operate under the
alias of either Dominique Devaux or Gaia. She is a member of British Freedom,
but joined only to show support for her personal friend Paul Weston [the
chairman]."

Two names on Dominique Devaux's list of Facebook friends - Paolo and Bianca
Marchini - disappeared on the same day.

Weston, a former UK Independence party candidate, said he could not recall
befriending Devaux on Facebook.He described Breivik as "a psychopathic lunatic".

Lennon admitted knowing Marchini under the Devaux alias, but denied she was
influential.He said Lake was a "nutjob" and had not been involved with the EDL
"for ages". Lennon, a former member of the British National party, denied the
EDL was racist and said Breivik was "a monster".

Additional reporting: Mark Lewis

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ann Marchini, inset top, and Alan Ayling, inset left, are supporters of
the EDL, which was cited by killer Anders Behring Breivik, right
NICK WILKINSON/KEITH HAMMETT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SPLENDID ISOLATION;
A historic defence of UK interests or a strategic A historic defence of UK
interests or a strategic mistake? Isabel Oakeshott, Mark Hookham and mistake?
Isabel Oakeshott, Mark Hookham and Bojan Pancevski report on how David Cameron
Bojan Pancevski report on how David Cameron has set Britain on a new course in
Europe has set Britain on a new course in Europe PLUCKING US FROM THE MERKOZY
GRIP

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Mark Hookham; Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25,26,27

LENGTH: 4105 words


Bulgaria's prime minister, Boyko Borisov, is the butt of jokes all over the
Balkans, so perhaps it is not true - as an Italian newspaper reported yesterday
- that he stood up at the height of Europe's most dramatic latenight summit in
decades and asked permission to go to bed.

If he did, it was forgivable. He and the other 26 heads of government had dined
at 8pm on soup, cod and chocolate cake, and had been arguing since 9pm.

Now it was the early hours. The dreary Belgian chairing the discussion had not
even allowed a toaletna break. And the British prime minister was still
prattling on about financial services. Surely they were all there to save the
euro, not to discuss technical guarantees for the City of London?

Most of the leaders had no idea what David Cameron was on about. They were
"baffled", an official said later. The few whom he had briefed beforehand -
including Angela Merkel of Germany, Nicolas Sarkozy of France, and Mario Monti,
the technocrat running Italy - just wanted him to shut up.

Cameron did so, but not before jolting the weary assembly awake by vetoing a
treaty change that could have given Brussels huge new powers and bound Britain
into an ever more tightly knit European Union.

Tory Eurosceptics are cock-ahoop; but his use of the most powerful weapon in the
EU arsenal - the first time a British prime minister had wielded it since the UK
joined the old Common Market in 1973 - has caused a crisis of unprecedented
dimensions in London's relationship with the rest of the union.

Not only are all 17 members of the eurozone lined up against Britain but so too,
it seems, are the nine other noneuro members, such as Bulgaria, that Cameron had
hoped would sympathise with him.

The spectre that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has fought against for
decades - Britain alone, stripped of influence, yet subject to the decisions of
the rest of the EU - has been let loose in Brussels.

The weary summiteers are not the only people baffled by the arcana of this
sudden rupture in relations. The ramifications of the break are even more
bewildering.

It is no exaggeration to say that the crisis will be looked back on as the
moment when Britain turned its back on a united Europe. Of more immediate
importance, however, it threatens the survival of Cameron's coalition with the
Liberal Democrats.

Could he have chosen another way? Or was this the unavoidable consequence of the
financial crisis, which has forced European leaders to rip away the sticking
plaster that hid the rifts in the union for so long?

SHORTLY before catching his flight from RAF Northolt to Brussels on Thursday,
the prime minister found time to attend his son's school nativity play.

Sitting in the audience with the other parents, he watched proudly as
five-year-old Elwen, who was playing a mouse, delivered his two lines perfectly.
Cameron had spent the week rehearsing for one of the biggest tests of his
premiership, an EU summit billed as make or break for the beleaguered eurozone
and its currency after its tumultuous battering by the markets this year.

The EU's biggest players - Germany, France and Britain - brought contradictory
domestic agendas with them.

Merkel, top dog in the eurozone, wanted EU treaty revisions to enforce fiscal
discipline and reassure German voters that their money was not being wasted by
Greeks and Italians.

Sarkozy backed the discipline, but it is suspected that he was reluctant to
surrender more power to Brussels (and Germany) by treaty changes only months
before a presidential election. He seems to have been seeking to shift the blame
for thwarting Merkel on to Britain.

Cameron, as the leader of the most prominent non-eurozone country, had his own
priorities. He was under intense pressure from his backbenchers, 80 of whom had
made the strength of their hostility to Brussels all too plain this autumn when
they defied orders to vote against a referendum on EU membership.

He was ready to go into battle with Germany and France to protect the City of
London's financial services industry, which generates 10% of British GDP. He
hoped to extract new safeguards in return for agreeing the fiscal reforms that
Merkel and Sarkozy wanted.

Accompanying him on the flight were Ed Llewellyn, his chief of staff; Gaby
Bertin, press secretary; Liz Sugg, head of planning and operations; Sir Jon
Cunliffe, another key Downing Street aide; and John Casson from the Foreign
Office.

Cunliffe was a key figure. He made his name as a hard-nosed Treasury official
who was close to Gordon Brown and was viewed with suspicion among pro-European
Blairites. He was seen as playing a key role in Brown's battle to keep Britain
out of the euro.

He has been the prime minister's adviser on Europe and global issues since 2007
and will become the UK's permanent representative to the EU in the new year. He
would have helped draw up the tactics for the government's "sherpas", the
officials who open the initial discussions and lay the groundwork in the days
before the summit.

Strapped into the six-seater bound for Brussels, Cameron could have been
forgiven for feeling queasy. With gale force winds battering Britain, it was an
alarmingly rocky ride and the lurching of the tiny aircraft made it difficult to
focus on his thick sheaf of briefing notes.

After the turbulent flight - some of the party wryly wondered whether they would
live long enough to deliver their strategy - Cameron landed in Brussels at
6.10pm and was whisked to the cavernous Justus Lipsius building, the
headquarters of the Council of the European Union.

After last-minute preparations with UK officials, the prime minister held a
brief meeting with Monti, the new Italian prime minister, where he explained his
predicament, as paraphrased by the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, along
the lines of: "Dear Mario, if I don't bring home something for the City I'll
find myself without a job.

"I have to have something in return for my signature on the new rules for the
euro," he added, indicating that if he simply signed up to treaty change without
getting anything back, he would face "big internal problems".

His next appointment was with Merkel and Sarkozy in the French delegation room.
Flanked by Llewellyn, Cunliffe and William Hague, the foreign secretary, Cameron
was in cordial but determined mood. Over the next 45 minutes, he spelt out what
his red lines would be at the dinner that night, when the main negotiations
would take place.

In return for allowing the eurozone to create a new fiscal union under the
Lisbon treaty, the British team demanded two protocols: one to preserve the
single market and a second to protect the City of London from excessive EU
regulations.

"Our demands were very reasonable. It's not like we were going over the top or
being ridiculous. If we didn't get it, we knew we wouldn't agree the treaty
change," said a No 10 source.

One of Cameron's key requirements was protection from EU regulation of
London-based US financial institutions that do not trade with the rest of
Europe. Another was that UK banks be allowed to have higher capital
requirements.

He also stressed the importance of blocking the European central bank from
stipulating that all trading denominated in euros should be cleared in the
eurozone and not in British banks.

Cameron wanted a guarantee that any beefing up of European financial regulations
would need a unanimous vote by EU leaders. But Sarkozy, who likes to blame lax
financial services regulation for the 2008 credit crunch, refused to budge.

The meeting broke up without any sign of an agreement. UK officials later
admitted they knew from this moment that Britain was heading for a showdown.

According to one report yesterday, Merkel and Sarkozy had agreed on their stance
during a meeting of the centre-right European People's party in Marseilles which
Cameron (who pulled the Tories out of the party two years ago) did not attend.

It was also reported that British diplomats were instructed not to brief other
delegations at the Brussels summit about Cameron's position in advance, in case
it was leaked to the press. As a result, said the Financial Times, French and
German officials began briefing that Cameron wanted a full opt-out for Britain's
financial services from the EU's internal market rules, a gross exaggeration.

After his meeting with "Merkozy", as the Merkel-Sarkozy axis is known, the
French began to turn the screws, briefing that Cameron was acting unreasonably.
He wanted something for nothing, they said. A French source compared him to "a
man who goes to a wifeswapping party without his wife". One EU official
described the "extraordinary" animosity shown by the French towards the UK:
"They are presenting Cameron as a wrecker."

The British appeared taken aback at the ferocity of the attacks. "I wouldn't
necessarily believe all the briefings you are getting," one official urged a
throng of reporters. As the 27 heads of state filed into dinner, the scene was
set for a historic confrontation. The plates were cleared away and the leaders
began to discuss the tortuous detail of what would be included in the new fiscal
union - but, crucially, not how it would be implemented. For hour after hour,
they skirted around the main issue.

They were on their own but not exactly cosy. Aides listened in adjoining rooms
and simultaneous translators coped with the multitude of languages.

At about midnight, Merkel and Sarkozy reportedly took Cameron aside for a
meeting. They were all smiles when they returned to the plenary session.

At 2.30am the shadow boxing ended and the talks entered a pivotal stage. Cameron
set out his demands again. He made it clear that he was effectively threatening
a veto: Britain would block a treaty covering all 27 states if his concessions
were not met. His speech was listened to in silence.

A debate started as to whether Britain should be accorded special status within
the single market and granted its own tailor-made package of concessions. Herman
van Rompuy, the former Belgian prime minister who chairs the summits as
president of the European Council, asked Cameron whether he would accept a
solution without a treaty change. Cameron reportedly refused and said he would
sign nothing at all without the safeguards he needed.

His refusal to compromise appears to have been a tipping point and the room
turned against him. According to insiders, the French president chided him:
"David, you need to get serious."

Sarkozy reportedly told Cameron: "I understand you and I understand your
problems, we all respect you; but you have to understand that here the future of
Europe is at stake. And there is no question of a transfer of sovereignty. . ."
He was later heard complaining that he was "sick" of Cameron criticising the
euro.

As Sarkozy subsided - and Merkel sat silent and motionless like a sphinx -
Cameron's argument became more inflexible. It was quickly clear that he had
failed to win over his fellow leaders: 23 said they would ignore the British
veto and negotiate a new pact outside the Lisbon treaty, the EU's core charter
signed two years ago.

After a five-minute break at 3.30am - during which Cameron touched base with
George Osborne, the chancellor - the meeting moved on to discuss how an
agreement would be formed without Britain.

"Merkozy" had prevailed: Cameron would not be granted safeguards for the City,
Europe was recast and Britain was left facing unprecedented isolation from the
deepening European project.

BY dawn the meeting was breaking up and Cameron and Merkel found themselves in
the lift together. The atmosphere was not warm, but the small talk was cordial.
Downstairs, Sarkozy was already playing to the gallery, staging a press
conference in which he lambasted Cameron for making "unacceptable" demands.

At 6.50am, Cameron called Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, before
collapsing into bed. The full implications of what he had done were just
beginning to become apparent.

He was woken only 85 minutes later and wolfed down a hearty English breakfast of
bacon and scrambled eggs, plus several cups of black coffee.

By then, other EU members were making their disdain for his handling of events
clear and delivering a blunt verdict on Britain's new position in Europe.

Elmar Brok, a senior MEP from Merkel's Christian Democratic Union and her
closest ally in the European parliament, described it as "a total, self-imposed
isolation".

She said witheringly: "It cannot be good for the UK prime minister to wait in
the corridor while the other 26 leaders are discussing pressing issues, and this
is what it is going to be like in the future." Even van Rompuy put the boot in.

A source close to him said: "This is a defeat for UK diplomacy. You cannot
simply come up with such conditions on the day of the summit and expect to be
taken seriously. Despite earlier statements by Cameron and various British
ministers, the UK demands had nothing to do with the urgent measures to rescue
the common currency."

A common theme was that Britain had overplayed its hand. "The veto is a powerful
bargaining chip until you have used it; but Cameron used it and got nothing in
return. He asked for safeguards but got none and he even extracted himself from
the decision-making process," said a senior EU official.

The three states that had not immediately agreed to the deal - Sweden, Hungary
and the Czech Republic - said they would take the agreement to their own
parliaments.

If these "maybe" states all win domestic backing, Britain will be left
completely isolated.

Privately, some British officials admitted to being surprised - and concerned -
at the outcome of the talks.

"It's not the optimum outcome in terms of UK influence," said one.

"Perhaps with hindsight we pushed too hard."

Other observers are more sanguine, pointing out that as one of the three biggest
EU economies, one of only two military powers in Europe and the EU member state
with the biggest financial sector, the UK is far too powerful to be ignored.

"As a baseline position, Britain has a lot of influence," said a spokesman at
the Open Europe think tank. He pointed out that plenty of EU countries had
annoyed their fellow member states before and suffered no long-term
repercussions.

There has never been a split like this before, however. The new "eurozone-plus"
group will meet once a month, ostensibly to discuss saving the eurozone, but in
practice to talk about anything they want and present their decisions as faits
accomplis to Britain. Under the Lisbon treaty most decisions within the EU,
including the regulation of financial services that is crucial to the City, are
made by a qualified majority vote.

London is likely to fight back by insisting that the EU's institutions cannot be
commandeered by the new grouping as it would be acting outside the Lisbon
treaty.

Cameron's Liberal Democrat coalition partners, viscerally pro-European, are
appalled by this outcome of the Brussels summit.

Vince Cable, the business secretary, said yesterday: "I simply don't buy the
view that the British national interest is synonymous with banking and financial
services. I don't agree with it being given such central importance."

It drives an even deeper wedge between Clegg, the party leader, who had signed
up to Cameron's strategy, and his disillusioned troops. "On core 'liberal'
policies, from the NHS to tuition fees, the party leadership has shown contempt
for the grassroots," said the editor of The Liberal magazine, Benjamin Ramm.

"Either the Liberal Democrats have capitulated - once again - on a key issue or
the party's influence in government is so limited that it does not justify a
formal coalition."

Lib Dems on the left of the party made no attempt to conceal their emotions.
Lord Oakeshott, the former Treasury spokesman, called it a "black day for
Britain".

Chris Davies, a senior Lib Dem MEP, said: "David Cameron has today relegated
Britain to the second division of Europe. He has guaranteed that we will lose
our influence at the top decision-making table over issues that are bound to
affect us.

"Imagine the scene in the soulless Council of Ministers building, in Brussels.
Around the table, amid the detritus of a dinner that had gone on far too long,
were 26 leaders working to protect Europe''s economy - plus one, who seems to
have been interested mainly in keeping Tory Europhobic knives out of his back."

Those Tory sceptics believe this is the beginning of the end for Britain's
membership of the European Union - or at least the beginning of radical changes
to the balance of power between Westminster and Brussels.

On Friday, Cameron hosted a dinner at Chequers for about 20 back-bench Tory MPs.
His guests were served roast beef. As he entered the dining room, they greeted
him with "huge applause and a simultaneous banging of the table.

Among the guests was Andrew Rosindell, who on Wednesday had urged the prime
minister to show some "bulldog spirit" during the negotiations.

"He has made history and we are all very delighted with what he has achieved,"
Rosindell said yesterday. "I said to him, 'You really have shown the bulldog
spirit, prime minister, and we are proud of what you have done'. He has done
exactly what Margaret Thatcher and Winston Churchill would have done."

Other Tories are not so ebullient, fearing that the "phobes" are already
preparing their next line of attack to keep the anti-EU momentum going - and
that it will take over the political agenda.

As one Conservative MP put it wearily: "Give them an inch, and they'll demand a
mile."

The future starts now, Editorial, page 28 Be brave, PM, you're the Iron Man now,
Martin Ivens, page 29

A blinder or a blunder?

THE PRO CAMP

He has made history and we are all very delighted with what he has achieved

Andrew Rosindell, Tory MP for Romford

He played a blinder. I think David Cameron has done very, very well to assert
Britain's interests, to defend London and British industry and to put a line in
the sand

Boris Johnson, mayor of London

The UK could not possibly have signed the treaty on offer. Doing so would have
led to chaos

Greg Mulholland, Tory MP for Leeds North West

Britain's veto was of huge importance. It is the first shift away from the
ratchet effect of European integration for many years

Robert Halfon, Tory MP for Harlow

THE ANTI CAMP

David Cameron has mishandled these negotiations spectacularly Ed Miliband,
Labour party leader

It's a black day for Britain . . . David Cameron has made a very bad mistake . .
. he has shot Britain and himself in the foot

Lord Oakeshott, Liberal Democrat peer

There will be a huge price to pay and . . . the foreign policy priorities of
this country for the past 40 years [have] gone down the plughole in a single
night

Lord Ashdown, former Lib Dem leader

IN EUROPE

I really don't believe David Cameron was ever with us at the [negotiating] table
Angela Merkel, chancellor of Germany

It was a mistake to let the British into the EU

Alexander Graf Lambsdorff, head of Germany's Free Democratic party

It seems suicidal to me Jean-Marie Colombani, editor of Slate.fr and former
editor of Le Monde

Bye Bye Britain Der Spiegel

IN THE CITY

[Britain is] as isolated as somebody who refused to join the Titanic just before
it sailed

Terry Smith, chief executive of Tullett Prebon, the interdealer broker

Sunshine or storms: how events could pan out

1 BEST HOPE

The deal cobbled together by EU leaders last week succeeds in staving off a
collapse in the euro and, together with heavy intervention by the European
Central Bank, buys time

David Cameron, emboldened by his veto, negotiates a looser relationship with the
EU - membership of the European Economic Area - which results in powers being
repatriated to Britain and relieves British business of much of the burden of
existing EU regulation

Other countries in Europe, recognising they cannot continue to cripple their
firms with ever-increasing employment and other legislation, follow suit. This
bonfire of controls revives business confidence and spurs growth in Europe

Cameron's veto, comes to be seen as a wake-up call for Europe. It is also a
moment of liberation for Britain. The UK becomes a vibrant hub operating on the
edge of Europe but with its focus increasingly on the fast-growing economies of
the East

2 RAINY SPELLS AND MORE MUDDLE

The eurozone crisis rumbles on, despite a series of rescues mounted by EU
leaders with the help of the International Monetary Fund. The eurozone goes into
a mild recession and suffers prolonged Japanese-style stagnation

Britain does less badly, thanks to a competitive pound and the Bank of England
pumping money into the system, but growth is also weak. Disagreements over the
EU make relations within the coalition increasingly fractious and the government
does not last until 2015

The Tories emerge with a wafer-thin majority in a general election but are
repeatedly battered by an opposition of Labour and Liberal Democrats critical
over the austerity programme

Britain continues as an EU member without much influence. Key decisions,
including much tougher regulation of the City, are taken by continental
countries using qualified majority voting. Britain is in limbo: in Europe but
unable to shape it

3 GALE FORCE

Markets give short shrift to the deal agreed by eurozone leaders and the euro
comes back under intense pressure. Without an adequate fund to prop it up,
Greece is pushed out of the single currency and Portugal and Spain soon follow

Losses spread through the banking system, forcing Britain to pump money into the
banks, as in 2008, to keep them alive. Europe slides into recession, and so does
Britain. Unemployment is pushed up to 3.5m and George Osborne is forced to
abandon his deficit-cutting strategy

The coalition falls apart but the resulting election is inconclusive. The
Liberal Democrats offer to do a deal with Labour but end up throwing in their
lot with the Tories again. The coalition is deeply divided but has little choice
but to try to govern

The government is directionless and divided. Seen from America and the Far East,
Britain is stuck in a cycle of decline. This means decreasing global power,
including a loss of a seat on the United Nations security council and on the key
governing committees on other international bodies

4 MELTDOWN

Not only does the deal to rescue the euro fail, but it results in the break-up
of the eurozone, with countries in a desperate scramble to get out and
re-establish national currencies

In the resulting pandemonium, nations suffer slumps, hyperinflation, or both.
Most western banks are rendered insolvent by their losses on eurozone debt.
Cameron's veto on a new EU treaty, to the extent it is remembered, is partly
blamed for hampering the eurozone's rescue efforts

But Britain and Europe are locked in an economic death spiral, a devastating and
prolonged downturn on a par with America in the Great Depression of the 1930s.
Political tensions rise dramatically, with a strong rise for the far right,
frequent terrorist attacks and the growing threat of war in Europe

The rest of the world is hit hard by the European crisis but recovers. Europe,
labouring under huge debts and sky-high unemployment, becomes an economic
backwater. Britain., is no exception. China offers the equivalent of Marshall
aid to try to help Europe out of the mire

What has the EU ever done for me?

SOME GOOD THINGS. . .

The principle of equal pay for men and women was enshrined in the Treaty of
Rome. In 1975, a European directive gave employees the right to go to court if
they were paid less because of their gender

Travelling and living abroad within the EU has become easier: nearly a third of
a million people drawing a British pension live in other European Union
countries

All full-time employees in the EU must get at least four weeks a year of paid
holiday. In the United States, two weeks is the norm

EU bureaucracy has provided endless material (not always accurate) for tabloid
newspapers and stand-up comedians, much of it to do with absurd regulations

... AND SOME BAD

European bureaucracy costs money: the 2011 EU budget is $126 billion and Britain
contributed $12.9 billion. Last month, EU civil servants, who already enjoy low
rates of tax, threatened to strike because they were told they should work more
than 37.5 hours a week and could no longer retire at 58

The euro. Well, lots of people thought it was a good idea at the time. . .

EU rules mean millions of perfectly good fish are caught, then thrown away. Ask
Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall

Every time something goes wrong, we have to put up with UKIP's Nigel Farage
barking at the camera and looking smug

'' A FRENCH SOURCE COMPARED CAMERON TO A MAN WHO GOES TO A WIFE-SWAPPING PARTY
WITHOUT HIS WIFE

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MARK MATYSIAK/ALAMY
Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel are planning even closer integration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday

DAILY MAIL COMMENT

LENGTH: 630 words


A day for Britain to salute Mr Cameron

IT is a watershed moment in the history of Britaina€[TM]s often tortured
relationship with Europe. For decades, with the honourable exception of Mrs
Thatcher, our political leaders shamefully surrendered ever more of our
sovereignty to Brussels despite the growing anger of the British public.

However, in a display of enormous political courage, David Cameron yesterday
finally said no to the European elite a€" vetoing plans for a treaty that
included an EU-wide tax on financial transactions, which would have badly
hobbled the City of London.

Today the Mail salutes Mr Cameron for his courageous leadership and resolve in
standing up to Angela Merkel and, in particular, to the preposterous Nicolas
Sarkozy, whose country desperately clings to Germanya€[TM]s skirt to hide the
fact its own banks are in a perilous state.

The howls of protest from President Sarkozy (and his refusal to shake the Prime
Ministera€[TM]s hand) speak volumes about the petulance of the eurocrats who
fail to get their own way.

But make no mistake: for Mr Cameron the battle is only just beginning and he
will need enormous strength in coming weeks.

By dawn yesterday, the obsessively pro-European BBC a€" which initially treated
Britaina€[TM]s veto with funereal mourning a€" was spewing out apocalyptic
warnings about the UK being in parlous a€˜isolationa€[TM] on the
a€˜marginsa€[TM] of the EU.

Mr Cameron must stand up to his chattering-class critics a€" and make clear that
there is now a wonderful opportunity for Britain gradually to loosen itself from
the shackles of a statist, over-regulated, anti-democratic, corrupt EU.

While our neighbours bind themselves ever closer to the EU with red-tape and
sacrifice their democracies, the UK a€" while retaining a strong relationship
with Europe a€" should also have the confidence to look in addition to the rest
of the world as trading partners.

The bluster of Mr Camerona€[TM]s European critics is just that. For years, the
EUa€[TM]s share of world trade has been shrinking and the idea that it can stop
doing business with Britain and its 60million citizens is a nonsense.

Which brings us to the Coalition. Despite Nick Clegg personally approving the
use of the veto, Lib Dems are in simmering revolt and questions will inevitably
be asked over whether the Coalition can survive.

Mr Cameron must stare them down. He can do so in the knowledge that the Lib Dems
would be annihilated in any election; the polls show a huge majority of Britons
want to re-negotiate our relationship with the EU; and that the appeal of UKIP
(whose votes probably cost the Tories the last election) has been diminished.

And what of the euro? Amid yesterdaya€[TM]s extraordinary political drama,
ita€[TM]s easy to forget that this weeka€[TM]s summit was supposed to be the
last chance to save the single currency. In fact, very little was achieved.

The fundamental weakness of the one-size-fits-all euro remains, while Germany
still refuses to allow the European Central Bank to become a lender of last
resort to help keep the likes of Greece solvent.

Nor are there any guarantees that, once they recognise they are being asked to
hand over control of their budgets to Germany and an unaccountable Brussels
cabal, the people of Europe a€" some of whom, such as the Irish, are
constitutionally entitled to a referendum a€" will agree to the terms of
yesterdaya€[TM]s a?˜accorda€[TM].

Nobody should be wishing for the euro to implode. The short-term implications
would be extremely painful.

But, as Dominic Sandbrook argues on these pages, pulling out of the euro could
be the salvation of many nations.

One thing is certain: Mr Camerona€[TM]s courage and leadership yesterday show
that, while desiring a strong relationship with our EU partners, Britain can
still control her own destiny.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday

LENGTH: 161 words


UKIP CHIEFa€[TM]S BLUSTER

THE UK Independence Party tried to put a brave face on the outcome of the
Brussels summit, which could undermine its own electoral appeal.

Leader Nigel Farage acknowledged it was a€˜tempting to say well done David
Cameron for standing up for British interestsa€[TM] a€" but he insisted the
Prime Minister had a€˜gained nothinga€[TM].

He said it was clear that Tory efforts to repatriate powers from Brussels had
now a€˜dieda€[TM].

UKIP has prospered in recent years by attacking the Conservatives from the right
on Europe. Mr Camerona€[TM]s bold decision to veto further EU integration
involving Britain is likely to shore up Tory support.

But Mr Farage said the move was likely to increase public demand for a
referendum on whether Britain should remain in the EU at all.

He added: a€˜The real debate on the European Union in Britain is about to begin.
David Camerona€[TM]s actions last night marked the beginning of the end of
Britaina€[TM]s membership of this union.a€[TM]

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Town's lights are 'disgrace';
A dim view

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 172 words


Aylesbury's Christmas lights display was described by residents as an
embarrassment to the town because so many were faulty.

The display cost nearly £27,000 but the malfunctions left reindeer with only one
antler and one leg, a Father Christmas without a face and one sign describing
the Buckinghamshire town as "a great lace to be".

"They are terrible," said Barbara Murphy, 64, a resident. "Half the lights don't
work, which makes some of the characters more scary than festive. They're more
likely to scare children than fill them with joy."

Chris Adams, a UK Independence Party member of Aylesbury Vale district council,
described the lights as a disgrace. "They seem to be a mere afterthought and
look as though they have been stuck up year on year, with little thought given
to how they look," he said.

Brian Roberts, a cabinet member for civic amenities at the council, said
contractors had been working on the lights and the majority of the faults had
been rectified. "We expect the remaining few to be repaired shortly," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEWSTEAM.CO.UK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               December 10, 2011
                                 First Edition

Cameron delights Tories but leaves Lib Dems unhappy;
COALITION

BYLINE: Oliver Wright WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 537 words


Conservative MPs yesterday reacted with delight to David Cameron's decision to
veto plans for an EU-wide treaty change - believing it will eventually force
Britain to split further from eurozone countries.

Prominent eurosceptics believe the move by the eurozone countries to go outside
the legal framework of the EU and to set up a core fiscal union will undermine
the existing union.

The Eurosceptic Tory MP Bill Cash said: "We are now embarked on a very serious
path towards renegotiating in a fundamental way our treaty relationship with the
European Union.

"The Germans and the French precipitated this with their demands. Now, David
Cameron quite rightly has said 'No'. There is a real question, however, about
the way in which we go forward from here."

Tory MP Bernard Jenkin, pictured, said Britain would need to look again at the
status of the EU. "This is a very big change to the European Union," he said.
"This is the moment when we have to start completely renegotiating our
relationship. We are going to be a satellite on the edge of what is going to be
an economic superpower. We cannot remain in the treaties as currently
constructed."

David Davis, who contested the leadership with David Cameron did not rule out
exiting the EU. "We are seeing a new balance of power in Europe arising out of
the eurozone crisis," he said.

Mr Cameron's decision effectively to exclude Britain from negotiations on a new
treaty caused consternation amongst pro-Europeans.

Liberal Democrat peer Lord Oakeshott accused him of putting the interests of the
City above the wider economy.

"It is a black day for Britain and Europe. We are now in the waiting room while
critical decisions are being taken," he said.

"With the western economies and our banking system on the edge of a cliff, we
should not be putting special pleading for interests in the City of London above
our vital national interest of working closely together with Germany and France
to keep our economy and jobs all over Britain safe." Liberal Democrat MEP Chris
Davies said Mr Cameron had betrayed Britain. "Far from keeping Britain strong,
Cameron has ensured that we will lose our influence at the top table," he said.

Labour MP Denis MacShane said: "Europe's future will be settled without us. The
17 plus 6 will decide new rules which will govern trade. Britain will have to
comply or give up market access."

Blue Moods

Bill Cash

A Eurosceptic, he suggested Mr Cameron was embarking on a "very serious,
responsible path towards renegotiating our relationship with the EU".

David Davis

Both a Eurosceptic and a Camosceptic, urged PM to be as "robust" as Margaret
Thatcher in recasting EU relations.

George Eustice

Has been vehement that Britain must protect its financial services sector in
face of closer eurozone co-operation. Will be pleased about Mr Cameron's
position.

Iain Duncan Smith

One of the biggest Eurosceptics in the Cabinet, he will be pleased by the
British approach.

Owen Paterson

Said yesterday if there was a new eurozone bloc created "there will have to be"
a referendum on British membership. Hard to see Mr Cameron agreeing.

Nigel Farage

Stance is no good for his UK Independence Party, which tries to present Tories
as giving in to the Lib Dems on Europe.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 10, 2011 Saturday 12:56 AM GMT

The EU leaves Britain;
UK isolated after Cameron blocks EU-wide treaty change

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: HEI-FI-NEWS

LENGTH: 1494 words


Britain was left on the margins of the European Union last night after the
biggest split in its 54-year history. "It is the beginning of the end for
Britain's membership," one EU source predicted.

The European leaders' summit ended in acrimony after David Cameron vetoed a new
treaty to rescue the ailing euro and all other 26 EU members looked set to go
ahead without him, leaving the UK in a minority of one.

The Prime Minister forced the 17 nations in the single currency to create a
"treaty outside the EU treaty" to enforce budgetary discipline and prevent a
repeat of the eurozone debt crisis. The other nine nations who are outside the
euro deserted Britain and expressed their desire to join the "euro-plus" group.

Mr Cameron's veto, the first time a British Prime Minister has deployed one to
block an EU treaty, came after he failed to win safeguards for the City of
London. His unexpectedly tough stance delighted Conservative Eurosceptics but
worried his Liberal Democrat Coalition partners, the most pro-European of
Britain's main parties. Tory MPs called for a "new relationship" with the EU. A
referendum on the UK's relationship with Europe is, however, unlikely before the
next general election, as the Liberal Democrats could block it. But Mr Cameron
will now come under immense pressure to include one in the Tory manifesto.

The Prime Minister insisted last night that Britain's membership of the EU is
"good for us" and that - unlike some hardline sceptics - he did not want the UK
to end up like Norway, part of the single market but with no say over its rules.
"Of course this does represent a change," Mr Cameron said. "But the core of the
relationship - the single market, the trade and the investment, the growth, the
jobs - that remains as it was."

He insisted Britain's influence in the EU would be maintained and denied his
actions had paved the way for British withdrawal.

Other European leaders claimed Mr Cameron's tactics had backfired. "This is
going to cost the UK dearly," said one EU official. "It has antagonised
everyone." Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, said: "I really don't believe
David Cameron was ever with us at the table. We're very pleased with the result.
Yesterday was no weak compromise for the euro."

However, there are fears in the British Government that the euro stabilisation
measures agreed at the summit will get the thumbs-down when the financial
markets open on Monday. That would mean the crisis is not over - and that a
disorderly break-up of the euro could yet plunge Britain into a prolonged
recession.

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, defended Mr Cameron's stance but later
acknowledged the disquiet in his own party by saying: "I think any Eurosceptic
who might be rubbing their hands in glee about the outcome of the summit should
be careful what they wish for, because there is an increased risk of a two-speed
Europe in which Britain's position becomes more marginalised, and that would be
bad for growth and jobs."

The summit was a clear victory for Nicolas Sarkozy, the French President, who
had wanted a new treaty based on the 17-member eurozone. Six of the "outs"
joined the intergovernmental agreement immediately and three others - Sweden,
Hungary and the Czech Republic - look likely to follow suit.

A prolonged legal wrangle is in prospect over whether the "euro-plus" bloc can
use EU institutions such as the European Commission and the European Court of
Justice. Mr Cameron is adamant that they cannot, but his line was seen as
untenable.

Mr Cameron insisted he had followed a "combined position" agreed by Tories and
Liberal Democrats.

Guy Verhofstadt, former Belgian PM, said: "It was not wise of Cameron. He's
putting himself outside of the club and this club is his main trade partner."

Good News or Bad: Market Reactions

Nikhil Kumar

European agreement on plans for deeper economic integration lifted the mood
across the markets yesterday. The FTSE 100 was almost 1 per cent higher as
traders in the City digested the UK's decision to steer clear of the new plans.

On the Continent, the German market was up by 2 per cent, while Italian stocks
rose by more than 3 per cent and Spanish shares jumped by over 3 per cent,
relieved at the long-awaited deal.

For And Against:

David Cameron's strategy has let Britain down... Britain this morning is more
isolated than at any point in the 35 years of British membership of Europe."

Douglas Alexander, shadow Foreign Secretary

"The demands Britain made for safeguards ... were modest and reasonable. They
were safeguards for the single market, not just the UK."

Nick Clegg, Deputy Prime Minister

"Outcome at last night's EU summit was a sign of weakness from David Cameron -
why did he fail to build alliances before the summit?"

Ed Miliband, Labour leader (on Twitter)

"They've committed to giving up more national control over their budgets. It is
very sensible to stand apart from that."

William Hague, Foreign Secretary

"David Cameron has played a blinder.... Everybody's desperate to save the euro,
but [these measures] would mean a quite unacceptable loss of national
sovereignty."

Boris Johnson, Mayor of London

"We finish this summit with Cameron having gained nothing, with the prospect of
us repatriating powers having disappeared completely and with the City of
London, that he sought to protect, now more vulnerable than it has ever been."

Nigel Farage, Ukip leader

"If the attitude of the French was as exemplified by the statement made by
President Sarkozy, then I do not think David Cameron had any alternative."

Former Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell

"Cameron has achieved political and economic isolation for the UK whilst keeping
us in the Common Agricultural Policy, Working Time Directive and common
fisheries. Not an ounce, not a gram of leadership to his own party - just
surrender. So the euro crisis continues and we tip towards recession. The euro
is no stronger, so our economy will suffer. The others will unite, so we will be
excluded."

Chris Bryant, Labour MP, former Europe minister

"To have bargained away Britain's rights, freedoms and economic wellbeing would
have been unthinkable. If Merkel and Sarkozy hoped he would be craven enough to
do it, they know differently now."

Martin Callanan, Conservative leader in the European Parliament

"By seeking to protect bankers from regulation, [Cameron] has betrayed Britain's
real interests and done nothing in practice to help the City."

Chris Davies, Lib Dem MEP

"This is a very big change to the European Union. We are going to be a satellite
on the edge of what is going to be an economic superpower."

Bernard Jenkin, Conservative MP

"Looks like UK taxpayers will pay even more to bail out the eurozone in return
for little say in EU decisions that affect our economy."

Diana Johnson, shadow Home Office minister

"Cameron is to be warmly congratulated on reaching his goal of second-class
membership of the EU."

Andrew Duff, Liberal Democrat MEP

"David Cameron requested something we all considered unacceptable, a protocol...
allowing the UK to be exempted for a number of financial regulations."

Nicolas Sarkozy, French President

"This is a breakthrough to a union of stability. The fiscal union will be
developed step by step. We will use the crisis as a chance for a new beginning."

Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany

"The euro is a burning building with locked doors, and it seems to be a pretty
good idea to be out of that. Margaret Thatcher lost office just after she said
'no, no, no' and that's what David Cameron said yesterday. But one leader of
this country after another has found it difficult in Europe. The euro is going
to continue to be in deep trouble."

Michael Portillo

"We have two crises now. A still-unresolved eurozone crisis and a crisis of the
EU. Of the two, the latter is potentially the more serious one."

Wolfgang Münchau, Financial Times

"The majority of member states welcome this further step... Britain is outside
of decision making, Europe is united.",

Dalia Grybauskaite, President of Lithuania

"The battle lines are much clearer. David Cameron has sided with those who see
Britain becoming like Switzerland as a Good Thing."

Charlie Beckett, Polis

"I do not understand the British position. If they do it for popular votes but
losing influence then it's up to Britain to do so."

Elmar Brok, German MEP

"We are set on a path which involves fundamental renegotiation. And that in due
course will require a referendum - because it's about the British people, it's
about the electors, the people who send us to Parliament."

Bill Cash, Conservative MP

"The French and Germans, in slightly different ways, are trying to use this euro
crisis as a means to centralise even more power within the EU institutions."

Philip Booth, IEA

"Cameron made demands that were unacceptable, even to me. It will have an impact
on [Britain's] influence and this displeases me because it is good to have a
counter-weight to countries like France."

Mario Monti, Prime Minister of Italy

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

FOR AND AGAINST;
VIEW OF THE POLITICIANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 800 words


David Cameron's strategy has let Britain down... Britain this morning is more
isolated than at any point in the 35 years of British membership of Europe."

Douglas Alexander, shadow Foreign Secretary

"The demands Britain made for safeguards ... were modest and reasonable. They
were safeguards for the single market, not just the UK."

Nick Clegg, Deputy Prime Minister

"Outcome at last night's EU summit was a sign of weakness from David Cameron -
why did he fail to build alliances before the summit?"

Ed Miliband, Labour leader (on Twitter), left

"They've committed to giving up more national control over their budgets. It is
very sensible to stand apart from that."

William Hague, Foreign Secretary, right

"David Cameron has played a blinder.... Everybody's desperate to save the euro,
but [these measures] would mean a quite unacceptable loss of national
sovereignty."

Boris Johnson, Mayor of London

"We finish this summit with Cameron having gained nothing, with the prospect of
us repatriating powers having disappeared completely and with the City of
London, that he sought to protect, now more vulnerable than it has ever been."

Nigel Farage, Ukip leader, left

"If the attitude of the French was as exemplified by the statement made by
President Sarkozy, then I do not think David Cameron had any alternative."

Former Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, left

"Cameron has achieved political and economic isolation for the UK whilst keeping
us in the Common Agricultural Policy, Working Time Directive and common
fisheries. Not an ounce, not a gram of leadership to his own party - just
surrender. So the euro crisis continues and we tip towards recession. The euro
is no stronger, so our economy will suffer. The others will unite, so we will be
excluded."

Chris Bryant, Labour MP, former Europe minister, left

"To have bargained away Britain's rights, freedoms and economic wellbeing would
have been unthinkable. If Merkel and Sarkozy hoped he would be craven enough to
do it, they know differently now."

Martin Callanan, Conservative leader in the European Parliament

"By seeking to protect bankers from regulation, [Cameron] has betrayed Britain's
real interests and done nothing in practice to help the City."

Chris Davies, Lib Dem MEP, left

"This is a very big change to the European Union. We are going to be a satellite
on the edge of what is going to be an economic superpower."

Bernard Jenkin, Conservative MP, right

"Looks like UK taxpayers will pay even more to bail out the eurozone in return
for little say in EU decisions that affect our economy."

Diana Johnson, shadow Home Office minister

"Cameron is to be warmly congratulated on reaching his goal of second-class
membership of the EU."

Andrew Duff, Liberal Democrat MEP, right

"David Cameron requested something we all considered unacceptable, a protocol...
allowing the UK to be exempted for a number of financial regulations."

Nicolas Sarkozy, French President

"This is a breakthrough to a union of stability. The fiscal union will be
developed step by step. We will use the crisis as a chance for a new beginning."

Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany

"The euro is a burning building with locked doors, and it seems to be a pretty
good idea to be out of that. Margaret Thatcher lost office just after she said
'no, no, no' and that's what David Cameron said yesterday. But one leader of
this country after another has found it difficult in Europe. The euro is going
to continue to be in deep trouble."

Michael Portillo, right

"We have two crises now. A still-unresolved eurozone crisis and a crisis of the
EU. Of the two, the latter is potentially the more serious one."

Wolfgang Münchau, Financial Times

"The majority of member states welcome this further step... Britain is outside
of decision making, Europe is united."

Dalia Grybauskaite, President of Lithuania, right

"The battle lines are much clearer. David Cameron has sided with those who see
Britain becoming like Switzerland as a Good Thing."

Charlie Beckett, Polis, right

"I do not understand the British position. If they do it for popular votes but
losing influence then it's up to Britain to do so."

Elmar Brok, German MEP, right

"We are set on a path which involves fundamental renegotiation. And that in due
course will require a referendum - because it's about the British people, it's
about the electors, the people who send us to Parliament."

Bill Cash, Conservative MP

"The French and Germans, in slightly different ways, are trying to use this euro
crisis as a means to centralise even more power within the EU institutions."

Philip Booth, IEA

"Cameron made demands that were unacceptable, even to me. It will have an impact
on [Britain's] influence and this displeases me because it is good to have a
counter-weight to countries like France."

Mario Monti, Prime Minister of Italy, left

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Referendum? Not yet. Put it in the manifesto;
Brave and astute, David Cameron has regained his authority and kept the
coalition and his party together

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1187 words


In all that we do and say about Britain's relationship with our European
neighbours, we must never forget that this is really a story about our
neighbours' relationships with each other. The chances are that yesterday's new
accord between them will fail. In the mayhem that would follow, Britain's
particular location outside the stockade would cease to obsess even us British.

But it obsesses us this morning. And it's hard not to feel a sense of relief
that we do now know where we are. We're out of it. Whether we jumped or (as I
suspect) were pushed, our banishment is now a fact. Clarity is a good thing - a
small patch of clear sky in a storm that still looms - but we must not forget
the storm.

One should never entirely trust the British Government's version of events. Our
Prime Minister's demands look, on inspection, both stronger and weaker than
British and continental news media seem to imply. He was not, in fact, seeking a
British "opt-out" from financial regulation, but the retention by all national
governments of their supervision of individual businesses and of some national
rights over financial regulation.

Summit dinners don't occur in a vacuum. Through their own diplomatic channels,
Paris and Berlin will have known that it would have been utterly impossible for
David Cameron to back down on proposals that his own Chancellor had described as
a gun aimed at the heart of the City. And Mr Cameron will probably have known
that France and Germany would not give ground. It's hard to escape the
conclusion that both sides suspected a bust-up was coming and, having willed the
causes of the rift, must be said to have willed - even contrived - it.

For Nicolas Sarkozy, who does not strike most Anglo-Saxons as entirely sane,
this spat may have served as a kind of displacement activity in his continuing,
underlying and perhaps ultimately fatal tension with Angela Merkel. But France
is not Europe and Sarkozy is not France.

How much, though, did even the more sympathetic of Mr Cameron's fellow diners
really want us on board? I suspect this was the point when something gelled in
European minds; when our partners clarified and hardened their own understanding
that we British really do mean it about national sovereignty and clarified their
understanding too that if the eurozone is not to sink, they must mean it about
ever closer union. On either side, something could no longer be fudged.

Does Britain gain? Do the 26 gain? Does the single currency? It's still unclear.
There is only one immediate winner, and that is David Cameron's personal
authority as Prime Minister and as party leader. The fair-minded among his
critics in the Conservative Party should concede that he was both astute and
brave to limit his demands in Brussels this week.

Braver, in fact, than the sticking to them, which by the time he sat down to
dinner he had no choice but to do. What was really brave was over many months to
stand up to the unremitting pressure from the Eurosceptic wing of his party to
ratchet up the United Kingdom's demands and turn Eurosceptic wish lists into
non-negotiable British "red lines".

By resisting such sabre-rattling, Mr Cameron has looked weak, enduring jeers as,
at the dispatch box, he has burbled unspecifically about our resolve, carefully
refusing to define terms, seemingly preparing for another fudge, another
half-climbdown.

But this was astute. If you are heading into a likely bust-up, it matters
enormously that you don't appear to have been asking for too much. If the
British Prime Minister had gone to Brussels promising (as some Eurosceptics
openly urged) to fight for the immediate return of a whole swath of powers, he
would have come home looking (as some secretly hoped) ridiculous.

Instead he can now point out that it wasn't even the return of powers that he
was insisting upon, simply the retention of some that we already have. It's
always wise to make it look as if your adversary picked the fight. Tory
Eurosceptics tried to goad Mr Cameron into ignoring that wisdom.

Or some of them did. Eighty-one Tory MPs rebelled this autumn in the Commons
vote on a European referendum. It was a low point for the Prime Minister, and in
the lingering embarrassment afterwards a lazy habit of referring to "the 81" has
arisen, as though it were some kind of Tory voting bloc. It isn't. The so-called
rebels found themselves in the same lobby for many different reasons. Some were
hardly even Eurosceptics. Probably less than a fifth could be described as
do-or-die, death-or-glory Europhobes: the Irreconcilables.

Make no mistake, the irreconcilable rump does not want a satisfactory outcome
from any Euro summit. They would have been dismayed if Mr Cameron had got his
way. They want to see Britain humiliated because they want trouble. They only
want trouble. Their strategy will be to tie Mr Cameron down as Gulliver was
tied: stealthily, by thread upon thread of assurances and undertakings as every
EU-related issue they can find is whipped into a party squall. They ought to be
in UKIP and they know it, but prefer the security of a party that can get them
re-elected.

For once, and for a while, Mr Cameron now has the Irreconcilables on the back
foot. He's temporarily ahead of the game. Most of the 81 will be satisfied by
the summit's outcome and their party leader's performance, and many will be
delighted. This is the moment to get back and keep these MPs on board, to drive
in the wedge and to isolate the mutinous residue.

The Tory leadership should learn from the very mistake that continental
leaderships have made over the euro currency crisis this year: yielding always
enough to buy another fortnight, never enough to kill the speculation; never the
big bazooka.

Mr Cameron's big bazooka is a referendum on Europe. Obviously, now is the wrong
time, while everything is in flux. A promise to hold a referendum before the
next election would break the coalition.

But Mr Cameron leads a political party and he can tell it now something he is
resolved to see in its next manifesto: the promise to the British electorate of
an early opportunity to accept (or not) the status quo with Europe that by
2015-16 Britain should be settled.

What should be the wording? Will the Conservatives recommend a "yes" or a "no"?
Mr Cameron can close down these arguments with an emphatic refusal to say
another word on the subject until the time comes and we know where we are. Such
a pre-emption is infinitely preferable to years of resisting the idea, only to
be dragged into it anyway, in the end, looking weak.

There will be a handful on the back benches for whom even this is not enough. Mr
Sarkozy will pardon my French, but, pour encourager les autres, a couple of
Irreconcilables should be killed. Or so I said to a Tory friend recently.

"Killed?" he said. "Not literally," I said. "Oh," he said. "Literally killed
would be good. But short of that, how?" That, I suggest, is a matter for the
Chief Whip.

Comment Central

Video: Michael Portillo, Jacqui Smith and Andrew Neil rave to Born Slippy
thetimes.co.uk/commentcentral

It's wise to make it look as if your adversary picked the fight

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: If you are heading into a bust-up, it is important that you don't ask
for too much
ERIC FEFERBERG/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

View from Westminster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 241 words


Ed Miliband, the Labour leader

"It's a terrible outcome for Britain because we are going to be now excluded
from key economic decisions that will affect our country in the future"

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London

"David Cameron has played a blinder and he has done the only thing that was
really open to him to do"

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary

"The United Kingdom is not in the eurozone, we are not giving up any more of our
sovereignty"

Nick Clegg, Deputy Prime Minister

"The Prime Minister put forward a reasonable package. It is a pity that other
countries chose not to take [it] up; that would have allowed us to move
together"

Lord Oakeshott of Seagrove Bay, Lib Dem peer

"It is a black day for Britain and Europe. We are now in the waiting room while
critical decisions are being taken"

Nigel Farage, UKIP leader

"We are a step nearer the exit door of the EU. Now David Cameron has to bite the
bullet and let the British people have a say on continued EU membership" Bill
Cash, Tory Eurosceptic

"We are now embarked on a very serious, responsible path towards renegotiating
the whole of our relationship with the European Union ...

This is an historic moment" David Cameron

"We're not in the euro and I'm glad. We're never going to join the euro and
we're never going to give up this kind of sovereignty that these countries are
having to give up"

Simon Tilford, of the Centre for European Reform think-tank

"Cameron has played a bad hand poorly"

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

TWO IN THE BUSH TO MARRY

BYLINE: By RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 335 words


DailyMail_Feat__1_09_diary.jacqu09d

Devoting most of his energies these days to supporting the UK Independence
Party, multi-millionaire spread- betting tycoon and former Tory donor Stuart
Wheeler has just received a welcome diversion from his political activities.

Handsome hedge-fund boss Jamie Allsopp plucked up the courage to ask Wheeler for
his middle daughter Jacquetta's hand in marriage. 'I said yes and I am
absolutely delighted,' says Old Etonian Wheeler.

Stunning model Jacquetta, 29, will marry Jamie next spring or summer, with a
reception at her parent's Jacobean home, Chilham Castle in Kent.

Jamie, who previously squired the Marquess of Northampton's daughter Lady Emily
Compton, has been stepping out with 5ft 11in tall Jacquetta for the past seven
months.

'He proposed very romantically on one knee while we were in the Bush in Zambia
last week,' says an excited Jacquetta, who has been out celebrating her
engagement with one of her sisters and her mother, former fashion photographer
Tessa Codrington.

Devoting most of his energies these days to supporting the UK Independence
Party, multi-millionaire spread- betting tycoon and former Tory donor Stuart
Wheeler has just received a welcome diversion from his political activities.

Handsome hedge-fund boss Jamie Allsopp plucked up the courage to ask Wheeler for
his middle daughter Jacquetta's hand in marriage. 'I said yes and I am
absolutely delighted,' says Old Etonian Wheeler.

Stunning model Jacquetta, 29, will marry Jamie next spring or summer, with a
reception at her parent's Jacobean home, Chilham Castle in Kent.

Jamie, who previously squired the Marquess of Northampton's daughter Lady Emily
Compton, has been stepping out with 5ft 11in tall Jacquetta for the past seven
months.

'He proposed very romantically on one knee while we were in the Bush in Zambia
last week,' says an excited Jacquetta, who has been out celebrating her
engagement with one of her sisters and her mother, former fashion photographer
Tessa Codrington.

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Europe's rules are hitting fishermen's livelihoods;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 132 words


I WRITE on behalf of fishermen who are being reduced to benefit claimants due to
the Common Fisheries Policy.

This EU legislation requires the mandatory discarding of fish caught over quota,
so otherwise perfectly good fish are thrown back dead into the sea.

On a national scale 'discards' account for approximately half of the legal
catch.

Fishermen's boats in Boston, Lincolnshire, have been tied up now for several
weeks, earning nothing but debt. If generations of fishermen have been able to
hand down a thriving industry to the next generation, over many decades, without
all these rules and regulations why are the regulations needed now? As a result
of all these restrictions and intrusive actions Boston fishermen are losing
their livelihoods.

Derek Clark, Ukip MEP for the East Midlands

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Under the flightpath, an election that is Labour's to lose

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 831 words


There are more estate agents' boards than byelection posters dotted across the
west London constituency of Feltham and Heston. Labour has moved hastily to
stage what is only the fourth Westminster byelection of the coalition era next
Thursday, barely a month after the death of Alan Keen, the sitting MP.

More people know this corner of London than realise it. Those who do not speed
past it along crowded M3 and M4 corridors fly over it to land at Heathrow
airport, whose eastern perimeter fence is virtually the constituency boundary.
Aircraft noise from the close jets are a permanent reality in voters' lives and
their not-all-double-glazed homes, most of them solid semis, council and
private, built in every suburban style the 20th century embraced.

Now that even Labour has joined its main rivals in abandoning support for a
third runway, Heathrow is not top of the local agenda except in a negative
sense. Voters dislike pollution, but don't want the British Airports Authority
(BAA), which seems to be the nearest thing here to a feudal lord of the manor,
to be allowed to modify the "runway alternation" policy which makes noise levels
bearable.

They tell candidates: "We don't want Heathrow to expand, but we don't want to
lose it either." One way or another the airport is the largest employer and
blue-collar job-generator in hotels, warehouses and support systems. So talk of
the airport moving to "Boris Johnson Island" in the Thames Estuary should scare
people in a seat which is neither poor nor prosperous and where jobs have become
harder to find.

It doesn't, not yet, and London's celebrity mayor will be canvassing here before
polling day, as a string of Tory cabinet ministers, plus Vince Cable, Liberal
Democrat MP for neighbouring Twickenham, have already done their duty in a
contest Labour will be hard-pressed to lose. With Ukip and the BNP hoping to
grab disaffected votes the order of the runners-up may be more instructive,
especially if the Lib Dems' first-time contender, Roger Crouch, gets squeezed
into fourth place.

It seems unlikely, but turnout is hard to predict in byelections. A private poll
in Feltham for the Tory plutocrat, Lord Ashcroft, this week gave Labour a
22-point lead over the Tories, 52% of the vote to 30%, with the Lib Dems on 10%.

In 2010, Keen had 43% of the vote to Tory challenger Mark Bowen's 34%, down from
his personal best (60%) in 1997, burdened with Labour's unpopularity and his own
share of the expenses scandal. Keen's would-be successor, Seema Malhotra, a
second-generation immigrant who grew up around here, is more of a Labour
high-flyer, a well-connected management consultant.

Harriet Harman dropped by on Wednesday. But earlier this week, Malhotra braved a
biting wind with Ed Miliband to pursue votes outside the Feltham shopping
centre. Party activists waved banners and red balloons.

It is all very low-key. Outside Vijay's Convenience Store on Market Parade,
south of Hounslow Heath where the highwaymen once loitered, only older voters -
the ones most likely to vote - have the time to stop and express an opinion. "A
lot of people are swinging away from David Cameron, especially over public
sector workers having to do more for less," says one pensioner.

Labour's core fact is that the constituency's long-term unemployment among 18-
to 24-year-olds, those out of work for six months, has risen by 147% since

1 January. A young man called Jason tells Miliband he lost his agency
warehousing job in mid-2010 and is now back at college learning computing
skills. "There's nothing out there." Six people are chasing every local job.

The Labour leader uses such stories in his stump speech. Malhotra, whom the Mail
on Sunday has accused of living in a £3m house in Chelsea, is "deeply committed
to Feltham and Heston and will be a fantastic MP". Electing her will also "send
a message to the coalition that its policies aren't working".

The candidate stands up well and sticks to the party line: this is about local
jobs and local businesses, about fairness for pensioners and families hit by
coalition cuts, police cuts and the ending of EMAs. But it is clear she has not
had enough time to become well-known or establish name recognition.

Labour's problem is that Hounslow council is usually Labour. Rivals say the
constituency has been "taken for granted" for too long and Tory candidate Bowen
can point to his own achievements as councillor for Feltham North.

"I got those white lines painted for your parking," he reminds Rowna Collison
outside her home. "We'd also like a disabled bay," she says. "This is real
politics," he says.

If there is going to be any kind of upset it might happen if Cameron gets into
serious negotiating trouble at this weekend's crisis EU summit. Nicolas Sarkozy
and Angela Merkel may not be thinking about the byelection. But the candidates
will all be watching them.

Captions:

Labour's Seema Malhotra and Ed Miliband campaign at Feltham shopping centre
Photograph: Martin Argles for the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

European leaders resume Brussels summit talks: live coverage

BYLINE: Nick Fletcherguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5129 words

ABSTRACT

The 17 eurozone countries plus six others have agreed to create a two-speed
Europe with changes to the Lisbon treaty - but leaders still need to reassure
the markets and time is running out

FULL TEXT

6.01pm: The war between the ratings agencies and the EU continues. Christian
Noyer of the European Central Bank - and crucially the Bank of France - has just
said Moody's downgrade earlier today of three French banks was "totally
mistaken" and "bizarre".

According to Reuters, Noyer said there was no sign of a credit crunch in France,
French banks profits were higher than their capital needs and the EU deal should
help lower sovereign debt interest rates in the eurozone.

These comments come, of course, as we await the verdict on the EU summit from
Standard & Poor's, which said it would review eurozone credit ratings after the
meeting. Early next week - when S&P is likely to opine - is going to be another
crucial time.

5.45pm: Here's bit more cross-party reaction, including signs it's not all
sweetness and light in the coalition despite what Nick Clegg might hope. First,
here's bit of City bashing courtesy of PA:

Lib Dem MEP Edward McMillan-Scott, who broke away from the Tories in 2010,
accused Mr Cameron and London Mayor Boris Johnson of trying to protect their
rich friends in the City.

"These two top Tories are what my father - himself an Old Etonian - would have
called unprincipled spivs," he said.

"Cameron and his rival Johnson are doing what the jobs-for-the-boys Tories have
done so often: protect their rich friends."

Ed Miliband said the prime minister had spectacularly mishandled the
negotiations:

It's a terrible outcome for Britain because we are going to be now excluded from
key economic decisions that will affect our country in the future.

Frankly, David Cameron mishandled these negotiations spectacularly. He has spent
many months, not really promoting the national interest, but more interested in
dealing with the splits in his own party. That has served Britain very badly and
I fear for the consequences for our country.

Shadow chancellor Ed Balls said on his blog that Cameron had chosen isolation
when he should have been building alliances. And its always nice to get Joey
Barton's view on these things. He tweeted a response to Ed Balls as follows:

have to say I agree with Cameron on this one, as much as it pains me to say it.
EUzone is a mess, let's keep our street clean 1st

Feel free to insert your own joke at this point.

5.24pm: I forgot to mention this earlier but part of the reason for the market's
rise was the revival of a rumour that China could come riding to the rescue by
investing in European bonds. Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City
Index said:

Investors reacted positively to speculation that China was set to invest $300bn
into Europe and the US.

Bear in mind we've heard this type of rumour many times before, often just
before the markets close.

4.58pm: And here comes the reaction to the summit from the CBI, "the UK's
leading business organisation." This will be worth waiting for, given they've
had all day to compose some words of wisdom:

The mist is still clearing on the implications of the new treaty...The markets
will decide if what has been done over the last two days is enough.The politics
of this issue are clearly complex.

Well, thanks for that.

4.54pm: So after all that, the equity markets haven't really been spooked by the
outcome of the EU summit (pace those that believe the real story is in the bond
markets - more on them in a moment).

The FTSE 100 has finished 45.44 points higher at 5529.21, with banks making up
the top three risers. Lloyds Banking Group is up 6%, Barclays and Royal Bank of
Scotland 5%. It seems incredible we've got so used to the fact the banks see
such volatile daily moments...

Over in Europe Germany's Dax is up 1.9%, France's Cac is 2.4% higher, Spain
2.2%, Portugal 1.5% and Italy up 3.4%. Oh yes, and Wall Street is currently
around 160 points higher.

And in the bond market, Italian yields have edged 0.148 points lower to 6.379%,
while Spain is 0.034 points lower at 5.79%.

But as I said before, we await the credit rating agencies reaction.

4.27pm: Pimco is the world's biggest bond investor, so let's see what they think
of it all. Here's a tweet from Pimco's Bill Gross

Gross: Oh what a tangled web the #EU has weaved. Never ending story, hard to
trust. Risk off.

Oh dear. Not exactly a ringing endorsement. Mind you Pimco did describe UK gilts
as "sitting on a bed of nitroglycerin" before changing its opinion six months
later. EU leaders must hope it changes its mind this time, only a little sooner
than six months.

4.05pm: Time for a quick whizz around the markets, but first a reminder of what
was actually agreed by the EU leaders. Courtesy of Reuters, here are the main
points from the summit.

And investors seem to be taking all the disputes, contradictions and uncertainty
in their stride. The FTSE 100 is currently up 33.37 points at 5517.14, while
French and German markets are both around 2% higher.

As my colleague Dominic Rushe suggested earlier Wall Street has also reponded
positively, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average rising by more than 100
points.

The euro is still up on the day, at $1.334 albeit off its highs. And Italian
bond yields have started to fall, down 0.09 points to 6.43%. Spanish yields are
edging lower too.

So all saved? Not quite. Don't forget Standard & Poor's said it would wait for
the outcome of the EU summit to make a decision on EU credit ratings. France's
Triple A rating has been seen as particularly vulnerable for a while, and the
increased capital shortfall for European banks revealed by the latest stress
tests will not be helpful.

It's clear from the outcome of the summit there is no "big bazooka" (sorry to
keep using that term) so S&P could well act next week. Whatever you think of the
credit rating agencies - and opinion is mixed to put it mildly - there is no
doubt their actions often have severe consequences.

3.23pm: David Cameron has been on Sky News defending his decision not to take
part in the proposed new treaty.

He said he wanted to protect Britain's interests and the treaty on the table
involved loss of sovereignty, new obligations, extra bureaucracy and did not
have sufficient safeguards for Britain.

He rejected suggestions Britain was now isolated, saying the country remained in
the single market where it wanted to be - and indeed was a leading member.

And on the subject of whether the UK should hold a referendum - see earlier - he
said:

We're not going ahead with the treaty. Others are. It will mean big changes for
them. We're not changing.

Equally he ruled out a complete withdrawal for the UK.

Earlier he told reporters he had received assurances from his Dutch counterpart
Mark Rutte that he would not allow the eurozone countries to discuss single
market issues without the 10 non-euro EU members.

And at the risk of reinforcing stereotypes, apparently one French official said
Cameron's s attempt to dictate terms for a currency of which he was not a member
was like a man coming to a wife-swapping party without his wife. Cameron's
response to reporters, courtesy of PA:

I have not and have no plans to attend any wife-swapping parties.

Never say we don't bring you the important news.

3.06pm: Despite comments from European Council president Herman Van Rompuythat
26 leaders are in favour of joining the new treaty, there is still the prospect
of referenda among the 9 non-eurozone members. Sweden perhaps, whose finance
minister said earlier they have an open mind on signing up to the treaty
changes.

And Ireand's Europe minister admitted today there is a now a 50-50 chance that
the Republic may have to hold a referendum on any EU treaty emerging from the
European summit. Henry McDonald in Dublin writes:

Lucida Creighton said that in terms of a possible referendum "..we're really not
at that stage yet." But the Dublin TD and member of the dominant coalition party
Fine Gael added:

"I would say it's 50-50 and we will be looking at the detail over the next
couple of weeks."

On fears at home that the deal could further erode Irish independence, Creighton
replied that "nothing" could compare to the sovereignty Ireland had surrendered
last year in the ECB/IMF bail out and that the leaders were keen to "ensure we
never see these problems with our currency again".

But former Foreign Minister and leader of Miche[#xfffd]l Martin said today it
was "deeply worrying" that there was not an agreement of all 27 member states.

2.48pm: Back with another eurozone member, Giles Tremlett in Madrid says
Spaniards are bemused by David Cameron's actions. He writes:

"The United Kingdom leaves," is the headline offered by the conservative ABC
daily. "Storm in the English channel. Britain isolated," is how El Pa[#xfffd]s
puts it. "This time it is not the continent that has been isolated by the storm,
as the British like to joke, but Great Britain itself."

"It is a dream for true eurosceptics, those who want the United Kingdom out of
the European Union," El Pa[#xfffd]s' London correspondent Walter Oppenheimer
writes. "But it could turn out to be a nightmare for the average eurosceptic -
who would rather the EU did not exist but, given that it does, wants it to be as
British as possible."

But what about Spain? It would be difficult to find anyone in southern Europe,
Monti included, more in tune with Angela Merkel's view than the People's Party's
Mariano Rajoy - who will become prime minister shortly before Christmas. And
Spaniards as a whole remain fervent euro-enthusiasts.

Will Germany and France allow Spain and Italy - the other two most populous
eurozone countries - to join them as drivers of the new Europe? That may be an
impossible dream, but it would make it all look less like a Merkozy imposition -
especially in the countries destined to suffer most. Spain may be loyal, but it
needs rewards from time to time. Hacks would have to create a new name for a
quadruple alliance, of course. Anyone for "Mertikozoy"?

2.19pm: According to German chancellor Angela Merkel in a press conference, the
EU leaders made a "breakthrough" in stabilising the euro. Possibly not everyone
will agree with that. After an early rise, the currency has lost much of its
gains and now stands at $1.332.

She also described the atmosphere at the talks as not tense but "constructive."
Possibly not everyone will agree with that, either.

As for the financial - rather than political - aspects, she said the European
Stability Mechanism would not be topped up beyond (EURO)500bn, although it is
being brought forward a year to 2012 to run in tandem with the existing EFSF. On
that, she confirmed the European Central Bank will lend its expertise to the
bailout fund, and said (EURO)200bn of bilateral loans to the International
Monetary Fund could come from the eurozone.

But she said the solution to the crisis was not in making resources available.
Hmmm.

Sweden's finance minister, speaking on Sky News seemed to disagree. He said it
was more important to focus on firepower than changes in protocol and treaties.

And with differing reports about whether Sweden will or will not sign up to the
treaty changes, he said the country had "an open mind." Not exactly a ringing
endorsement, but equally not a sign that the country backs Cameron's stance.

1.53pm: Belatedly, a lunchtime roundup:

[#xfffd] European leaders come to a late night agreement

[#xfffd] Britain looks a bit isolated as other EU members positive on draft
treaty

[#xfffd] UK political reaction is pretty much split down party lines

[#xfffd] Markets seem unsure which way to turn but European bond yields rise

1.45pm: Backing up a bit, Patrick Wintour reports from No 10's lobby briefing
this morning:

The prime minister's spokesman in London declined to describe the outcome as a
success, but said the meeting made some progress in sorting out the problems
facing the euro, adding it had been right for Britain to prevent a treaty within
a treaty being allowed. The UK national interest has been protected, the
spokeswoman said.

The spokeswoman added there will be further discussions about the role of the EU
institutions for the 17 countries inside the euro-zone, saying she expected the
euro-zone members to meet separately after the end of the EU council today.

She denied that Britain would take the blame if the euro collapsed , saying that
was not the outcome that was expected.

1.40pm: More reaction from around the world. Dominic Rushe in New York writes
that the European news seems to be going down well with the US stock markets:

Futures rose ahead of the markets' opening with the Dow Jones up 108 points to
12052 after closing yesterday down 198.67 points, or 1.63%, at 11997.70. The
futures for Standard & Poor's 500 Index are up about 11 points to 1241.8 and
Nasdaq 100 futures have also gained 18.25 points to 2299.75.

There's more US economic news this morning with the release of October's trade
data and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey of consumer
confidence for December. But yesterday's slump came after positive news on US
jobs, showing once again that it's the news Europe that's driving US markets.

1.19pm: Continuing our run around the reactions to the summit so far, we move to
Germany. Helen Pidd in Berlin said few seem to believe Angela Merkel's comments
that the deal was "very good result" and not a "lousy compromise". Helen writes:

Under the headline "Auf Wiedersehen, England!", a comment piece on Spiegel
Online describes Cameron's veto as a "historic turning point" - and not in a
good way. Roland Nelles wrote: "The European idea as we know it is in the
process of disintegrating. The biggest post-war project of a continent united in
peace...failed last night in Brussels." (English version here).

In Bild, Germany's three-million selling tabloid, Nicklaus Blome said: "The Euro
is more important than the Brits." It was true, he said, that the Euro rescue
plans had deepened the split in the EU. "But if the Euro is not saved, we won't
be talking about temporary or deepening divisions in Europe - we'll be talking
about its demise."

Even in Merkel's coalition, MPs admitted the deal reached was substandard. Guido
Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, said it was "not great". But the
reluctance of Britain and others to play along needn't hinder the other EU
states from making progress, he said.

1.02pm: Not that I wish you to stop reading this blog, of course, but we're
running an interesting webchat between now and 2pm. To celebrate the 10th
anniversary of the euro's birth proper we are looking at how important currency
is to national identity and what kind of sentiments the euro and other
currencies can bring about. You can join in here.

12.10pm: It looks like Britain is now more isolated than first thought.
According to a new revised version of the statement issued by the European heads
of state, nine of the non-eurozone countries are prepared to take part in the
proposed treaty change measures, subject to parliamentary vote.

Here's the relevant paragraph:

The Heads of State or Government of Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary,
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Sweden indicated the possibility to take
part in this process after consulting their Parliaments where appropriate.

And the earlier, unrevised, version (in French since the original English
version has been overwritten):

Les chefs d'[#xfffd]tat ou de gouvernement de la Bulgarie, du Danemark, de la
Lettonie, de la Lituanie, de la Pologne et de la Roumanie ont fait part de leur
intention de s'associer au processus. Les chefs d'[#xfffd]tat ou de gouvernement
de la R[#xfffd]publique tch[#xfffd]que et de la Su[#xfffd]de consulteront leurs
parlements nationaux avant de prendre une d[#xfffd]cision.

So it appears the Czech Republic, Sweden and Hungary may have altered their
position, making it 26 out of 27.

12.09pm: And a bit more from David Gow, including the news - via UKIP leader
Nigel Farage - that the EU leaders have cancelled their lunch. Whatever next.
Must be serious if they can't tuck into their midday feast. David says:

Nigel Farage is having a field day in the atrium of the Justus Lipsius building
where the summit is being held. "EU leaders' lunch cancelled - even I'm more
popular than Cameron," he quips.

More importantly, people in the ECB are putting it about that they see no need
for "additional measures" after this morning's deal at 17 plus six

And courtesy of M&G's retail bond team comes news of further issuance by the
EFSF bailout fund:

EFSF issuing next week - after plans for 15y issue jettisoned and 10y auction
almost failed in Nov, they're now trying 2bn of 3 month bills

11.45am: In Brussels David Gow has been getting the views of senior EU
officials, who seem to be a bit miffed to say the least:

The lawyers will now have a field day in advising on how the EZ-17 plus,
probably, eight or nine - but no UK, of course - can use their new
intergovernmental treaty to impose the budgetary discipline Berlin wants for
all.

Already, some senior EU officials are scathing as the commission and other EU
institutions cannot serve as a conduit under this arrangement. "Look, 90% or
more of what they're seeking is already available," said one. "All they may now
get is debt brakes (constitutional limits on national debt) and reverse
qualified majority voting (requiring an explicit negative) to activate automatic
sanctions. And one member state will have to invoke this procedure against
another." Like Berlin against Rome, you mean? "Yes".

Twenty years on from Maastricht John Major is looking like someone who kept
Britain "at the heart of Europe" and Cameron as the prime minister who wrecked
40-plus years of post-war UK policy - that's the collective wisdom here.

11.29am: For those wondering what Nick Clegg has to say about it all, wonder no
more. To no one's amazement he reckons the coalition was united and the UK had
made reasonable demands. Quite how this squares with the pro-European LibDems is
unclear. From Reuters:

"The demands Britain made for safeguards, on which the Coalition Government was
united, were modest and reasonable. They were safeguards for the single market,
not just the UK," Clegg said in a statement.

"There were no demands of repatriation of powers from the EU to Britain and no
demands for a unilateral carve-out of UK financial services," he added after
Britain blocked proposed EU Treaty changes.

10.51am: More on the political reaction. Patrick Wintour, political editor, has
tweeted:

Bill Cash has won - time for UK to leave EU - former Labour EU minister Denis
MacShane

Patrick's analysis is here.

10.46am: And here comes the European Central Bank with some more helpful
comments. According to Reuters:

European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny refused to be drawn
on what more the central bank could do to support the euro zone after EU members
agreed on Thursday to tighten control over their finances.

Asked by reporters on Friday what the ECB was now ready to do, he pointed out
the ECB had said on Thursday it would provide technical support for the EFSF
bailout fund.

Pressed on what more it could do, he said: "I think intelligent people always
think over lots of things, but it is about what we decided yesterday."

10.34am: Always worth checking out what @Angela_D_Merkel is tweeting about the
current events (it's a wild guess, but I have a suspicion this may not be the
real German chancellor...):

Had a big night out and the English bloke ended up in a fight. Not sure why
everyone is so surprised.

and ...

Oh what a shame, we've run out of comfy chairs. I'm sure four of us won't mind
sitting on the floor

10.03am: Here's some of the UK political reaction to the night's events, with
the response seemingly split down party lines.

Foreign secretary William Hague told BBC Radio 4's Today programme European
leaders had made "nothing like enough of an effort" to meet UK concerns:

What they have committed themselves to here is to giving up more of their
national control over their own budgets, and us standing apart from that is not
being isolated from them, it is a very sensible thing to stand apart from that.

He added that Liberal Democrat deputy prime minister Nick Clegg had "signed up"
to what had happened.

Eurosceptic Tory MP Mark Reckless said:

The other EU countries would not agree to safeguard the interests of the City
and therefore David Cameron has said no. I think this is a very significant
change. All of us will need time to see how the institutions of Europe are going
to move forward.

Former Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell said there were still very
important details of the deal to be thrashed out.

It's important to remember that the purpose of this summit has been to resolve
the crisis in the eurozone. It is also important to remember that there are
people, and indeed countries, outside who regard that as being very significant,
President Obama for example.

But shadow foreign secretary Douglas Alexander told Today:

I don't glory in Britain's isolation this morning and I regret just how badly
David Cameron's negotiating strategy has let Britain down.

9.56am: Back to more parochial matters for a moment, well sort of. Britain's
trade gap narrowed in October at its fastest pace since records began in 1998,
with exports hitting a record high despite the eurozone crisis.

The industrious Larry Elliotthas the full story here.

9.36am: Shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna seems less than impressed with
Cameron's performance, he tweeted:

After all the big talk exactly what powers has the Prime Minister got
repatriated to the UK? R we now stronger or weaker on the int stage?

9.30am: As promised, here's a flavour of economics editor Larry Elliott's
thoughts on the deal:

Does what happened last night mean a two-speed Europe? Yes, it most certainly
does. Faced with an existential crisis, most of Europe is heading off in one
direction and Britain has decided not to go along with them.

The final destination for the euro area and the half dozen countries that want
to join the single currency is still hazy, but it will involve much closer
fiscal integration. Cameron knows that would be anathema for his own MPs, and
will be gambling that the Lib-Dem members of the coalition - deeply unhappy with
the prime minister's negotiating stance in Brussels - will not jump ship.

Will it be enough to satisfy the financial markets? That's hard to say at this
point, because the negotiations are still going on. On the basis of what has
been agreed so far, the answer is probably not. There needs to be a lot more
flesh on the bones to calm market fears and, in particular, to avoid a credit
downgrade from the ratings agencies, which could come as early as next week if
summit differences lead to a traditional EU fudge.

Is there any chance that what has been agreed overnight will prevent Europe from
sinking into recession? Sadly not. It is too late for that, and what is
happening in Brussels amounts to damage limitation. There will be a fresh
downturn in 2012: all that's really at issue now is how deep and prolonged that
downturn will be.

The full article will be posted on the site soon.

9.23am: Of course the eurozone crisis and the summit is being widely watched,
not just in Europe, but in the rest of the world. Tania Branigan has the initial
view of last night's events from China:

China is eyeing the Eurozone anxiously as exports slide and doubts about its own
economic outlook grow, but the foreign ministry said today that its confidence
in the EU's ability to deal with the crisis "has not changed".

"The EU leaders' meeting will table an important decision, and we hope the
measures in question will be able to stabilise the market, boost confidence and
promote the integration of the European Union," said spokesman Hong Lei.

"We're still awaiting the final outcome of the meeting. We have always stated
that China has always had confidence that the EU has the ability and the wisdom
to resolve the problems related to the temporary difficulties it currently
faces, and that stance has not changed."

Hong repeated that China is willing to work with the international community to
stabilise markets and promote recovery. But Beijing has reacted coolly to
suggestions it should buy up more European government debt, to the
disappointment of some in Europe.

A commentary carried by state news agency Xinhua struck a sceptical note, asking
whether Merkel's "prescription" for a sick Europe would work."It appears that
the plan, whose details are yet to be disclosed, eyes a long-term mechanism for
Europe. It remains to be seen whether it will work in the short term....However,
measures are needed in an urgent manner to tackle the unabated crisis," it
added.

Earlier today China announced its annual inflation rate fell to 4.2% in November
from October's 5.5%, its lowest level for more than a year. This prompted talk
that China had scope to ease monetary policy.

9.04am: So what else can we expect today? Here's a list of the key events coming
up:

[#xfffd] UK trade figures (9.30am)[#xfffd] UK factory gate prices
(9.30am)[#xfffd] EU summit meeting begins (9.30am)[#xfffd] US trade figures
(1.30pm)[#xfffd] Michigan consumer confidence (3pm)[#xfffd] EU press conference
scheduled (3pm)

8.57am: Our man on the ground at the Brussels summit, Europe editor Ian Traynor,
has these thoughs after last night's marathon:

Whether or not it has saved the euro remains, of course, to be seen, but the
summit in Brussels might go down as a watershed event, the beginning of the end
for Britain in Europe.

David Cameron fought and lost, but wielded his veto, battled for Britain and put
concessions to the City of London ahead of the fate of the euro. For most of the
rest of Europe this is unforgivable. The EU's worst ever crisis and its possible
resolution being held to ransom so Cameron can please the City and his
europhobic backbenchers.

There is likely to be payback. While the EU is now unable to follow the
German-inspired route of renegotiating the Lisbon Treaty to impose a decade of
austerity on the eurozone, most of the 27 - the 17 eurozone countries plus at
least another six joining them - ignore Cameron's objections and strike out on a
separate treaty.

That, however, may result, because of legal problems, in a weaker "fiscal
union", underwhelm the markets, and fail to shore up the currency. We will see.
There will be months of wrangling before the new treaty is ready by March.

And quietly there are plenty of leaders hiding behind Cameron, happy that the
German bid to re-open Lisbon is being dropped since they viewed this as a can of
worms.

But despite his veto, Cameron does not get his financial regulation exemptions
and concessions. He has isolated himself and Britain, failed to achieve his key
goal, shut himself and Britain out of the negotiations on the future shape of
Europe all in the name of the Great British national interest. There are senior
experienced UK officials who believe this is a disaster for the British national
interest.

So there you go. More wrangling until at least March. Once again, you have to
wonder if they all realise the seriousness of the situation.

8.44am: Not terribly reassuring: key European bond yields are moving higher
again. (As a reminder this means countries having to pay more for their
borrowings - the last thing they need.)

Italy has climbed 0.122 basis points to 6.649%, while Spanish yields are up
0.077 basis points to 5.907. The 7% level is usually seen as the danger sign.

Economics editor Larry Elliott believes the true picture of what the markets
think is seen by bond yields, not equities. His view of the overnight
announcements is that we've had as much progress as we thought there would be.
But it doesn't look good and there is still a long way to go to convince the
markets.

Larry is working on an analysis piece which should be posted shortly.

There's been much talk about who is actually buying and selling European bonds,
whether hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds or the ECB - which is currently
rumoured to be snapping up Italian bonds.

But a broker told me this week that one of his clients - a "high net worth
individual whose name you'd recognise" - had suddenly expressed interest in the
bond market, rather than equities as normal. Apparently he bought some
government debt on the way down and traded out as it recovered. I suppose that's
why he's "high net worth", ie rich.

8.17am: The markets seem uncertain how to take the latest developments. The FTSE
100 opened 35 points lower, but has recovered slightly to 5461.77, a 22 point
fall.

Lloyds Banking Group, Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland all lost around 2%
initially but have since recovered some ground. But they are likely to continue
being volatile after yesterday's stress tests showed European banks had a
shortfall of (EURO)115bn compared to (EURO)106bn in October. Germany's banks are
notably more fragile than expected, which should surely give Angela Merkel extra
impetus to get a deal together.

And French banks are also under pressure. Moody's has downgraded three French
banks including Societe Generale, which it says may need government support.

8.00am: So what have we got so far?

Almost inevitably a row broke out between Britain and France, with David Cameron
accused of trying to block treaty changes because the UK government does not
agree with unilaterally implementing the financial transaction tax, the
so-called Tobin tax.

So the 17 core eurozone countries, plus six others have agreed to make changes
to the Lisbon treaty. In other words, a two-speed Europe, but this time wider
than just the eurozone members. And not including Britain, of course.

But that's for the medium term. More immediately European leaders need to
reassure the markets and time is running out.

After yesterday's disappointment that the European Central Bank indicated it
would not increase its bond buying - one of the many contentious issues
officials can't seem to agree on - there looks like another plan to provide
contingency funds for struggling eurozone countries.

Not a big bazooka, but what ING Bank is calling a tripartite bazooka:

[#xfffd] the current European Financial Stability Fund[#xfffd] an increase in
eurozone funding to the IMF by up to (EURO)150bn, with non-eurozone countries
adding another (EURO)50bn[#xfffd] the European Stability Mechanism coming into
force a year early in July 2012

7.43am: Good morning once more, and welcome to Day Zero to save the euro.

After a marathon overnight session in Brussels, some signs of an agreement are
in place but today EU officials have to hammer out the details, if they can. And
given their seeming inability to agree on anything much, despite the fact that
time is running out, there could be some more twists and turns to come. They are
due to resume talks at 9.30am, with a press conference due around 3pm, although
on past form, expect delays.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 9, 2011 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: Call for decorum in handing out parking fines;


BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 601 words


Jacob Rees-Mogg, that priceless guardian of liberty, has come up with a cracking
idea to improve the manners of council officials empowered to issue on-the-spot
fines - make them wear bowler hats.

The Conservative MP for North East Somerset, who is never seen in Parliament
other than in a pin-stripe double-breasted suit, is shocked that respectable
motorists should be handed parking fines by people who are improperly turned
out. "What we currently have are some desperately scruffy tatterdemalions who
wander around as accredited persons," he told a Commons debate on local
government.

"They look as though they have been dragged through a hedge backwards. Their
uniforms are a norky thing, not the sort of thing as an officer of the Crown
would ever be seen wearing - the sort of thing that could be worn by anybody. I
wonder whether they might wear bowler hats, for instance, so that it would be
clear that they were from the council - proper, thoroughgoing bureaucrats." He
believes we should not be compelled give our names just because someone
officious asks who we are. He cited two cases of people refusing to identify
themselves - Oedipus, who told Polyphemus, the cyclops, that his name was
"Nobody" and Bertie Wooster, who used a false name when he was up before the
beak for pinching a policemen's helmet.

Neither of these heroes was real. No surprise there. What is truly bewildering
is that Mr Rees-Mogg exists.

Mostly men left in Miliband's office

All change in Ed Miliband's private office. His special adviser, Polly
Billington, has been selected as Labour candidate for Thurrock, where the
incumbent Tory MP, Jackie Doyle-Price, has a majority of just 92. His chief of
staff, Lucy Powell, missed becoming an MP in 2010 by a narrow margin and is
expected to try again. His press spokeswoman Ayesha Hazarika is returning to
work for her old boss, Harriet Harman. At least the men who work for him are
sticking around.

Padiham misses out on dubious honour

Padiham, a little town west of Burnley, has been spared the dubious distinction
of becoming the first community in Britain with a BNP mayor. Until a few days
ago, the town's Deputy Mayor, who was due to become mayor next year, was BNP
member Bob Cave. The mayoress would have been his wife, Sharon Wilkinson, the
only BNP councillor left on Burnley Borough council since the May elections.

Councillors in Padiham do not sit in organised political groups and are expected
to leave their party affiliations behind, but Mr Cave's involvement with the BNP
is well-known enough for two of his daughters by a different marriage to say in
April that they were changing their names because they were so ashamed of being
associated with him.

Despite that, Mr Cave took great exception to the three Labour Party members on
the Town Council and sought to have them removed. He failed, and this week he
resigned, sparing Padiham what would have been some unwelcome publicity.

Far-right leader's empty promise

The appointment of the French-speaking Elio di Rupo as Prime Minister of
Belgium, after 18 months without a government, looks to be a disappointment to
all those had hopes that they would see the last of Filip Dewinter. He is a
leader of the far-right Vlaams Belang party, linked to the UK Independence
Party, which is seeking independence for Belgium's Flemish speakers.

Ahead of the vote, Mr Dewinter tweeted: "Di Rupo premier! No Way! I would then
move to Namibia...." A Facebook group devoted to getting him to keep his promise
has gained 50,000 followers - none of whom, so far as we know is Namibian But Mr
Dewinter says he is going to stay.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Call for decorum in handing out parking fines;
DIARY

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 601 words


Jacob Rees-Mogg, that priceless guardian of liberty, has come up with a cracking
idea to improve the manners of council officials empowered to issue on-the-spot
fines - make them wear bowler hats.

The Conservative MP for North East Somerset, who is never seen in Parliament
other than in a pin-stripe double-breasted suit, is shocked that respectable
motorists should be handed parking fines by people who are improperly turned
out. "What we currently have are some desperately scruffy tatterdemalions who
wander around as accredited persons," he told a Commons debate on local
government.

"They look as though they have been dragged through a hedge backwards. Their
uniforms are a norky thing, not the sort of thing as an officer of the Crown
would ever be seen wearing - the sort of thing that could be worn by anybody. I
wonder whether they might wear bowler hats, for instance, so that it would be
clear that they were from the council - proper, thoroughgoing bureaucrats." He
believes we should not be compelled give our names just because someone
officious asks who we are. He cited two cases of people refusing to identify
themselves - Oedipus, who told Polyphemus, the cyclops, that his name was
"Nobody" and Bertie Wooster, who used a false name when he was up before the
beak for pinching a policemen's helmet.

Neither of these heroes was real. No surprise there. What is truly bewildering
is that Mr Rees-Mogg exists.

Mostly men left in Miliband's office

All change in Ed Miliband's private office. His special adviser, Polly
Billington, has been selected as Labour candidate for Thurrock, where the
incumbent Tory MP, Jackie Doyle-Price, has a majority of just 92. His chief of
staff, Lucy Powell, missed becoming an MP in 2010 by a narrow margin and is
expected to try again. His press spokeswoman Ayesha Hazarika is returning to
work for her old boss, Harriet Harman. At least the men who work for him are
sticking around.

Padiham misses out on dubious honour

Padiham, a little town west of Burnley, has been spared the dubious distinction
of becoming the first community in Britain with a BNP mayor. Until a few days
ago, the town's Deputy Mayor, who was due to become mayor next year, was BNP
member Bob Cave. The mayoress would have been his wife, Sharon Wilkinson, the
only BNP councillor left on Burnley Borough council since the May elections.

Councillors in Padiham do not sit in organised political groups and are expected
to leave their party affiliations behind, but Mr Cave's involvement with the BNP
is well-known enough for two of his daughters by a different marriage to say in
April that they were changing their names because they were so ashamed of being
associated with him.

Despite that, Mr Cave took great exception to the three Labour Party members on
the Town Council and sought to have them removed. He failed, and this week he
resigned, sparing Padiham what would have been some unwelcome publicity.

Far-right leader's empty promise

The appointment of the French-speaking Elio di Rupo as Prime Minister of
Belgium, after 18 months without a government, looks to be a disappointment to
all those had hopes that they would see the last of Filip Dewinter. He is a
leader of the far-right Vlaams Belang party, linked to the UK Independence
Party, which is seeking independence for Belgium's Flemish speakers.

Ahead of the vote, Mr Dewinter tweeted: "Di Rupo premier! No Way! I would then
move to Namibia...." A Facebook group devoted to getting him to keep his promise
has gained 50,000 followers - none of whom, so far as we know is Namibian But Mr
Dewinter says he is going to stay.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 9, 2011 Friday 12:19 PM GMT

EU treaty: David Cameron has played a blinder says Boris Johnson;
David Cameron has "played a blinder" in Europe over his refusal to sign up to a
new pact, London Mayor Boris Johnson has said.

BYLINE: By James Orr

LENGTH: 1114 words


Mr Johnson led the praise for Mr Cameron's decision to veto a treaty change
after France and Germany opposed safeguads for the City.

Eurosceptic Tory MP Mark Reckless described the development as "very
significant" while former foreign secretary Lord Owen accused the Prime Minister
of leaving the UK "in a mess".

Mr Reckless told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Britain now needed time to
consider how the institutions of Europe would move forward.

Meanwhile, MEP Marta Andreasen, of the UK Independence Party, said given the UK
had now been relegated to the "second division" in Europe, it must now be time
to "withdraw" completely.

Mr Reckless said: "The Prime Minister has been as good as his word. He said he
would not agree to a new treaty unless he was able to safeguard the interests of
the City. The other EU countries would not agree to safeguard the interests of
the City and therefore David Cameron has said no.

"I think this is a very significant change. All of us will need time to see how
the institutions of Europe are going to move forward.

"Nicolas Sarkozy was talking about a re-founding of the European Union. Now we
see that is happening among between 23 and 26 countries and we are remaining
outside that. That now gives us the opportunity to negotiate a new relationship
with the European Union that is in our interests.

"We need to look to negotiate bilaterally, in the same way that Switzerland
does, to protect our interests. That is the way this appears to be developing
and I think we need to do that to secure our own independence and make our own
decisions in our own interests."

Business Secretary Vince Cable said Britain had a "critical interest" in
protecting the single market. The priority now was for the eurozone to sort out
its financial crisis.

"Hundreds of thousands of British jobs depend on the eurozone crisis being
resolved. I think they will do that but we will see what happens over the next
few days," he told Sky News.

"The key national interest we are trying to protect here is the single market,
which very large numbers of British jobs depend on in all sectors of the economy
in all parts of the country.

"We have critical interest in keeping the single market, keeping it open,
enlarging it. That's what's the argument is about."

Social Democratic Party (SDP) founder Lord Owen, however, accused the British
government of failure and warned "we are in danger of literally being on our
own".

He said: "Why has the Government allowed us to get into this mess? Have we been
coherently governed over the last few months? Is this coalition able to really
represent British interests or are we being driven by about 80 to 90
Conservatives who really want us to get us out of the European Union?

"This is the first time that a British government has failed to achieve British
objectives, which is to remain fundamentally within the European structures, and
have to walk away from that so we are in danger of literally being on our own.

"Is there a better form of government for this country? This Government has been
a disaster in the area which concerns me, on the economy."

Ms Andreasen added: "It appears that if the euro is to go down then everyone
must stay on board, like the ill-fated band on the Titanic, playing whatever
tune Mrs Merkel chooses to hear.

"Prime Minister Cameron will seek to wriggle out of giving the British people a
say on whether this is the type of Europe it chooses to stay in and do business
with, albeit in the second division.

"Now is the time to reassess our position as part of the EU and withdraw. Our
role is fast becoming a charade."

Senior Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott accused Mr Cameron of undermining Britain's
influence in Europe and putting the interests of the City above the wider
economy.

"It is a black day for Britain and Europe. We are now in the waiting room while
critical decisions are being taken," he said.

"By pulling out of the main centre-right grouping in Europe and linking up with
the wackos and weirdos in eastern Europe instead, David Cameron has seriously
undermined Britain's influence.

"With the western economies and our banking system on the edge of a cliff, we
should not be putting special pleading for special interests in the City of
London above our vital national interest of working closely together with
Germany and France to keep our economy and jobs all over Britain safe."

The leader of Mr Cameron's Tory MEPs, Martin Callanan, said the Prime Minister
deserved praise for standing up for Britain and refusing to be "bullied or
browbeaten" by France and Germany.

"I have no doubt they will try to portray him as the villain of the piece, but
he was only doing what all member states do in protecting their own national
interests," he said.

"David Cameron was absolutely correct to wield the UK veto which blocked plans
for a new EU treaty."

Mr Callanan went on: "To have bargained away Britain's rights, freedoms and
economic well-being would have been unthinkable. If Merkel and Sarkozy hoped he
would be craven enough to do it, they know differently now.

"The next thing they need to realise is that in reality Mr Cameron has helped
them too. A new treaty may help solve the next crisis, but it would come too
late to solve this one."

He added: "They now need to get on with stabilising the euro however they can,
if necessary by jettisoning some of the baggage dragging it down. They should
start by telling Greece her time is up."

London Labour MEP Mary Honeyball described the summit outcome as a "disaster".

She said: "David Cameron has vetoed the proposed treaty on the euro involving
all 27 member states because he is so incapable. He failed to adequately
negotiate a situation which would ensure Britain is kept in the process.

"Such a loss of power is not helpful for the UK and it's imperative that we
continue to be part of future negotiations with the euro zone. A two-tier
Europe, which may well result from this, would be disastrous for the UK and as a
result we will not be able to fully protect British interests, as Sarkozy has
already pointed out."

She predicted domestic fall-out: "Nick Clegg is, as we know, very pro-European
and yet he is also part of a Government which has loosened ties with the EU and
lost the respect of European heads of state.

"This will undoubtedly have implications for the survival of the coalition. And
globally there are massive implications - markets have fallen and during this
uncertain time it will continue to hit the already fragile global economy."

Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite, arriving for this morning's summit
session said Mr Cameron had put Britain "out of the decision-making process".

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 9, 2011 Friday 11:08 AM GMT

David Cameron has played a blinder says Boris Johnson;
David Cameron has "played a blinder" in Europe, London Mayor Boris Johnson has
said.

BYLINE: By James Orr

LENGTH: 491 words


Mr Johnson led the praise for Mr Cameron's decision to veto a treaty change
after France and Germany opposed safeguads for the City.

Eurosceptic Tory MP Mark Reckless described the development as "very
significant" while former foreign secretary Lord Owen accused the Prime Minister
of leaving the UK "in a mess".

Mr Reckless told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Britain now needed time to
consider how the institutions of Europe would move forward.

Meanwhile, MEP Marta Andreasen, of the UK Independence Party, said given the UK
had now been relegated to the "second division" in Europe, it must now be time
to "withdraw" completely.

Mr Reckless said: "The Prime Minister has been as good as his word. He said he
would not agree to a new treaty unless he was able to safeguard the interests of
the City. The other EU countries would not agree to safeguard the interests of
the City and therefore David Cameron has said no.

"I think this is a very significant change. All of us will need time to see how
the institutions of Europe are going to move forward.

"Nicolas Sarkozy was talking about a re-founding of the European Union. Now we
see that is happening among between 23 and 26 countries and we are remaining
outside that. That now gives us the opportunity to negotiate a new relationship
with the European Union that is in our interests.

"We need to look to negotiate bilaterally, in the same way that Switzerland
does, to protect our interests. That is the way this appears to be developing
and I think we need to do that to secure our own independence and make our own
decisions in our own interests."

Social Democratic Party (SDP) founder Lord Owen, however, accused the British
government of failure and warned "we are in danger of literally being on our
own".

He said: "Why has the Government allowed us to get into this mess? Have we been
coherently governed over the last few months? Is this coalition able to really
represent British interests or are we being driven by about 80 to 90
Conservatives who really want us to get us out of the European Union?

"This is the first time that a British government has failed to achieve British
objectives, which is to remain fundamentally within the European structures, and
have to walk away from that so we are in danger of literally being on our own.

"Is there a better form of government for this country? This Government has been
a disaster in the area which concerns me, on the economy."

Ms Andreasen added: "It appears that if the euro is to go down then everyone
must stay on board, like the ill-fated band on the Titanic, playing whatever
tune Mrs Merkel chooses to hear.

"Prime Minister Cameron will seek to wriggle out of giving the British people a
say on whether this is the type of Europe it chooses to stay in and do business
with, albeit in the second division.

"Now is the time to reassess our position as part of the EU and withdraw. Our
role is fast becoming a charade."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

STAND UP FOR BRITISH RIGHTS

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 1421 words


CAMERON FLIES OUT FOR MAKE-OR-BREAK EURO SUMMIT WITH A RESOUNDING MESSAGE FROM
MUTINOUS TORY MPS...

DAVID Cameron was rocked yesterday by a Tory mutiny over Europe and a stunning
put - down from Germany s Angela Merkel.

The Prime Minister faced open defiance from Northern Ireland Secretary Owen
Paterson and London Mayor Boris Johnson over his refusal to offer a referendum
on Britain s future in the EU.

Even some of Mr Cameron s closest Cabinet allies are understood to be shifting
to a much more Eurosceptic position, with a five-strong group of ministers
planning to visit the Prime Minister as early as today to urge him to toughen
his stance.

Several senior figures doubt privately that the euro will survive with hopes
receding of a significant breakthrough at do or die talks between EU leaders in
Brussels tonight.

In the Commons, Conservative MPs lined up to urge the Prime Minister to adopt a
bulldog spirit and block any EU deal which threatens Britain s interests.

To add to his woes, Mrs Merkel made it clear she intends to say nein to Mr
Cameron s attempts to extract special safeguards for Britain as the eurozone
countries move to create a single economic government.

The Prime Minister had told MPs he would fight for the UK national interest in
tonight s EU treaty talks, declaring: The more eurozone countries ask for, the
more we will ask for in return.

Mr Cameron insisted he would demand more power and control for Britain to
protect its financial services sector and the City of London from EU
interference and regulation in return for backing treaty changes.

Government sources said the Prime Minister intended to reject the Franco-German
proposal for an EU-wide financial transactions tax, which would hit Britain
harder than any other member state.

Mr Cameron says he will not put the EU deal to a referendum, since it will not
involve any transfer of power from Westminster to Brussels. Only those states
which have adopted the single currency will be forced to cede more of their
sovereignty to Brussels.

But Owen Paterson, one of the Cabinet's leading Eurosceptics and a close ally of
Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith, said bluntly that a referendum
was 'inevitable'.

He told the Spectator: 'If there was a major fundamental change in our
relationship, emerging from the creation of a new bloc which would be
effectively a new country from which we were excluded, then I think inevitably
there would be huge pressure for a referendum.'

Asked whether a public vote would be required, he replied: 'I think there will
have to be one, yes, because I think the pressure would build up.'

He was backed by Mr Johnson, increasingly touted as a leadership rival to Mr
Cameron, who said any treaty change agreed by all 27 EU countries should be put
to a referendum.

Asked if people should be given a say, he told the BBC: 'Absolutely. The real
problem we have got now is everybody is desperately scrabbling around to try and
patch this thing together and to keep the euro in its current form. I think we
are in danger of saving the cancer and not the patient.'

He went on: 'If there is a new EU treaty that creates a kind of fiscal union
within the 27 countries or within the eurozone, we'd have absolutely no choice
either to veto it but certainly to put it to a referendum.

'If they are going to go down that route to fiscal union then certainly I think,
frankly, it's the wrong way to go and I think we should be opposing it.

'If, on the other hand, they decide, "Look, we can't do this within the EU, we
want to go it alone, the 17 eurozone countries are going to go ahead and create
such an economic government" Z in that eventuality the UK would not be involved,
not be a signatory and you couldn't reasonably ask for a referendum.'

Tory backbencher Andrew Rosindell, one of eight to speak out at Prime Minister's
Questions, urged Mr Cameron to show 'bulldog spirit' at the talks.

He responded: 'That is exactly what I will do. The British national interest
absolutely means that we need to help resolve this crisis in the eurozone. It is
freezing the British economy just as it is freezing economies right across
Europe.

'Let's be clear that there is an option of a treaty at 27 where we have the
ability to say yes or no, and as a result get a price for that. But there is
always the possibility that the eurozone members at 17 will go ahead and form a
treaty of their own.

'Again we have some leverage in that situation, because they need the use of EU
institutions, but we should recognise what that leverage is and make the most of
it.'

German sources said, however, that they opposed British efforts to win
advantages on financial regulation in exchange for backing a new EU treaty
allowing the eurozone to integrate.

The extraordinary scale of German and French ambitions became clear last night
as they said they wanted common corporation and financial transaction taxes
across the eurozone, the power to seize control of the economies of countries
which breach debt rules and automatic sanctions for those which step out of
line.

Employment minister Chris Grayling, a fierce Eurosceptic, said: 'Let's be
absolutely clear on this: we have got to make sure that what comes out of this
is something that properly protects Britain's interests.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: 'The curtain is drawn, the
gloves are off, there are no more pretences. The European elite want a single
country called Europe and they want it now.

'Cameron has to veto this, or at the very least promise Britain a referendum on
it. Otherwise he and the Tory Party will live to regret his cowardice.'

The entire EU could be stripped of its AAA credit rating owing to 'deepening
political, financial and monetary problems with the eurozone', the agency
Standard & Poor's warned last night.

It said Britain's top-notch rating was 'stable' in a sign that the UK might
retain its AAA score even if the EU does not. But it is feared that rising debts
and weak economic growth mean Britain will not stay out of the firing line for
long if the rest of Europe is downgraded.

Comment Z Page 14

A parcel bomb was discovered at Deutsche Bank's HQ in Frankfurt yesterday Z
addressed to its chief executive.

It was found in a mail room and tests confirmed it was packed with explosives
and shrapnel.

Its target was CEO Josef Ackermann and the return address on the parcel was
given as the European Central Bank, which also has its headquarters in
Frankfurt.

Following the discovery, police stepped up security around Deutsche Bank's
offices in New York.

Here is what eight rebel backbenchers had to say to Mr Cameron about Europe in
the Commons yesterday:

John Baron (Basildon and Billericay)

'Our history of repatriating powers from the EU is not a happy one. May I
therefore suggest a fundamental renegotiation of our relationship with the EU
based on free trade, growth and competitiveness, which other countries enjoy,
not on political union and dead-weight regulation?

Andrew Tyrie (Chichester)

'Will the Prime Minister take to Europe the straightforward message that the one
thing most likely to unite the House of Commons would be the perception of a
calculated assault from Brussels on the well-being of the UK financial services
industry, and on the 1.3million people in all our constituencies who work in
it?'

Mark Pritchard (The Wrekin)

'Is it not the case that Europe and the eurozone will be saved not by bail-out
after bail-out of the eurozone but by making Europe more competitive, reducing
its high unit costs and cutting regulation and red tape on business?'

Andrew Turner (Isle of Wight)

'In exchange for supporting the euro countries in dealing with their crisis, we
should be seeking changes in the law of immigration, employment and fishing
rights, in order to support our economy.'

Dr Julian Lewis (New Forest East)

'A policy of fiscal unification for the eurozone states will undoubtedly lead to
the creation of a dangerously undemocratic single government for those
countries.'

Fiona Bruce (Congleton)

'A key factor in achieving growth, as well as in resolving the eurozone crisis,
is to take action in Britain's interests to tackle and reduce the huge
regulatory burdens on small companies, so many of which come from Europe.'

Sir Peter Tapsell (Louth and Horncastle)

'The policy of a fiscal union will pose a great threat to the liberty of Europe,
because it would inevitably make Germany still more dominant.

Andrew Rosindell (Romford)

'Will the Prime Minister do Britain proud on Friday and show some bulldog spirit
in Brussels?'

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Putin can't reform. It would kill his regime;
In the face of protest, the Russian leader will have to use dirty tricks and
repression to preserve the system that spawned him

BYLINE: Edward Lucas

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1100 words


After ten years of baffling opacity, Russian politics has sprung to life. The
circles of power that mattered were impenetrable, while the visible political
process was a pretence. That was exemplified by the phoney presidential election
in 2008 in which Dmitri Medvedev took over Vladimir Putin's presidential office
in the Kremlin for four years, pending the boss's return in 2012.

This weekend's election was meant to be another sham, in which United Russia,
the "party of power", would gain a thumping majority in the Duma alongside some
tame opposition parties, setting the stage for Mr Putin's triumphant
presidential campaign in March. What happened instead was the rebirth of real
politics in Russia. Shameless election rigging, grotesquely slanted news
coverage by state-controlled television, clumsy attempts to muzzle the
independent media and a crackdown against protesters have all backfired badly.

It is too early to speak of a "Slavic Spring" or the birth of a real opposition
in Russia - the protesters are an inchoate mixture. Some are hardened
oppositionists, veterans of the tiny and unsuccessful demonstrations of previous
years. Their views (on a British spectrum) would stretch from the Greens to
UKIP. But others have never been in politics before; like the vast majority of
Russians, they saw any involvement in public life as pointless.

So far, the protests' geographical reach is puny; thousands turned out in
Moscow, hundreds in St Petersburg, a few score in other cities. But this week
may signal the regime's death knell.

The whole political basis of the past ten years, in which a clique of ex-KGB men
and their business cronies ran the world's largest country, has changed. The
implicit bargain was that the regime provided stability and rising living
standards, while the public accepted limits on its freedom. Moreover, Mr Putin's
personal qualities - steely, diligent, articulate - were just what many Russians
wanted to see after the humiliating chaos of Boris Yeltsin's rule. If that was
democracy, many concluded, Russia was better off without it.

Now Mr Putin's glory days are over. Memories of the 1990s have faded. Prosperity
(largely due, it must be said, to high oil and gas prices) no longer sates
discontent. Instead, political and economic stagnation are chafing, especially
for Russia's new middle class. They are used to choice and excellence in their
private life; now they want them in public affairs too.

United Russia is now widely (and accurately) known as the "party of thieves and
swindlers". The opposition blogger who coined that phrase, Alexei Navalny, is
now locked up. But the authorities cannot jail his jokes; another was to call Mr
Putin "Botox man", a jibe at the Russian leader's cosmetically enhanced he-man
image.

Mr Putin is still powerful, but he has lost his aura of invincibility. Instead,
he attracts mockery. Millions in Russia have watched Mr Putin on YouTube being
booed at a martial arts contest, just as they follow Mr Navalny's tweets and
reports of election-rigging.

None of this dooms outright Mr Putin's presidential chances next year. Most
Russians remain apathetic; he remains by far the country's most popular
politician. But it endangers his political future - and the regime's. The
constitution now permits him two six-year terms as president. Even one may be a
stretch. His backers and cronies used to shelter behind his popularity. Now they
wonder if his failure may endanger their fortunes.

Amid the protests, many in Russia are looking again at the regime's record,
which looks increasingly flimsy. Ten years of unlimited power and money have
failed to produce the yearned-for modernisation. Russia is far more corrupt than
it was when the ex-KGB men took power. Its infrastructure is disgracefully
shoddy. It has failed to diversify away from the natural resources that still
make up most of its exports and GDP.

Abroad, the story is similarly gloomy. Russia has lost allies and influence
everywhere (not least to China, which has made inroads even in the traditional
Russian stamping ground of Central Asia). The EU, belatedly but effectively, has
unwound Gazprom's grip on the continent's energy supply; Russia is now seen as a
supplier of expensive and unreliable gas, to which alternatives abound.

In theory, Mr Putin could now change course. He could fight the next election on
a platform of real reforms and pluralism. But that would involve huge risks.
Unleashed, the Russian media would start asking questions about the business
arrangements that have so hugely benefited Mr Putin's friends. It would look at
the overlap between crime, business and spookery. It would investigate the
murders of Mr Putin's opponents. It would highlight abuses of power in Russia's
provinces.

The paradox is this: the corruption and repression at the heart of Mr Putin's
rule are indeed destroying Russia. But tackling them would spell his regime's
own downfall. He may try cosmetic changes, such as winding up United Russia, but
he cannot change the system that spawned it.

It seems more likely therefore that Mr Putin will respond to the alarming events
of this week by turning the screw. That is a gamble too: if unrest spreads
widely across Russia, the regime lacks the muscle to put it down.

Other options may include mischief-making by the authorities to panic the
population; fear of disorder runs deep in Russia. Mysterious bombings in 1999 -
never properly investigated or explained - stoked a public panic that sped Mr
Putin into power. Another trick in the Kremlin playbook is extremism, skinhead
groups that the regime partly sponsors, partly tolerates. Stoking that threat
would then give the regime a chance to play the law-and-order card. Bashing the
West or Russia's neighbours with bogus charges of encirclement or interference
is a third option.

We could do our bit to rattle the regime and give heart to the protesters, many
of whom believe that the West is in cahoots with the Kremlin. We could impose a
visa ban on those responsible for the election rigging, the crackdown and other
outrages; many top Russians invest, shop and holiday in Britain. The Government
has been shamefully slow to use this lever. We could also stem the flow of
Russian dirty money into our financial system.

When the Putin regime finally falls, those who replace it will have some hard
questions for us.

Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both
Russia and the West

It is too soon to speak of a 'Slavic Spring' or the birth of a real opposition

Putin has lost his aura of invincibility. He now attracts mockery

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Muslim women batter girl and go free because they're 'not used to getting drunk'

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words


A GANG of Muslim women who repeatedly kicked another young woman in the head
walked free from court after a judge heard they were "not used to being drunk"
because of their religion.

The mob faced up to five years in jail after screaming "Kill the white slag"
during the ferocious unprovoked attack on care worker Rhea Page, 22.

Somali sisters Ambaro, Ayan and Hibo Maxamed and their cousin Ifrah Nur were
told they would normally have been sent to prison over the assault.

But Judge Robert Brown gave them a suspended sentence after hearing they were
not used to alcohol because their religion does not allow it.

Last night the ruling was condemned as "politically correct" nonsense.

CCTV footage played in court showed ringleader Ambaro, 24, and the other three
drunken women attacking helpless Miss Page. They knocked her to the ground and
took it in turns to kick her in the head as she lay unconscious.

Miss Page was attacked as she walked to a taxi rank with her boyfriend Lewis
Moore, 23, after a night out in Leicester city centre in June 2010. He tried to
intervene but was powerless to stop the onslaught.

Miss Page went to hospital suffering cuts and bruises to her head, back, legs
and arms, and had clumps of hair pulled out.

She is still undergoing counselling for panic attacks and flashbacks and was so
traumatised she lost her job caring for people with autism and learning
difficulties due to repeated absences.

Yesterday Miss Page spoke of her disbelief at the leniency shown to her
attackers.

She said: "It's no punishment at all. For them to say they did it because they
were not used to alcohol is not an excuse.

"If they were not supposed to be drinking they shouldn't have been out in bars
at that time of night.

"It should have been immediate custody after what happened. They were kicking me
in the head. Even after the police came, one of them came running back to kick
me in the head."

At Leicester Crown Court the four women admitted actual bodily harm. They each
received a sixmonth sentence suspended for a year. Prosecutor James Bide-Thomas
said violence erupted after Ambaro called Miss Page a "white bitch".

Ambaro, Ayan, who is 28, Hibo, 24, and Ifrah Nur, 28, were not charged with
racial aggravation.

Last night Tory MP Philip Hollobone described the ruling as "extremely
disappointing". He said: "This is another barmy case of judges being out of step
with popular opinion."

Ukip home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten said: "This sends out completely the
wrong message to drunken louts.

"Everybody should be dealt with by the courts on an equal basis. This is another
example of politically correct sentencing." Describing the attack, Miss Page
said: "I had gone for a drink after work and then I met my boyfriend before
heading home. We went to get a taxi and all of a sudden I heard these women
shouting abuse. They kept shouting 'white bitch' and 'white slag' at me.

"One grabbed my hair then threw me on the ground.

"They were taking turns to kick me in the head and back. I honestly think they
attacked me just because I was white. I can't think of any other reason."

Gary Short, mitigating for Ambaro Maxamed, blamed the attack on alcohol. He
said: "They're Somalian Muslims and alcohol or drugs isn't something they're
used to."

Hibo Maxamed, who needs kidney dialysis three times a week, was ordered to
adhere to a fourmonth curfew between 9pm and 6am. Her three co-defendants were
ordered to carry out 150 hours of unpaid work.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ambaro Maxamed was the ringleader
Ayan Maxamed 'not used to drinking'
Ifrah Nur, a cousin, joined in the attack
Hibo Maxamed walked free from court
CCTV footage of the attack with Rhea in the centre and Lewis Moore on the left
Victim Rhea Page said yesterday the gang should have gone straight to jail for
the unprovoked attack
Picture: HOTSPOT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 7, 2011 Wednesday 10:52 AM GMT

Eurozone debt crisis: David Cameron failing to stand up for Britain says Douglas
Carswell;
David Cameron is failing to stand up for British interests in talks over a new
European Union treaty, according to Douglas Carswell, a leading Conservative
sceptic.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

LENGTH: 815 words


Mr Carswell signalled he was unimpressed with The Prime Minister's threat to
veto a new treaty unless he gets safeguards for the City of London, and
suggested Mr Cameron should go much further.

Writing on his blog, Mr Carswell said the Government's European policy was
characterised by "incoherence".

Mr Cameron's policy consists of "promises to protect vital national interests -
but signing up to rules that'll make it easier for them to be ignored," he
wrote.

By supporting greater integration of the eurozone, Mr Cameron is giving "backing
for a Euro bloc that'll have an automatic majority over most things".

Mr Cameron's failure to deliver on promises of a referendum or repatriation of
powers will fuel anger over Europe. The Prime Minister is offering "more of what
makes folk so fed-up in the first place," Mr Carswell wrote.

Mr Cameron has threatened to veto a far-reaching deal to save the euro unless he
wins safeguards for the City of London and the European single market.

The Prime Minister raised the stakes on signing a new European Union treaty as
the scale of the planned "fiscal union" became clear: it includes proposals for
the EU to have "intrusive control" of national budgets.

<preform><script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"
src="http://static.polldaddy.com/p/5737442.js"></script><noscript> David Cameron
should sign a new EU treaty... </noscript></preform>

Germany and France have drawn up the plans for more centralised control of
eurozone members' tax and spending decisions, which will be debated at a
Brussels summit this week.

Mr Cameron is under pressure from Conservative MPs to use the summit to return
powers to Britain and, at the very least, win an assurance that future EU
regulations will not threaten the City or free-market rules.

The Brussels summit will decide whether the new treaty will be signed by all 27
EU members, as most states and the European Commission would like, or only by
the 17 eurozone countries, which France and Germany are proposing if they cannot
win EU-wide support.

Mr Cameron said that in exchange for signing a deal, he would insist on "British
safeguards".

"I will not sign a treaty that does not have those safeguards in it, around
things like the importance of the single market and financial services," he
said.

If he does not get his way, Britain could prevent the euro members from using
European institutions such as the European Commission to enforce their fiscal
union, he added.

That could force Paris and Berlin to create government institutions outside the
EU, a dramatic step that would raise questions about the integrity of the EU.

The Brussels summit will debate a paper on "a genuine fiscal union" prepared by
Herman Van Rompuy, the EU president.

The Daily Telegraph has seen the confidential paper, which suggests a "higher
degree of surveillance and discipline in the conduct of national policies".

Restoring the confidence of financial markets could "require more intrusive
control of the national budgetary stance by the EU," Mr Van Rompuy adds.

UKIP Leader Nigel Farage also ridiculed Mr Cameron's latest threat, saying the
Prime Minister had backed down from earlier pledges to repatriate British powers
from Brussels.

Mr Farage said: "Cameron has retreated so far to please his EU partners he is
now supporting the federalist dream of fiscal union for the Eurozone to save the
Euro. This is just empty words from a federalist Prime Minister."

Ken Clarke has urged eurosceptics not to expect the repatriation of powers from
Brussels at this week's EU summit.

In an interview with the Financial Times, the Justice Secretary called on the
Prime Minister to focus on maintaining the "financial stability of the western
world".

He said it would be a distraction to try to open up discussions about the "wider
structures of the union".

Mr Clarke told the newspaper: "We're not going to renegotiate any transfers of
powers, in my opinion."

He argued that Britain should be prepared to accept "proper" financial
regulation from Brussels, but rejected the idea of an EU "Tobin tax" on
financial transactions, adding: "It's the devil's own job to collect."

Writing in The Times, Mr Cameron said that what matters most to Britain's
national interest is that the eurozone sorts out its problems thruogh tighter
fiscal discipline and more co-ordination within the eurozone.

He warned: "Clearly, we will need to look at the right safeguards for Britain in
the light of what is proposed. Our colleagues in the EU need to know that we
will not agree to a treaty change that fails to protect our interests."

He said: "My job is to defend and protect the British national interest. Britain
is a member of the European Union; its institutions belong to all its members,
Britain included. We benefit greatly from the single market, which we must both
safeguard and extend."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Euroscepticism does not stop at the Border - just ask the Nats;
COMMENTARY Salmond has gone suspiciously silent on Europe

BYLINE: Alan Cochrane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 614 words


THERE is a fair bit of comfort for Alex Salmond in the conclusion of Prof Norman
Davies that the little Englander and anti-Europe mentalities he finds so
prevalent south of the Border are good news for the SNP's aim of breaking up
Britain.

However, it is by no means a shoo-in. Prof Davies may have a point when he
castigates many in England for their insularity and inability to distinguish
between "English" and "British" and for decrying the absence of a proper
understanding of the history of the United Kingdom, per se, rather than that of
the country between the Channel and the Cheviots.

He says English insularity, increasing nationalism and Euroscepticism are in
danger of driving the Scots, Welsh and Northern Irish out of the United Kingdom.

But I cannot be the only observer to find this conclusion a bit rich, if not a
massive understatement, given that the professor accepts devolution accelerated
this process towards separation.

As Prof Davies, English-born but of Welsh descent, said at the
Telegraph-sponsored Hay Festival Winter Weekend, devolution was supposed to be
the answer to a UK dominated by London and England. However, " ... it has worked
in the opposite way", he adds.

Where I think the learned academic also got it wrong - and badly wrong - is over
Europe. There is a widespread misconception, clearly shared by Prof Davies, that
the Scots are much more in favour of the EU than are the English.

I'm not sure they are. Granted, it is a difficult one to test, thanks to the
abysmal showing in recent years of the Scottish Tories as well as the total lack
of success of Ukip, the two parties where any anti-Europe votes might be
expected to reside. But with Scotland's constitutional future always to the fore
at election time, EU membership has been very low on the parties' list of
priorities.

If it was to shoot up the political agenda, especially with the current
nearchaos in the eurozone, I'm not sure voter reaction in Scotland would be much
different to that in England. Like their neighbours, most Scots are mightily
relieved that we kept out of the common currency and are happy to stay that way.

Prof Davies is right, of course, in saying that Alex Salmond and his SNP are
"very Europhile"; indeed that's probably another understatement. With his
"Scotland in Europe" maxim, Wee Eck has long given the impression that he would
rather be tied to Brussels than London.

But his Euro-enthusiasm is the love that dare not speak its name at present. Not
only is there a significant and growing Eurosceptic wing in the SNP, but with
turmoil the order of the day within the EU, we now hear nothing from the Nats
about the issue that used to be near the top of their policy objectives, for the
simple reason that they know that it would scare the voters.

To those who feared that "little" Scotland could not manage on its own in that
big, bad outside world, Mr Salmond always used to say: "Don't worry - we'll be
all right inside the EU." No longer. Demands from the opposition parties for a
clear statement about his current policy on Europe are now met only with
vacillation.

Just as when his admiration for countries like Ireland and Iceland in the
so-called "arc of prosperity" turned sour when the banks crashed, so events in
Europe are conspiring to make a laughing stock of another plank in his platform
for separation.

Prof Davies may be absolutely correct when he says every austerity measure
brought in by the Coalition is presented by the Nats as the "English starving
us" but he is wrong when he claims all the Eurosceptics live in England.

If that were the case, why do we no longer hear a cheep from Wee Eck about his
deep love for all things European?

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Politics Live blog: Monday 5 December 2011

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5805 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all today's political developments
as they happen.

FULL TEXT

4.20pm: Here's an afternoon summary.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has said that he will insist that Britain "gets
something" if there is a full-scale EU treaty renegotiation. But, in his first
response to the plan outlined by Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, he stressed
that there was no guarantee that there would be a new treaty involving all 27 EU
members. He also played down the prospects of Britain having a referendum. But
John Redwood, the Conservative Eurosceptic, said holding a referendum would be a
good "negotiating card". It would ensure EU leaders took Cameron's demands
seriously when he tried to renegotiate Britain's relationship with the EU,
Redwood said. (See3.32pm.)

[#xfffd] Cameron has revealed that 3m at-risk patients will have hi-tech
equipment deployed at home so that their health can be monitored remotely by
doctors. (See3.50pm.)

[#xfffd] Hugh Grant, Steve Coogan and Max Mosley have given evidence to a
parliamentary committee about privacy. Mosley said a breach of privacy was
"worse than having your house burgled".

[#xfffd] An author has told the Leveson inquiry that News of the World
journalists were fabricating stories for years. Peter Burden, who has written a
book about the paper, said: "The idea of simply getting the story by any means,
whether it was by 'stunting' [faking] photos or entrapping people, was embedded
in the culture, the ethos of the newspaper by then, which would seem to set the
right sort of background for people to be prepared to take subsequent risks on
things like phone hacking."

[#xfffd] Eric Pickles, the communities secretary, has told MPs that the
government will stop the taxpayer paying for public sector workers to work
full-time on union business. "All local authorities need to be making sensible
savings to protect frontline services and to keep council tax down," he said.
"Councils should be reviewing the merits of these publicly-funded, full-time
union officials. There are non-jobs on the rates and it's wrong that council tax
should be used to subsidise trade union activity."

[#xfffd] Pickles has said that the government is considering giving councils new
powers to deal with unauthorised protest camps. "We are reviewing what further
steps can be taken to increase council powers to tackle unauthorised development
and occupation," he said. "High-profile cases like Parliament Square and St
Paul's show that the current system is far too slow and councils need stronger
powers to protect local amenities."

[#xfffd] Cherie Booth has said women should have half the places in parliament
and the boardroom. In a speech at Chatham House, she said: "Equal representation
does not just lead to good democracy, it is democracy." Achieving gender parity
was "both a legitimate aim and a necessary character of a democratic state", she
said.

[#xfffd] The Unite union has announced that it is offering "community
membership" to non-workers for 50p a week. "This scheme could transform trade
unionism in the UK," said Len McCluskey, Unite's general secretary. (See2.56pm.)

[#xfffd] The Department for Culture has revealed that the security costs at the
Olympics have risen by [#xfffd]271m. (See2.10pm.)

[#xfffd] Roger Bootle, a senior economist, has told the Treasury committee that
"no certainty at all" should be attacked to the Office for Budget
Responsibility's forecasts. Economic forecasting was "more art than science", he
said.

That's all for today. Thanks for the comments.

3.50pm:David Cameron has delivered his speech on life sciences. The key points
have already been well trailed - by Downing Street yesterday, and by Andrew
Lansley in interviews this morning - but he had some new points to add.

[#xfffd] Cameron said he was going to extend "tele-health" to 3m patients over
the next five years, allowing doctors to use remote devices to monitor their
health when they're at home. He said that this has already been trialled and
that it had proved "a huge success".

[#xfffd] He said the NHS was already allowing researchers to have access to have
acces to anonymised records, and that this was working well.

Thanks to the South London and Maudsley NHS Trust, the Institute of Psychiatry
now has access to a database covering a quarter of a million patients.

It's got their brain scans, their medical records, their notes - a huge wealth
of information, all consented to, all anonymised - that's helping them find new
answers in the fight against dementia.

It is simply a waste to have a health system like the NHS and not do this kind
of thing.

[#xfffd] He said two experts, Sir John Bell and Chris Brinsmead, would report to
him every six months on whether the NHS was collaborating more with the life
sciences industry.

[#xfffd] He said he was changing the NHS constitution, to include a presumption
in favour of data being used for research, in response to complaints from the
industry.

Time and again we've heard the same thing from industry:

'We've got the treatments that work, we've proved their safe, they've been
approved but we cannot get them into the NHS. In fact we can't even get to the
negotiating table' ...

It is a massive missed opportunity - and in so many ways it's out-of-kilter with
the spirit of the NHS.

3.32pm:Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy have announced details of their
proposals for a new EU treaty. And David Cameron has just responded. These are
the points he made when he was asked about the deal, and about the possibility
of a referendum, in a Q&A after his life sciences speech.

[#xfffd] Cameron said that he will want to ensure that Britain "gets something"
if there is full-scale EU treaty renegotiation.

On this issue of treaty change, I've always said that if there is treaty change
in Europe, then we will make sure that Britain gets something in order to
enhance, protect, defend and promote our national interest in Europe. That is
absolutely key ... If there is treaty change at the level of 27, then Britain
has its desires and requests to make sure that our relationship with Europe is
properly managed.

He said in any treaty negotiation there would be "very important things" he
would want to safeguard, "not least the single market, not least the importance
of financial services, and other issues too".

[#xfffd] But he stressed that that there was no guarantee that the plans
announced by Merkel and Sarkozy today would result in a new treaty involving all
27 EU member states.

It may well be there isn't a treaty at the level of 27, that that won't be the
case.

[#xfffd] He played down the prospects of Britain holding a referendum on the EU.
Asked about Iain Duncan Smith's comments yesterday, he said the government had
passed legislation saying there would have to be a referendum on any attempt to
transfer powers from the UK to Brussels. That meant it would be impossible for
any future government to do what Labour did with the Lisbon treaty. He went on:

As prime minister, I'm not intending to pass any powers from Britain to
Brussels, so I don't think the issue will arise.

[#xfffd] He said making the EU competitive was even more important than
addressing the debt crisis.

There is a danger here that European leaders will miss what really needs to be
done in terms of Europe and the eurozone. Of course there is a fiscal debt
crisis in many parts of Europe, and everyone is having to take very difficult
decisions to get their budgets under control ... But underlying the problems,
particularly in the eurozone, is a problem of competitiveness. It's not just
that we need Italy or Spain or Portugal to deal with their fiscal deficits. We
need to work out how these countries can be competitive in a single market
system.

[#xfffd] He said the eurozone crisis was having a "chilling effect" on Britain.
"We want them to solve their problems," he said. "We are helpful and
constructive."

2.56pm: The Unite union has announced a plan to offer non-workers, including
students and the unemployed, "community membership" for 50p a week. Community
members would have access to financial, legal and other advice.

Len McCluskey, the Unite general secretary, says this could transform trade
unionism in the UK.

This scheme could transform trade unionism in the UK. It comes at a time when
horrific cuts and ideological social changes are pushing more and more people to
the margins. Last week we had the mass action by public servants fighting for
pensions justice. Only 24 hours before that, the chancellor told the country
that, under his government, the attacks on the incomes and services of the
ordinary people of this country will continue until 2017. This is a government
of the few.

It is time now for those on the margins to organise, to come together to
challenge the decisions made by the elite in the interests of the few. This is
the real Big Society - ordinary people organising for themselves - in action.

2.50pm: Here's an afternoon reading list.[#xfffd] Benedict Brogan on his blog
says David Cameron should be cautious about a Franco-German deal on the EU's
future.

One more reason for scepticism about whatever Germany and France propose: as the
FT reminds us, Mrs Merkel, and Germany more generally, has little or no
understanding of the markets and banking. Germany is a manufacturing and
exporting powerhouse, but is a backwater when it comes to financial services: it
has no corporate or cultural understanding of the forces that are driving the
crisis. In all that there is plenty of scope for a deal that will bite us on the
arse, whatever Nick Clegg and Mr Cameron say.

[#xfffd] Jenni Russell in the Evening Standard says Labour may be ready to
embrace fiscal conservatism.

This week a group of Labour thinkers are proposing a radical way out of this
conundrum. Instead of expecting voters to understand Labour's thinking, and
being bewildered when they don't, they suggest that Labour must move to where
the voters are. That means embracing the need for austerity, balanced budgets
and carefully targeted spending.

This would be a remarkable shift for a party given to protesting about almost
every government cut, and it's clear the authors of the pamphlet anticipate
having to defend themselves. Graeme Cook, Adam Lent, Anthony Painter and Hopi
Sen, the four men behind the new policy proposal, which has been given the
rather inelegant title of "In the Black Labour", say, almost anxiously, that
"there is nothing Right-wing about fiscal conservatism". It simply means that a
government can be trusted to pay its debts. They add that "if we want to
collectively fund something, we've got to collectively pay for it" ...

Above all, the party will have to alter its priorities. It needs a different
conception of the state. If it wants more social justice, Black Labour suggests
that is best achieved not by welfare spending but by getting more people into
productive jobs. Labour's spending plans should therefore focus ruthlessly on a
single issue: will any given proposal directly boost growth and employment? If
not, it should not be a priority. If the consequence is lower spending on
traditional areas of Labour concern, such as healthcare, pensions and welfare,
the authors argue that is a price worth paying.

[#xfffd] Jon Bernstein at the Staggers says the timing of last week's strike was
a mistake.

The unions made a tactical error last week -- an error not of intention but of
timing -- and that may be reflected in the ICM numbers. As one shadow cabinet
minister described it to my colleague Rafael Behr, the decision to strike less
than 24 hours after George Osborne's Autumn statement was "a source of
frustration". Privately, the language was doubtless far stronger.

[#xfffd] John Rentoul on his blog says Robert Chote and Sir Gus O'Donnell both
gave interviews over the weekend which reflect badly on Ed Balls.

2.16pm: Hugh Grant, Steve Coogan and Max Mosely are about to give evidence to
the parliamentary committee on privacy and injunctions. My colleague Dan Sabbagh
will be covering it in full on a media live blog.

2.10pm: The cost of security at the Olympics has gone up by [#xfffd]271m. The
Department for Culture has put out new figures today about Olympics costings and
they show that the total cost of security at the event is going to be
[#xfffd]553m. But the government claims that it is still on budget because of
savings elsewhere.

Here's an extract from the Press Assocation story about this.

The cost of security for the 2012 London Olympics and Paralympics has almost
doubled to [#xfffd]553 million.The massive operation to provide security at more
than 100 venues across the UK has swollen by [#xfffd]271 million after a
decision to recruit and train almost 14,000 more personnel, said the Department
for Culture, Media and Sport.Meanwhile, the price tag for the opening and
closing ceremonies has risen by [#xfffd]41 million, also doubling previous
forecasts.DCMS insisted that the decision to increase the number of security
staff from 10,000 to 23,700 was not in response to "any specific security
threat".Olympics minister Hugh Robertson said that the additional spending would
not put the Games over their [#xfffd]9.3 billion budget, thanks to savings of
more than [#xfffd]910 million achieved by the Olympic Delivery Authority since
2007.With 235 days to go to the July 27 opening ceremony, the Olympic programme
remains "on time and within budget", with construction of stadiums and
infrastructure now 92% complete, said Mr Robertson.The Government and the London
2012 organising committee (LOCOG) have now undertaken detailed analysis of the
number of security staff required, he said."As a result, to ensure a safe and
secure Games, they have revised the numbers of trained staff required," he said.
"We are therefore investing additional funds in providing nearly 24,000 venue
security personnel plus specialist security equipment."Mr Robertson said the
decision to provide LOCOG with extra public money for the opening and closing
ceremonies was taken to take advantage of "a great national moment" which could
generate advertising revenue of [#xfffd]2-[#xfffd]5 billion.LOCOG's budget for
the ceremonies has never been officially confirmed but was previously understood
to have been [#xfffd]40 million.

1.38pm:Conor Burns, a Conservative backbencher and a parliamentary aide to Owen
Paterson, the Northern Ireland secretary, told the World at One that David
Cameron should use the latest EU renegotiation to demand the repatriation of
powers to the UK. According to PoliticsHome, he said Cameron should to take the
opportunity to "get the British dog out of the federalist manger".

Our interests on this occasion coincide rather than collide - the European
Union, the eurozone need our permission to have treaty change and I think we
then have the opportunity to use that treaty change to begin a process of
repatriation of some powers to the United Kingdom. I think that's the first
thing the government should be addressing in their negotiating stance.

Burns also said this view represented "the centre of gravity" of opinion in the
Conservative party.

1.00pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.[#xfffd] Downing Street has sought to quash
the prospects of the latest EU renegotiation leading to a referendum in the UK.
At this morning's lobby briefing, the prime minister's official spokesman
rejected Iain Duncan Smith's claim that a major EU treaty change would be enough
on its own to trigger a referendum in the EU. This came as Angela Merkel and
Nicolas Sarkozy met for a crunch meeting on the EU's future in Paris. (See
11.53am.)

[#xfffd] The OECD has said that income inequality among working-age people has
risen faster in Britain than in any other rich nation since the mid-1970s.
[#xfffd] The mother of the alleged hacker Gary McKinnon has urged MPs to support
a backbench motion calling for UK-US extradition rules to be "urgently
renegotiated".

[#xfffd] The Leveson inquiry has been told that files seized from Steve
Whittamore, a private investigator, showed that journalists had committed
privacy offences and that "several editors must have been aware" of it. There
are more details on our Leveson live blog.[#xfffd] The Home Office has said
police forces should ensure the support services are involved when a member of a
family goes missing. Launching a strategy on missing people, James Brokenshire,
a Home Office minister, said: When children or adults go missing, they are
vulnerable and place themselves at great risk of harm and exploitation. There
can also be a huge impact both on them and on their families as they deal with
the consequences. It is vital that everyone with a role to play in safeguarding
and providing support works together in order to give the right help and advice
to those who need it most."

[#xfffd] Ed Miliband has sought to turn next week's Feltham and Heston
byelection in a referendum on the government's economic strategy. In a visit to
the constituency, he said: "Now I want Feltham and Heston to be the first chance
for the people to pass a verdict on the catastrophic course David Cameron and
George Osborne have set this country on. I want voters in this by-election to
vote Labour and send a clear signal that it is time for a change of plan." (See
10.38am.)

[#xfffd] Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, claimed that UKIP would beat the Lib
Dems at the byelection. "I think we will beat the Lib Dems and I think we are
also going to pick up a lot of Tory votes and Labour votes," he claimed. "One
has to be realistic about this but I think we will score our best ever
by-election result." UKIP were fifth in Feltham and Heston at the 2010 election,
on 2% of the vote, behind the BNP (3.5%), the Lib Dems (14%), the Conservatives
(34%) and Labour (43%).

[#xfffd] Support for Scottish independence has hit the highest level since Alex
Salmond won office over four years ago, but a larger number of Scots favour more
power within the UK, a study has found.

[#xfffd] Ken Livingstone has promised to cut transport fares in London by 7% if
elected mayor.In a statement, he said excess money in the Transport for London
budget would pay for the cut.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has chaired a cabinet meeting in Ipswich. Before the
meeting, the Adastral Park, BT's innovation and development centre near the
town. "This is a great opportunity to get the Cabinet out of London and
understand the issues affecting this important region," he said.

12.39pm: In the Guardian's splash story today about the findings of our massive
invesigation into the causes of the riots,we quote the Metropolitan police
saying they welcome research that helps to explain why the riots took place.

But Sir Hugh Orde, the president of Association of Chief Police Officers, gave a
more jaded response when asked about the report on the BBC News. According to
PoliticsHome, this is what he said:

We have to realise that of course everyone has a voice in this country. If there
are real underlying issues, for example stop-and-search, it's not just the
rioters talking about stop-and-search ... It's something we should continue to
strive to do better at.

But of course we must also realise and articulate how valuable that tactic is in
keeping people safe. So while I'm not surprised at [the Guardian report], I
think it's a slightly one-dimensional picture and we need to look at all the
reports to get a better, fuller view of what actually went on.

11.53am: Here are the main points from the lobby briefing. It did go on a bit,
but it wasn't completely uninformative.

[#xfffd] Number 10 has rejected Iain Duncan Smith's claim that a major EU treaty
change would be enough on its own to trigger a referendum in the EU. "If there
is a major treaty change, it is now legislated for that we should have a
referendum," the work and pensions secretary said yesterday. But the prime
minister's official spokesman said that, under the European Union Act, there had
to be a proposal for significant power to be transferred from London to Brussels
for there to be a referendum.

What is being discussed at the moment is about how the members of the eurozone
organise themselves and how they construct the right economic governance for the
eurozone ... There are no proposals on the table for a transfer of powers from
the UK to Brussels. That is not what it being talked about ... There is no lack
of clarity here. The Act talks about triggering a referendum if there's a
transfer of power from London to Brussels.

The spokesman went on like this for some time. But, crucially, he would not
actually rule out a referendum on an EU treaty change that did not involve a
transfer of power to Brussels - even though he did his best to play down the
prospect of one happening. The Act specificies the circumstances in which a
referendum has to be held (a transfer of power), but it does not stop a
government holding a referendum in other circumstances. The closest he came to
ruling one out came when I asked if it was government policy to only hold a
referendum in the event of a signficant transfer of power. "The Act reflects our
policy," the spokesman replied, which did not quite resolve the issue.

There's a reason for this. If Number 10 were to rule out a referendum on a
treaty change that did not transfer power to Brussels, a large chunk of the
Conservative party would explode. Duncan Smith knows this, and it is hard to
believe that he said what he said yesterday because he had forgotten the details
of the European Union Act. More likely, he wanted to remind Eurosceptics that
the referendum they crave is still a possibility.

[#xfffd] Government MPs are free to vote how they want in tonight's vote on
reforming the extradition laws, the spokesman said. That's what he meant when he
said the business was subject to a one-line whip. But the Daily Mail says
ministers and their aides are being quietly told to vote against the motion.

[#xfffd] Downing Street has defended the right of the American ambassador, Louis
Susman, to lobby MPs to vote against the extradition motion. Susman has gotan
article in the Daily Telegraph today defending the current arrangements. Asked
if this sort of intervention was appropriate, the spokesman said: "That's the
kind of thing ambassadors do."

[#xfffd] The cabinet has had one of its away-days. It met in Ipswich this
morning.

11.48am: I'm back from the lobby briefing. I'll post a full read-out in a
moment, but the main news was Number 10 distancing itself from Iain Duncan
Smith's call for a referendum on any major EU treaty change.

10.49am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere. And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.

As for the rest of the papers, here are three articles that are particularly
interesting.

[#xfffd] Andrew Hough and Victoria Ward in the Daily Telegraph says that David
Cameron has revealed that he prefers EastEnders to the Archers in an interview
about his viewing habits.

Mr Cameron said he enjoys Modern Family, the American sitcom, but said he would
most like to find the new series of The Killing, the Danish detective series,
under the Christmas tree, adding: "I love Sarah Lund (and her jersey)" ...

But when it comes to television turn offs, he chose Sir Alan, star of The
Apprentice and the Labour Government's enterprise tsar, for adults and SpongeBob
SquarePants for children.

Mr Cameron shunned The Archers in favour of EastEnders and chose Absolutely
Fabulous over Outnumbered. He added: "The Dutch Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, is a
huge fan of Yes, Minister and was amused when I told him it's basically true."

[#xfffd] Hamish MacDonnell in the Independent says the SNP are drawing up plans
to strengthen links between an independent Scotland and the Scandanavian
countries.

An independent Scotland would shift much of its attention away from the UK to
become a member of the Scandinavian circle of countries, with its own army, navy
and air force modelled on its Nordic neighbours, according to detailed plans
being drawn up by the SNP.

Senior SNP strategists are compiling a "prospectus for independence" which they
hope to use to sell the idea of separation to Scots ahead of the referendum in
2014 or 2015.

[#xfffd] Trevor Kavanagh in the Sun implies that he kept a diary of his time as
the Sun's political editor that would reveal details of how Alastair Campbell
used to spread "poison" about his colleagues.

ALASTAIR CAMPBELL, who once played the media like a fiddle, has the nerve to
accuse the Press of being "putrid".

He is fortunate lobby journalists never reveal their sources.

Otherwise a queue of hacks could reveal how Alastair routinely dripped poison
into their ears about everyone - then swore them to secrecy.

Luckily, some of us kept a diary.

I'm off to the Number 10 lobby briefing now. I'll post again after 11.30am.

10.38am: Ed Miliband has said that he wants voters to turn next week's Feltham
and Heston byelection into a referendum on last week's autumn statement (which
is not surprising, because Labour had a 4,658 majority in the seat at the
election and should hold it comfortably).

This is what he said on a visit to the seat this morning.

The Tories had promised they would get the deficit paid down in four years. But
last week George Osborne admitted he would have to borrow [#xfffd]158 billion
more than he had planned to pay the bill for its economic failure. The economics
are clear: the plan has failed.

Now I want Feltham and Heston to be the first chance for the people to pass a
verdict on the catastrophic course David Cameron and George Osborne have set
this country on. I want voters in this by-election to vote Labour and send a
clear signal that it is time for a change of plan.

As this very jolly story in the Mail on Sunday reveals,one person that Miliband
is unlikely to meet on his trip to Feltham today is the Tory MP Bob Stewart.

10.33am: The government has put out this statement about the OECD report on
inequality.

The OECD recognises that the causes of inequality are complex. As we have seen,
just putting billions of pounds into the tax and benefit system cannot alleviate
poverty on its own and has the perverse effect of trapping thousands of families
in a life on benefits.

The OECD rightly points out that governments need to facilitate and encourage
employment of low income groups - something we are directly focusing on through
the Work Programme and Universal Credit.

Our wide-ranging reforms will have a dramatic impact on the poorest families,
improving the life chances of children at an early age and lifting almost a
million people out of poverty through the Universal Credit.

10.12am: Income inequality has grown faster in Britain since the mid-1970s than
in any other rich nation, the OECD has said today. My colleague Randeep Ramesh
has filed a full story on its report. Here's an extract.

Income inequality among working-age people has risen faster in Britain than in
any other rich nation since the mid-1970s owing to the rise of a financial
services elite who through education and marriage have concentrated wealth into
the hands of a tiny minority, according to a new report by the OECD.

Economists from the thinktank, which is funded by developed world taxpayers, say
the annual average income in the UK of the top 10% in 2008 was just under
[#xfffd]55,000, about 12 times higher than that of the bottom 10%, who had an
average income of [#xfffd]4,700.

This is up from a ratio of eight to one in 1985 and significantly higher than
the average income gap in developed nations of nine to one.

However, the report makes clear that even in countries viewed as "fairer" - such
as Germany, Denmark and Sweden - this pay gap between rich and poor is
expanding: from five to one in the 1980s to six to one today. In the rising
powers of Brazil, Russia, India and China the ratio is an alarming 50 to one.

Here's the OECD news release about its report. And here's the two-page note
about the UK (pdf).

9.59am: While we're on the subject of David Cameron's NHS/life sciences industry
initiative,David Willetts, the science minister, has gotan article in the Times
(paywall) explaining how the new [#xfffd]180m catalyst fund will help promising
medical ideas get through the "valley of death".Here's how Willetts explains it.

Camilla Cavendish identified one of the crucial challenges in these pages last
month. She warned of the "valley of death" that faces so many great British
discoveries in the perilous journey from the lab to the world outside. This is
not a new problem but it really is time to tackle it.

Tennyson's Charge of the Light Brigade had 600 brave soldiers sent across his
"valley of death". The Medical Research Council alone has identified 360
promising ideas developed under its auspices, 280 of which are awaiting
commercialisation. But we will never persuade investors to fund these
innovations unless we can show that the NHS is open to help and then to adopting
them for UK patients if successful. We need to make it much easier to show
"proof of concept" in a hospital environment. Then the private sector will
invest.

Today we are setting up a new programme between the Medical Research Council and
the Technology Strategy Board that will fund this crucial stage to get medical
discoveries closer to commercialisation. We are putting [#xfffd]180 million into
this "Catalyst" fund to provide a straightforward route from the lab to
commercialisation and use in the NHS.

This does sound very like "picking winners", something that governments of all
parties have claimed not to support since the days of British Leyland.

9.30am:Andrew Lansley, the health secretary, has been giving interviews this
morning about the government's plans to increase collaboration between the NHS
and the life sciences industry.PoliticsHomehave been monitoring them.

Here are the key points.

[#xfffd] Lansley said that he wanted to allow drug companies to use patient
records because the size of the NHS database made it an invaluable resource.

What we are talking about is not patient's individual medical records. What
we're talking about is linking up all the data sets across the NHS to create
what is population-based data about the success of new treatments across the NHS
and the ability to link up research data with the data about how patients are
responding in research trials.

Let's say you are wanting to introduce a new medicine. Increasingly we're
looking at medicines that are effective in subsets of population. So you want to
be able to reach subsets of the population, enrol them in a clinical trial and
then get access to that that data to see how well [it works]. When Herceptin
came in it wasn't effective in all women with breast cancer. It was effective in
those who had the HER2 gene, so you have specific genetic mutations which quite
often will tell you that a particular medicine is going to be effective.

[#xfffd] He said patient data would be released to researchers in an anonymised
that would make it impossible for individuals to be identified. "The information
will not only be anonymised, but it will also be rendered to a place where you
can't subsequently identify, re identify patients," he said.

[#xfffd] He said patients would be able to opt out if they did not want their
data used by researchers.

[#xfffd] He said he would amend the NHS constitution to make it clear that it
was supposed to support research. "We will amend the NHS constitution so that
from the patients point of view there is a presumption that the NHS is a
research-related activity," he said.

[#xfffd] He said patients would benefit from more clinical trials taking place
in the NHS.

The NHS benefits not least because if we become one of the world's leading
locations for undertaking that kind of research, more patients in this country
will be in clinical trials. In the last decade or so, we used to have 6% of the
clinical trials in the world taking place in Britain, it went down to 2%. We
want to boost that back up again.

[#xfffd] He said the government would be setting up a website to enable patients
to find out about clinical trials that they might want to take part in as a
means of accessing the latest medicines.

9.13am: Speaking ahead of tonight's debate about the extradition laws, David
Blunkett, the former Labour home secretary, told Radio 4 this morning that he
has visited the Department for Justice in Washington twice in an attempt to
persuade the Americans to allow Gary McKinnon to stay in the UK while his trial
takes place in the US. McKinnon could participate by video link, Blunkett
suggested, and serve his sentence in the UK if found guilty. Blunkett went on:

I did that privately, but I have to say publicly now because tonight's debate
will get very, very hot indeed.

Interestingly, the Wikileaks cables revealed that Gordon Brown made a similar
plea to the Americans when he was prime minister. But he was unsuccessful, and
Blunkett implied that his own initiative did not make much progress either.

9.00am: It's a big day for Europe. Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy are meeting
to thrash out details of a plan that could set up a fiscal union in Europe and
may (or may not) lead to some sort of resolution of the debt crisis. But this
blog - like the UK - is sitting on the sidelines. My colleague Alex Hawkes will
be covering the Merkozy meeting on the business live blog. And I'll be covering
events at Westminster, where the most lively before 4pm will be Leveson - The
Sequel, a star-studded committee hearing featuring Hugh Grant, Steve Coogan and
Max Mosley who may well spend an hour telling MPs and peers exactly what they
told Leveson.

Here's the diary for the day.

10am:Ed Miliband will campaign in Feltham and Heston, where the Labour candidate
Seema Malhotra is expected to hold the seat in next week's byelection.

10am: The Leveson inquiry resumes. Former deputy information commissioner
Francis Aldhouse, lawyer Charlotte Harris, who represents a number of alleged
phone hacking victims, and Peter Burden, author of the book News of the World?
Fake Sheikhs & Royal Trappings, are giving evidence.

1pm:Cherie Booth gives a speech on equality for women at Chatham House.

2.15pm:Hugh Grant, Steve Coogan and Max Mosley give evidence to the joint
committee on privacy and injunctions.

3pm:David Cameron gives a speech on life sciences. He is going to unveil plans
to increase collaboration between the health service and the life sciences
industry.

3.30pm: MPs start a debate on a backbench motion saying ministers who leak
information to the media before announcing it to parliament should be referred
to the committee on standards in public life. The backbench debate on reforming
extradition laws will not start until about 7pm.

3.30pm:Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, Jonathan
Portes, director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research and
Roger Bootle, managing director at Capital Economics, give evidence to the
Treasury committee about the autumn statement.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm and an afternoon one at about 4pm.

If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm on@AndrewSparrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£26m TV for MEPs slammed as waste;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: JANE ATKINSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 252 words


A TV channel for the European Parliament watched by just 830 viewers a day is
costing £7million a year.

EuroparlTV streams parliamentary sessions and committee meetings plus
educational videos to MEPs and staff.

The channel started in 2008 and has cost £26million so far.

Most programmes are translated into 22 languages - including Irish which is only
spoken by about 80,000 people.

Last night the channel was slammed as "an expensive joke" and "a propaganda
tool".

TaxPayers' Alliance director Matthew Sinclair said: "Taxpayers will be furious.
It's a ridiculous amount of money to spend. People will be furious that EU
bureaucrats are demanding ever more money at the same time as wasting it
indulging their vanity with a TV channel. This is an expensive joke."

Taxpayers fork out £53,000 for every hour the channel broadcasts.

Recent programmes include a report on the Ukraine, a magazine news show about
life in Europe and a round-up of the following week's parliamentary schedule.

The figures were exposed by think tank New Direction - The Foundation For
European Reform, which also revealed that only 16,148 people have subscribed to
EuroparlTV.

MEP Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "This is
nothing more than a propaganda tool. "The man in the street is living in
desperate financial times - but ivory-towered EU bureaucrats continue to spend,
spend, spend our money.

"Alarmingly, the EU spends more than 2.4billion euros every year on biased
information campaigns to promote itself."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prime time ... EU channel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            December 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

£26m TV for MEPs is blasted as waste;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: JANE ATKINSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 147 words


A TV channel for the European Parliament watched by just 830 viewers a day is
costing £7million a year.

EuroparlTV streams parliamentary sessions and committee meetings plus
educational videos to MEPs and staff.

The internet channel started in 2008 and has cost £26million so far.

Most programmes are translated into 22 languages - including Irish which is only
spoken by about 80,000 people.

TaxPayers' Alliance director Matthew Sinclair said: "EU bureaucrats are wasting
money indulging their vanity with a TV channel. It's an expensive joke."

Taxpayers fork out £53,000 for every hour the channel broadcasts.

The figures were exposed by think tank New Direction - The Foundation For
European Reform, which also revealed that only 16,148 people have subscribed to
EuroparlTV.

MEP Paul Nuttall, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It's
nothing more than a propaganda tool."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prime time ... EU channel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 5, 2011 Monday 10:05 PM GMT

Euroscepticism doesn't stop at the Border - ask the Nats;
Alex Salmond has gone suspiciously silent on 'Scotland in Europe'

BYLINE: By Alan Cochrane

LENGTH: 614 words


There is a fair bit of comfort for Alex Salmond in the conclusion of Prof Norman
Davies that the little Englander and anti-Europe mentalities he finds so
prevalent south of the Border are good news for the SNP's aim of breaking up
Britain.

However, it is by no means a shoo-in.

Prof Davies may have a point when he castigates many in England for their
insularity and inability to distinguish between "English" and "British" and for
decrying the absence of a proper understanding of the history of the United
Kingdom, per se, rather than that of the country between the Channel and the
Cheviots.

He says English insularity, increasing nationalism and Euroscepticism are in
danger of driving the Scots, Welsh and Northern Irish out of the United Kingdom.

But I cannot be the only observer to find this conclusion a bit rich, if not a
massive understatement, given that the professor accepts devolution accelerated
this process towards separation.

As Prof Davies, English-born but of Welsh descent, said at the
Telegraph-sponsored Hay Festival Winter Weekend, devolution was supposed to be
the answer to a UK dominated by London and England. However, " ... it has worked
in the opposite way", he adds.

Where I think the learned academic also got it wrong - and badly wrong - is over
Europe. There is a widespread misconception, clearly shared by Prof Davies, that
the Scots are much more in favour of the EU than are the English.

I'm not sure they are. Granted, it is a difficult one to test, thanks to the
abysmal showing in recent years of the Scottish Tories as well as the total lack
of success of Ukip, the two parties where any anti-Europe votes might be
expected to reside. But with Scotland's constitutional future always to the fore
at election time, EU membership has been very low on the parties' list of
priorities.

If it was to shoot up the political agenda, especially with the current
near-chaos in the eurozone, I'm not sure voter reaction in Scotland would be
much different to that in England. Like their neighbours, most Scots are
mightily relieved that we kept out of the common currency and are happy to stay
that way.

Prof Davies is right, of course, in saying that Alex Salmond and his SNP are
"very Europhile"; indeed that's probably another understatement. With his
"Scotland in Europe" maxim, Wee Eck has long given the impression that he would
rather be tied to Brussels than London.

But his Euro-enthusiasm is the love that dare not speak its name at present. Not
only is there a significant and growing Eurosceptic wing in the SNP, but with
turmoil the order of the day within the EU, we now hear nothing from the Nats
about the issue that used to be near the top of their policy objectives, for the
simple reason that they know that it would scare the voters.

To those who feared that "little" Scotland could not manage on its own in that
big, bad outside world, Mr Salmond always used to say: "Don't worry - we'll be
all right inside the EU." No longer. Demands from the opposition parties for a
clear statement about his current policy on Europe are now met only with
vacillation.

Just as when his admiration for countries like Ireland and Iceland in the
so-called "arc of prosperity" turned sour when the banks crashed, so events in
Europe are conspiring to make a laughing stock of another plank in his platform
for separation.

Prof Davies may be absolutely correct when he says every austerity measure
brought in by the Coalition is presented by the Nats as the "English starving
us" but he is wrong when he claims all the Eurosceptics live in England.

If that were the case, why do we no longer hear a cheep from Wee Eck about his
deep love for all things European?

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday

WE'LLNEVER GET ANOTHER CHANCE LIKE THIS TO GET A BETTER DEAL FROM EUROPE. SO WHY
WON'T WE DEMAND ONE?

BYLINE: BY DANIEL HANNAN

LENGTH: 1261 words


So now we know. Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy want a major new European
treaty, which will transform the eurozone into a single economy. JosŽ Manuel
Barroso, President of the European Commission, calls it 'European economic
government'; Herman Van Rompuy, President of the European Union, calls it
'fiscal federalism'. From now on, the eurozone, rather than the EU as a whole,
will be the main forum for closer integration.

David Cameron supports these changes, seeing them as a step to solving Europe's
debt crisis. Be that as it may, they also represent a generational chance for
Britain to alter the terms of its relationship with the EU. It would be tragic
if the Government were to let that opportunity slip simply because of its
reluctance to do anything that might trigger a referendum.

To see the magnitude of our opportunity, try a little thought experiment.
Imagine that Britain had never joined the EU. Suppose that we had instead
negotiated a Swiss-style free-trade agreement. Do you seriously think that any
of the main parties would today argue that we should apply for full membership?

The premise on which we went in has proved false. Europe was sold to us as an
economic proposition. We'd have to surrender an element of our democracy but in
exchange we'd be more prosperous. Does anyone, looking across the Channel,
believe that today?

When we joined the EU in 1973, Western Europe accounted for 36 per cent of the
world economy. Today, that figure is 24 per cent and in 2020 it will be 15 per
cent. We can now see that, far from joining a successful market, we confined
ourselves in a dwindling and indebted customs union while standing aside from
the parts of the world that are growing Z not least the developing markets of
the Commonwealth.

So why don't we leave? Or push for a looser relationship? Because of the
bureaucratic vested interests that grow up around whatever happens to be the
established system. The economist Milton Friedman called it 'the tyranny of the
status quo'. In every local council, in every big mega- charity or corporation,
in every NGO, there are 'Europe officers' whose salaries depend on the project.
That is where the EU's strength lies. Not among the benign cranks of the
European Union of Federalists but among the legions of consultants and
contractors, of landowners paid by the Common Agricultural Policy, of seconded
civil servants. That is why no government wants to take on Brussels. It would be
declaring war on too many interest groups at home.

Hence the reluctance of the Coalition to do what any other country in our
position would do, and use the new circumstances to push for a better deal.

It's maddening. We'll never get another chance like this. By happy coincidence,
two factors have come together to place us in an extraordinarily powerful
negotiating position.

First, the EU budget is up for renegotiation. It is agreed in seven-year
tranches, and the next phase begins in 2013. This is the one opportunity that
all member states have to demand major concessions in exchange for withholding
their vetoes.

Second, the French and German governments have now declared that they intend to
rewrite the rules entirely. Last week, President Sarkozy told a rally in Toulon
that Europe needed to be 'refounded'. Angela Merkel agreed.

From Britain's point of view, this ought to make the renegotiation simple.
Instead of having to fight for every power that we want repatriated to
Westminster, we can sit still and allow this 'refoundation' to go ahead without
us. We would have one or two interests to protect. We'd want access to EU
markets, inter- governmental co-operation, perhaps some ad hoc collaborative
projects on issues such as intelligence-sharing. But, provided we remained in a
free market, we ought to be quite happy for a sub-group of EU members to go
ahead with full federation.

Why should the rest of the EU grant us such a deal? Three reasons. First, they
already offer such terms to the Swiss, who are part of the European free market
but outside the political structures. The Swiss export more than twice as much
per head to the EU from outside as the British do from inside, and have done
well out of the deal.

Second, Britain buys far more from the rest of the EU than it sells. Since 1973,
we have had a cumulative trade surplus with every continent on Earth except
Europe. Last year, we had a deficit with the EU of 646.6 billion, but a surplus
with the rest of the world of 610.3 billion. It would make no sense for the
other members to seek to restrict cross-Channel trade when they benefit from it
far more than we do.

Third, and most obviously, the eurozone countries have far more immediate
worries than whether Britain is part of the Common Fisheries Policy, the 48-hour
week, or the financial services regulations.

So why won't Ministers seize this generational opportunity? Is it because it
might upset Nick Clegg's chances of becoming our next European Commissioner? I
wonder. When we were MEPs together, Cleggie used to argue often for the
repatriation of powers. Here's something he said ten years ago: 'Laws such as
the Working Time Directive, the directive on young people at work, or even the
directive on pregnant workers, may be laudable in intention but patently fail on
any reasonable test of subsidiarity. Pro-Europeans who argue against the
devolution of existing powers because they fear the whole EU edifice may unravel
are shooting themselves in the foot.'

Still, if he has changed his mind and now opposes the return of powers, what is
he going to do? His party is slugging it out with UKIP for third place in the
opinion polls. If he wants to walk out and provoke a General Election, good luck
to him.

Is it, then, because the British Government is more concerned with keeping the
euro together than with asserting its own interests? If so, Ministers are guilty
of something worse than a crime; they are guilty of a blunder. As the
Conservative MP Sajid Javid puts it, the euro is 'a recessionary mechanism'.

If our allies are determined to keep it, we can't stop them. But it is beyond
belief that we should be investing, not just political capital, but actual
capital in a currency that is worsening Europe's economic crisis. We are paying
for the privilege of impoverishing our trading partners.

Is it, perhaps, that the Coalition is determined to avoid a referendum? Sources
around the Prime Minister are briefing to this effect but I hope they are wrong:
few things are as degrading as the sight of an administration that distrusts its
own electorate.

Or maybe it is fear of being left out of a Franco-German plan. In truth, though,
a regulated Continental bloc offers us huge opportunities. We would be the
offshore haven, Hong Kong to their China. This was the model that Winston
Churchill proposed at the outset. In 1946, he called for a United States of
Europe comprising France, Germany and their satellite countries. Britain would
look on benignly, but would not participate. 'In all this urgent work, France
and Germany must take the lead together,' he said. 'Great Britain and the
British Commonwealth of Nations must be the friends and sponsors.'

Our present leaders would do well to ponder his reason: 'We have our own dream
and our own task. We are with Europe, but not of it. Should European statesmen
address us in the words which were used of old Z "Shall I speak for thee to the
King or the Captain of the Host?" Z we should reply, with the Shunamite woman,
"Nay, Sir, for we dwell among our own people." '

forging ahead: Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday

Nothing right wing about demanding EU withdrawal

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 220 words


If workers shouldn't prop up the EU as Vicki says - and I agree with her - what
should they do? They should demand an independent Britain where people can make
their own decisions about how our country is run. To call for independence is
not right wing. A real people's independent democratic Britain is the last thing
the right want - they want a Britain controlled by bankers and transnationals,
with austerity for the workers. Much as Britain is run now in fact. If the
Tories and Ukip appear to be the only ones who want out of the EU whose fault is
that? It's the labour movement's for failing to challenge them. The Labour Party
in office over the last few decades supported the EU and signed every treaty
even though those treaties restricted its governments' ability to govern. And
most trade union leaders never utter a word against the EU because of a few
scraps of legislation like the working time directive given to keep them quiet.
The directive is important, but not as important as being able to run our
country as we want. Withdrawing from the EU would seriously weaken it and
therefore help our brothers and sisters in Europe fight the austerity cuts. This
would be concrete international solidarity that European workers would
appreciate and is worth any number of meaningless words. Ron DormanBirmingham

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                December 4, 2011

EU unions want Britons to strike;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; EXCLUSIVE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 376 words


UNION bosses in Brussels are threatening to plunge Britain into a financial
abyss with a wave of Europe-wide strikes.

The European Trade Union Confederation, which has more than 60 million members,
has declared war on the austerity measures being forced through by European
governments.

It has backed a wave of national strikes in member states from Britain to
Hungary and raised the spectre of coordinated days of action across Europe next
year.

General secretary Bernadette Segol said: "Enough is enough. The future of Europe
cannot be based on austerity, insecurity and social regression."

The confederation has backed strikes in Ireland, Bulgaria, Hungary, Lithuania
and France as well as a Europewide day of action by metal workers.

It plans to mount a legal challenge in the European Court of Justice to "demand
the right to strike on transnational issues". With 83 affi-liated organisations
across Europe, it could wreak economic havoc, dragging the eurozone and Britain
with it back into recession.

Jonathan Isaby, political director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The last
thing we need here is trade union bosses in Brussels promoting strikes which
would make it more difficult for the British economy to return to sustainable
growth. British taxpayers will be alarmed that anyone is suggesting Europe-wide
industrial action. If transnational strikes are the answer, what on earth was
the question?"

Wednesday's walkout by more than two million public sector workers cost the
British economy an estimated £500 million. On the same day the Dublin Council of
Trade Unions staged a March Against Austerity and there was a Bulgarian rally
against reform of labour rights. This was followed by a day of action by Greek
unions and on Friday Belgian unions staged an antiausterity protest.

Further walkouts are planned in Hungary and Lithuania this month along with a
major demonstration by five French unions.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said it was clear that
co-ordination of marches, strikes and rallies was already taking place without
the need for a legal challenge in Strasbourg.

"These people are fighting against an abstraction," he added. "The plain fact is
that Europe is bust and they want to make it worse."

NICK FERRARI: PAGE 29

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PM 'arrogant toff', says Mrs Speaker

BYLINE: James Gillespie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 721 words


WATCHING Celebrity Big Brother can be a pretty painful experience in any home
but spare a thought for John Bercow, the holder of one of the most august jobs
in the land: the Speaker of the House of Commons.

He had to endure seeing his wife Sally (not exactly the shy, retiring type)
appear on the show despite his plea that she turn it down. Now he's got some
more difficult viewing: Sally giving an exclusive online interview to Rod
Liddle, the Sunday Times columnist.

Before Big Brother, John Bercow warned his wife: "Remember George Galloway,"
referring to the MP whose career imploded after his Lycraclad and toe-curlingly
embarrassing impersonation of a cat during a previous series. She went ahead
anyway.

"John was delighted I was booted out [of Big Brother] first," Sally Bercow told
Liddle, "because then all the headlines stopped."

It was doubtless a great relief to Mr Speaker given his wife's propensity for
attracting exactly the wrong kind of publicity, from being photographed in the
Palace of Westminster wearing nothing but a bed sheet, to announcing that her
favourite gadget was a vibrator and revealing the binge drinking and casual sex
of her youth.

"I'm really not about humiliating John at all - I'm sorry people see it like
that," she said.

One house in which her husband will not see her is the Commons. Any ambitions to
become a Labour MP have evaporated as a result of "too many cock-ups", she
admitted ruefully.

She is endearingly frank about her own failings, but equally blunt about the
failings she sees in others.

"I've always thought [David] Cameron's a t***," she told Liddle. Then
backtracked. "No, I don't mean that. You put those words in my mouth. I've
always thought David Cameron was a not particularly nice guy. He's a toff who is
out of touch. An arrogant toff."

Others emerge from Bercow's scrutiny in rather better shape. Louise Mensch, the
Conservative MP, is "gorgeous"; Nigel Farage, the UK Independence party leader,
is "a great man - I love him"; and even her former arch-critic Nadine Dorries,
the Tory MP, has apparently been won over by the Bercow charm.

"I sent her a tweet and said, 'Shall we meet up for a drink?', after she'd been
nasty about me," she said. "And then we met up for a drink and got on really
well, and everything's fine."

Despite her habit of hopping from one elephant trap to another, Bercow is
surprisingly coy when she is asked about her sexual exploits during her
twenties.

"I'm not going there," Bercow said of her tally of onenight stands. "I'm not
putting a figure on it. But quite a few. Let's just say that and I don't have
any regrets about admitting it."

Regrets are not something that loom large in Bercow's life. What about the
famous picture of her in just a sheet? "Big deal," she said. "It was a nice
photograph.

I just turned up, they said, 'Will you wear a sheet?', and I thought, 'Why not?'
I showed less flesh than I would in an evening dress. It was a laugh for
Valentine's Day.

"John thought it was a nice photograph but once all the media furore started he
was, 'Oh, why did you do that?' " The vibrator remark also was intended as a
joke after she had been asked to name her favourite gadget. "I was joking. It
was funny at the time. It was. Honestly," she said. "John thought it was funny.
He really did. He said, 'You know that's going to go everywhere', I said, 'I
know. I'm sorry'. He said, 'It doesn't matter'."

She is quick to defend her husband from some of the vitriolic criticism he has
faced, often from members of the Tory party. Last week he was under fire again,
for "wasting" £15,000 of taxpayers' money on a specially commissioned coat of
arms that left some (admittedly nameless) MPs "aghast" at its "sheer tacky
awfulness".

Simon Burns, the health minister, also memorably described him as a
"sanctimonious dwarf". "He's not a dwarf and he's not sanctimonious," said
Bercow. "He's about 5ft 7in or 5ft 6½in. John can be a bit pompous and he's the
first to admit that. He's a really fun guy and very down to earth. I wouldn't be
married to him if he wasn't."

Bercow has just finished making a Channel 5 show called When Paddy Met Sally in
which she shares a caravan with her Celebrity Big Brother housemate Paddy
Doherty, star of My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding.

So it looks like there will be plenty more painful viewing for Mr Speaker, then.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Bercow was delighted when Sally was ejected from Big Brother,
right. He has faced criticism himself for commissioning a coat of arms, left
FRANCESCO GUIDICINI/IAN WEST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 2, 2011 Friday

BIZARRE, VIDEO TO CELEBRATE EURO

LENGTH: 82 words


THE European Central Bank was under fire last night after issuing a video
'celebrating' the tenth anniversary of the euro.

The six-minute film opens with animated footage of a young woman, representing
Europe, emerging from an ancient Greek vase. She walks across a bridge before
stopping to buy a baguette with a five euro note. Meanwhile a gushing voiceover
suggests European union 'inspires hope'.

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said: 'This is mindboggling. They just do not get it at
all.'

8 Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 2, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BIZARRE VIDEO CELEBRATES 10 YEARS OF EUROZONE

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 275 words


EUROCRATS faced ridicule last night after launching a bizarre video to
"celebrate" the tenth anniversary of the crisis-hit euro.

The slick six-minute film, published by the European Central Bank, claims that
the people of Europe can look forward to the future with "hope" and
"confidence".

It also says the euro has "become a symbol of integration and cooperation".

But the video fails to make any mention of the debt crisis that has plunged the
eurozone into financial turmoil and was rubbished as "propaganda" by one critic
last night.

Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "This is simply doolally. They do not get it at
all.

"For millions across Europe, 10 years of the euro has created nothing but
despondency, devastation and unemployment."

The video, called "The First Ten Years of Euro Banknotes and Coins", has been
put on the internet website YouTube for members of the public to watch.

In an appropriate twist given the euro crisis was sparked by Greece's debt
mountain, it begins with computer-generated imagery of a woman on a Greek urn
turning into a real-life woman.

She then walks across a series of bridges linking the continent.

A commentary says: "Europe is more than just a place on the map. With its common
heritage and history, shared values and achievements, Europe builds bridges and
inspires hope."

Later, Mario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank, tells how the
launch of the euro in 2002 "was an unprecedented challenge but it went
smoothly".

Last night, a Bank spokesman insisted no taxpayers' money was used to produce
the video. It was made simply because of the 10th anniversary of the euro and
had nothing to do with the crisis.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 2, 2011 Friday

G2: It's time David Cameron made his mind up over Europe. Failing that, he
should take a leaf out of Groucho Marx's book

BYLINE: Alexander Chancellor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 978 words


Europe's financial crisis was scary enough already before the French foreign
minister warned in effect this week that the collapse of the euro could lead to
another European war. That, I must say, was a risk that hadn't occurred to me;
but Alain Juppe said that the fall of the single currency would mean that
"everything becomes possible, even the worst". "We have flattered ourselves for
decades that we have eradicated the danger of conflict inside our continent," he
said, "but let's not be so sure."

However improbable such an eventuality remains, it is shocking to find it being
even contemplated by such a leading European player as the foreign minister of
France. After all, one huge purpose behind the creation of the European common
market more than half a century ago was to eliminate for ever the possibility of
war between France and Germany. And, as Juppe indicated, we have all tended to
believe that this purpose was triumphantly achieved. That he should now warn
against a resurgence of violent nationalism in Europe shows in what danger he
now thinks us to be.

In this context Britain's snarling resentment of the European Union is the worst
of postures. We lecture the French and the Germans, we chastise them publicly
for failing to take the necessary steps to save the euro, but we do nothing
ourselves to help resolve the crisis. Yet we demand that our views are given as
much weight in the councils of the European Union as those of the eurozone
members. No wonder they can no longer hide their exasperation with us.

All this would be fine if it were government policy, like Ukip's, to leave the
EU in due course. But David Cameron, while proclaiming himself a "sceptic",
regularly reaffirms that he thinks we should stay in. It is about time that he
told us why. Just saying that we benefit from free trade with the countries of
the continent is not good enough when he knows that the European project has
always had loftier purposes. Whatever his dislike of European integration, he
should at least articulate a positive vision of Britain's role in Europe that
shows some community spirit. Otherwise he should decide to leave the club for
the same reason that Groucho Marx resigned from his.

Eventually, this may turn out to be the only course open to him. The habit of
successive governments of blaming Britain's ills on its EU membership has
fostered Euroscepticism on such a scale, particularly within the Tory party,
that it's hard to see how we can ever be comfortable within it. And doubtless
this week's announcement that the government has dropped its demands for the
immediate repatriation of social and employment powers from Brussels because of
the urgency of the eurozone crisis will unleash a new burst of ill-founded
British fury against the EU.

In pain? Have a good swear

To swear, or not to swear? That is the question. The answer given last month by
a high court judge, as he overturned the conviction of a 19-year-old man for
repeatedly swearing at police, was that it was now so normal that it couldn't be
taken as offensive. The point should surely be not whether a police officer
feels distressed by being sworn at, but whether it should be legal to treat him
with such disrespect.

This week the subject has again been in the news with a statement by a senior
BBC executive defending the use of expletives in comedy shows and a report by
researchers at Keele University finding that swearing is effective in relieving
pain, as for example when you hit your thumb with a hammer. But these
researchers also found that it was effective for people who swore only
sparingly; for those who did it all the time it was useless as a pain-reliever.
This was the obverse of the judge's implicit claim that swearing would be
offensive only if done in moderation. Nevertheless, repeated opinion polls have
shown that moderation in the matter is what most people want.

Wise words from Her Majesty

When the 66-year-old pop singer Bryan Ferry went to Buckingham Palace on
Wednesday to receive a CBE from the Queen, he told her that he had been
performing for a very long time; to which the Queen replied: "Music is always
important, isn't it?" This might be thought typical of her cautious banality in
taking to her subjects, but it was actually a wise observation. Music is always
important, and especially during times of upheaval and distress. It is a great
deal more comforting than streams of expletives.

One thinks of Myra Hess's concerts in the National Gallery during the second
world war and how long they have been remembered by those who attended them. And
now one thinks immediately of the young choirmaster Gareth Malone, who has shown
how simply getting people to sing together can completely transform their
morale.

In his remarkable television series The Choir, which reduced me to tears on one
or two occasions, he took a group of lonely, worried army wives whose husbands
were away fighting in Afghanistan and transformed them into a choir that ended
up performing before the Queen in the Royal Albert Hall. He went on to create
Britain's largest community choir from among the suspicious residents of the
grim and deprived suburb of Watford, who were eventually to sing a classical
anthem in St Albans Cathedral. Their pride, pleasure and gratitude were wondrous
to behold. As Abba put it, "Thank you for the music, the songs I'm singing/
Thanks for all the joy they're bringing."

This week:

Alexander attended a sparkling new opera, The Mad Duchess, at Boughton in
Northamptonshire, the French-inspired 17th-century treasure house of the Dukes
of Buccleuch: "It was a fund-raiser for Maggie's Centres, those refuges for
cancer patients, and a rare chance to visit one of England's greatest country
houses and its restored park."

Captions:

Groucho Marx: 'I don't want to belong to any club that will accept people like
me as a member'

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 2, 2011 Friday

Eurozone crisis: Merkel pledges push for fiscal union

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4341 words

ABSTRACT

German chancellor tells Bundestag that the euro will survive, as David Cameron
heads to Paris to discuss sovereign debt crisis with Nicolas Sarkozy

FULL TEXT

4.53pm: With the UK market now closed it's time to bring the curtain down on
this blog for another week.

And what a week. The FTSE 100 has finished the day 62.95 points higher at
5552.29, and since last Friday's close the leading index has climbed 7.47% -
adding [#xfffd]100bn to the value of Britain's top companies. This is the best
weekly performance since January 2009.

And it came thanks to growing hopes of a solution to the eurozone crisis, with
EU politicians and officials seeming at last to be speaking with one voice,
albeit a slightly unconvincing one. Reasonable US jobs figures helped matters
too.

Even a late Friday rumour of a downgrade of Spain's credit rating, and noises
from US Republicans that they may try to scupper any IMF plans to bail out Italy
and Spain, failed to dampen the optimistic mood. So the French market ended up
1%, Germany 0.66% and Italy up 1.5%.

Thanks for all the comments, and we'll be back again on Monday for another
episode of everyone's favourite eurozone drama, with the week ahead promising
the latest meeting of the European Central Bank (to cut rates, or not to cut)
and the key European summit on Friday.

Have a good weekend.

3.58pm: A quick round-up of today's main events.

[#xfffd] Angela Merkel has told the German parliament that the process of
creating fiscal union has begun, ahead of next week's summit.[#xfffd] Stock
markets have risen, and bond yields have fallen. There is optimism that Europe's
leaders are making progress and the US jobs numbers also cheered
markets.[#xfffd] David Cameron and Nicolas Sarkozy met in Paris. Cameron said
afterwards he would defend Britain's interests if EU treaty changes were made.
Last night, Sarkozy called for amendments - but analysts question whether France
is really prepared to surrender budgetary control.

3.13pm: Time for a look at the markets. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones is up 115
points at 12133, a 0.9% gain. The FTSE 100 index in London has climbed 71 points
to 5561, a 1.3% increase while Germany's Dax is 1.3% higher and France's CAC is
up 1%.

2.50pm:Bloomberg is reporting that a mooted plan for the ECB to lend to the IMF
is being revived.

A European proposal to channel central bank loans through the IMF may deliver as
much as (EURO)200bn to fight the debt crisis, two people familiar with the
negotiations said.

At a Nov. 29 meeting attended by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi,
euro area finance ministers gave the go-ahead for work on the plan, said the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are at an early stage. The
need for a new crisis-containment tool emerged as the effort to boost the
(EURO)440bn rescue fund to (EURO)1 trillion fell short.

Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle funds through the IMF,
potentially to underwrite precautionary lending programs for Italy or Spain, the
two countries judged to be the most vulnerable now, the people said.

But Raoul Ruparel at think tank Open Europe was not overly impressed:

The ECB lending to the IMF may circumvent the legal issues of direct ECB
financing to states, but it is definitely de facto against the principles of the
ECB and is unlikely to gain widespread support in Germany. In any case, it can
only provide a short boost in liquidity but doesn't solve the underlying
competitiveness and structural problems in these countries. For the most part,
it's the same old problems in a slightly different package.

2.39pm:David Cameron has waded into the debate over EU treaty changes. He said
he was not convinced they were necessary to sort out the eurozone crisis, but
added he whould make sure Britain would get a good deal if changes were made.

The prime minister said after meeting Sarkozy:

I'm very clear if there is treaty change then I will make sure that we further
protect and enhance Britain's interests.

The bottom line for me is alwayas what is in the interests of the UK and how can
I promote and defend that.

2.28pm:Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro, says do not be fooled by the US
jobs numbers.

For the optimists, the sharp decline in the unemployment rate last month to
8.65% from 9.01% is a sign that the US labour market is finally emerging from
its slumber. Together with another impressive jump in household employment (up a
further 278K last month, an average increase of 321K over the past four months),
it appears that things are getting rosier. Even the underemployment rate is
falling, down to 15.6% in November from 17.0% a year ago.

However, do not be fooled. It is worth noting that much of this superficial
improvement reflects the fact that more and more Americans are simply choosing
to drop out of the labour force. In November, another 487K dropped out of the
workforce; now 86.6m people are officially 'not in the labour force', compared
with total employment of 140.6m. Four years ago, 79.2m were categorised as 'not
in the labour force'; six million people have now lost their jobs over this
period. All this time, the average duration of unemployment keeps on rising, now
40.9 weeks, up from 17 weeks in November 2007. Some may like to think things are
getting better in the US labour market, but a more accurate interpretation is
that it is still terrible - and getting worse - for the army of unemployed and
discouraged workers.

Ken Goldstein, economist at the Conference Board, says the nonfarm figures are
good news but there's still a long way to go.

Back in August people were asking if we had fallen off a cliff, well we hadn't.
But we are not near levels that economists would call robust growth. There's a
chance we could be there by this time next year.

2.14pm: Another response to the US numbers, from Marcus Bullus, trading director
at the stockbrokers MB Capital.

Expectations had weighed heavily on this set of figures - and in the event they
did not disappoint. But they hardly sparkled either. After a week of largely
positive economic news, there are increasing hints that America's jobs market
may slowly be awakening from its slumber.

The net number of jobs created was in line with expectations, and just about
kept pace with the population replacement level. But the headlines will all be
about the fall in the overall unemployment rate to 8.6%. They'll surely come as
a blessed relief for the president as he tries to drive the American Jobs Act
through a largely sceptical Congress.

The markets too will be reassured, to a degree, by the suggestion that the US
jobs market is stabilising. 50,000 jobs were created by the retail sector in
November - long seen as the engine of the US economy. While there may be an
element of seasonality to these hires, such upbeat numbers will clearly cheer
the more bullish observers. The continued uncertainty over Europe still looms
large, but the markets are taking any glimmers of hope well at present - and
these figures will improve the chances of US stocks ending the year on a high.

1.52pm: Some reaction to the US data. Rob Carnell at ING noted that there were
strong job gains in the retail sector, which added 50,000 jobs in November.
Temporary help supplied rose 22,000, although he described manufacturing jobs
growth of only 2,000 as "pretty disappointing".

In contrast to the slightly soft headline figure, the unemployment rate fell far
more than expected, dropping 0.4pp to 8.6%. This fall resulted from a
combination of a decent 278K gain in employment according to the household
employment survey, and also a fall in the civilian participation rate of 315K.
The U6 broad unemployment rate fell even more from 16.2% to 15.6%.

These household survey figures have been running consistently stronger than the
payrolls numbers, and suggest that there may be even more substantial upward
revisions to payrolls in the New Year when annual benchmark revisions are made.

But despite the strength of the household figures, the wages numbers were weak.
Hourly earnings fell 0.1%mom, taking the YoY rate down 0.1pp to 1.8%. And
average weekly earnings also fell 0.1% on the month.

Moreover, the average and median duration of unemployment rose again, suggesting
that structural unemployment remains a problem.

He concluded:

A mixed report, and not one that will lead to a sea-change in the Fed's current
"wait and see" approach to monetary policy, with the "twist" likely to continue
unchanged for the time being.

1.34pm: Revisions to the US employment numbers for September and October mean
that 72,000 more jobs were created than previously thought. October now shows a
100,000 increase in jobs and September a 210,000 rise.

The private sector added 140,000 more jobs last month, while the government shed
20,000 positions. There were an extra 2,000 factory jobs - fewer than expected -
following October's upwardly revised 6,000 increase.

1.30pm: Good news on the US employment front. The closely-watched non-farm
payrolls figures are bang in line with expectations: American employers hired
120,000 more workers last month. More importantly, the jobless rate dropped to a
2 1/2 year low of 8.6%, adding to evidence that the economic recovery is picking
up speed. Unemployment had been stubbornly stuck at around 9% since April.

1.20pm: For Brazil, things are tickety boo. Brazilian finance minister Guido
Mantega early this morning:

"It's a big satisfaction for us that this time around the IMF comes to Brazil
not to give us money like in the past but asking us to lend money to developed
nations ... the BRICS agreed to add resources to the IMF but that isconditioned
to a continuation of the IMF quotas reforms ... And on the collaboration from
other countries like the United States and European countries themselves to
contribute more resources to the fund."

What's the Brazilian Portuguese for 'Schadenfreude'?

1.06pm: Time for a lunchtime round-up

[#xfffd] Angela Merkel has told German MPs that the process of creating fiscal
union has begun, and is the solution to the crisis. The chancellor told the
Bundestag that "very serious and concrete" steps are being taken, but warned
that delivering fiscal union would be a "marathon" effort.[#xfffd] Stock markets
have risen, and bond yields have fallen. There is optimism that Europe's leaders
are making progress.[#xfffd] David Cameron and Nicolas Sarkozy are meeting in
Paris now. Last night, Sarkozy also called for new EU Treaty changes - but
analysts question whether France is really prepared to surrender budgetary
control.[#xfffd] Experts warn that Europe is in the last-chance saloon."Eurozone
could collapse by Christmas" warns Sharon Bowles MEP.

12.50pm:So are European leaders really close to a deal? Gavin Hewitt, the BBC's
Europe editor, reckons Merkel's speech shows that a "Grand Bargain" could
finally be close.

Hewitt argues that France and Germany have not agreed that the flaws in the
single currency are systemic, and needs to move to a fiscal union, with much
greater central control over tax and spending. Thus:

The eurozone countries bring their deficits under control and embrace budgetary
rigour. The ECB follows this up by intervening in the markets and lowering
borrowing costs. Confidence gradually returns.

But...

President Sarkozy recognises this would just be a start. There needs to be a
coming together, a convergence of these very different economies. At the moment
they are growing apart. Recession threatens. The debt mountains are increasing
as austerity bites.

12.31pm: Our colleague Helen Pidd has written about Merkel's speech here --
including the fact the chancellor told MPs it was "absurd" to claim Germany was
trying to "dominate" Europe.

12.15pm: Perhaps the ECB shouldn't go overboard with the anniversary
celebrations -- Sharon Bowles MEP reckons there's a danger that the eurozone
will collapse by Christmas:

Bowles told a conference of mortgage industry leaders yesterday that "We are
potentially facing the demise of the Euro by Christmas", an event that would
"wreck our economy". She added that:

Contrary to what the Eurosceptics say, the issue now is not whether the UK
remains in the EU but how we contain the Eurozone crisis.If the Euro breaks up,
I think there will be rampant protectionism. Even if you get a smaller Euro with
just the AAA countries huddling together they will still go down the track of
protectionism.If the Euro breaks up then countries, including the UK, should
work to save the EU, so that we continue to benefit from the Single Market and
avoid a situation of every man for himself.We need something concrete and
substantial next week from leaders. Promises and packing up for Christmas
holidays will not do.

11.55am: Here's a date for the diary - on January 1 2012 the eurozone will be
celebrating the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the single currency.

To mark the euro's tenth birthday, the European Central Bank took some time off
from mopping up Italian and Spanish debt to create this remarkable video - a
cross between a Rosetta Stone advert and the educational films we dozed through
watched at school.

Our favourite part of the clip is a reminder that Greeks and Italians only have
until the end of February 2012 to redeem their old drachmas and lira for euros.
In the current climate, you can see why people might be hanging onto them....

The ECB has also createdan online game for "euro generation" children, aged 9 to
12. Great idea, but was "Euro Run 2012" really the best title?...

11.24am: Excellent debate in the readers comments below the line about Merkel's
speech.

Here's a round-up of some of the best (with thanks to my colleague Hannah
Waldram)

stuv said that a fiscal union would have serious consequences for the UK:

If there is a new and better treaty for the EU underpinned by fiscal union, then
the UK would at last have to put up or shut up. Be part of a developing vibrant
Europe. Or dwindle into some sort of Cayman Islands tax and financial services
economy, client to and dependent on the likes of China. Clearly Cameron and his
rich chums would prefer the latter. But will the LibDems re-find their spine and
withdraw from the coalition to fight for their EU policies?

Kingsgate warned that Europe's citizens face a very difficult future:

Now the stakes are raised with the idea of a fiscal union. The tragically ironic
result will be the increase of tensions within the Eurozone, as opposed to
harmonic good relations which is the default between mature states that compete
and have economic freedom. European politicians naturally want the European
institutions to survive as it is in their interests; but I fear that the Euro -
and now, to a lesser extent, the whole EU institutions - are actively worsening
conditions for their citizens.

RoaroftheSevernBore argued that Merkel was acting sensibly:

A fiscal union and more European integration is the only way to build up a
counterweight to the financial markets in the long term but there needs to
democratic reform as well.

I think that Merkel[#xfffd]s intentions are quite sensible taking matters step
by step (sorry, but this is not dithering. She can[#xfffd]t just sign a blank
cheque which is what people are asking of her). What worries me are the the ex
Goldman Sachs people at the head of Greece, Italy and in the ECB.

10.53am: In the financial markets, traders have responded to Merkel's speech by
pushing up the value of Italy's and Spain's debt -- in a sign that they are more
confident about the crisis.

The yield (interest rates) on Italian 10-year bonds fell to 6.5%, from 6.8% this
morning. Spanish yields are down at 5.5%, from 5.8%. Falling yields mean that
the cost of borrowing for these countries has come down - a yield above 7% is
generally seen as unsustainable.

Sarkozy's call for a new EU treaty last night has also left investors hoping
that we really are on the edge of a breakthough.

As Chris Beauchamp, market analyst at IG Index, explained:

We might have been here many times before, but hopes of more progress on the
eurozone crisis are buoying markets this morning. Comments from ECB head Mario
Draghi, who hinted last night at a greater role for the ECB in the crisis if
governments work on restoring confidence in their finances, have boosted risk
appetite, while both Mr Sarkozy and Ms Merkel have done their bit, saying that
progress was being made towards a more comprehensive fiscal union.

10.29am:Merkel's comments that the eurozone is on the "verge of" fiscal union to
the German parliament this morning chime with what ECB president Mario Draghi
and French president Nicolas Sarkozy said yesterday about the "fiscal compact".

It is clearly an orchestrated attempt to present a common front on this
controversial issue, ahead of the summit meeting next week.

What does fiscal union mean exactly, though?

There are different interpretations. Merkel wants the European commission to
have a veto over countries' tax and budget plans, whereas the French want
national parliaments to be involved, as the budget minister Val[#xfffd]rie
P[#xfffd]cresse spelled out yesterday.

P[#xfffd]cresse declared after a cabinet meeting that France wanted "more
budgetary discipline, but a budgetary discipline exercised by the states, with a
real participation by national parliaments" .

So plenty of hurdles to overcome. Including in Germany - as Merkel pointed out
in her speech, "the German constitution does not permit devolving budget control
to a European institution".

She said her vision was that the European commission and the European courts
must have a bigger role "without the German parliament losing budget control".
The big question, though, is how is fiscal union credible if parliaments can
veto the demands of the central authorities?

One possibility is that member states would pledge to stick to tough fiscal
targets, with national parliaments decided how it was achieved. But then, what
happens to transgressors...?

10.09am: More reaction to the speech, this time from Michael Derks, chief
strategist at FxPro:

On the surface, last night's speech by French president Sarkozy appeared to
suggest that he was endorsing Angela Merkel's vision of how fiscal union in
Europe will look. Sarkozy stated that eurozone countries must prepare their
national budgets in a common fashion, face stringent automatic penalties for
breaking fiscal rules and undertake measures to narrow competitive gaps. He also
supported EU treaty change and the proposal for Europe to shift to qualified
majority voting in order to facilitate more rapid decision-making. More
critical, however, was what Sarkozy did not say on fiscal union. As made clear
by his budget minister yesterday, France is deeply troubled by the idea that the
European Commission will have the power both to review national budgets and have
veto power over them.

Always the master of nuance, France supposedly supports tougher automatic
sanctions for fiscal rule-breakers, but at the same time wants national
discretion over implementation. On some level, this last debate is rendered
superfluous because most eurozone members will not get anywhere near satisfying
the fiscal rules for some considerable time and so the imposition of financial
penalties in the interim would make their plight even more tenuous. Merkel is
apparently in Paris on Monday to thrash this issue out with Sarkozy, just four
days ahead of the next EU Summit but Merkel is extremely unlikely to relent. For
Sarkozy, there are huge political hurdles to accepting Merkel's vision. The
outcome of Monday's meeting will tell us a great deal about the single
currency's near-term future.

9.47am: Reaction to Angela Merkel's speech is coming in.

Ilya Spivak, global macro G10 FX strategist at DailyFX.com, said that if
eurozone leaders agree on "a roadmap for closer fiscal integration" at next
week's summit, that would then "open the door" for the European Central Bank to
expand its firepower.

Nigel Farage, head of UKIP, argued that Germany was putting more pressure on
peripheral eurozone members:

Nigel_Farage: And Angela Merkel once again turns the screws on the Club Med
countries in the Eurozone...

Also on Twitter, Daniel Furr points out that the process of fiscal union will be
lengthy:

DanielFurrUK: Fiscal Union will take years. Took the United States nearly 15
years

Daniel compared the European debt crisis to the US civil war in this piece last
summer - still well worth a read.

9.26am: Another quote from Merkel's speech on the push for closer fiscal union:

In Europe we are now wrestling over the fine print, not about the plan as a
whole. We're not arguing that politicians have to find a way to solve the debt
crisis in the long term...[but to] finally find ways to adhere to and realise
those measures already agreed.

She said that European leaders had shown themselves ready to "change the basis
of [European] cooperation - though, for example treaty change - in order to
create a fiscal union with strong interventionary powers, at least for those
countries in the eurozone."

9.05am:Angela Merkel has been pushing for closer fiscal controls across the
eurozone for some time. But, as she admitted herself, such ideas seemed
remarkable before the crisis escalated.

She told MPs (translation by correspondent Helen Pidd):

Anyone who, a few months ago, had said that at the end of the year 2011 we would
have taken very serious and concrete steps towards a European stability union, a
European fiscal union, for introducing such drastic intervention, would have
been considered crazy.

Now, this is exactly what's on the agenda. We're almost there. Of course, there
are difficulties to be overcome. But the necessity of such action is widely
recognised. We're not just talking about a fiscal union but starting to create
one. I believe you can't overestimate the importance of this step.

8.42am: Here's the key point from Merkel's speech to the Bundestag in the last
few minutes -- her goal at next week's Brussels summit is to push towards fiscal
union to hold the eurozone together.

The German chancellor told MPs that:

We are not only talking about a fiscal union, we are beginning to create it.

Such a union will need budget discipline and effective crisis management
mechanism, she said. It will also clearly require EU Treaty change, or possibly
even new treaties. So this is not a short-term fix.

Merkel also told MPs that she was keen to "avoid a split between euro countries
and non-euro countries".

8.35am: Merkel went on to tell the Bundestag that the single currency would
survive:

Europe is facing its biggest test ever. The euro has proven its value. It is
stable.

But it is a lot more than a currency. It represents Europe's will to unite
within and to face global challenges.

8.22am: The German chancellor tells MPs in the lower house that European
politicians have "lost credibility" during this crisis (a sentiment many of you
will probably agree with).

Merkel also takes another swipe at her favourite bugbear - eurobonds (or
stability bonds, as the EC attempted to rebrand them):

Whoever hasn't understood that eurobonds can't be used as emergency measures in
this crisis, hasn't understand the essence of this crisis.

She adds the German constitution does not permit devolving budget control to a
European institution and that any discussion about euro bonds is therefore
pointless.

Merkel went on to stress that we must defend the credibility of European courts
and central banks, and that it is important to respect the independence of the
European Central Bank.

8.18am:Angela Merkel has begun giving her speech to the Bundestag. She starts by
telling MPs that:

We are dealing with a sovereign debt crisis, but also with a crisis of trust.

She stressed that it was important to respect the independence of the European
Central Bank.

The ECB's role is different from that of the Federal Reserve and Bank of
England. Its role is stabilise the value of the currency.

There's also no chance of a quick-fix, she explains -- adding that resolving the
euro crisis will take "years".

8.08am: The financial markets are open in Europe, and shares are ralling
strongly. The FTSE 100 has jumped 65 points to 5554, a gain of 1.2%, with
similar gains in other markets.

The early word in the City is that confidence is growing that the crisis can be
resolved in an orderly fashion. Sarkozy and Merkel's meeting next Monday is seen
as an encouraging development that Europe's two biggest countries could drop
their differences.

That could lead to a plan for tougher fiscal controls across the eurozone.

Mario Draghi's comments yesterday, when he said a "fiscal compact" was needed,
are crucial. The head of the European Central Bank appeared to be hinting that
he'd take more aggressive action once European leaders agree stronger budget
controls.

8.01am: Today's meeting in Paris comes just hours after Sarkozy called for a new
EU Treaty, and insisted that no eurozone member will default.

If you missed last night's speech in Toulon, the French president revealed that
he will meet with Angela Merkel to hammer out the framework of a rescue plan -
ready for the EU summit taking place later next week. That could herald an
official two-speed Europe - but could also suggest there is more chance that an
agreement will be reached in time.

Sarkozy also told the French people to prepare for tougher times.

A true revolution has begun. For traders' pay, for tax havens, nothing will ever
be as it was before.

The crisis is not over. To deny the crisis is to avoid any forward thinking. The
huge pyramid of debt, previously hidden, is seen by all as a huge risk.

7.45am: Good morning, and welcome to another day of rolling coverage of the
eurozone crisis.

Top of today's agenda: David Cameron is heading to Paris to meet Nicolas
Sarkozy. The last time they met, Sarko told the PM to "shut up" and stop
interfering with the eurozone crisis - so today's meeting could be lively.

The political pressure is rising - Angela Merkel will give a speech to Germany's
Bundestag today, explaining what she will push for at next week's EU summit.

Elsewhere, the latest monthly jobless data from America should show how the
world's biggest economy is faring.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 129 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 2, 2011 Friday

The Spectator runs false sea-level claims on its cover

BYLINE: George Monbiotguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2077 words

ABSTRACT

Mark Lynas and George Monbiot: Fraser Nelson makes the biggest blunder of his
career by putting Nils-Axel Mörner's, a serial promoter of nonsense, in his
magazine

FULL TEXT

In the brilliant farce Le Dîner de Cons, a group of bored, rich businessmen have
set each other an ongoing challenge: to entice the biggest idiot they can find
to come to their weekly dinners. A publisher called Pierre Brochant finds a man
he is sure will be the week's prize idiot, and invites him to his apartment
before setting off for the dinner. But Brochant's triumph backfires horribly, as
the man he brings into his home proceeds unwittingly to destroy his life.

Could Fraser Nelson have accepted a similar challenge? He's a publisher of a
kind - editor of the Spectator magazine in fact - and, like Brochant, he has
just made the biggest blunder of his career. He has invited a serial promoter of
nonsense into his magazine and, to show off his remarkable find, has put him on
the front cover, where his claims are promoted as straight fact.

Nelson's "find" is a man some of us found years ago and have seen as a source of
wild entertainment ever since. He's called Nils-Axel Mörner, and among his
claims to fame are that he possesses paranormal abilities to find water and
metal using a dowsing rod, and that he has discovered "the Hong Kong of the
[ancient] Greeks" in Sweden.

The celebrated debunker of cobblers James Randi challenged Mörner to demonstrate
his expertise with a dowsing rod, but he "consistently refused to be tested". He
did however, allow his paranormal abilities to be examined on Swedish
television, using a test that Mörner himself devised: dowsing for a packet of
sugar concealed under one of 10 cups. Needless to say, he failed, blaming, as
such people so often do, "interference" and "influences".

In 2007, Mörner and his collaborator, a homeopath and amateur archaeologist
called Bob Lind, were reprimanded by the Scania County archaeologist in Sweden
for damaging an Iron Age cemetery during their quest to demonstrate the "Bronze
Age calendar alignments", which would somehow help to show that this local
graveyard was in fact an ancient Hellenic trading centre.

Reviewing such claims, the archaeologist and chair of the Swedish Skeptics
Society, Martin Rundkvist, comments that if Nils-Axel Mörner is associated with
a project, it's "a solid guarantee for high-grade woo."

Now Mörner turns up on the front cover of the Spectator, under the headline "The
Sea Level Scam: the rise and rise of a global scare story". His wild assertions
are published in the magazine without qualification or challenge. Far from it:
they are proclaimed in the headline as "The truth about sea levels". Yet they
are as far from the truth as his claims about dowsing and archaeology.

Mörner maintains that places such as the Maldives, Bangladesh and Tuvalu "need
not fear rising sea levels." There is, he says, "no ongoing sea-level rise" and
no link between sea levels and climate change. He makes the false claim that the
rate of sea-level rise accepted by most climate scientists "has been based on
just one tide gauge in Hong Kong" (does he have a thing about Hong Kong?).

These claims have already been comprehensively debunked. To sustain them, Mörner
relies on misinterpretations of scientific data so grave that even an arts
graduate such as Fraser Nelson should have been able to spot them.

In his Spectator article, Mörner makes much of his research trips to the
Maldives. These culminated in a 2004 paper published in the journal Global and
Planetary Change. In it, Mörner uses an apparently random series of observations
- including the discovery of a skeletal "reef woman" buried in a 800-year-old
coral reef - to postulate that sea level rise in the Maldives is a figment of
scientists' imagination. How this paper got published is a mystery that only the
journal's editors can explain.

It was comprehensively debunked within a year in the same journal by Philip
Woodworth, an oceanographer based in the UK, who wrote acidly that 'reef woman'
"is hardly definitive as a sea level marker" and that Mörner's convoluted
arguments - which also relied on anecdotal accounts by fishermen sailing over
shallow rocks - were "hard to understand" and ultimately "implausible". A
follow-up critical comment by the Australian oceanographer Paul Kench and
colleagues notes that Mörner's paper "contains a number of unqualified and
unreferenced assertions" which fail to stand up to scrutiny, does not follow
carbon-dating conventions, and that "standard information is missing".

Mörner, a geologist by training, was not the only author of this paper: the
others were Michael Tooley, an expert in English historical gardens, and Goran
Possnert, a nuclear physics engineer currently working on a Swedish project
called the Human Regenerative Map: not exactly the qualifications you would
expect for people working in the highly specialised and complex disciplines of
oceanography and sea level change.

In reality, three tide gauges exist in the Maldives, whose outputs are all
available online and can be inspected by the public via the UK-based scientific
collaborative research effort the Permanent Service for Mean Sea Level. One is
in the south at Gan, which shows a clear and consistent rise since before 1990.
A second is located at Hanimaadhoo in the north of the country, and shows no
consistent trend from 1992. The third is at the capital Male', and shows a
strong upward trend from the early 1990s until 2009.

Here is the irony - in his attempt at scientific cherry-picking, Mörner chose
the wrong tree. Had he travelled to the western side of the Indian Ocean - to
Zanzibar or Mauritius - he would have found incontestable evidence of sea-levels
falling, dutifully recorded by their tide gauges. Does this invalidate global
sea-level rise? Of course not - because sea levels fluctuate all the time due to
winds and currents, even over several years in every location, a truly global
picture can only be obtained from hundreds of tide gauges operating over
multi-decadal periods.

For shorter time-periods, estimates of sea level change depend on satellite
data. Mörner however chooses not to believe the published satellite record,
probably because it shows a clear upward trend across the global oceans of 3.3mm
a year. This conscious rejection of the established satellite data comes about,
the Spectator reveals, because of something Mörner claims to have overheard
several years ago at a scientific conference in Moscow which he interprets as
evidence of a conspiracy.

Mörner also claims in the Spectator article to speak on behalf of the INQUA (the
International Union for Quaternary Research) commission on Sea Level Changes and
Coastal Evolution, whose members he says are "the world's true experts on sea
level" - as opposed to the IPCC, which he asserts has "hijacked and distorted"
the data. Mörner was indeed president of this commission until 2003. However, as
documented by the Carbon Brief, INQUA now clearly dissociates itself from
Mörner's views, which current president Professor Roland Gehrels of the
University of Plymouth says do not represent 99% of its members, and the
organisation has previously stated that it is "distressed" that Mörner continues
to falsely "represent himself in his former capacity."

In recent years, before being discovered by Mr Nelson, Mörner had largely been
reduced to self-publishing pamphlets on the web and penning overblown diatribes
in loony-tunes publications which bear as much relationship to scientific
literature as the Spectator does. One of these - titled There Is No Alarming Sea
Level Rise! - was published in an online publication called 21st Century Science
and Technology. It might sound impressive, but this magazine is in fact a
vehicle for the views of Lyndon Larouche. Larouche is the US demagogue who in
1989 received a 15-year sentence for conspiracy, mail fraud and tax code
violations. He has claimed that the British royal family is running an
international drugs syndicate, that Henry Kissinger is a communist agent, that
the British government is controlled by Jewish bankers and that Barack Obama is
a puppet of the renewed British Empire, which is supposedly trying to start a
third world war over Syria (see end for references). He sees science and
empiricism as yet another conspiracy, and uses 21st Century Science and
Technology to wage war against them.

Mörner's conspiratorial claims also appear in a pamphlet with a foreword by our
old friend Lord Monckton, called Sea level is not rising. In this paper his
thesis, whose grounds appear to shift with every article he writes, rests partly
on yet another putative scientific conspiracy: "In the Maldives, a group of
Australian environmental scientists uprooted a 50-year-old tree by the
shoreline, aiming to conceal the fact that its location indicated that sea level
had not been rising."

But it is the pamphlet's Figure 10 which tells you all you need to know about
their methods. It must win the prize for the most comically distorted
illustration ever produced in the annals of climate change denial. That is not
for want of competition. As you can see, it rotates the graph of
satellite-observed sea levels until the line appears flat, whereupon the
illustration declares that there is "no trend"! Need we add that the pamphlet
was published by a "thinktank" run by a Ukip candidate

This is not the first time that the Spectator has championed groundless claims
about climate science. In 2009, before Fraser Nelson became editor, it published
a cover story extolling the claims of Ian Plimer, who, like Nils-Axel Mörner, is
a retired geologist. His work had also been widely ridiculed by scientists for
its hilarious schoolboy errors and its fudging and manipulation of the data.
Plimer inflicted further damage on the magazine after he frantically tried to
evade the hard questions arising from this article during a television debate.

Now Fraser Nelson has tried to do the same thing. The Guardian asked him on
Twitter whether any of the editors or senior staff at the Spectator has a
science degree. He repeatedly tried to duck this question, as well as the other
question we asked: who checked the article and what were their qualifications?
At one point, instead of answering these simple queries, he blustered: "But pls
do your thought crime piece, ur always on great form when hunting heretics!"

The Spectator has a long and inglorious record of scientific balls-ups of this
magnitude. As Ben Goldacre has shown, Fraser Nelson has also championed a wildly
misleading film about Aids and promoted scare stories about vaccinations.

Nelson's defence when challenged on any of this (when you can get an answer out
of him at all), is the standard rightwing canard that those who criticise him or
his contributors are enemies of free speech, witch-hunters or thought police,
opposed to debate. (We should, as the tweeter Paul Crowley suggested, institute
a new version of Godwin's law: a rightwinger, when his claims are challenged,
will soon denounce his opponents as thought police. Let's call it Crowley's
Law.)

But exposing the false claims people publish is, of course, part of the debate.
Perhaps Nelson would rather we silenced ourselves and didn't challenge him in
the name of, er, free speech. Perhaps - as his claim that debunking the wild
inaccuracies he has published is the equivalent of hunting heretics suggests -
he regards criticism as illegitimate. In either case, his employers should now
be asking themselves some serious questions about their editor's judgment. They
might gently suggest to him that he could be better off overseeing a magazine
like Conspiracy Digest.

· Mark Lynas is a climate writer, Visting Research Associate at the Oxford
University Centre for the Environment and also climate adviser to the President
of the Maldives.

References for Larouche's history and beliefs:

Terry Kirby, 21st July 2004. The Cult and the Candidate. The Independent

Chip Bertlet, 20th December 1990.

Roger Boyes, 7th November 2003. Blame the Jews. The Times

David Bamford, 30th July 1987, Turkish Officials Carpeted. The Guardian

Michael White, 3rd May 1986. Will the Democrats wear this Whig? The Guardian

Francis Wheen, 21st August 1996. Branded: Lord Rees-Mogg, international
terrorist. The Guardian

Extract from Chip Berlet and Matthew N. Lyons, 2000. Right-Wing Populism in
America: Too Close for Comfort

Guilford Press, New York

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

20 REASONS TO BE CHEERFUL

BYLINE: James Delingpole

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1114 words


So the economy's not exactly booming, the cost of living is rising, pensions are
shrinking and the Chancellor says we've got another six years before things
start picking up. But it's not all bad. Look on the bright side - as they did in
the trenches, as they did in the Blitz, as we're about to now...

1 STERLING. We've still got the pound. Incredible, really, when you remember how
hard Tony Blair, Chris Huhne, Ken Clarke, Michael Heseltine, Peter Mandelson,
Nick Clegg and all those other Euro­ fanatics tried to get rid of it. So as the
euro goes down the pan we can watch as spectators rather than victims.

2 PRINCE PHILIP. Yes the Queen's wonderful, we know that, but what about her
horribly underrated consort, 90 this year? We're always being told about his
"gaffes" (much funnier than the po­faced media pretends they are) but when he
hits the nail on the head, as he did with his outspoken remarks about wind farms
the other day - "absolutely useless" - he speaks for us all in a way that our
tiresome, career­safe politi­ cians never do.

3 STANDARDS. Despite every­ thing we know in our hearts what's wrong and what's
right. Consider, for example, the reaction of Len Goodman, senior judge on
Strictly Come Dancing when foot­ baller Robbie Savage showed off by removing his
dancing trousers to reveal his blue football shorts. Goodman wasn't having it.
"You do it good and then stick all that stuff in," he complained. Exactly. If
you're on a dance show learn to dance. Prancing around like a Soho stripper
impresses no one.

4 TOLERANCE. Amazingly, given the effects of New Labour's open doors immigration
policy, we remain a hugely tolerant nation. The YouTube footage of the white
English woman on a tram ranting about immigrants was a massive hit on the
internet this week: not because people agreed with her, more because they were
so shocked. 5 UKIP. Its rise and rise has put it on course to become Britain's
third largest party. Whatever your politics this is fantastic news for
democracy: unlike Lib­Lab­Con, UKIP offers voters a genuine alter­ native to the
Big Government, Europhile, high tax political mainstream.

6 EDUCATION. Michael Gove's Free Schools revolution is restoring rigour and
quality to our education system. Gove has suc­ ceeded where every one of his
Tory predecessors has failed thanks to his rare intelligence, his quiet firm­
ness and his unfailing politeness which disarms even the rabid Trots of the
teachers' unions.

7 REV. If you haven't yet seen the BBC's sleeper hit comedy about an inner­city
London vicar you're in for a treat. The performances are pitch­perfect, the
scripts sharply observed and incredibly funny, and it manages to examine complex
issues such as faith sensitively and intelligently but unsentimentally. If we
can go on producing TV of this quality there's hope for us still. 8 THE
OLYMPICS. All right, you and I suspect it's a spectacular waste of money but by
next year I defy you not to be caught up in the infectious excitement. My kids
can't wait, nor can your children and grandchildren. We owe it to them not to be
too cynical.

9 CHEAP ENERGY. "Cheap what?" you gasp. But it's true. We don't need wind farms,
we don't need solar, we don't even need nuclear because beneath Britain we've
just discovered enough (clean, inexpensive) shale gas to supply our needs till
well into the next century. It's like the North Sea miracle all over again.

10 CHEAP FOOD. However bad things get we're not going to starve. Scientists have
just discov­ ered the cheapest meal ever: the toast sandwich provides 330 calo­
ries and costs just 7.5 pence. Even if inflation hits Weimar levels we'll still
be able to afford that.

11 TECHNOLOGY. California has Silicon Valley, in London's "Sili­ con roundabout"
we now have Tech City - a hub of entrepreneurs in the tech industry (including,
I'm proud to say, my little bro Charlie and his MarketInvoice company). Chris
Huhne's pretend "green jobs" won't save our economy but our tech entrepreneurs
will.

12 RUSSELL SAGE. He's the brilliant designer who did the suite at the Goring
hotel which Kate Middleton slept in the night before her wedding and is now the
star of TV's The Manor Reborn. His quintessentially English style - eccentric,
shabby­luxurious, warm, witty - has revived our artisan craft industry.

13 THE EURO. Sure its collapse will be ugly and messy but think of the upside:
soon we'll be able to buy our own Greek island for a few drachmas, a Spanish
villa for a handful of pesetas and still have plenty spare to buy the punts for
a boozy weekend in Dublin.

14 THEATRE. Theatreland booms during a depression and it's no coincidence
London's West End is brimming with must­ see entertainment: Jerusalem, James
Corden in One Man, Two Masters, the new musicals Shrek and Matilda. Soon they'll
be travel­ ling to a playhouse near you.

15 STRIKES. The union mili­ tants may well claim other­ wise but yesterday's
strikes were a failure. Heathrow airport kept running and nearly half our
schools stayed open. Remember too that these strikes were only voted for by less
than one quarter of union members.

16 ENVIRONMENT. The UN's Durban climate conference was a huge flop. With the
release of the Climategate 2.0 emails, the "global warming" scam is almost over.
So now the UN, the EU and the Government will have less of an excuse for green
taxes and silly regulations on the kind of light­ bulbs we're allowed to use.

17 CAMARADERIE. Talk to anyone who has lived through times of hardship - be it
the Second World War or the first Great Depres­ sion - and what they remember
far more than the suffering is the sense of community, the making the most of
small pleasures, making do and mending. Friendships and family bonds will
strengthen, we'll all pull together.

18 CHINA. Soon the Chinese (and the Indians and the Brazilians) will be the
masters of the world so we might as well get used to it. What's bad for our ego
will be good for our peace of mind: relax - from now on whatever happens is out
of our control so let's learn to go with the flow.

19 BRACING RESORTS. In the good old days of course every­ one holidayed in
Britain. None of that poncy Mediterranean/Carib­ bean warm sea nonsense for us:
it was the good, honest chilly whole­ someness of the North Sea, English Channel
etc. Now that abroad is too expensive to visit we can rekindle our past and
revive our hardy national character.

20 MIRACLES. From the sudden storm which destroyed the Armada to the Prussians
coming to help us at Waterloo to the evacuation of Dunkirk, Britain has a proud
tradi­ tion of escaping disaster by the skin of its teeth. So we know deep
inside that however bad things get we'll never go under.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SMILE: Either it might never happen or it already has
Picture: RETNA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 129 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday

Prepare for end of 01n02pensions the euro, banks told

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 510 words


ALARM at the economic turmoil in Europe intensified last night after the
Government admitted preparations for the chaotic collapse of the euro were being
"stepped up".

Downing Street is understood to be involved in "contingency planning" for Greece
and possibly Italy, Spain and Portugal quitting the eurozone.

British banks have been urged by the City's watchdog to brace themselves for the
collapse of the single currency.

Yesterday European monetary affairs commissioner Olli Rehn warned there was just
10 days to save the euro.

He said: "We are now entering the critical period of 10 days to complete and
conclude the crisis response of the European Union."

Havoc

The Financial Services Authority has warned that the unravelling of the
17-nation eurozone could wreak havoc on the UK banking system.

City sources said Hector Sants, chief executive of the FSA, made the plea at a
crisis meeting with senior bosses from high street banks.

And, in a sign of growing panic, a senior French politician warned the crisis
could trigger "the return to violent conflict" in Europe.

Alain Juppe, France's foreign minister, added: "It could be the explosion of the
European Union itself."

The turmoil has fuelled speculation that the end of the euro in its current form
may finally be in sight.

The alarm followed the soaring cost of borrowing in Italy and other debt-hit
eurozone nations as well as growing fears for the French banking system.

Following the FSA warning, the Prime Minister's spokesman said: "We have been
stepping up our contingency planning but I don't want to get into detail on
that." He said the Government, the Bank of England and the FSA were working
together "ensuring they have the capacity to take action" if Greece or others
quit the euro.

But the decision of Mr Sants to intervene by ordering Britain's high street
giants to increase their preparations for a euro exit was seen as a significant
escalation of the crisis.

Yesterday the world's biggest central banks, including the Bank of England,
announced dramatic new measures to save the global financial economy.

In a bid to stave off a second credit crunch, a rescue package worth billions of
dollars was agreed to encourage commercial banks to start lending again. Tory MP
Douglas Carswell said of the demise of the euro that it would be "bumpy" in the
short term but "good for Britain and good for Europe" in the long run. "It is
good that the establishment in Whitehall finally seems to be preparing itself
for the inevitable," he added. Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said:
"Summit after summit produces no credible solution to the eurozone debt crisis,
just a papering over the cracks. The euro-vanity project is in its dying days
and everything must be done to ensure British banks do not go down with the
sinking ship."

OPINION: PAGE 18

Q Will we all be better off

if the euro collapses?

YES: 0901 030 8344

NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088

No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 26p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
