
                               1 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 30, 2011
                                 First Edition

The coalition I would like;
@ YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 61 words


The coalition I would like Richard Avis (letter, 29 November) may believe John
Kampfner (My View, 28 November) was joking about the Tory party's commitment to
deal with inequality, but maybe the centre-right coalition in John's piece is an
amalgamation of the 80 Tory EU rebels and Ukip - now that would get my support.
Bring it on! STEVE PARKER STROUD, GLOUCESTERSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kama Sutra is a classic, but I swear by the King James;
Notebook

BYLINE: CRISTINA ODONE

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 621 words


When David Cameron said he'd send a copy of the King James Bible to every school
in the land, I expected rapturous applause. Some inspired wisecracks did appear
- a historian called Maria Pretzler suggested that if the Treasury was paying,
the tomes could be renamed "Gideon's Bibles". But most of the reaction was
hostile and humourless. If Cameron had proposed to distribute The Story of
Little Black Sambo the gnashing of teeth couldn't have been louder.

With literacy and history at a low ebb, and given the importance of a unifying
narrative in a multicultural society, making this exquisite text available is an
excellent move. Even the über-atheist Richard Dawkins admits it would be
"barbarian" not to be familiar with this book. But that cuts no ice with other
godless Lefties, who have heaped abuse on the plan as promoting the "Tory
Bible".

Yet those who refuse to have the most important text in the English language in
our schools welcome texts like The Primary School Sex and Relationships
Education Pack. This pedagogical gem argues that "dissuading children from
having sex before marriage" and telling "children what is right or wrong" are
futile: "such aims are... inappropriate for schools."

Inappropriate? I could tell you what the book teaches young people to do, but
this is a family newspaper, so I won't.

But even this pales against what is planned next in "sex and relationships [note
the order of these terms] education". Channel 4 has made a DVD, Living and
Growing, to be distributed to the one out of five schools that includes Special
Religious Education classes. (Remember how Labour wanted to make these
compulsory?) The film (target audience: eight-year-olds) features
computer-generated images of a man and woman in a vigorous re-enactment of the
Kama Sutra. That Hindu love manual is a classic, too. But not one I wish my
eightyear-old to be force-fed.

The Liberal Democrats are all too happy to exploit Britons' woeful ignorance of
history, I fear. The Coalition's junior partners are in a panic: their image is
in tatters, their leader hated, and poll ratings show them close to being
overtaken by Ukip. So they've come up with a cunning plan to rewrite history.
Why not appropriate the greats of the past? William Wilberforce, for instance,
is universally hailed for his campaign to abolish slavery. Yes, he was an
independent MP, but with a bit of revisionism he can be recycled as a Lib Dem
pioneer. Why stop there? Why not rewrite Florence Nightingale's biography to
reinvent her as a campaigner for Lib Dem health reforms? And present Charles
Dickens's polemics against poverty as forebears of The Orange Book? In fact,
some of the Lib Dems today could have emerged from a Dickensian mould: Simon
Hughes would be a convincing Uriah Heep and Vince Cable excellent as Scrooge.
But who would Nick Clegg be? Tiny Tim, who knows he's in for a miserable
Christmas - and year - ahead.

Father Gabriele Amorth strikes me as a caricature from the Protestant Truth
Society rather than from a Victorian novel. A former exorcist for the Vatican,
the priest has decreed that yoga is the Devil's work, and that those who
practise it are well on the road to perdition. Such statements try the patience
of even the most stalwart defenders of the Church - and make me long to
resurrect the days when the Vatican knew how to deal with its idiot clergy. I'm
not suggesting Fr Amorth should be burnt at the stake, or that his work be
placed on the Index of Prohibited Books. But someone who depicts innocuous yoga
exercises as Satan worship deserves the special kind of censorship that only the
Catholic Church can impose: life in a Trappist monastery.

Comment on Cristina Odone's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fury at £1billion climate aid

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 248 words


FRESH outrage erupted yesterday over the cost of overseas aid after it emerged
that Britain is to stump up £1billion to help African countries fight climate
change. Energy Secretary Chris Huhne will spearhead the megadeal that will see
taxpayers shelling out for projects to help farmers insure their crops against
flooding and drought.

Other schemes include installing solar power in villages and building slurry
pits that can produce gas to power generators.

The move will infuriate millions of hard-pressed taxpayers trying to make ends
meet. South Africa, the most economically advanced in the continent, is one of
the countries to receive the handout. Last year, its economy grew by 2.8 per
cent while Britain's grew by just 1.8 per cent.

Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "It is inconceivable that the Government feels able
to spend money on climate change in Africa when its austerity measures at home
are causing such pain. If we have the money then we should spend it here." Mr
Huhne is expected to announce details of the aid package ahead of talks at a
United Nations summit on climate change in Durban, South Africa, which starts
this week.

The £1billion over the next four years will be taken from the budgets held by
the Department of Energy and Climate Change and Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs. The Department for International Development has already
allocated £362million until 2015.

Ethiopa will get £41million, South Africa £13.2million and Rwanda £2million.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Huhne backed deal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

Comment: The coalition's Plan P (for panic) owes a lot to Labour: The eurozone
crisis has brought Ed Balls and George Osborne closer than they care to admit,
and Lib Dems to the fore

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1068 words


Do the political classes have what it takes? Privately the Bank of England high
command thinks the eurozone is bound to fail, which could make what we are going
through look almost benign. As the coalition unveils its pro-growth Plan P (for
panic) this week, its real division is over Europe. We think we are living
through a crisis. The real crisis may barely have begun.

Beyond the passionate intensity of Ukip and the far left, nobody is speaking
with boldness and clarity about how to deal with a eurozone collapse. The best
lack all conviction. As we saw on their TV sofa love-in yesterday, George
Osborne and Ed Balls are united by more than divides them, and that includes
their attitude to the euro. They can't live within it - they agree on that - but
they can't live without it.

This week's autumn statement will be based on the idea that Labour and the
coalition are miles apart, and that the choice is between prosperity and
disaster. Not at a domestic level, it isn't. The two sides are different, and I
much prefer the Ed Balls version of events, but they are living in the same
chaotic economic world.

In it they are divided by degrees, not direction. Both agree the structural
deficit must be cut. Alistair Darling, proved so painfully right about the scale
of the problems ahead, set a Labour path of cuts that is less than the Tory one,
but not by such a vast amount. Ed Balls, so far, is sticking to it.

They both accept that, with the failure of the private sector to provide enough
jobs, the new priority is growth. While it's true that Labour remedies,
including reversing the VAT cut and slowing the rate of public sector cuts, are
different from Tory instincts - the right of the party is slavering for cuts in
employment rights, as well as pensions - the coalition has come closer to Labour
thinking than it likes to admit.

Subsidising firms to employ young people for six months is a smaller and
borrowed version of Labour's scheme. Pressuring pension funds to invest in
infrastructure projects is an updated coalition response to the controversial
New Labour private finance initiative. Quantitative easing, memorably described
by Osborne in opposition as a desperate government's last resort, and now credit
easing, follows on from Labour thinking.

This being a Tory-dominated government, we will also see some bleak decisions
taken on welfare, the continued aggressive approach to public sector pensions
and a flinching away from making higher paid taxpayers take a greater share of
the pain. But Labour would also be cutting pensions; and Osborne will announce a
further bank levy, just as a Labour chancellor would.

What's going on? Frankly, Plan Panic. Plan A's assumption that if you cut public
spending, the private sector would bounce into the gap, is now bust. Scrabbling
around for measures to kickstart growth, or at least stave off a double-dip
recession in the first half of next year, the coalition is bound to snatch at
some of the same ideas as Labour. Add them together and you have a de facto
shift of direction, however little Osborne wants to say so.

But there is another reason for some of what's happening, and again not one
anybody from the Tory side wants to advertise. The Lib Dems have had a bigger
influence recently and indeed, the real structure of government is shifting
shape as the pressure piles on. The announcement on the jobs fund came from Nick
Clegg after his team had won some big battles.

Conservative high command has done all it can to blur the influence of the Lib
Dems - an almost risible moment came last week when Vince Cable, waging a
ferocious private argument to stop a loosening of employment law that would
remove key rights from workers in small companies, was punished by having to
announce a consultation on "no-fault dismissal". It rather looked as if, as one
of the last instinctive progressives in the cabinet, he was being ritually
humiliated.

In theory, what happens is that these struggles are agreed by the "Quad" -
Cameron, Osborne, Clegg and Danny Alexander meeting in a quiet huddle. But as I
found out talking on Radio 4's Week in Westminster to Matthew Oakeshott, the Lib
Dem peer close to Cable, and to Osborne's former chief of staff Matthew Hancock,
now a Tory MP, the Quad is not really where the power lies. In fact, much of the
time the coalition is slipping back to parallel meetings of Tory-only and Lib
Dem-only ministers.

There was a structure agreed at the beginning of the coalition, a five-a-side
coalition committee meant to meet weekly. It rarely has, and some Lib Dems want
to go back to that, as an alternative to what is becoming a dangerously informal
and casual (and leak-prone) system. Oakeshott says: "We can't let the media
paint it as going from one-sofa government under Blair to two-sofa government
under our coalition."

This is not a mere "process" or technical matter. As the coalition looks over
the abyss of economic stagnation, the instincts of the two parties are pulling
in different directions. Tories want a bonfire of regulations; Lib Dems want
more traditional Keynesian investment. Osborne's statement looks as if it's
going to be an ingenious compromise, which won't please either party.

But if this is difficult, imagine what lies ahead if the implosion of the
eurozone comes next. Germany seems determined to push through treaty changes as
the price of saving the EU from catastrophe, which will lead to Tory demands for
a referendum. Lib Dem instincts will be to offer help to a European monetary
bailout, thus trying to save a eurozone we will ultimately join.

Either option has a certain logic, but is also fraught with danger. Do we really
want to tie ourselves more tightly to a system that is breaking down, and whose
logic is to erode democracy? But on the other hand, if we stand aside as the EU
endures its worst crisis to date, we will lose any remaining goodwill and
influence in our largest market.

These are existential choices and they may be coming soon. Labour, too, is going
to have to decide what to do. As the British political class struggles with our
economic crisis, the time may be fast approaching when our politicians are
confronted with a much bigger choice: euro-devil? Or deep blue sea? It is
something big enough to split the coalition - but who in the political class has
a plan of any kind to follow if the eurozone does indeed fail?

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

Clegg beefs up team to boost Whitehall clout

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 260 words


Nick Clegg has moved to strengthen his central team in Whitehall as polls show
the Liberal Democrats stuck in the doldrums of around 8-11 %, and facing a
threat of falling behind the UK Independence party in the wake of the growing
publicity over the euro's travails.

The deputy prime minister is appointing half a dozen special advisers in an
attempt to strengthen his party's clout in Whitehall, especially in the
departments where the Lib Dems have only a junior minister or no minister.

Neil Sherlock, a partner in KPMG, will be his director of external affairs,
based in the Cabinet Office. Sherlock is being appointed as a special adviser.

One of Sherlock's roles will be to oversee the work of the special advisers and
to liaise with outside groups in business and elsewhere.

Clegg's civil service team has already been strengthened and his chief of staff
Johnny Oates is now based in his office. Joanne Foster, former chief executive
of the Welsh Lib Dems, has also been drafted in as deputy chief of staff .

Clegg has also appointed a special adviser to track developments in the Home
Office and Ministry of Justice to assist Lord McNally, the senior Liberal
Democrat in the Lords, who is also a justice minister. .

The latest Sunday Times YouGov poll published at the weekend shows Labour
stretching its lead to nine points, with Labour on 43, the Conservatives 34 and
the Lib Dems on 11, six points ahead of Ukip. This the largest Labour lead in a
YouGov poll since August and is out of line with other You Gov polls showing
Labour with a five-point lead.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 28, 2011 Monday 7:04 AM GMT

The Kama Sutra is a classic, but I swear by the King James;
Even Richard Dawkins admits it would be 'barbarian' not to be familiar with this
book, writes Cristina Odone.

BYLINE: By Cristina Odone

LENGTH: 620 words


When David Cameron said he'd send a copy of the King James Bible to every school
in the land, I expected rapturous applause. Some inspired wisecracks did appear
- a historian called Maria Pretzler suggested that if the Treasury was paying,
the tomes could be renamed "Gideon's Bibles". But most of the reaction was
hostile and humourless. If Cameron had proposed to distribute The Story of
Little Black Sambo the gnashing of teeth couldn't have been louder.

With literacy and history at a low ebb, and given the importance of a unifying
narrative in a multicultural society, making this exquisite text available is an
excellent move. Even the über-atheist Richard Dawkins admits it would be
"barbarian" not to be familiar with this book. But that cuts no ice with other
godless Lefties, who have heaped abuse on the plan as promoting the "Tory
Bible".

Yet those who refuse to have the most important text in the English language in
our schools welcome texts like The Primary School Sex and Relationships
Education Pack. This pedagogical gem argues that "dissuading children from
having sex before marriage" and telling "children what is right or wrong" are
futile: "such aims are... inappropriate for schools."

Inappropriate? I could tell you what the book teaches young people to do, but
this is a family newspaper, so I won't.

But even this pales against what is planned next in "sex and relationships [note
the order of these terms] education". Channel 4 has made a DVD, Living and
Growing, to be distributed to the one out of five schools that includes Special
Religious Education classes. (Remember how Labour wanted to make these
compulsory?) The film (target audience: eight-year-olds) features
computer-generated images of a man and woman in a vigorous re-enactment of the
Kama Sutra. That Hindu love manual is a classic, too. But not one I wish my
eight-year-old to be force-fed.

...

The Liberal Democrats are all too happy to exploit Britons' woeful ignorance of
history, I fear. The Coalition's junior partners are in a panic: their image is
in tatters, their leader hated, and poll ratings show them close to being
overtaken by Ukip. So they've come up with a cunning plan to rewrite history.
Why not appropriate the greats of the past? William Wilberforce, for instance,
is universally hailed for his campaign to abolish slavery. Yes, he was an
independent MP, but with a bit of revisionism he can be recycled as a Lib Dem
pioneer. Why stop there? Why not rewrite Florence Nightingale's biography to
reinvent her as a campaigner for Lib Dem health reforms? And present Charles
Dickens's polemics against poverty as forebears of The Orange Book? In fact,
some of the Lib Dems today could have emerged from a Dickensian mould: Simon
Hughes would be a convincing Uriah Heep and Vince Cable excellent as Scrooge.
But who would Nick Clegg be? Tiny Tim, who knows he's in for a miserable
Christmas - and year - ahead.

...

Father Gabriele Amorth strikes me as a caricature from the Protestant Truth
Society rather than from a Victorian novel. A former exorcist for the Vatican,
the priest has decreed that yoga is the Devil's work, and that those who
practise it are well on the road to perdition. Such statements try the patience
of even the most stalwart defenders of the Church - and make me long to
resurrect the days when the Vatican knew how to deal with its idiot clergy. I'm
not suggesting Fr Amorth should be burnt at the stake, or that his work be
placed on the Index of Prohibited Books. But someone who depicts innocuous yoga
exercises as Satan worship deserves the special kind of censorship that only the
Catholic Church can impose: life in a Trappist monastery.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 27, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Smoking Euro MPs the butt of anger

BYLINE: JOHN WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 208 words


HYPOCRITICAL EU politicians are puffing away inside the European Parliament
while drawing up laws banning Brits from smoking.

The MEPs ordered special sealed smoking rooms to be built at the taxpayer's
expense.

The Parliament in Brussels has one large smoking room.

And there are smaller booths for smokers dotted around the plush building.

The TaxPayers' Alliance chief executive Matthew Elliott said: "It's astounding
that EU politicians think they can sit puffing away in their swanky office while
they spend taxpayers' money lecturing us about smoking."

Belgium banned lighting up in public places in July this year but there's still
no sign of the politicians following suit.

Smoking was banned in the Parliament building in 2007 but it was scrapped by
MEPs after six weeks.

Sources inside the Parliament claim that MEPs still openly smoke in their
offices.

The EU Commission is pushing ahead with plans to outlaw smoking in bars,
restaurants and cafés across Europe. The bureaucrats want all member countries
to follow the American-style bans already imposed by Ireland and Holland.

UKIP also slammed the hypocrisy of MEPs.

The party's deputy leader, Paul Nuttall MEP, said the Eurocrats' smoking ban
would drive thousands of pubs and clubs out of business.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               November 27, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE YouTube footage of [...];
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN; TED JEORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 29 words


THE YouTube footage of UKIP leader Nigel Farage's brilliant "What gives you the
right?" tirade has received more than 600,000 hits. Come on, chaps, it's worth
at least a million.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               November 27, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE European Union is [...];
CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN; TED JEORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 56 words


THE European Union is not afraid of making enemies but the European Commission
risks the wrath of the Almighty after slapping an import tax on communion
wafers. UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall said: "It takes the biscuit that the EU is setting
a quota for imports. What are they frightened of? Hordes of hooded curates
smuggling in sacred wafers?"

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 27, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 93 words


An article "MEP in fraud inquiry" (News, November 15, 2009) reported an
investigation by a European Union watchdog into whether Mike Nattrass MEP had
used public funds intended for the payment of parliamentary aides to pay a UK
Independence party regional organiser. That investigation has been completed
with no action taken against Mr Nattrass. The article also stated that payments
were channelled through the firm Nattrass Giles Limited. We were not suggesting
the company was part of, or merited, any investigation and are happy to clarify
the position.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Time to examine merits of a life outside the EU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 251 words


IT IS frankly astonishing that no rigorous cost benefit analysis has been
carried out by the Treasury on Britain's membership of the European Union.

FINAL ARTWORK This means the political establishment is able to highlight the
very occasional bit of positive news in which the EU has played a part in order
to create the impression that membership must be overwhelmingly in the national
interest.

But mere figures recording large amounts of trade with other EU nations are
meaningless if there is no assessment of what trade would be like were Britain
to leave the EU.

Given that we could rely instead upon membership of the European Economic Area
to secure trading links with the Continent there is every reason to believe the
impact would be negligible.

Neither has the Treasury attempted to estimate the costs of the regulatory
burden imposed on British businesses by Brussels, although there is every reason
to suppose that it is vast.

With Britain paying £50million a day for the privilege of EU membership and the
eurozone debacle doing untold economic damage a proper cost benefit analysis is
long overdue.

Former Ukip leader Lord Pearson is to be congratulated for tabling a Bill in the
House of Lords demanding such work is done. As the Tory peer Lord Stevens of
Ludgate put it: "The reality is that Britain's membership of the EU is very
costly and the benefits are becoming harder to see."

If the Government refuses to do this work there is only one conclusion to be
drawn: that it has something to hide.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Outrage as paedophile Glitter's travel ban ends

BYLINE: John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 362 words


CHILD protection campaigners voiced outrage yesterday at the lifting of a travel
ban on rock star Gary Glitter.

Convicted paedophile Glitter - real name Paul Gadd - has been barred from
leaving the country since he returned to the UK from serving time in Vietnam for
sexually abusing two young girls.

The singer's 12-month Foreign Travel Orders were renewed for each of the past
three years by magistrates and judges given doctors' reports on the danger he
posed to children. But police have decided the 67-year-old is no longer a threat
and did not apply to have restrictions extended when they ran out yesterday.

Ukip Home Affairs spokesman Gerard Batten MEP, called the decision a "disgrace".

He said: "This is about protecting children wherever they are. It would be in
the public's interest to stop someone like Gary Glitter travelling abroad where
he can't be monitored in the way he is over here. Children in the UK are better
protected than a lot of those overseas.

We have a duty to do what we can to help them."

Claude Knights of children's charity Kidscape said: "We have a duty to children
around the world and not just the children of the UK - especially those
countries with a very bad record for child trafficking and misuse. Mr Gadd is on
the Sex Offenders' Register for life and that speaks for itself."

Glitter, who made his name with his Glitter Band in the 1970s, lives in a
multi-million pound apartment in central London and has adopted a series of
bizarre disguises to avoid being recognised.

He is still on the Sex Offenders' Register and is monitored by police and other
agencies.

He fell from grace in 1999 when he was jailed for four months for possessing
4,000 child pornography images.

His music has largely been banned from the airways ever since although some of
his songs are played abroad and he earns an estimated £200,000 a year in
royalties. In 2006, a court in Vietnam sentenced him to three years in prison
for abusing two girls aged 11 and 12, at his home in the resort town of Vung
Tau.

Earlier this year, Hollywood A-lister Gwyneth Paltrow was slammed for performing
one of Glitter's songs - Do You Wanna Touch Me - on the hit US TV show Glee.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Glitter is known to adopt bizarre disguises

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

VICTORY IN NEW FIGHT TO QUIT EU;
Government must now come clean about secret costs of membership ; Peers vote to
review UK's CRUSADE GET US OUT £18bn EU bill OF THE EU

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 600 words


THE British public were given fresh hope in the battle to quit the European
Union last night.

Calls were issued in the House of Lords for an inquiry into the
multi-billion-pound cost of our EU membership.

A number of peers declared the eurozone crisis provided "immaculate timing" for
a major report on whether it is worth being saddled with the burden of paying
billions of pounds into Brussels coffers every year.

They insist that the huge costs to the British taxpayer "far outweigh the
benefits" of being in the EU. The peers' attempt to force an inquiry into the
TURN TO PAGE 4

FROM PAGE ONE economic benefits of Britain being in the EU, which was voted
through yesterday, will increase the pressure for a referendum on EU membership.

And it gives fresh impetus to the Daily Express crusade to cut Britain's ties
with Brussels altogether.

Last month we forced a historic vote on a European referendum in the House of
Commons. And earlier this week we revealed that Britain poured a colossal
£18.5billion into the EU last year - equivalent to £51million a day.

The staggering figures, £730 a year for every household in the UK, come on top
of the £12.5billion shelled out to help rescue Greece, Ireland and Portugal with
bailouts.

Speaking in the House of Lords yesterday, former Ukip leader Lord Pearson of
Rannoch said a cost-bene-fit analysis of Britain's membership of the EU was long
overdue.

He told peers that a seven-strong committee of inquiry to report on the economic
costs and benefits would help increase pressure for a referendum on EU
membership.

Benefits Lord Pearson was opening a debate on the second reading of his European
Union Membership (Economic Implications) Bill and after lengthy discussion
fellow peers waved it through. "For more than 30 years the political class has
done its best not to talk about our membership of the EU," he said. "But the
wheel of history turns. And the question as to whether we should leave the EU is
now firmly back on the national agenda.

"But this Bill does not deal with that question. It is an altogether milder and
more innocent creature.

"It merely requires the Chancellor to set up an impartial inquiry into the
economic costs and benefits arising from our membership of the EU."

Lord Pearson said the inquiry could look at some of the "fundamental
misconceptions" about EU membership, such as the claim that British trade and
jobs depended on it.

He said figures showed the UK made a net cash contribution, taking into account
receipts from Brussels, of £10billion last year, or £28million every day "with
perhaps none of it spent in our national interest". This, he said, would pay the
annual salaries of 940 nurses. The Bill will now go to the committee stage.

Tory former frontbencher Baroness Noakes backed the call for an inquiry,
applauding Lord Pearson's "immaculate timing" in the face of "turmoil in the
eurozone".

Lord Stevens of Ludgate said the benefits of Britain's membership of the EU were
"becoming harder to see" and hit out at the juggernaut of EU excess.

His comments came as it emerged yesterday that the average fat-cat Eurocrat now
rakes in £80,000 a year.

Figures unearthed by the Daily Express show the EU's enormous wage bill rocketed
to £4.45billion last year, up an inflation-busting 5.6 per cent on 2009.

Even taking into account 10,000 lower-paid temporary workers, the typical EU
official now enjoys an annual salary, expense account and pension top-up
totalling £79,819.

That figure is more than twice the average package for a UK civil servant who
picks up £34,596 a year.

OPINION: PAGE 18

FROM PAGE ONE economic benefits [...]

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Weekend: So, prime minister, what are you ashamed of?: From Piers Morgan to
Polly Toynbee, Jemima Khan to Jarvis Cocker -- David Cameron takes questions
from public figures who want answers

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5220 words


David Mitchell, comedian

Do you wish you were less posh?

"(Laughs) No. You can't change who you are. For a long time I thought my full
name was 'The Old Etonian David Cameron'. I had parents who gave me a wonderful
start in life, who sacrificed a lot to give me a great education. So I don't
ever want to change - I don't want to drop my accent or change my vowels. I am
who I am."

Piers Morgan, TV presenter

If you could relive one moment in your life, excluding births of children and
marriage, what would it be?

"God, that's a really good question. Piers, why don't you ever ask really good
questions like that normally?

"I think it would probably be this holiday in Italy when I met Samantha
properly. It was that sort of carefree wonderful time when you get together with
the person you end up spending the rest of your life with. That feeling of
happiness and a wonderful holiday with your family around you and the sun is
shining and the sea is beautiful and you're with someone who makes you laugh,
makes you happy with that sense of excitement in the future."

Richard Dawkins, ethologist, evolutionary biologist and author

Why do you support faith schools for children who are too young to have chosen
their faith, thereby implicitly labelling them with the faith of their parents,
whereas you wouldn't dream of so labelling a "Keynesian child" or a
"Conservative child"?

"Comparing John Maynard Keynes to Jesus Christ shows, in my view, why Richard
Dawkins just doesn't really get it. I think faith schools are very often good
schools. Why? Because the organisation that's backing them - the church or the
mosque or the synagogue - is part of the community. And it brings a sense of
community and the backing of an institution to a school. The church was
providing good schools long before the state got involved, and we should respect
the fact that it's not just the state that can provide education but other
bodies, too."

Adrian Chiles, TV presenter

What's the most tedious thing about being PM?

"Waking up on Wednesday morning and realising it's prime minister's questions."

Diane Abbott, Labour MP

You recently met Obama. Do you regret supporting John McCain?

"No. John McCain is a friend of mine. I've always liked and admired him. He
speaks his mind. He's a good friend of the United Kingdom. I've always had a
very strong relationship with Barack Obama. But I still see John McCain."

Polly Toynbee, Guardian columnist

On the basis of your government's present policies, the IFS predicts child
poverty will rise steeply, after nine years of falling. What emergency measures
will you now take to correct this trajectory and fulfil your pledge to cut the
numbers of children living below the OECD recognised poverty line?

"I note that she doesn't refer to that fact that we've had a series of budgets
that have not added to child poverty and the reason is we took steps to increase
child tax credits, to demonstrate that while we were making cuts, we were doing
so in a way that was fair. . . There are many things I can do in life, but
making Polly happy is not one of them, I'm afraid."

Steve Coogan, comedian

The Daily Mail's silence during the hacking affair was deafening. If, as many
suspect, Paul Dacre is found to be "up to his neck in it", will you please
please, please give him a "second chance" by making him your director of
communications?

"(Laughs) I'd rather have Alan Partridge."

Christina Schmid, war widow

Your father and your son dying while you were holding the reigns of the country
seemed only momentarily to pause your pace. How have their deaths affected you,
and what was your relationship like with your father? What did he say to you
before he died about your political career?

"Well, my son died while I was leader of the opposition, so I did take. . .
probably not enough time out, but I did drop everything for a bit. I had a very
strong relationship with my dad. He was an amazing man. Great optimist. Always
believed the best about people and thought things would turn out OK. He was very
proud of what I was doing. He was always very worried about all the
responsibility I was taking on. The last time I saw him properly was when I got
him to Chequers just before he went off on the holiday on which he died. I got
him upstairs to this lovely room - the long gallery. We sat and had a drink
together and a chat. . . I didn't know it was 'goodbye'. His last bit of advice
to me was, 'Do the right thing.' That was always his advice."

Tinie Tempah, rapper

Did you go clubbing when you were in Ibiza?

"No. My wife did, the night before I got there. I went to some very nice
restaurants, but I was tucked up in bed at a ludicrously un-Ibizan hour."

Justine Roberts, co-founder of Mumsnet

Do you ever worry that if you weren't prime minister you'd be a better father?

"Yes, I do. You'd have more time. The advantage of being prime minister is that
you live above the shop, so I do get to see my children more than some dads do
because I can pop up and read them a bedtime story and go back to work."

Michael Winner, film director, producer and restaurant critic

On a scale of one to 10, how happy have you been since you became prime
minister?

"I haven't really had time to stop and make the calculation. I enjoy this
incredibly challenging job. It is a huge honour to do it. It's not meant to make
you happy, but if you believe in politics as a vocation, it is a worthwhile
thing to do. I won't give a number, Michael, I'm afraid. It's not like one of
your restaurant reviews."

Hilary Mantel,

author

What are you ashamed of?

"A few things I've done in my past that I'm not going to tell you about."

Mike Leigh,

film-maker

What is your moral justification for the state not providing free further
education for everybody, and for the principle of student loans? And I do want
to hear your moral reasoning: not any economic, political or historic excuses.

"I think there is a strong moral case for this, which is the evidence that going
to university brings a benefit to that individual person over the course of the
rest of their life. Therefore, I think it is morally right that they make a
contribution to the cost of that course, which is what our fees policy does. And
I think it would be morally wrong to ask the taxpayer to bear all of the burden
of that cost, not least because there are many taxpayers who don't go to
university who don't have that benefit."

Ian McEwan,

novelist

There's still a very strong general feeling around that wage earners are picking
up the tab for the excesses of the banking sector. Why not take seriously the
"Robin Hood" campaign? (And don't be blackmailed by bankers' empty threats to
move abroad - the proposed levy is tiny on any given transaction.)

"I'm all in favour of the idea of a financial transaction tax, but only if you
can do it globally. And while of course it is a tiny tax on transactions, if the
effect is that you just move the transactions to another country, you then lose
the tax revenue. The EU keep talking about it, but in the end they know the
problem is that even if you did it throughout the EU, the transactions would all
go outside the EU."

Miranda Hart, comedian

What's the least favourite part of your job (apart from the difficulty of
ordering takeaways to Number 10)?

"The thing I dread the most is news of casualties from Afghanistan, because
that's the greatest responsibility. The thing that is odd and weird is having to
have people open car doors for you because they weigh two tonnes and if you
tried to do it yourself you'd cut your leg off.

Richard Branson, businessman

An 18-year-old girl who is dying of liver disease came to me on the street and
begged me to use my influence to ask you to change urgently the law in Britain
so that she can get a new liver. She believes - and all the research I've done
since meeting her shows - that if organ giving could be done on the opt-out
system, rather than people having to opt-in, then every single person's needs
would be met and the young woman's life and thousands of others' lives would be
saved. I'm someone who forgets to fill out forms for my organs to be donated and
believe very strongly that the government should pass an emergency law to save
this woman's, and thousands of others', lives. Will you support the opt-out
policy?

"I think it's very difficult to have a policy that basically says if you haven't
filled in the form, your organs can be harvested without your permission. It is
a huge leap. But there are hospitals and healthcare systems we can learn from
that have encouraged people to sign up to make their organs available. So
there's a lot we can do without going the whole hog to opt out."

Mariella Frostrup, writer and broadcaster

What's your favourite line in literature, and why?

"Henry V's speech at Agincourt: 'Men of England who lie in bed. . .' You think
of all that band of brothers, we few. . . there are more lines in that one
speech that have become famous than probably any other."

Eine, graffiti artist whose work Cameron gave to Obama as an official gift in
2010

Imagine it's your stag weekend, which is being organised by Silvio Berlusconi.
There are five places spare on the coach. Based solely on their ability to have
a good time, which world leaders would you invite (past or present, but they
have to be living)? If you don't choose Bill Clinton, why not?

"That is so difficult. I don't know that many past world leaders. I think you
probably would choose Bill Clinton because he'd be fascinating to talk to. But
God, that's difficult. I like Obama - I always enjoy chatting to him. My new
best friend is the president of the Maldives. He's great. That's a weird
mixture, isn't it? I like Sarkozy, we'd have fun. And I like John Key, the prime
minister of New Zealand."

Jemima Khan, writer and campaigner

Are you aware - and is it true - that your phone was hacked by News Of The
World?

"I've absolutely no idea. No one's ever told me. That's a new one on me." Jamie
Oliver, chef

Hi, Mr Cameron. In the light of rocketing obesity rates in the UK and the
spiralling costs to the NHS of diet-related diseases, what importance do you
personally place upon ensuring that every child in school is taught the key life
skills of how to cook for themselves, where food comes from, and how it affects
their bodies and their future health. And are you committed to the continued
investment in improving school food, particularly in the new academies?

"Yes. Cooking with my own children is one of the things I enjoy most, and when
people see the connection between diet and behaviour and obesity and all the
rest of it, they see why this is not an add-on but a must-have. But in the end
you've got to encourage schools to take this seriously themselves. My own
children's school has just put in proper kitchens and food on-site, and my
children have given up the packed lunch and gone to the school dinner, and we
want to see that happen elsewhere."

Terry Wogan, broadcaster

What does the PM think the public think of him?

"All sorts of things. Of course, there are people who profoundly disagree with
you - and sometimes people can get very angry with you. But I think people are
basically very fair-minded and as long as they see you trying to do your best,
and doing what you believe in, they will be reasonable with you."

Francis Wheen, journalist and broadcaster

What was the last novel you read? And the last nonfiction book?

"I'm reading something called Made In Britain, which is nonfiction. It's a very
nice, rather old-fashioned history book about the great figures and inventions
of British history. It's just rather good - I've been reading bits with my
children. I'm also reading Laurence Of Arabia, by Michael Korda, which is
fantastic. And weirdly, I'm also reading Max Hastings' book on Churchill's war
years. I'm sort of reading three things at the same time because I don't last
very long before I fall asleep. The last novel I read? Gosh, I haven't read one
for quite a long time. I read this very good book by this Irish author Paul
Murray called Skippy Dies. He very kindly sent me his new book, the name of
which I can't for the life of me remember (it's An Evening Of Long Goodbyes),
but I dipped into it the other day."

Lord Norman Lamont, former Tory chancellor of the exchequer

If there were no coalition and you were governing as a Conservative prime
minister alone, what three things would you most like to have done that you have
not been able to do in coalition?

"Further action on welfare reform. Perhaps the control of immigration. But I
don't buy the argument that because it's a coalition it's an inactive
government. It's a pretty rolled-up sleeves reforming government." (Guardian:
And the third?) "I thought two was enough."

Jon Snow, broadcaster

Given Britain's historic links with Israel, is it not time the UK took a more
assertive role in bringing about a two-state solution. Why did you abstain in
the vote to give the Palestinian state status at Unesco?

"The reason for the abstention is that I don't believe you create a state by
making declarations. I believe you create a state by bringing together the two
relevant parties - Israel and Palestine, and hammering out an agreement. Britain
is doing everything it can to put the pressure on. The problem is, we can't want
this more than they want it, and the frustration I have is that it's so clearly
in Israel's interest to reach an agreement and we need to persuade them of
that."

Riven Vincent, mother who put her disabled daughter (left) into care

Dave, why couldn't you do that one thing, to ensure disabled children have the
nappies and incontinence products they need? You made a promise, we are still
waiting.

"Some local authorities put a limit on the number of incontinence nappies for
disabled children and I know from my own personal experience that there are
times that that's not enough, and if you're facing financial difficulties that's
a real problem. I went to Riven's house. I spent time talking to her and we went
back and checked the health advice, and I think made some changes to it. I'll
double-check. In the end, you can't order local authorities what to do, but I
think we did change the advice they get from the department of health."

Kirsty Wark, broadcaster

What piece of art has had the most impact on you, and why?

"Picasso's Guernica is one of my favourites. It's one of those pictures you can
look at for ages and still find new things in it. A picture that says so much
about the nature of conflict and the nature of suffering is very, very
powerful."

Jonathan Freedland, Guardian columnist

Now you know the pressures of the job, and how hard it is, do you have sympathy
for Gordon Brown and think perhaps you were too harsh in your treatment of him?

"I think in prime minister's questions and in political discourse we can
sometimes get very rough and tough in the House of Commons. I don't ever feel I
was tougher on Gordon Brown than he was on me. But I recognise that as prime
minister he tried hard to do the right thing, as he saw it. And not everything
he did was wrong."

Angela Eagle, Labour MP whom Cameron told to 'Calm down, dear'

Your cuts hit women harder than any other group. What's your problem with women?

"It's absolutely true that, when you face a big budget deficit and great debts
and all that Angela Eagle's party left us, you have to take some difficult
decisions. But I don't accept this characterisation. Labour wants to make a
series of political points about cuts and women because they see it to their
political advantage."

Nicky Campbell, broadcaster

Will you consider sending your son to Eton?

"I've always said I'd like my children to go through the state system. But I'll
always do the right thing for them."

Julian Fellowes, Downton Abbey writer

Soon after the election last year, the coalition was memorably portrayed as the
cast of Downturn Abbey on the cover of Private Eye. Supporters of both parties
were accusing the other of setting the government's agenda. Do you feel you have
now achieved a more comfortable balance of power with Mr Clegg, that will allow
you to govern without alienating your own electorate?

"Notice Julian's brilliant ability to promote his great series, even in a
question to me. I've never accepted the coalition government has acted against
the interest of Conservative supporters. Most recognise going into coalition was
the right thing, given we didn't win the election."

Rio Ferdinand, footballer

Will the government start providing more facilities and staff for children, such
as sports clubs, youth clubs and invest more into apprenticeship schemes?

"Yes, we are investing record amounts in apprenticeship schemes, £360,000 a
year. And I'm pleased to say that, because we're returning the lottery to its
original good causes, including sport, there will be an extra £135m that will
mean more sports facilities."

Alastair Campbell, Labour spin doctor

You fought an election with the fallout from the economic crisis still dominant,
people worried about jobs and living standards, MPs expenses having done
considerable damage to Labour, Time For A Change as a powerful force, Gordon
Brown getting battered daily to take his ratings even lower, with your party's
finances in great shape while Labour was close to being bust, a hugely
supportive media promoting the image of you as a new leader of a changed or at
least changing Tory Party. . . why on earth didn't you manage to win a majority?

"Well, there's clearly something eating Alastair Campbell. How did I upset him
so much? Look, I'm responsible for the election campaign and I take full
responsibility for the result. We had a massive mountain to climb. We didn't
quite make it over the line. I think that at a time of economic difficulty,
people were nervous of change. And we were quite frank that we'd have to make
spending reductions and I think that probably held us back."

Jeremy Paxman, broadcaster

After what he said and did on student fees, can you see any reason for the voter
believing a word of Nick Clegg's next manifesto?

"My job is not to promote Nick Clegg's next manifesto. As someone to work with
in government, we have a good relationship, and I believe we're getting things
done for the good of the country. Sorry, that's a bit boring, I'm afraid, but
when you do a Jeremy Paxman interview that's the only way through it."

Jacqui Smith, former Labour home secretary

What is the most serious security threat that we currently face?

"Al-Qaida. I think they've been damaged very badly in Afghanistan and Pakistan,
but clearly they still have evil intent and evil people to carry out that
intent. And Britain has to be on a high state of alert, not least because of the
Oympics."

Tony Benn, former Labour minister

Under what circumstances, and against whom, would you be prepared to use British
nuclear weapons?

"As Tony Benn well knows, the point of having nuclear weapons is to deter people
and not to use them, and I'm afraid it's just one of the many subjects where he
is splendid to read but splendidly wrong."

Simon Hattenstone, Guardian interviewer

How did your parents react when you were grounded at Eton for smoking cannabis?

"Good try."

Jonathan Ross, broadcaster

Will you or your cabinet be the first to see sense and do something about the
expensive, time-consuming and ultimately pointless "war" on drugs. Time to
legalise some and legislate others, surely?

"I don't believe in legalisation. If you legalise, you make more available; and
if you make more available, you build up a larger problem."

Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty

The late Tom (Lord) Bingham is often described as the greatest Briton of his
lifetime. He famously said of the fundamental freedoms in the Human Rights Act:
"Which of these rights, I ask, would we wish to discard? Are any of them
trivial, superfluous, unnecessary? Are any of them un-British?" As a critic of
both "unelected judges" and the Human Rights Act, how do you answer Bingham's
question?

"By saying that of course the freedoms originally written down in the European
convention on human rights are things that we'd all want to support. The problem
is that the Human Rights Act, in my view, (has been) incorporated into British
law in such a way that it's given the courts an ability to come up with a lot of
very odd and perverse judgments. What's required is to write a British bill of
rights so we can have it set out in our own law, in our own way, so that we
don't have strange decisions handed down by Strasbourg."

TNigel Farage, leader of the Ukip party

Why do you refuse to give the British people a referendum on the EU, despite
your earlier cast-iron guarantee?

"I made a policy of having a referendum on the Lisbon treaty, and if the Lisbon
treaty had been still extant at the time of government, we would have had a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty. I don't believe Britain should leave the
European Union, but I do believe there are powers we can retrieve from Europe to
have a better balance."

TKumi Naidoo, executive director of Greenpeace

Prime Minister, you famously visited the Arctic and saw for yourself the impacts
of climate change. Indeed, the warming is now so rapid that the North Pole could
soon be ice-free in the summer. As the ice retreats due to rising temperatures,
the oil companies are moving in to drill. As someone who has associated himself
with the fight to protect the Arctic, do you support or oppose deep water oil
drilling in the Arctic?

"The Arctic issue is a matter for those countries directly concerned. For
Britain, we have a strict and tough licensing scheme for oil drilling. I think
it's important we maintain our energy independence. And that means continuing to
invest in the North Sea. And that does mean looking at some quite deep water
drilling, but only under this very strict regulatory regime that has so far been
admired in other parts of the world." (Guardian: But he wants your answer in the
Arctic.) "But we don't own any of the Arctic." (Guardian: But you can have an
opinion on it.) "I think it matters much more what you actually do in your own
bailiwick."

TTracey Emin, artist

Dear prime minister, I'm aware that you are a fan of my work, but where do you
think I would be if I hadn't received the amazing art education I had?

"I'm a big fan of art education. My wife went to art school and read fine art at
Bristol poly, and I think still reaps enormous benefit from having such a great
education, so I'm all in favour of us having well-funded art colleges."

TLord Ashdown, Unicef UK president

What will your pitch be - and what do you expect Nick Clegg's to be - when you
both appear before the TV cameras in the leaders debates before the next
election?

"I hope it will be that we've dealt with extremely difficult economic
circumstances and debts we've inherited, and we've got the country back on the
road to both an economic recovery and, I hope, something of a social recovery,
too." (Guardian: But how is that different from Nick Clegg's pitch?) "Well, I'm
only responsible for my pitch." (Guardian: What do you expect his to be?) "I
expect he'll say, 'I agree with David and think you should all support him.'
(Laughs)"

TSalman Rushdie, novelist

The deep and disproportionately large cuts in the teaching budgets of the arts
and humanities departments of British universities have been described by many
commentators as evidence of this government's philistinism. Are you not
concerned that you are crippling university education in the United Kingdom?

"I completely disagree. What we're doing is making sure that universities will
be property funded. What's going to happen is the success of universities and
different courses will depend on the choices that students make. Once students
are paying the bills, they will be keener on really good courses, really good
lecturers, really good materials. So universities will have to respond to that
demand and we'll see a strengthening of our university sector."

TKatharine Whitehorn, journalist

Do you think the catastrophic situation at Southern Cross old people's care home
company, and the abuse at Bristol's private home for young handicapped people
will shake your party's rooted conviction that private and profit-driven
provision of service must always be better than public provision?

"I don't believe private provision is always better. There are brilliant
examples of state provision, voluntary provision and private provision. As
Chairman Mao once said, what matters is not whether a cat is black or white but
whether it catches mice. Or was it him? Either way, it was a great quote." (It
was Deng Xiaoping.)

TAlexis Petridis, Guardian music critic

You said the Jam's song Eton Rifles was important to you when you were at Eton.
Paul Weller, who wrote the song, was pretty incredulous to hear this, and
claimed you couldn't have understood the lyrics. What did you think that song
was about at the time? Be honest.

"I went to Eton in 1979, which was the time when the Jam, the Clash, the Sex
Pistols were producing some amazing music and everyone liked the song because of
the title. But of course I understood what it was about. It was taking the mick
out of people running around the cadet force. And he was poking a stick at us.
But it was a great song with brilliant lyrics. I've always thought that if you
can only like music if you agree with the political views of the person who
wrote it, well, it'd be rather limiting."

TPeter Kosminsky, film director

The NHS is the most dearly loved of British institutions. You made no reference
to sweeping changes in its structure in your election manifesto. How, in good
faith, can you now seek such changes just weeks after you came to power? Isn't
this exactly the kind of dishonesty and breach of trust with the electorate that
has led to dangerous levels of disillusionment with the political process in
this country?

"I recognise that we had left behind too many of the public and too many of the
professionals on this, which is why we had a pause in the process and listened
to people. The full abolition of the primary care trust is what some people
point to (that wasn't in our manifesto), but I would say that was a fairly
natural evolution. If you're going to put doctors and clinicians in charge of
decision-making and commissioning, then inevitably you have to ask the question,
'What are all these local bureaucracies for?'"

TAlan Rusbridger, editor of the Guardian

David, Do you think that every child in the UK should have the opportunity to
learn a musical instrument, and have you done enough, as prime minister, to make
this opportunity a reality?

"We are spending £82.5m on our new music strategy and we're going to do more to
try and make sure this money gets through where it is needed. I was profoundly
unmusical at school and only managed to play the drums in the school band. I got
about as far as Tie A Yellow Ribbon Round The Old Oak Tree. So I'd like the
opportunity for my children and other children to do better."

TPhilip Pullman, author

Why, when other countries such as France and Germany find no difficulty in
including long-term considerations (the effect on unemployment, the protection
of living city centres, the preservation of the craft base) into questions of
procurement, do we insist on going only for the cheapest option and damn every
other consequence?

"Very good question. We are conducting a review of procurement right now. There
are rules in Europe to stop people just picking the national champion and
forbidding anyone else to apply, and it's very important that we apply those
rules. But there is a case that we over-interpret the rules and as a result
don't make them work for Britain."

TFiona Phillips, TV presenter

Isn't the Big Society just a way to get ordinary people to step in and supply
services for the most vulnerable - essential services that the state should be
providing, but isn't any more because of Conservative party cuts?

"No, I don't accept that for a minute. The fact is that Britain has always had a
big society approach of treasuring and valuing voluntary bodies, charities,
faith groups, churches - all the elements of civic society. My point is, should
we try and do more of that? And the answer to that question is yes."

TToby Young, journalist and free-school founder

Do you keep a diary?

"No, I've never been a diary keeper. I'm too tired to write anything down at the
end of the day."

TBill Bryson, author

A lot of people in positions of responsibility seem to want to cover your
glorious countryside in pylons. Can't you do anything to constrain them?

"There is a very big cost, but there are occasions when it makes sense to bury
(the cables) and, as someone who loves the countryside, if it's possible to bury
more, I'm all for it."

TDavid Blanchflower, economist

There are one million youngsters under the age of 25 currently without a job.
How are you going to prevent them becoming a lost generation?

"As David knows, there is no simple answer. You've got to improve the quality of
education so you don't have children falling out of school at 16 without skills,
you've got to have proper apprenticeships that take people from school into
work, you've got to make sure that there are training programmes to help those
who can't find jobs. Youth unemployment went up in the years of economic growth
as well as recession, so this is a deep underlying problem with the British
economy that we have to solve."

TClare Balding, broadcaster

If you had to swap jobs with one other current world leader, who in turn would
then lead our country, and why?

"That's a difficult one. Who wants to take on the deficit, the debt, the
problems? I often think there are brilliant politicians in other countries, but
if they tried to run each others' countries it'd all go disastrously wrong. So
it doesn't really work, I'm afraid."

TCharlie Brooker, Guardian columnist

According to Private Eye, earlier this year you personally intervened on behalf
of Rebekah Brooks to convince Rupert Murdoch to let her keep her job. Is that
true, and if it isn't, how true isn't it?

"It's not true."

TJarvis Cocker, musician

Re: abstract finance ideas such as derivatives and futures, do you actually
understand how all that stuff works? And if so, can you explain what a
derivative and future are?

"I do. I worked for a company where one of my jobs was actually to present and
explain the company to its investors, so I do have a reasonable understanding of
shares, derivatives and futures and all the rest of it. A future, very simply
put, is when you are effectively buying something in the future. A derivative is
something that is related to an underlying stock or share. Of course, there's
speculation that this is pointless and does not create any wealth or value. We
shouldn't write off all derivatives and futures, because, of course, if you're a
farmer you might want to sell your next crop now at a future price, or you might
want to protect yourself - hedging effectively - against wild fluctuations in
the wheat price, the grain price, the sheep price. So, while the tragedy is that
it's become a sort of great casino that has caused some of the problems we've
had, the original purpose was to try and help give people some stability. There
we are. Not as punchy as Jarvis Cocker on Michael Jackson, but it's the best I
can do. I was there that night, at the Brit awards. I saw him led away. I saw
his bum." *

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2011



CORRECTION: * A feature in which David Cameron answered questions put to him by
public figures described Riven Vincent as "a mother who put her disabled
daughter into care". That is not the case. She gave a warning that she could be
forced to do so because so little support was available (So, prime minister,
what are you ashamed of?, 26 November, page 36, Weekend).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Migrants add 250,000 to population

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 730 words


IMMIGRATION drove up the population by more than a quarter of a million last
year after hitting record levels.

A total of 252,000 more migrants arrived than left in 2010 - the highest figure
ever for a full calendar year, according to the Office for National Statistics.

It was due to a huge fall in the number of people emigrating, with Britons
leaving at their lowest rate for more than a decade.

The world economic crisis was blamed on why fewer people were looking abroad for
work and why fewer Britons were seeking retirement in the sun.

Foreign students also arrived in record numbers, while Eastern European workers
are moving to Britain at three times the rate they did at the height of the
recession. The figures are a headache for David Cameron who has pledged to bring
net migration down to the "tens of thousands".

The Home Office last night insisted it was too early to see the impact of
planned measures to cut numbers and that more up-to-date provisional estimates
suggested the trend was reversing.

However, some of the main drivers behind the figures are beyond the Government's
control, such as emigration and the flow of EU citizens.

Matt Cavanagh, associate director at the think tank IPPR, said: "Today's figures
remind us that it was a mistake for the Conservatives to choose 'net
immigration' for their overall political target.

"The figures confirm that net immigration in 2010 was the highest on record. Not
because immigration is rising - as the ONS makes clear, it has been stable since
2004 - but because emigration is falling. The Government cannot control
emigration - just like it cannot control immigration from the EU - so it ends up
trying to clamp down even harder on those areas of immigration it can control."

A total of 591,000 migrants arrived in Britain last year, while 339,000 left,
according to the ONS. Britons made up 136,000 of those leaving, the lowest level
since 1998.

The number of people emigrating who are of retirement age has also fallen
significantly, from 21,000 in 2005 to 6,000 last year, including a fall in
retiring Britons from 16,000 to 4,000 over the period.

Related figures showed the number of people leaving for work purposes in the
year up to March was 174,000, the lowest level in five years.

Fewer people are choosing to emigrate to previously popular destinations such as
France, Spain and Australia. The trend reinforces claims that fewer Britons are
retiring to southern Europe because the exchange rate with the euro is so low,
while fewer people are looking for work overseas because of the dire global
economic conditions.

In a further blow for ministers, a record 238,000 long-term students arrived
last year, and the net inflow of Eastern European workers - from Poland and
other countries which joined the EU in 2004 - has trebled from 16,000 in 2008 to
49,000 last year.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of the pressure group Migration Watch UK, said: "At
over a quarter of a million in 2010, net migration was the highest it has ever
been. It was more than five times the level of 1997, when Labour came to power.
It is absolutely vital to get this down to less than 40,000 if we are to keep
our population below 70 million."

Gerard Batten MEP, the UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman, said: "The
Government has to own up. It hasn't a clue how to deal with the problem, and it
has to be honest that whilst our migration and asylum rules are set in Brussels
it will never have the power to control it." The net migration figure was the
highest for a calendar year although the level for the 12 months to September
2010 was higher at 255,000.

The Home Office last night leapt on separate, provisional figures that showed
that net migration in the 12 months to March 2011 fell to 245,000.

Damian Green, the immigration minister, said: "The latest net migration figures
are also encouraging, showing a fall since the recent peak in September 2010,
but we are clear there is much more to be done."

Downing Street said Mr Cameron remained committed to reducing immigration from
the hundreds of thousands to the tens of thousands.

Asked whether he thought it could be done, the Prime Minister's official
spokesman said: "Yes, he does, but clearly that process is going to take some
time."

Editorial Comment: Page 33

2006 2010 Australia 49,000 28,000 USA 16,000 13,000 France 20,000 7,000 Spain
27,000 6,000 Canada 6,000 6,000

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     November 25, 2011 Friday 11:49 AM GMT

English Defence League prepares to storm local elections;
English Defence League to enter electoral politics after signing pact with
British Freedom Party

BYLINE: Kevin Rawlinson

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 792 words


The English Defence League plans to field candidates for the first time in local
elections after an alliance is finalised between the far-right group and the
British Freedom Party, which was set up by disgruntled members of the British
National Party.

Senior figures said that the EDL, which has become known for its protests in
English towns with Muslim populations, needed to "detoxify" its name by moving
into politics with an existing party. Their new partners hope to capitalise on
the EDL's ability to mobilise a large number of supporters.

Both groups will retain a measure of independence but will support each other.
EDL members will be invited to join the newly affiliated political wing and
stand as candidates under its name. "There is a gentleman's agreement in place,
we are looking at the EDL becoming political early next year," said Stephen
Yaxley-Lennon, the leader of the far-right group. Mr Yaxley-Lennon, who also
goes by the name Tommy Robinson, confirmed he had met the British Freedom Party
leader Paul Weston and that discussions were at an advanced stage.

Mr Weston confirmed the plans and revealed he would offer Mr Yaxley-Lennon a
place on the party's executive committee. He added: "We are going to say we
support the principles of the EDL. We will get a lot of people who can stand in
local constituencies and they will get a genuine political party in return."

The move is likely to meet with some resistance from those EDL members who want
to see the group remain a "street movement". Mr Yaxley-Lennon acknowledged the
issue, saying he will consult the leaders of the group's local divisions.

Dr Matthew Goodwin, a specialist on far-right politics, thought the move would
receive significant support within the EDL "simply because Mr Yaxley-Lennon is
the main face of the movement". He said: "It's difficult to tell at this point
as the EDL has a very fluid membership structure. It is not the case, for
example, that you ever really join the EDL. There are no official entrance
mechanisms."

Babs Davis, an EDL member, backed the move if the leadership thought it was in
the best interests of the group. "A lot of people have said that we should go
political but the movement never really wanted to do it," she said.

"If that is what Tommy Robinson thinks is the right thing to do, then I agree
with him. I think he has done a brilliant job. The whole point of being in the
EDL is to follow what the leadership says."

Dr Goodwin, who is a professor at the University of Nottingham, said: "Since the
widespread defeat for the BNP in last year's general election, the far
right-wing landscape of British politics has seen the emergence of several small
political parties and movements, all attempting to fill the gaps left by Nick
Griffin's party and exploit wider public concerns about immigration."

He said at least 45 per cent of voters refused to back any of the main parties
on immigration, leaving "clear potential" for a far-right group.

Dr Goodwin added: "Having passed through its embryonic stage, the EDL is now
very much at a crossroads: it can either remain as a confrontational
streets-based social movement, or it can attempt to transform itself into a
radical right-wing political party. This shift will require members and money.

"It has also developed links with far more successful radical right parties in
other European states, that may pass on successful strategies and tips."

Allies on the right: The leaders

Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, aka Tommy Robinson

The former BNP member is the founder and leader of the EDL. He has recently
forged a strong relationship with British Freedom Party leader Paul Weston.

He is known for wearing a St George's Cross mask when making public appearances
and was one of two EDL members who protested on the roof of FIFA's Zurich
offices about the attempt by world football's governing body to ban England
players from wearing poppies during a recent match. Earlier this month he
received a 12-week sentence for assault, suspended for a year, at Preston
magistrates' court.

Paul Weston

A former electoral candidate for UKIP, Mr Weston is described by Mr
Yaxley-Lennon as a "charismatic public-schoolboy type".

He took over the chairmanship of the British Freedom Party two weeks ago. Like
many of the party's founders, he is said to be an experienced political
campaigner. He is thought to want to keep his party free from the "historical
baggage associated with parties such as the BNP".

The EDL by numbers

2,000 The number of people thought to have attended an EDL march in Blackburn,
at which leader Tommy Robinson head-butted a fellow member.

26,000 The number of people who "Like" the EDL on Facebook.

172 The number of EDL members arrested at the group's last march, on Whitehall
in London.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

New In Brief

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 159 words


Tories humiliated in by-election POLITICS: The Tories crashed to a humiliating
defeat in the latest council by-elections, being forced from first to third in
an English stronghold. Liberal Democrat Alex Slater gained on a huge swing at
Hazlemere South, Wycombe District, Buckinghamshire, where Ukip took more than a
third of the votes. Lakenham, Norfolk, was gained by from the Lib Dems by
Labour, which easily held Great Horton in Bradford. Loveday Jenkin of Mebyon
Kernow (the Sons of Cornwall) took Wendron. Chef slams Gove's meal standards
SCHOOLS: Celebrity chef Jamie Oliver attacked Education Secretary Michael Gove
today for "eroding" school meal standards. Mr Oliver raised concerns that
semi-private academy schools are not obliged to follow food standards introduced
under Labour. He accused the Tories of "cleverly" eroding the standards by
letting academies opt out and putting the burden on head teachers to become
"entrepreneurial caterers."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday

EURO FACES OBLIVION AS SHARES HIT LONGEST LOSING STREAK IN YEARS

BYLINE: BY HUGO DUNCAN ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 831 words


THE stock market last night clocked up its longest losing streak for nearly nine
years as the eurozone debt crisis threatened to engulf France and Germany.

As share prices tumbled for the eighth day in succession in London, European
Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso said the single currency was on the
brink of collapse.

'Without stronger economic governance in the eurozone it will be difficult if
not impossible to sustain the common currency,' he said.

The apocalyptic warning Z unusually stark for a top official in Brussels Z
fuelled fears that the region is on the verge of meltdown.

The FTSE 100 index fell 67.04 points or 1.29 per cent to 5139.78 Z wiping
617.3billion off the value of Britain's leading companies. The blue chip index
has lost 405 points, or 6105billion, over the past eight days of trading in its
longest losing streak since January 2003.

City commentator David Buik, of BGC Partners, blamed 'political inertia and
wholesale incompetence' by EU leaders.

He said there was 'an acrid stench of fear' in City trading rooms as the
eurozone lurched from one crisis to the next.

Shares in Paris and Frankfurt were down around 1.5 per cent and the euro fell
more than 1 per cent against the dollar to a six-week low of $1.335. It was down
half a per cent against the pound at 86p.

The latest rout came after Germany was rocked by a 'disastrous' government
fund-raising effort and France was warned its coveted AAA credit rating was at
risk.

Analysts said the strain in Berlin and Paris was a sign the debt crisis was
spreading to the heart of the eurozone.

Kathleen Brooks, researcher at currency trader Forex.com in London, said: 'The
sovereign debt crisis may have had its most critical day yet.'

Meanwhile Mr Barroso said drastic measures were needed to prevent the break-up
of the single currency bloc and a deep recession.

He unveiled a plan for eurobonds Z debt issued by individual governments but
backed by all 17 nations in the euro Z putting him on collision course with
Berlin.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel is vehemently opposed to Mr Barroso's 'stability
bonds' but is under mounting pressure to address the crisis.

Worried investors snubbed Germany as it tried to sell just over 65billion of
bonds Z or IOUs issued by the government to raise funds.

Berlin only managed to sell around 63billion worth in its worst bond auction
since the launch of the euro.

Analysts said it was a dangerous sign that even Germany, the safest investment
in Europe, is losing its appeal.

Mark Otswald, a strategist at Monument Securities, said the failed bond auction
was 'a complete and utter disaster'. And Eurosceptic German MP Frank SchŠffler,
of the Free Democrat Party, the junior party in Angela Merkel's governing
coalition, said it was a wake-up call for the country.

'German bonds are not immune from the crisis but are being drawn into the debt
swamp,' he said.

Ratings agency Fitch added to the gloom with a warning that France faces being
stripped of its AAA credit rating.

And respected economist Nouriel Roubini, the New York professor nicknamed Dr
Doom after he predicted the banking crash, said there was 'at least' a 50 per
cent chance the eurozone will break up within three years.

'It is a slow-motion train wreck,' he said.

WE'RE PAYING 650M A DAY TO THE EU

BRITAIN'S contributions to the European Union have topped 650million a day for
the first time, figures revealed last night.

The UK's contributions to Brussels rose by 5.7 per cent last year to a record
618.5billion Z double the Home Office budget.

At the same time, the money received back from the EU fell by almost a quarter
to 68.1billion, a fall of 62.6billion in a year, Office for National Statistics
data shows.

The trends meant the UK's net contribution to Brussels rocketed by 54 per cent
to 610.3billion for the last calendar year.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party last night said the figures
would 'rub salt in the wounds' of people pressing for a referendum on Britain's
relationship with the EU. He said: 'The figures speak for themselves. We are
paying more than ever before for our EU membership and are getting less in
return.' The figures are likely to strengthen the hand of Tory Eurosceptics and
are potentially embarrassing for David Cameron, who has just agreed a two per
cent budget increase for the European Commission next year, which will cost
taxpayers an extra 6300million.

Britain's gross contributions increased partly because of the decline in the
value of the pound against the euro.

The dramatic fall in receipts results mainly from a controversial deal struck by
Tony Blair to hand back part of the annual rebate secured by Margaret Thatcher
in 1984. Under the terms of the 1984 deal Britain is repaid two thirds of the
difference between what it pays out to Brussels and what it receives back.

But under Mr Blair's deal the formula no longer applies to billions of pounds of
the EU budget used to fund regeneration projects in poorer member states such as
Greece.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Britain paying £50m every day to Brussels;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words


Britain's daily contribution to the European Union has passed £50million, the UK
Independence Party (Ukip) claimed last night.

Analysis of figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) showed the
UK's gross contribution rising to £18.4billion in 2010, or £51million a day, the
party said. Receipts from the EU fell to £8.1billion, meaning Britain's net
contribution increased to £28million a day.

Ukip based its calculations on the ONS's Pink Book, a summary of the UK's
balance of payments accounts. The party said the figures were more comprehensive
than those published by the Treasury. Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, said: "We are
paying more than ever for our EU membership and are getting less in return."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FURY OVER BRITAIN'S £50M A DAY THE EU BILL;
Outrage at rise in cash poured into EU coffers

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 676 words


BRITAIN poured a colossal £18.5billion into EU coffers last year - the
equivalent of more than £50million a day.

The staggering figures - £730 for every British household over the 12 months -
were revealed yesterday in the Government's annual accounts.

They show that the UK's gross contributions to the European Union juggernaut of
excess climbed by 5.7 per cent between 2009 and 2010.

The astonishing revelation, which will infuriate millions of hard-pressed
taxpayers, comes a year after the Daily Express launched its crusade to get
Britain out of the EU altogether. The accounts also reveal that gross receipts -
payments from Brussels to Britain - shrank thanks to Tony Blair's surrender of
the UK's rebate from the EU.

It means Britain's net contribution to the EU soared from £6.6billion in 2009 to
£10.3billion in 2010. That was the figure that the Office for Budget
Responsibility last year estimated as the annual cost of EU membership for 2014.

Ukip, who unearthed the details of the EU contributions, MPs and campaign groups
reacted with fury last night.

Leader of Ukip, Nigel Farage, said: "We are paying more than ever before for our
EU membership and are getting less in return. This news is a kick in the teeth
for the British people who are tightening their belts in these tough times.

"David Cameron has ignored the will of the people by denying them a referendum
on the UK's membership of the EU, and now these figures will just rub salt in
the wounds. How can the Prime Minister still say it is within our interests to
remain in the EU?" Robert Oxley, campaign manager of the TaxPayers' Alliance
said: "Taxpayers will be incensed at the relentless increase in the money we
hand to the EU on a daily basis.

"European regulations and red tape are strangling British enterprise while
Eurocrats splurge our cash and pursue policies that harm the economic recovery.

It's time the Government reversed the trend of increasing amounts going to
Brussels and let voters choose what our relationship with the EU should be."

The new figures, showing the Office for Budget Responsibility grossly
underestimated the ballooning cost of EU membership, are contained in the
Treasury's Pink Book 2011.

document is a summary of the balance of payments for the UK.

It includes details on trade in goods and services, income, current and capital
transfers, transactions in UK external assets and liabilities, and levels of
identified assets and liabilities.

According to the Pink Book, the current account shows that in 2010 the UK gross
contribution to the EU hit a new record of £18.46billion - around £51million a
day. This was a jump from £17.44billion the previous year and £16.4billion in
2008. Gross receipts from Brussels plunged from £9.7billion in 2008 to
£8.1billion last year, making Britain's net contribution £10.3billion.

In the past year the UK has also stumped up £12.5billion to help rescue Greece,
Ireland and Portugal with bail-outs. As more economic disasters loom in the
eurozone, the financial noose on Britain from Europe could tighten even further.

The Treasury declined to comment last night. The Daily Express has led a
relentless crusade urging the UK to cut ties with Brussels. Our battle, launched
last November and including an unprecedented 24-page pull-out edition in
January, has been backed by hundreds of thousands of readers.

We were deluged with over-flowing mailbags packed with coupons calling on the
Government to launch an orderly withdrawal from the EU.

Support hit the six-figure mark within days of the campaign launch. The response
made it one of the fastest-growing campaigns in newspaper history.

At the end of January we delivered a 373,000-signature petition to Downing
Street.

And last month we forced a historic vote on a European referendum in the House
of Commons.

A new Ipsos Mori poll revealed last night that more than half the public (55 per
cent) believe Britain should not lend money to another country, even if that
nation is on the verge of bankruptcy, because the UK should concentrate on
sorting out its own problems.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage condemned the EU cost

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 24, 2011
                                 First Edition

@i YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 528 words


Paid but not earned

Perhaps news media such as yourselves could distinguish between what someone is
"paid" and what they "earn" - that is, deserve.

Company directors may acquire extraordinary levels of remuneration but they
clearly don't earn, labour for or deserve these exorbitant payments, determined
not by true market forces, but by tame in-house salary committees.

BRIAN STRAND

AYLESBURY

The duties of schools Dr Helen Wright asks: "Why should our [private school]
parents prop up the state system and so effectively pay twice?" (Report, 22
November.)

Well, Dr Wright, they already pay twice, once via their taxes (which pay for the
state system) and they pay for private tuition by choice.

Private schools cannot exist in isolation from the rest of the community. There
should be some social responsibility for these schools to "pass on" some of
their expertise to those in less fortunate situations. "Quietly working to help
state schools in our area" does not quite cut the mustard.

ALISTAIR MOORE

TAMWORTH

No-can-do woman

Deborah Ross made me laugh out loud at her inspired column of 22 November titled
"Not OK! The magazine for no-cando women". It's being cut out and put on the
fridge door. I have one question though - how do I subscribe?

SHARON ATKINSON

TAUNTON, SOMERSET

Privacy for celebrities

If you stagger out of a club with someone other than your partner on your arm
and it is filmed on CCTV (letter, 23 November) it won't end up splashed all over
the tabloids or glossies for your current partner to find out about.

Maybe being a singer or actor means you are deprived of that right. Maybe all
celebrities should have a publicity opt-in like lottery winners, because being a
celebrity doesn't stop you from making the same mistakes as Joe Public.

DAN NUGENT

RICHMOND UPON THAMES

Neutrinos through rocks

It makes me wonder what people think scientists do all day when people write in
with unresearched comments about neutrinos (letter, 23 November).

Neutrinos won't be affected by the density of rock as they are so small that
they can just travel through almost completely unopposed. Should they hit
another particle with some mass (perhaps an electron or a neutron) on the way
through they wouldn't get to Gran Sasso at all.

DAVE CASSAR

GUILDFORD

Shouting at the telly

So, Adrian Edmondson shouts at BBC Breakfast's Bill Turnbull's annoying "tedious
jollity and badly made suit" (Caught & Social, 22 November).

Interesting that "Ade" says nothing of Bill's sidekick, Sian Williams, who
surely gives Bill a run for his money in the tedious jollity department. And
Sian beats him hands down when it comes to her much more annoying, affected,
simpering delivery.

But then, as is so often the case, Bill Turnbull represents the safe, easy
target, being a white, male, middle-class presenter.

DAVID HALLAS

BATLEY, YORKSHIRE

At last, we are in agreement

Having previously taken issue with Amol Rajan over the subject of Ukip, I now
find myself in total agreement with him regarding "mindless bureaucracy" and the
Nanny State (22 November). His provocative prose certainly elicits a response
and is another compelling reason to subscribe to i.

TOBIAS CASE

MORE COMMENT on independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 24, 2011 Thursday 6:50 PM GMT

Record immigration expands population by quarter of a million;
Immigration drove up the population by more than a quarter of a million last
year after hitting record levels.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Home Affairs Editor

LENGTH: 690 words


A total of 252,000 more migrants arrived in the UK than left in 2010 - the
highest figure ever for a full calendar year.

It was due to a huge fall in the number of people emigrating, especially Britons
who left at their lowest rate for more than a decade.

The world economic crisis was blamed for fewer people looking abroad for work
and fewer Britons looking for a retirement in the sun.

Foreign students also arrived in the UK in record numbers while Eastern European
workers are moving back to the UK at three times the rate they did at the height
of the recession.

The figures are a major headache for David Cameron who has pledged to bring net
migration down to the "tens of thousands".

The Home Office last night insisted it was till too early to see the impact of
planned measure to cut numbers and that more up to date provisional estimates
suggest the trend is reversing.

However, some of the main drivers behind the figures are beyond the Government's
control, such as emigration and the flow of EU citizens.

Matt Cavanagh, associate director at the think thank IPPR, said: "Today's
figures remind us that it was a mistake for the Conservatives to choose "net
immigration" for their overall political target.

"The figures confirm that net immigration in 2010 was the highest on record. Not
because immigration is rising - as the ONS make clear, it has been stable since
2004 - but because emigration is falling.

"The government cannot control emigration - just like it cannot control
immigration from the EU - so it ends up trying to clamp down even harder on
those areas of immigration it can control."

A total of 591,000 migrants arrived in the UK during 2010 while 339,000 left,
according to the Office for National Statistics.

Britons made up 136,000 of those leaving, the lowest level since 1998. The
number of people emigrating who are of retirement age has also fallen
dramatically from 21,000 in 2005 to 6,000 last year, including a fall in
retiring Britons from 16,000 to 4,000 over the period

Related figures showed the number of people leaving for work purposes in the
year up to March 2011 was 174,000, the lowest level in five years.

Previously popular emigration destinations such as France, Spain and Australia
have all seen falls.

The trend reinforces claims that fewer Britons are retiring to southern Europe
because the exchange rate with the euro is so low while fewer people are looking
for work overseas because of the dire global economic conditions.

In a further blow for ministers, a record 238,000 long term students arrived
last year.

And the net inflow of Eastern Europeans workers from Poland and other countries
who joined the EU in 2004 has trebled from 16,000 in 2008 to 49,000 last year.

Sir Andrew Green, the chairman of pressure group Migration Watch UK, said: "At
over a quarter of a million in 2010, net migration was the highest it has ever
been. It was more than five times the level of 1997, when Labour came to power.

"It is absolutely vital to get this down to less than 40,000 if we are to keep
our population below 70 million."

UK Independence Party home affairs spokesman Gerard Batten MEP said: "The
Government has to own up. It hasn't a clue how to deal with the problem, and it
has to be honest that whilst our migration and asylum rules are set in Brussels
it will never have the power to control it."

The net migration figure was the highest for a calendar year although the level
for the 12 months to September 2010 was higher at 255,000.

The Home Office last night leapt on separate, provisional figures that showed
net migration in the 12 months to March this year showed a fall to 245,000.

Damian Green, the immigration minister, said: "The latest net migration figures
are also encouraging, showing a fall since the recent peak in September 2010,
but we are clear there is much more to be done."

Downing Street said Prime Minister David Cameron remained committed to reducing
immigration from the hundreds of thousands to the tens of thousands.

Asked whether he thought it could be done, Mr Cameron's official spokesman said:
"Yes, he does, but clearly that process is going to take some time."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 24, 2011 Thursday 12:46 AM GMT

EU costs Britain £50m a day, Ukip claims;
Britain's daily contribution to the European Union has passed £50 million, the
UK Independence Party (Ukip) claimed.

BYLINE: By Andy Bloxham

LENGTH: 186 words


Analysis of figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) showed the
UK's gross contribution rising to £18.4 billion in 2010, or £51 million a day,
the party said.

At the same time, receipts from the EU fell to £8.1 billion, meaning that
Britain's net contribution increased from £6.7 billion to £10.3 billion, or £28
million a day.

Ukip based its calculations on the ONS's Pink Book, which was published today
and is a summary of the UK's balance of payments accounts.

The party said the figures were more comprehensive and therefore higher than
those published by the Treasury.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said: "The figures speak for themselves. We are
paying more than ever before for our EU membership and are getting less in
return.

"This news is a kick in the teeth for the British people who are tightening
their belts in these tough times.

"David Cameron has ignored the will of the people by denying them a referendum
on the UK's membership of the EU, and now these figures will just rub salt in
the wounds.

"How can the Prime Minister still say it is within our interests to remain in
the EU?"

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A year in and our EU crusade is on course for victory

BYLINE: Patrick O'Flynn

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 875 words


.... .....

DOWN the ages it has been the role of this newspaper to take a stand against
flawed conventional wisdom on key issues of public importance. Most famously,
under our proprietor of the time Lord Beaverbrook, the Daily Express stood
alongside Winston Churchill against the appeasement of Hitler.

A decade ago we took a stand against uncontrolled immigration - and found
ourselves condemned for our front page coverage by fashionable media outlets
such as the BBC's Newsnight programme. But we were proved right again and now
all the main political parties admit that immigration ran out of control with
damaging consequences for Britain.

More recently still we took Gordon Brown to task over his punitive inheritance
tax regime and changed the course of politics again as the Conservatives took up
the cause and used it to ward off an early election they were on course to lose.

It is a year ago this week that the Daily Express began its greatest crusade
since Beaverbrook's era. Seeing the extent of the subjugation visited upon
Britain by the European Union, its escalating cost and chaos, we declared that
the nation would be better off out and pledged to fight for a referendum to
achieve that end.

Once more this decision placed us outside the scope of the fashionable opinion
of the metropolitan elite - an elite which sought to depict our stance as
extreme, foolish or a mixture of the two. In fact it was neither. We thought
long and hard before endorsing what we knew would be the biggest shift in
Britain's international relations for many decades.

BUT looking back over the first 12 months of what we always predicted would be a
long haul, it can be seen that enormous progress has been made.

Suddenly some of those fashionable commentators have begun to shift towards our
position - many of them now admit it is no longer unthinkable that Britain could
leave the EU within the next few years.

Other newspapers of a Conservative persuasion have followed, rather sheepishly
and tentatively, in our path, allowing columnists to argue for withdrawal but
failing to come off the fence themselves. For now the Daily Express remains the
only national newspaper to openly campaign for EU withdrawal.

I do not believe that will be the case in another year's time and of course we
shall welcome more shoulders to the wheel when they arrive.

But in the absence of braveheart allies it must be a case of "very well, alone",
as someone observed of Churchill in 1940.

We may be alone in the media gamut but in the realm of public opinion we are, to
coin a phrase, for the many not the few. Our magnificent army of readers has
responded in their hundreds of thousands to our crusade. At the end of January
we submitted 373,000 coupons to 10 Downing Street, with tens of thousands more
following online over the summer.

At the start of 2011 we also produced a special edition of the Daily Express
covering all aspects of the case for leaving the EU. This autumn we held a
special fringe meeting at the Conservative Party conference that drew a packed
house and it was my honour to address the annual conference of Ukip.

Where Daily Express readers have led, the rest of public opinion has followed
with poll after poll showing those favouring departure from the EU far
outnumbering those who wish to stay under its yoke.

All this pressure on the tectonic plates led to a political earthquake a month
ago. A Commons debate secured as a result of our crusade led to one of the
biggest ever Conservative rebellions, with 81 Tory MPs defying a three-line whip
to vote for an EU referendum.

Over the course of the past year every criticism we levelled against the EU has
been justi-fied and magnified.

Britain's financial contribution has escalated and we have been dragged into
bailouts of eurozone countries such as Ireland and Portugal. The European
elite's contempt for democracy has been demonstrated in ever-starker terms,
culminating in the toppling of elected regimes in Greece and Italy. Its
determination to reach the destination of a United States of Europe has also
never been more clear - with its answer to the eurozone crisis being the
obliteration of national democratic control over economic policy.

While David Cameron has declared he does not want an EU referendum because he
does not wish Britain to leave the EU (a position that does not speak highly of
his confi-dence in his case for membership) those who hope to succeed him must
address the new political realities.

NO WONDER Chancellor George Osborne and London Mayor Boris Johnson are now
competing to appear the most Eurosceptic. Even in Labour circles there is an
acceptance that rolling over to the demands of Brussels is not a winning
formula.

With the rest of the EU seeking to target the City of London with a financial
transactions tax - potentially costing British savers and investors billions a
year - it has never been more obvious that this country is better off out of an
EU that has become an over-regulated economic twilight zone.

We are much further along the path than we could have expected a year ago. With
your backing we will be taking our crusade to new heights in the months ahead.
We demand our country back and we are going to get it.

'We have caused a political earthquake'

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FREEDOM: Last November the Daily Express began a crusade to leave the
EU
Picture: PAUL THOMAS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Eurozone crisis: 'Worst ever' German debt auction hits markets - 23 November
2011

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 4832 words

ABSTRACT

More than (EURO)2bn of German bonds were left unsold, in the worst debt auction
that City analysts can remember

FULL TEXT

6.42pm: Time to wrap things up.

Here's an evening summary (an enhanced version of the lunchtime one)

[#xfffd] Germany has suffered probably its worst bond auction ever. Over a third
of Bunds went unsold in an auction of (EURO)6bn of 10-year debt. Analysts fear
that the 'extremely poor' sale means Germany is being dragged into the crisis.
One German politician said the country was being 'drawn into the debt
swamp'[#xfffd] EC president Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso has warned that the
eurozone will probably not survive unless economic governance is improved.The
warning came as Barroso unveiled plans for eurobonds, and tighter controls on
the budgets of member states.[#xfffd] Germany still appears opposed to
eurobonds. Angela Merkel said this morning that joint borrowing was not the
solution to the crisis.[#xfffd] Fitch has warned that France's AAA rating is at
risk. Any further escalation of the crisis would put too great a strain on its
public finances[#xfffd] Eurozone bonds fell in value, pushing yields up. UK
borrowing costs, though, fell.[#xfffd] The FTSE 100 posted its eighth
consecutive daily drop. Around [#xfffd]104bn has been wiped off the value of
Britain's biggest listed companies since the start of last week.

Until tomorrow....thanks for reading, and for the comments (you can keep
debating below the line). Good night!

6.33pm: I reported earlier that UK bond yields have dropped today (meaning
Britain's borrowing costs have come down), while Germany's bond yields have
risen sharply - but that German yields were still lower.

Not according to the Conservative Party press team, which just tweeted:

@ToryPressHQ Breaking: UK Govt Bond rates go BELOW German ones. UK pays c.50%
LESS than at election. #safehaven bloom.bg/bLYQ9obloom.bg/aIhxd5

Those links go to pages on Bloomberg's website which track the value (and thus
the yield) of German and UK 10-year government debt. They do show that German
borrowing costs are how higher...

...however the data on our Reuters machine differs. That data (supplied by
Tradeweb) has the UK 10-year yield at 2.132% and the German equivalent at
2.074%. So they're getting close, but not there yet.

This image, from data taken this afternoon (when the gap was wider - 0.17
percentage points, not 0.058 at pixel time), shows the gap between the two
yields over recent months.

Most media outlets use the Reuters/Tradeweb date -- but I wouldn't say that this
means the Bloomberg data is wrong. With the 'bid' and 'ask' spreads on
peripheral debt widening, there is quite a lot of confusion.

Update: My colleague Nils Pratley has written about rising yields across the
eurozone, in a piece called Eurozone crisis: two charts that will frighten
Angela Merkel

6.04pm: What's the next stage in the eurozone crisis? More meetings.

Tomorrow, the leaders of the eurozone's three largest economies will gather in
Strasbourg. President Nicolas Sarkozy, chancellor Angela Merkel and Mario Monti,
Italy's new prime minister, are expected to discuss ways of calming the
financiial markets.

AFP points out, though, that while French prime minister Francois Fillon has
dubbed the meeting "very important", Monti has played down the event, calling it
"a very informal working visit" with "no agenda".

My colleague David Gow points out that another event had been scheduled -- a
meeting of the eurozone on 8 December, a day before the wider European Union
meets in Brussels on 9 December. David comments that:

Cameron will be chuffed; he'll be asked to sign up to decisions over which he
has no control...

5.32pm: Most European stock markets also fell today. The Italian FTSE MIB the
worst performer (down 2.4%), while the Spanish Ibex fell 1.8%.

As in London, banking shares suffered -- Belgium lender KBC plunged by nearly
9%.

This follows reports that European banks are seeing their funding sources drying
up. As the Economist put it this afternoon: "One can almost hear the gates
clanging". It continues:

Billions of euros are flooding out of Europe's banking system through bond and
money markets.

At best, the result may be a credit crunch that leaves businesses unable to get
loans and invest. At worst, some banks may fail-and trigger real bank runs in
countries whose shaky public finances have left them ill equipped to prop up
their financial institutions.

5.17pm: Bank shares were among the fallers in London today, with Royal Bank of
Scotland down 5.8% to 17.3p and Lloyds Banking Group 2.3% lower at 22.8p.

Michael Hewson, market analyst at CMC Markets, said banking shares were down "as
funding concerns continue to rise in Europe".

4.52pm: The London stock market just suffered its eighth day of losses in a row
-- the worst losing streak in nearly nine years, which has wiped over
[#xfffd]100bn off the value of Britain's biggest listed companies.

The blue-chip index closed 67 points lower at 5139.78, a 1.29% decline which
takes it to its lowest level since 6 October.

Some 405 points have been wiped off the FTSE 100 since the close of trading on
11 November, as traders watched the situation in the eurozone unravelling. That,
according to my colleague Nick Fletcher, means that some [#xfffd]104bn of value
has been lost.

Traders said that the steadily unravelling eurozone crisis, and the fears of a
global slowdown, have hit confidence badly.

Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index, said:

The headlines out of Europe continue to be negative and this is forcing many
investors away from investing in anything considered risky, which means stocks.

Raymond said that the weak German debt auction had contributed to today's
selloff:

Naturally the headlines concerning the German bond auction will read disaster or
dreadful and sure enough, it is one of the worst German bond auctions for some
time.

3.52pm: There are some alarming moves in the bond market this afternoon. Here's
a round-up of the various key moves for 10-year bond yields (the effective
interest rate):

Germany: UP 0.132 percentage points to 2.04%France: UP 0.142 percentage points
to 3.68%Belgium: UP 0.404 percentage points at 5.49%Spain: UP 0.033 percentage
points at 6.669%Italy: UP 0.168 percentage points at 7.044%

Even the US10-year Treasury yield is UP 0.007 percentage points at 1.929%

The yield on UK 10-year gilts, though, is DOWN 0.039 percentage points at 2.132%

So the gap between UK and German interest rates has more than halved since this
morning's auction.

3.23pm: German politicians are divided over this morning's bond auction flop.

Norbert Barthle, a senior MP for Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative bloc,
argued that there was nothing surprising in Germany's failure to sell the full
(EURO)6bn-worth of bonds. Barthle told Reuters that:

The situation is not dramatic at all...The fact that the interest rate offered
is around the inflation rate means no profit for investors.

It should be no surprise, because the debt crisis has meant an investor flight
away from sovereign debt

But another MP, the eurosceptic Frank Sch[#xfffd]ffler of the Free Democratic
Party (the junior partner in Merkel's coalition), believes the auction result is
extremely serious. Sch[#xfffd]ffler said:

German bonds are not immune from the crisis but are being drawn into the debt
swamp...If this doesn't wake up the country to the current risks then I'll be
very surprised.

Sch[#xfffd]ffler, incidentally, has been a leading opponent of eurobonds --
threatening to quit Merkel's government if she were to back them.

2.55pm: News of Germany's failed debt auction has not been well-received on Wall
Street, where the Dow Jones index has fallen by 138 points, or 1.2%.

That is despite consumer confidence hitting its highest level since June -- data
that was counterbalanced by weaker-than-expected data for US personal spending
and durable goods orders

2.20pm: Yanis Varoufakis, professor of Economics at Athens University, says that
Barroso's proposals for eurobonds have one flawing flaw -- they require "treaty
changes that will never come on stream before the eurozone has collapsed".

Varoufakis continues:

They insist on the notion of eurobonds backed by member-states (jointly and
severally guaranteed by national treasuries); a notion that is not only in
contravention of the Lisbon Treaty but also financially problematic as the
interest rates these bonds will incur will be some weighted average of Germany
and the periphery (rates, that is, which are too high for Germany and not low
enough for the periphery).

Varoufakis is also concerned that today's announcement could be part of "a game
of chess" between the Commission and the governments of Berlin and Paris, with
the EC upset that it's been sidelined during the crisis. If so...

The Green Book's eurobond proposals will be blasted out of the water by a German
government determined to take matters in its own hands.

1.50pm: Time for a lunchtime (ish) round-up of events so far.

[#xfffd] Germany has suffered probably its worst bond auction ever. Over a third
of Bunds went unsold in an auction of (EURO)6bn of 10-year debt. Analysts fear
that the 'extremely poor' sale means Germany is being dragged into the
crisis.[#xfffd] EC president Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso has warned that the
eurozone will probably not survive unless economic governance is improved.The
warning came as Barroso unveiled plans for eurobonds, and tighter controls on
the budgets of member states.[#xfffd] Germany still appears opposed to
eurobonds. Angela Merkel said this morning that joint borrowing was not the
solution to the crisis.[#xfffd] Fitch has warned that France's AAA rating is at
risk. Any further escalation of the crisis would put too great a strain on its
public finances

1.26pm: While the Barroso/Rehn press conference was taking place, Fitch added to
the sense of drama today by warning that France's credit rating could be cut if
the eurozone crisis gets much worse.

In a report into France's public finances, Fitch warned that France's AAA-status
(which already has an endangered quality about it) would be "at risk" if the
country suffered a sharp economic downturn. This, Fitch warned, would leave
France's deficit well above the official target:

In short, it argued, France no longer has the capacity to absorb any more shocks
- as its current austerity measures probably aren't enough to bring its
borrowing into line.

1.06pm: Dynamite! EC president Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso just told the press
conference that the euro will probably collapse unless his proposals -- or
similar measures to bolster the single currency union -- are accepted.

He said:

Without stronger economic governance in the eurozone it will be difficult if not
impossible to sustain the common currency.

The EC president, who sounds both desperate and exasperated to our ears, is
admitting that the euro is under water -- and appealing to the 17 governments,
especially Berlin, to get their act together and save it...

The euro itself has fallen today, hovering around $1.339 against the dollar.

The press conference finishes, with Barroso delivering a ringing defence of the
ECB's independence and its "non-standard measures" - buying up sovereign bonds
in the secondary market. He says:

We should not expect the ECB to do what our member states, our governments,
should do, they are not in a position to replace the work our governments should
do in terms of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms...

Memo to Berlin: I'm on your side really

1.00pm: One for history buffs -- Olli Rehn promises that eurobonds will not be
introduced under the kind of "secret deal" concocted by Andrew Hamilton and
Thomas Jefferson to set up what are now Treasury bonds.

David Gow explains:

Back in 1790, those early T-bonds offered collective sharing of risk for all
states in the then union - that led to the decision to move the US capital from
New York to a swamp by the Potomac now known as Washington DC....

12.53pm: A journalist asks Barroso how he can propose eurobonds (or 'stability
bonds') when Germany has repeatedly criticised the idea?

Barroso responds that there is "no absolute opposition to the idea of stability
bonds from any country", and that Germany is more concerned about the timing of
their introduction.

Hmmm. "No absolute opposition" isn't quite the same as "absolutely no
opposition". Wasn't it Angela Merkel who said this morning that eurobonds
"wouldn't work"?

12.46pm: Olli Rehn tells journalists that, under the commission's plans, any
decision to ask a eurozone country to seek financial help would be taken in
consulation with other European authorities.

Here's the quote:

The Commission will have the right to propose to the council to recommend that a
member state to request financial assistance. The proposal would be based on the
commission's analysis in line with... the European Central Bank.

12.33pm: My colleague David Gow is watching the press conference, and reckons
that Merkel's pre-emptive attack on eurobonds has 'got to' the EC president:

Barroso came over as angry and prickly...His performance on stability bonds was
very weak, failing to answer German concerns, and admitting it is just a first
draft - to be re-written in Berlin (?)...And he's too defensive over the
democratic deficit...So he hands over to a Finnish safe pair of hands in Rehn
who'll try and rescue the package with meticulous attention to detail....

12.22pm: Barroso justifies the proposal that the EC should have 'surveillance
powers' over member nations, arging that it would prevent one country's policies
endangering other nations.

Isn't it rather undemocratic? Barroso argues not:

We must not oppose the national democratic process to the European democratic
process. We need both.

On Eurobonds, he says common borrowing would actually help to reinforce
'governance, discipline and convergence' in the eurozone.

12.11pm:EC president Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso is now presenting his plan to
improve financial stability in the EU.

He kicks off by outlining why he wants the European Commission to have more
control over national budgets:

Measures for tighter eurozone oversight are needed for growth, financial
stability, and budget discipline.

The proposals break down into six parts:1. all 17 euro area countries would send
their draft budget plans to the Commission by 15 October each year.2. the
Commission be able to request a new draft budget if the original showed serious
divergences with commitments made by member states.3. the Commission carry out
closer monitoring of Member States under its 'Excessive Deficit Procedure.'4.
the Commission would have the right to decide on enhanced surveillance of member
states when financial stability is threatened.5. The European Council could
recommend to a Member State that it requests financial assistance.6. All euro
area Member States would be required to set up independent fiscal councils, and
prepare budgets based on independent forecasts.

11.53am: The European Commission's press conference on eurobonds (recently
renamed as 'stability bonds') has been postponed until noon - we'll bring you
the action as soon as it starts.

Angela Merkel has an ally in her opposition to eurobonds -- UKIP leader Nigel
Farage.

Farage claimed that the EC's talk was simply "Eurobluster" (or
"stabilitybluster", perhaps) -- as Berlin will block the idea:

The eurobond proposal would render all future general elections within the
eurozone totally meaningless.However, it is not going to happen because the
Germans have said 'No', and they are in charge.

Euro MP Sharon Bowles, who chairs the European Parliament's Economic and
Monetary Affairs Committee, was more encouraging. She agrees that full-blown
eurobonds cannot be launched for at least two years, but suggested short-term
debt ('eurobills') could provide a more immediate solution:

The average for one year bills at present would be 2% interest. Interest could
be differentially distributed under a contract so the weaker countries are in
effect purchasing the mutuality.

There would also be an incentive for countries to stay on track with their
reforms - if they did not keep on track they would not get to reissue the
Eurobills next year.

11.34am:Kathleen Brooks, research director at Forex.com, described this
morning's failed German auction as a "black swan" event, as investors have been
rushing into Bunds for months.

Brooks offers three possible explanations:The optimistic view:

German bonds are at record highs (yields at record lows) and so are extremely
expensive at this level. Although the number of buyers disappointed, the yields
charged to hold German debt are still very low at 1.98%. This compares with
nearly 7% for Spanish debt of a similar maturity.

The pessimistic view:

Germany is being dragged into the fray...Now that France has come under pressure
and its triple A credit rating is under threat that leaves Germany as the only
big economy in Europe left to pay for cleaning up this sovereign mess. Since
Germany already has a fairly high debt-to-GDP ratio of 83.10% at the end of
2010, its debt dynamics may not be as strong as some think.

An alternative view:

The bond market is staging a buyers strike, essentially trying to push Germany
to take action.... If this crisis isn't dealt with in the near-term then bond
investors will ditch all of the Eurozone, even Germany. Thus, the effect of
German belligerence in dealing with this crisis is today's failed auction.

11.08am: Looking at the bond markets, the yield on 10-year German bonds being
sold between investors (in the 'secondary market') has now risen to 1.95%, from
1.91% overnight.

This means it has now overtaken the interest rate on US ten-year bonds for the
first time this month  (US yields are flat at 1.92%).

German Bund yields are now heading towards the yield on 10-year UK gilts (which
has fallen to 2.135% from 2.17% overnight).

All very low rates to be borrowing at, of course.

10.47am: The news of Germany's dreadful debt auction (see last post has gone
down extremely badly in the City.

Marc Ostwald of Monument Securities said the sale was the most disappointing he
could remember:

I cannot recall a worse auction...If Germany can only manage this sort of
participation, what hope for the rest? Yields are at completely the wrong level.

Achilleas Georgolopoulos of Lloyds Bank said the auction was "really bad",
adding that "Bunds are starting to lose their appeal".

Annalisa Piazza of Newedge Strategy agreed that the auction was "extremely
poor", with the worst demand on record for ten-year German debt.

Shaun Richards, an independent economist, argues that it's little surprise that
there was limited demand for German debt today. He reckons that so-called 'safe
haven' countries will soon see their yields rise:

You see in many ways it is more of a surprise to me that anyone would accept an
interest-rate of 1.98% for ten years in these "expect the unexpected" times than
some have turned it down.

10.22am: Breaking news -- an auction of German debt just failed to find enough
buyers.

Germany tried to sell (EURO)6bn of 10-year bunds this morning - the kind of debt
that investors have been rushing to buy recently. But instead, it only managed
to sell (EURO)3.644bn worth - leaving more than a third of the bonds unsold.

The average yield (interest rate paid by buyers) fell slightly, to 1.98% - from
2.09% at the last auction of 10-year bonds. But that was much less important
than the shock news that the German debt agency had to retain so much of the
debt.

This weak results spooked traders, sending the euro tumbling more than a cent
against the dollar to $1.338. That's a six-week low.

German government bonds also fell slightly in value (which has the useful effect
of narrowing the spread between bunds and other debt).

Stock markets also fell, with the FTSE 100 down 40+ points.

Germany's debt office commented that the weak result reflected the "highly
nervous" environment in the financial markets. But it may also reflect that the
financial markets are losing patience with the endless eurozone infighting and
lack of agreement.

10.04am: Have Angela Merkel and Wolfgang Sch[#xfffd]uble actually read the
stability bond proposals that Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso will unveil in 90
minutes time, and which they have already attacked this morning

My colleague David Gow suggests not. Here's why:

First, the 40-page EC "green" paper sets out three options for issuing the
bonds, only one of which would have "joint and several" guarantees for the
common bonds.Second, it does not plump for any of the three.Third, it makes
plain that there will be no "free-riding" or piggybacking on a sound country's
lower rates (Germany) in this collectivisation of debt.Indeed, there's even the
suggestion that countries with a poor track record should pay higher rates for
at least part of the bonds (these are the blue and red bonds as proposed by the
Bruegel think tank). Fourth, and this is set out in the accompanying annual
growth survey and two draft regulations, sanctions against countries running
consistent excessive deficits will be automatic and tougher; there's even talk
of being put "under administration".

The markets and/or Berlin may not trust this "intrusive intervention" but to
suggest that Barroso is letting "moral hazard" rip is just plain wrong.

9.41am: The minutes of the Bank of England's latest interest rate-setting
meeting have just been released, and show that the Monetary Policy Committee is
concerned that the eurozone crisis is putting intolerable pressure on the
banking sector.

Here's the main quote from the minutes:

Concerns over the sustainability of the public and external debt positions of
some euro-area countries had led to increases in the cost of borrowing for those
countries and widespread falls in confidence.

While the worst risks had not so far crystallised, the threat of their doing so
had increased, exacerbating the already severe strains in bank funding markets
and financial markets more generally.

The committee also voted to leave rates at 0.5% and to leave the quantitative
easing budget unchanged.

9.12am: The battle is joined! Angela Merkel has declared that Brussels' plans
for eurobonds "will not work".

Even before Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso has delivered his proposals, the German
chancellor has reiterated that "Treaty Changes" -- setting the way for closer
European integration and responsible fiscal policy -- are the key to solving the
crisis.

Speaking just now in Germany, Merkel described the EC's focus on Eurobonds as
"inappropriate", adding that treaty changes are the only way to rebuilt
condfidence. She also ruled out altering the mandate of the European Central
Bank, saying:

Europe must not change anything regarding the independence of the ECB.

That's a double-whammy of opposition from Berlin, following Wolfgang
Sch[#xfffd]uble's comments this morning.

8.48am: The disappointing manufacturing data from China overnight send world
stock markets down to a 6-week low this morning (as measured by the MCSI
All-Country world index). But in truth, there's little real drama in the City
yet - FTSE 100 lost 50 points at the start of trading, but is now down just 17
points.

8.39am: We're expecting Barroso, and Olli Rehn, to present their plans for
eurobonds/stability bonds at 11.30am GMT, along with their new rules giving the
EC the ability to request a rewrite if a euro-member's budget is deemed
unacceptable.

Other key events on the agenda today:[#xfffd] Eurozone PMI data for services,
and manufacturing - 9am GMT/10am CET[#xfffd] Bank of England minutes - 9.30am
GMT[#xfffd] US durable goods, personal income, + personal spending figures for
October - 1.30pm GMT/8.30am EST[#xfffd] US  University of Michigan Confidence
report for November

8.17am: For many ex-prime ministers, leaving power is the prelude to an
agreeable life of directorships, speaking tours, and the autobiography.

Not for Silvio Berslusconi, though. The former Italian prime minister, who was
replaced by a group of technocrats last week, faces months of legal battles --
and is due in court today.

My colleague Julia Kollewe explains:

Mr Bunga-Bunga is up in court today, accused of paying an underage girl for sex.
That's just one of three trials. He also faces charges of fraud and bribery in
separate hearings at the Milan courthouse. This will keep him busy until
Christmas and beyond - on some days he faces several hearings.

Berlusconi's trial for paying a Moroccan dancer, Karima "Ruby" El Mahroug, for
sex when she was under 18 resumes today, followed by three more hearings in
December that promise a parade of showgirls who will give evidence about the
bunga-bunga parties at his Milan mansion.

Berlusconi's lawyers will try to convince an all-female panel of three judges
that he showered Ruby with cash to prevent her from straying into prostitution.
Bizzarely, when she was arrested on suspicion of theft he told Milan police he
believed she was a relative of Egyptian leader Hosni Mubarak. Berlusconi is also
charged with pushing police to free her.

8.06am: Nearly half of investors now believe at least country will crash out of
the eurozone. That's the finding from a survey from Barclays Capital, who asked
nearly 1,000 of its clients how they believe the crisis will pan out.

Just 3% of those surveyed believe they will see a workable solution to the
crisis within the next three months. The number expecting at least one country
to quit the euro has doubled - to nearly 50%, from just a quarter three months
ago.

Early in the year, just 1% of BarCap clients seriously thought the eurozone
would lose a member.

As Katie Martin writes in the Wall Street Journal today, Europe's dithering has
turned the idea of euro break-up from fantasy into a serious threat:

As the markets grow increasingly convinced that the authorities are losing
control of Europe's scariest crisis since World War II, calm, sensible people
are taking the idea seriously. They're even calling in the lawyers, just in
case.

7.41am: Confirmation from Berlin that Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso will struggle
to persude the German government of the merits of eurobonds.

German finance minister Wolfgang Sch[#xfffd]uble hit the airwaves this morning,
telling Deutschlandfunk radio that eurobonds (debt issued by one euro member but
guaranteed by all 17) would simply lead to more reckless fiscal policy.

This is about creating rules for financial discipline in European countries. As
soon as you start talking about eurobonds ... you take away the pressure on
these countries.

Germany isn't implacably opposed to eurobonds -- its position is that they
shouldn't be introduced until there is much more fiscal integration across the
eurozone (which means EU treaty changes, which takes time). But then, full-blown
eurobonds would also require treaty changes.

Incidentally, we learned yesterday that Barross has now rebranded eurobonds as '
stability bonds'. Sch[#xfffd]uble, though, may feel that a bond by any other
name would smell as fishy.

7.32am: Traders in the City predict that shares will fall again this morning.
The trigger for this latest sell-off -- after seven days of losses on the FTSE
100 -- is the news that China's manufacturing sector probably shrank last month.

HSBC's preliminary "flash" version of its monthly China manufacturing Purchasing
Managers Index survey came in at 48.0 -- crucially, below the 50 point mark that
determines whether a sector grew or contracted. That's down from 51 last in
September.

This is only one of several measures of the Chinese factory sector -- but given
its importance to the world economy, the survey prompted the Hong Kong stock
market to fall by 2%.

Spread-betters are calling the FTSE 100 down 55 points, or just over 1%. Terry
Pratt, institutional trader at IG Markets, said:

Pessimism is continuing to flood markets across the globe...the release of the
HSBC China PMI reading in the last few hours showing manufacturing output
slowing is also giving traders cause for concern.

Add to this suggestions that the US could see another of its AAA credit ratings
disappear before the year end after the supercommittee's failure to agree a
deficit reduction plan and there's certainly no sign of any festive cheer
creeping onto the agenda just yet.

7.25am: Good morning, and welcome to our continuing rolling coverage of the
European debt crisis -- and beyond.

Today's big theme is going to be 'eurobonds'. EC commission president
Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso will unveil a report arguing that eurozone bonds
would help solve the crisis.

Barroso will also propose giving the EU the right to question a country's budget
-- another step towards closer fiscal and political union. Will this be enough
to persuade eurobond sceptics - such as Angela Merkal - to change their views?

There's also a lot of economics news to watch out for, including the latest data
from Europe's manufacturing sector. Statistics for China have been released
overnight, and were disappointing (more soon) - that is likely to send European
stock markets falling this morning.

The minutes from the Bank of England's last meeting will also be published this
morning - revealing how concerned policymakers are about the euro crisis, and
how close they came to taking more action.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 23, 2011
                                 First Edition

@i YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 495 words


How to measure top salaries Comparing top salaries with those of other workers
in a company is a good idea to highlight boardroom excesses, but the ratio
should not be between the top and the average. The average is already inflated
by the top rates. A comparison between the highest and the lowest (full-time
equivalents) would give a much better greed alert. RAY CHANDLER SHOREHAM-BY-SEA,
WEST SUSSEX Speed of light through rock The scientists have missed the obvious
explanation of the fasterthan-light particles. If the neutrinos went through a
section of less dense rock than predicted, or an unexpected crack, they would
arrive earlier than expected. KIRK PARSONS SOLIHULL Obsession with growth When
will politicians and ostrich-headed economists cease using this ridiculous
mantra of "growth"? As those with an ear and eye to realities, such as the
Centre for Alternative Technology in mid-Wales, say: when a boy reaches 21, you
don't want him to grow any more, you want him to develop.

That is what we need in the West: development, not growth - better, not more.

SANDRA YEO INSTOW, DEVON National disgrace Is Richard Littlejohn masquerading as
Amol Rajan ("Yes, mindless bureaucracy is an admission of guilt", 22 November)?
What's his next submission? "My plumber took three days to fix a leak; what, oh
what on earth is wrong with this country?" PETE BRIXTON Fighting for fitness
Well done to Tim Mitchelson for training so hard for six weeks ("Journey to the
Planet of the Abs", 22 November). It's just a shame the entire piece read like
advertorial for a training device. Sixpack for Tim, five plugs for the kit.

MARK ROBSON What about our privacy? Stefano Hatfield should be careful what he
wishes for (Letter from the Executive Editor, 22 November). Without the
celebrities who bathe in the public spotlight for personal gain, your industry
would struggle. It is a bit rich that these same celebrities feel they can pick
and choose when they can be reported upon. I can't pick and choose when the
Government wishes to film me with CCTV.

If you wish to campaign in favour of privacy laws, let's forget about celebs and
the minority of unfortunate people whom the media thrust into the spotlight and
focus on the majority of all British citizens. DEREK STEPHEN LLANDDEINIOL,
MID-WALES A serious challenge Ukip was necessary, was it (letter, 21 November)?
Are we talking about the balanced, mature, responsible political party that not
long ago was led by Joan Collins and Robert Kilroy-Silk? J E S BRADSHAW SOUTHAM,
WARWICKSHIRE Pronounced improvement Oh what a relief! I'm not alone! Next time I
get overexcited and start shouting "Sixth! Sixth, you moron!" at the TV, I will
know Dave Dixon (letter, 21 November) is there with me.

LESLEY WALTON NEW MILLS, DERBYSHIRE i was wrong Two Abdullahs In yesterday''s
story about King Abdullah visiting the West Bank, we mistakenly used a
photograph of Abdullah Gul, the President of Turkey MORE COMMENT on
independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 23, 2011 Wednesday 9:01 AM GMT

EU bans claim that water can prevent dehydration;
Brussels bureaucrats were ridiculed yesterday after banning drink manufacturers
from claiming that water can prevent dehydration.

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward and Nick Collins

LENGTH: 692 words


EU officials concluded that, following a three-year investigation, there was no
evidence to prove the previously undisputed fact.

Producers of bottled water are now forbidden by law from making the claim and
will face a two-year jail sentence if they defy the edict, which comes into
force in the UK next month.

Last night, critics claimed the EU was at odds with both science and common
sense. Conservative MEP Roger Helmer said: "This is stupidity writ large.

"The euro is burning, the EU is falling apart and yet here they are:
highly-paid, highly-pensioned officials worrying about the obvious qualities of
water and trying to deny us the right to say what is patently true.

"If ever there were an episode which demonstrates the folly of the great
European project then this is it."

NHS health guidelines state clearly that drinking water helps avoid dehydration,
and that Britons should drink at least 1.2 litres per day.

The Department for Health disputed the wisdom of the new law. A spokesman said:
"Of course water hydrates. While we support the EU in preventing false claims
about products, we need to exercise common sense as far as possible."

German professors Dr Andreas Hahn and Dr Moritz Hagenmeyer, who advise food
manufacturers on how to advertise their products, asked the European Commission
if the claim could be made on labels.

They compiled what they assumed was an uncontroversial statement in order to
test new laws which allow products to claim they can reduce the risk of disease,
subject to EU approval.

They applied for the right to state that "regular consumption of significant
amounts of water can reduce the risk of development of dehydration" as well as
preventing a decrease in performance.

However, last February, the European Food Standards Authority (EFSA) refused to
approve the statement.

A meeting of 21 scientists in Parma, Italy, concluded that reduced water content
in the body was a symptom of dehydration and not something that drinking water
could subsequently control.

Now the EFSA verdict has been turned into an EU directive which was issued on
Wednesday.

<preform><script type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"
src="http://static.polldaddy.com/p/5689592.js"></script><noscript> Do you think
water hydrates? </noscript></preform>

Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall said the ruling made the "bendy banana law" look
"positively sane".

He said: "I had to read this four or five times before I believed it. It is a
perfect example of what Brussels does best. Spend three years, with 20 separate
pieces of correspondence before summoning 21 professors to Parma where they
decide with great solemnity that drinking water cannot be sold as a way to
combat dehydration.

"Then they make this judgment law and make it clear that if anybody dares sell
water claiming that it is effective against dehydration they could get into
serious legal bother.

EU regulations, which aim to uphold food standards across member states, are
frequently criticised.

Rules banning bent bananas and curved cucumbers were scrapped in 2008 after
causing international ridicule.

Prof Hahn, from the Institute for Food Science and Human Nutrition at Hanover
Leibniz University, said the European Commission had made another mistake with
its latest ruling.

"What is our reaction to the outcome? Let us put it this way: We are neither
surprised nor delighted.

"The European Commission is wrong; it should have authorised the claim. That
should be more than clear to anyone who has consumed water in the past, and who
has not? We fear there is something wrong in the state of Europe."

Prof Brian Ratcliffe, spokesman for the Nutrition Society, said dehydration was
usually caused by a clinical condition and that one could remain adequately
hydrated without drinking water.

He said: "The EU is saying that this does not reduce the risk of dehydration and
that is correct.

"This claim is trying to imply that there is something special about bottled
water which is not a reasonable claim."

Bottled water can keep you cool say scientists who turned down dehydration
claims

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

letter@the-sun.co.uk;
The page where you tell Britain what you think

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 422 words


STRICTLY'S Russell Grant being fired from a cannon really wasn't about dancing
but I wish someone had come up with the idea for Ann Widdecombe.

SYD VAUGHAN Birmingham

FORMER Corrie actress Vicky Binns, below, who played the Street's Molly Dobbs,
is hiring herself out to weddings so guests can have a chat with her for a
couple of hours.

Does this two-bob actress really think her services are worth £3,500? It would
be interesting to see what the Dragons' Den judges would make of her new
business idea.

TREVOR RICHARDSON Windsor, Berks

AFTER watching The Secret Millionaire on C4, I thought someone should make a
similar programme but with MPs and council leaders, just to let them see how
their decisions affect the elderly and the disabled.

ALBERT LEETON Grantham, Lincs

AT last someone has the guts to stand up and tell the EU spivs what we really
think of them and their betrayal of trust.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said what we all think - what a pity our own
politicians haven't the guts to back him up.

No matter what political party you support, his speech was heartwarming and it
was a real treat to watch them squirm in their seats as he pointed them out.

JEFF MULDOON Runcorn, Cheshire

GERMAN Chancellor Angela Merkel warned that Europe faces the biggest crisis
since the Second World War. She failed to say that her country caused that
crisis and the one before.

Winston Churchill would know what to do - stand alone, take all steps to protect
ourselves and step away from the incompetents and opportunists to whom we seem
to have shackled ourselves.

David Cameron and Nick Clegg are weak, dithering career politicians, not
patriots. They are not fit to lick Winston's boots.

MALCOLM SMITH Beeleigh, Essex

I DON'T think Richard Branson got Northern Rock on the cheap - it's better off
in his hands than the Government's.

In fact, they should have paid him to take it a long time ago.

ROGER TAYLOR Morecambe, Lancs

WHY is it the Government never hire people like The Sun's Trevor Kavanagh? He is
able to see what is going to happen way ahead of our short-sighted politicians.
He should be made Journalist Of The Year with Jane Moore a close second.

MICHAEL JEFFERY Wisbech, Cambs

THE youngsters in the I'm A Celebrity jungle are proving to be respectful of the
elders and well mannered. Obviously Fatima Whitbread is well jel and should shut
up.

DAWN HAWES Heybridge, Essex

I THOUGHT Jessica-Jane Clement, left, looked great in her bikini in the jungle.
I can't see the guys at home voting her out in a hurry!

CHRIS COWLIN Clacton on Sea, Essex

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 21, 2011 Monday

Occupy movement plays it smart

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1285 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: The London protesters' wholesome, inclusive approach is sensible
because it leaves little room for ranters - who are waiting in the wings on both
left and right

FULL TEXT

How is the Occupy London campaign going? Quite well, to judge by what I can
assess from the warmth of my kitchen, a lot better than the protesters in
Cairo's Tahrir Square.

The protesters in London haven't been evicted or driven out by cold nights, not
yet anyway. More important, they haven't done anything stupid; that's mostly
been done by the authorities, so far anyway.

From my brief visits, the atmosphere seems rather wholesome. Can it last now
that evictions are underway in other Occupy sites in cities as far away as New
York and Oakland - across the bay from San Francisco and next to Berkeley, whose
University of California campus was the scene of a famous confrontation in the
turbulent 1960s?

The Corporation of London's writ, demanding that the protesters pack their tents
and leave the precinct of St Paul's Cathedral - whose hierarchy was so divided
and disrupted when the camp began a month ago - has been ignored and the case
will go to the high court this week.

I think we can expect the corporation to win the next round, though it leaves it
with the prospect of a confrontational eviction, Zuccotti Park-style.

So there is still a lot to play for in the battle to win over public opinion
and, more important, to persuade voters, politicians and the media (which
prefers to be on the popular side) that the movement has something significant
to contribute to our collective salvation beyond expressing revulsion at the
greed and incompetence of the investment banking tendency.

The UK Occupy movement has a second toe-hold in Finsbury Square, a corner of the
City which (so I read) is owned by Islington council, too poor to go to court
even if it wanted to do so. More intriguing, last Friday campaigners occupied an
empty four-storey block owned by UBS (whose UK HQ is across the street), one of
the major Swiss banks which has also got itself, its staff, customers,
shareholders and taxpayers into hot water.

That strikes me as a smart move. Squatters sometimes behave outrageously, but
taking over a bank building that has been empty for several years isn't going to
disrupt the workings of the City or damage the tourist trade and retailers
livelihoods in the way the St Paul's site is said to have done - surely must
have done.

"UBS, you owe us," as the banner stated. Well, they certainly owe the Swiss
public, but the Swiss don't do demos much.

The building is being turned in a "Bank of Ideas". That's a smart move too,
provided the new bank comes up with a few. You don't need many to claim success.
As those investment bankers round the corner will tell you, one brilliant
investment out of 50 will pay for the other 49 flops. That's how life works for
the 99% as well as the 1% - albeit less profitably. We all try things out, then
try something else.

But ideas is where it gets tricky. Sunday Telegraph columnist Janet Daley
complains that the worldwide Occupy protests don't have specific goals, merely
vague and negative slogans such as "reclaim our democracy," "resist authority"
and "rebuild the economy". Others have made the same point.

But Daley is no ordinary witness. In her Trotskyite youth she was a student at
Berkeley and a participant in the drama. Back then there were specific goals -
an end to the military draft that sent young Americans (even middle class ones)
to fight in Vietnam and the enactment of civil rights for black fellow citizens,
she recalls. They won both causes in the end and, though a tad more rightwing
than in 1964, she does not repudiate them.

Where Daley falls into a familiar trap (we all do it) is to dismiss the concerns
of today's young because they are no longer her concerns or look immature and
incoherent from the standpoint of relative old age. The protests were fine when
they started, but everyone has been trying to resolve the bank problems since
2008 and failed "because they are so bloody difficult", she concludes.

Absolutely, though it seems a bit mean to complain that the campers have failed
when the finest minds on Wall St and in the City (actually, they are mostly
psychopaths, George Monbiot explained the other day), let alone in Berlin, No 10
or the White House, haven't cracked it either.

Just contemplate today's reported failure of that high-powered congressional
committee to agree a package of tax-and-spending measures to restore confidence
in the US economy and political system's capacity to function.

It was set up during the August stand-off between Capitol Hill and the White
House and is due to report on Wednesday. Failure at a time when the EU's
leadership is also flaying around is a scary prospect.

At the other end of the optimism spectrum Henry Porter wrote a charming column
in yesterday's Observer, in which he asserted that 2011 has been the year of our
collective rebirth in the "Age of Downfalls".

It was, he wrote, a year which an engaged and angry citizenry has brought down -
or called to account - such diverse old rascals as Muammar Gadaffi and Hosni
Mubarak, Silvio Berlusconi (touch wood), Dominque Strauss-Kahn, Sepp Blatter
(touch it again) and, of course, Rupert Murdoch.

Well, that's more attractive than the Daley moan (we all have a bus pass) and
let's hope it looks that way in 10 years' time if we are all still drawing a
pension (what pension?).

With hindsight it could be the year when western democracies finally found it
impossible to fulfil the social democratic promises they set themselves in the
ruins of 1945 and retreated into the kind of mildly-authoritarian technocracy
that some detect - far too prematurely, says me - in Athens, Rome and the
Frankfurt Group we're suddenly hearing about.

In that instance it wouldn't be about restoring trust in the banking system so
that firms can resume borrowing and hiring with a view to resuming a version of
business as usual. The rise of Asia and the battle for scarce natural resources
- food and energy - may have finally broken the world we know.

Fixing that is lot to ask of protesters, who are feeling the cold eight hours a
night too. That's why it's important that they do their best to maintain the
wholesome stance of the past few weeks. In Oakland they lost of lot of public
support when the city's busy port was closed down. Don't stop us working, say
people who have work.

That's another way of saying that "99%" is a great slogan, devised by the
Canadian-based Adbusters network, but that's all it is.

We need pressure on governments, on business, on universities, the media, to
sustain an atmosphere of tolerance and inclusivity that nurtures hope and
prevents the rise of the ranters - who are waiting in the wings on both left and
right.

They don't have much by way of constructive contributions to make either. Just
like Ukip's Nigel Farage at the European parliament in this newly-viral YouTube
clip. It may make you feel better for a few seconds, then what, Nigel? A jolly,
if inaccurate, rant. But what exactly do you want us all to do?

At the end of every war, every strike, every demo there has to be dialogue and
negotiation, even with the defeated. Street protesters may feel they're speaking
for the 99% but they're not - not even in Athens.

And remember, the political right has a greater cultural affinity for violence,
a greater capacity to organise it too, I suspect, than those nice people outside
St Paul's. The English Defence League or an offshoot is reportedly targeting the
TUC's 30 November protests. Best to be aware than be taken by surprise if they
come round the corner, as the army just did (again) in Tahrir Square

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 21, 2011 Monday

Eurozone crisis: Debt fears send markets falling - 21 November 2011

BYLINE: Graeme Weardenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 3749 words

ABSTRACT

The FTSE 100 fell 140 points to a six-week low today amid fears over Spain, and
the gridlock over America's deficit-reduction plans

FULL TEXT

5.27pm: Time to wrap things up, I reckon.

Here's an evening round-up.

[#xfffd] Stock markets have fallen sharply on another day dominated by the
eurozone debt crisis. The FTSE 100 fell 2.6% to a six-week low, with Wall Street
down heavily - the Dow Jones had lost over 300 points by lunchtime in New
York[#xfffd] Spain's next prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, was urged to take rapid
action to address the country's problems. With bond yields rising today,
analysts predicted further austerity and labour market reforms[#xfffd] Hungary
has officially asked for financial assistance. The IMF and the EU both announced
they had received a request for 'precautionary' help.[#xfffd] Greece's new prime
minister met with Brussels officials to discuss its own financial woes. Lucas
Papademos agreed that he faced a Herculean task.Thanks for reading, and for your
feedback. We'll be back tomorrow - hope you can be too. Goodnight!

5.10pm: The word from Washington is that the supercommitee set up to find ways
of cutting the US deficit will officially admit later today that they have
failed.

My colleague Richard Adams is covering it live here.

4.45pm: European stock markets have just closed, with traders' screens bathed in
electronic red ink.

Where to start? In London, the FTSE 100 dropped 140 points or 2.6% to 5222.
That's its lowest closing level since 5 October, almost seven weeks ago.

Across Europe, Italy suffered the sharpest selloff. The FTSE MIB index tumbled
4.7% in Milan.

Spain's next prime minister didn't receive much of a welcome from traders. The
Ibex 35 fell almost 3.5%, as Mariano Rajoy's landslide win failed to spark any
kind of rally.

Over on Wall Street, shares are hitting new lows for the day - with the Dow
Jones index now down 326 points, or 2.7%.

David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index said three factors had sent
shares falling -- fears that Rajoy will not introduce reforms quickly, alarm
that the US debt reductions talks are deadlocked, and general concern over the
weak UK economy?

Sounds familar, doesn't it? As Jones said:

It does feel like we have been here before in one form or another in recent
months and the net result is that investors have little reason to be loading up
on risk at the beginning of this week.

4.23pm: Missed this earlier. Barz, a reader, points out in the comments below
that France successfully auctioned (EURO)7bn of government debt today.

The results are a mixed picture - the yield (interest rate) agreed on
(EURO)4.5bn of 12-week bills (maturing in three months) fell to 0.485%, down
from 0.58% at the last auction of this kind.

France also sold (EURO)1bn of 25-week bills, at a yield of 0.742% (down from
0.825% previously).

An auction of (EURO)1.5bn of 47-week debt attracted a slightly higher rate, up
to 0.97% from 0.7 68% last time.

The auctions all had decent bid-to-cover ratios -- the measure of how
oversubscribed the sale was. France could have sold four times as much 25-week
debt as it was offering.

Summary - no sign of a buyer's strike for France. However, even Greece can find
buyers for this kind of short-term debt. The real measure is long-term bonds.

4.04pm: Precious metals are also taken a hammering (sorry). The gold price is
down 2% at $1,689 per ounce, while silver has dropped by 5% to $30.76 per ounce.

That reflects the 'flight to safety' into the dollar today, which has pushed up
the value of the US currency on the foreign exchanges. It also cuts the value of
commodities which are priced in dollars (almost all of them). Copper, for
example, fell close to a one-month low this afternoon.

3.54pm: The market selloff is accelerating. With just over 30 minutes trading
left in London, the FTSE 100 is down 136 points at 5226, a 2.5% tumble.

In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average has shed 290 points, or nearly
2.5%, to 11502.

3.27pm:Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso, president of the EC, just issued his official
letter of congratulation to Mariano Rajoy for winning Spain's general election.

Barroso said:

You have received a clear and strong support from the Spanish people at an
important time for both Spain and the European Union. We are confronted with one
of the most demanding periods of recent decades and this will required important
decisions to be taken.

In doing so, I am confident that you will preserve the strong European tradition
of the Spanish governments and will actively contribute to the European project.

With Spanish 10-year bond yields still around the 6.6% mark, Rajoy needs to get
moving quickly. Raj Badianim, economist at IHS Global Insight, has identified
four priorities for the PM-in-waiting:

[#xfffd] Overhaul the Labour Market - making it easier and cheaper for firms to
hire, and fire, workers[#xfffd] More Decentralised Wage Bargaining - injecting
greater pay flexibility, by breaking the link between wage rises and
inflation[#xfffd] More Banking Sector Initiatives - IHS warns that Spanish banks
are packed with bad property loans, and many need recapitalising[#xfffd] More
Austerity - Spain's is likely to miss its deficit target this year. Raising VAT
could narrow the gap.

3.03pm: If you're looking for some light relief from the gathering storm of
gloomy headlines and falling stock markets (and can read German) check out this
feature on the relationship between Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel.

Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, the German newspaper, claims the partnership
between the 'cool German protestant housewife' and the 'erratic, hot-blooded
Frenchman' is "as good as a marriage". It works*, even if no-one can understand
why:

My colleague David Gow has kindly translated this section:

Angela Merkel's father, Horst Kasner, once let slip - during a lecture - what
one thought about the distant neighbour France in his Mecklenburg vicarage: in
France the entire political class was corrupt, you couldn't get anywhere there
without having a mistress and, what's more, they were always on strike, it was a
chaotic way of life.Sarkozy, on the other hand, once disclosed his alienation
towards German correctness, sense of order and lack of savoir vivre. In
Frankfurt, city of Big Capital, [during a visit in October] he felt
'terrorised'.His confidant Nicolas Bazire says: 'As a Frenchman of the post-war
generation Sarkozy grew up with the constant comparison with Germany. What makes
Germany different, what does it do better? But comparing doesn't mean loving.'"

* - that's FAZ's claim, anyway.

2.55pm: Trading has begin on Wall Street. As feared, the Dow Jones index is
sharing in the global selloff -- down 217 points, or -1.8%, at 11577. The S&P
500 and the Nasdaq have both fallen by 2%.

The FTSE 100 still sharply lower (down 115 points, or 2.1%, at 5247). Louise
Cooper of BGC Partners explained that:

European equity markets are down as there is little corporate profit
announcements to provide good news and so it is back to worrying about the
macroeconomic environment. And the news on this front is still negative.

2.35pm: Greece's new prime minister, Lucas Papademos, has just given a press
conference in Brussels with Jos[#xfffd] Manuel Barroso, president of the EC.

Both men expressing confidence that Greece can rebuilt its finances and return
to growth. But Barroso also gave an unvarnished view -- saying the situation in
Greece is now "more serious than any point in the past 18 months", and that the
EU can only help Greece if it wants to "help itself".

That latter point sounds like a coded way of reminding the public to accept
continued austerity in return for financial help. Papademos's first priority, of
course, is to extract an (EURO)8bn aid payment (the oft-reported 'sixth
tranche') from the IMF/EU/ECB Troika.

Papademos told the press conference that there was "no doubt" that the new Greek
government will give the Troika the written reassurances it has asked for.
However, with Antonis Samaras of the New Democracy party still refusing to sign
this letter, it's not clear how this will be resolved.

Barroso congratulated Papademos on becoming Greece's new prime minister,
describing his challenge as "Herculean" . Papademos's reply suggests that
cleaning the Augean stables or capturing the Cretan bull would be easier than
tackling Greece's problems:

A Herculean task?... You could certainly use other adjectives to describe it.

2.04pm: US markets look set to open sharply lower this morning with futures
contracts for all the major indexes down. The Dow futures were down 1.19% ahead
of the opening bell.

Our Wall Street correspondent Dominic Rushe reports that investors have the
deadlock in Washington over the debt-reduction super committee , as well as
Europe's woes, to deal with.

Lorne Baring, managing director of B Capital private bank, warned that the
financial markets will continue "the pattern of headline driven reactions" until
a European plan is agreed upon, principally between Germany, France and the
ECB/IMF. Baring contined to explain that:

What can they do to stop the uncertainty?

Change the mandate of the ECB to buy European countries' debt in such large
quantities that yields fall and using the language of "whatever it takes" to
create the firewall needed. The delay in doing this means a longer and greater
cost scenario or worse still - the disorderly default possibility.

1.32pm: Another senior European official has warned that the crisis has reached
the 'core' of the eurozone. This time its J[#xfffd]rgen Stark, the outgoing
chief economist at the European Central Bank.

Stark told an event in Dublin that sovereign debt worries have spread far beyond
the periphary of the region (echoing a similar warning from Olli Rehn this
morning):

The sovereign debt crisis has re-intensified and is now spreading over to other
countries including so-called core countries. This is a new phenomenon.

Stark also put his finger on one issue that usually goes unspoken in the
corridors of Europe -- the public are losing faith in their leaders.

There is a lack of confidence in the ability of politicians to do the rightthing
or do the right thing right and fears of the longer term impactof the sovereign
debt crisis on economic growth and jobs.

1.23pm: Nigel Farage, the head of the UK Independence Party, has claimed that
Hungary's decision to seek help from the IMF makes this "another bad day" for
the European economy.

The UKIP leader said that:

Hungary falls, another one bites the dust.This eurozone crisis has got so bad
that even non-eurozone countries are asking for assistance.Coupled with Moody's
warning over French credit rating, this is another bad day for the EU's economic
prospects.

We covered the Moody's warning at 8.30am. It's not a formal statement about
France, just a reference in a weekly Moody's report that there are "negative
implications" for France's credit rating.

1.09pm: The eurozone crisis is dominating the CBI's annual conference in London
today. My colleague Nick Watt reports that David Cameron told delegates that
Britain had avoided some of the mistakes made by other European nations:

The prime minister said that:

We had an emergency budget last summer on our own terms, not this summer on the
market's terms.

We acted to prevent crisis while others who failed to do so are suffering
emergency budgets, deeper austerity and political crisis.

And our actions have helped to secure record low interest rates for businesses
and consumers - the biggest possible stimulus to the economy.

My colleague Phillip Inman is also at the CBI gathering, He reports that Sergio
Marchionne, the chief executive of Fiat, told the conference that Britain made a
"huge mistake" by letting its industrial base decline in favour of services.

Marchionne said 'no economy could survive' without a strong manufacturing arm,
and that Britain's economy was now seriously unbalanced.

Seperately Jim O'Neill of Goldman Sachs said that the BRIC* economies of Brazil,
Russia, India and China would grow strongly over the next decade, creating "the
biggest increase in the global middle class" in history.

Britain's timezone and language, O'Neill added, means the country is
well-positioned to take advantage....

* - a term he coined

12.04pm: The debt crises raging on both sides of the Atlantic continue to alarm
the financial markets. Traders are forecasting that that Dow Jones index will
tumble by 160 points when trading begins at 2.30pm GMT.

Most European markets are also nursing heavy losses. FTSE 100: - 111 points, or
2%, at 5251Germany's DAX: - 153 points, or 2.65%, at 5646France's CAC: -84
points, or 2.8%, at 2912Spain's IBEX: -188 points, ot 2.3%, at 8121Italy's FTSE
MIB: - 496 points, or 3.2%, at 14735

In the foreign exchange market, the Hungarian forint has weakened to 307.5
forints to the euro (from 303/(EURO)1 overnight). That follows confirmation that
Hungary is seeking financial help from the IMF and the EU.

Yusuf Heusen, sales trader at IG Index, said investors had been hit by a wave of
bad news this morning:

The weekend Spanish election has resulted in a new government, but some are
unsure as to whether this new leadership will have an aggressive enough approach
to prevent the country needing a bailout.

News that the US has hit a stalemate on agreeing budget cuts is reminding
traders of the last time lawmakers reached an impasse in the summer, and the
subsequent market fallout that ensued.

11.23am: The stuttering global economy is even causing alarm in the Bundesbank.

Germany's central bank has slashed its forecast for 2012, warning that Europe's
biggest economy might grow by somewhere between 0.5% and 1% next year. Just a
month ago, the German government forecast growth of 1%.

The Bundesbank, in its monthly report, warned that:

In the coming months, the German economy is likely to enter difficult economic
waters.

If Germany only grows by 0.5% next year, the risk of a significant recession
across the eurozone would increase sharply.

The Bundesbank also called for responsible fiscal behaviour across the single
currency:

It is especially important that the countries concerned in the eurozone take
swift and decisive measures to avoid a further loss of confidence in the
solidity of their public finances and to win back lost competitiveness.

10.51am: The European commission has also just confirmed that it has received an
official request from Hungary for "possible financial assistance". Like the IMF,
it also emphasised that any support would be on a "precautionary basis".

Here's the full statement:

The European commission today received a request from the Hungarianauthorities
for possible EU financial assistance. The authorities have sent a similar
request to the IMF. They have also indicated that their intention is to treat
any EU support that might be made available as precautionary.

The commission will examine the authorities' request in close consultation with
EU member states and the IMF.

In the meantime, and after carrying out their regular post-programme
surveillance mission related to the first EU balance of payments assistance to
Hungary over the last two weeks, the commission staff have returned to Brussels.

10.21am: The International Monetary Fund has confirmed this morning that Hungary
has formally asked for "precautionary" financial help.

In a brief statement, the IMF said it had received a request from Budapest for
"possible financial assistance". This follows days of rumour, with the Hungarian
authorities insisting last week that the IMF officially was only in the country
for routine talks - before confirming on Friday night that it was seeking an
agreement with the IMF.

Christine Lagarde, managing director of the IMF, said that :

The IMF has received a request from the Hungarian authorities for possible
financial assistance. The authorities have sent a similar request to the
European commission and indicated that they plan to treat as precautionary any
IMF and EC support that could be made available.

Hungary received a $25bn bailout three years ago. Analysts have been speculating
in recent days that without a new deal, its credit rating could be cut to junk.

More as we get it.

10.03am: Spain's borrowing costs have climbed steadily higher through November,
as optimism over the bailout deal agreed in Brussels in late October waned.

This graph shows how the yield (the effective interest rate) on Spanish 10-year
bonds has risen during the month. They fell back a bit late last week, after the
European Central Bank began buying significant amounts of Spain's debts
alongside those of Italy.

As you can see, Rajoy's victory last night has not brought any relief. Instead,
those yields have pushed back towards the 7% level.

9.39am: We don't have any fresh action from Europe's leaders this morning, but
there's no shortage of strong words.

EU monetary affairs commissioner Olli Rehn has just warned that no one should be
under any illusion that the "core" of the eurozone is now at risk.

Rehn, who last week warned that Europe may experience a deep recession in 2012,
told a meeting in Brussels that:

This crisis is hitting the core of the eurozone, we should have no illusions
about this ... Without a dynamic and growing economy, Europe would risk becoming
irrelevant on the global scene.

(Given recent events in Italy, and the ongoing speculation over France's AAA
rating, isn't it hard to believe many people think this crisis is just
restricted to a few peripheral nations?...)

...Rehn also warned that Europe needs a credible growth strategy, and one that
isn't just financed by borrowing:

One simply cannot build a growth strategy on accumulating more debt, whenthe
capacity to service the current debt is questioned by the markets ... One cannot
force foreign creditors to lend more money, if they don't have the confidence to
do it.

9.07am: After a tepid start, shares are now falling sharply across Europe. More
worryingly, Spanish bond yields have now risen to just above 6.6%.

The FTSE 100 index just hit a low of 5243, down 119 points or over 2%. For a big
loss, look at Russia where the main indices are down almost 4%.

The word in the City is that the deadlock in the US over its own debt crisis is
spooking investors.

The bipartisan committee which was created by Barack Obama to find ways to cut
America's deficit by $1.2tn over the next decade appears to have made little
progress. The group is meant to agree proposals by Wednesday - if it fails,
America's credit rating could be hit.

Jane Foley of Rabobank warned that:

If the US's automatic triggers on spending cuts are watered down, the chances of
a credit rating downgrade from Fitch and Moody's would likely increase.

Fitch and Moody's currently give America a AAA rating, while S&P downgraded the
US's credit rating in August.

8.51am: Warren Buffett, the veteran billionaire investor, has added his voice to
the growing choir calling on European leaders to get a grip.

Buffett was asked for his views on the eurozone crisis this morning, on a visit
to Japan. He responded that there is a "major flaw" in the euro system:

I do know the system as presently designed has a major flaw and that flaw won't
be corrected just by words.

It wasn't immediately clear which flaw he was thinking of....

8.31am: A research note published by Moody's this morning has sent a few shivers
through the financial markets - and helped to undermine the euro.

In its weekly credit report, Moody's warned that France's AAA rating was coming
under strain from the recent increases in its borrowing costs, and the weakening
economy.

Here's the key quote:

Persistently high financing costs combined with a deteriorating economic outlook
could increase the difficulties that the [French] government faces, with
negative implications for credit.

The resistance of France's AAA rating is one of the Big Questions bouncing
around this crisis. And although these comments only come from a regular weekly
missive (rather than a formal report on France itself), they have caused a small
stir.

The euro has just dropped nearly a cent against the dollar, to $1.344.

French 10-year bond yields also rose slightly, to 3.56%

8.17am: Rajoy's victory has also brought Spain little relief in the bond
markets. The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds has edged a little higher in early
trading - hitting a high of 6.48%.

Just 10 days ago, Spanish yields were down at 5.8%.

So why no rally this morning, given that the right-wing People's party won 186
of the 350 seats in parliament, giving Rajoy a clear mandate for reform?

One explanation is that while Rajoy has vowed to tackle Spain's economic woes,
he has been notoriously reluctant to give any details (apparently to avoid
scaring the public).

Another issue, as Michael Hewson of CMC Markets explains, is that the
PM-in-waiting won't officially replace socialist leader Jos[#xfffd] Luis
Rodr[#xfffd]guez Zapatero until mid-December:

The problem Spain has now is that there is likely to be a three-week vacuum
between the weekend result and when the new government takes up power. This is
because Spanish law doesn't allow Parliament to resume any sooner than 13
December with the new government not voted in until the following week.

There is therefore a significant risk that events could overtake Spain if there
is further deterioration in Spanish bond yields on the scale we saw last week.

8.08am: Europe's financial markets are now open, and there's no sign of a Rajoy
Rally.

Spain's main stock market, the Ibex 35, fell 0.5% at the start of business. In
London, the FTSE 100 has lost 69 points to 5294 (down nearly 1.3%), while the
main German and French indexes also dropped around 1%.

That follows a limp day's trading in Asia, where Hong Kong's Hang Seng index
lost 1.3% and Japan's Nikkei ended 0.3% lower.

8.00am: Hello, and welcome to today's live coverage of the eurozone debt crisis.

Spain tops the agenda this morning, after the People's party (PP) romped to
victory in Sunday's general election. The comprehensive victory means Mariano
Rajoy will become the country's next prime minister. But there's no time for
Rajoy to rejoice - he is under pressure to explain how he will tackle Spain's
debt problems and avoid the country becoming the next victim of the
"contagion[#xfffd] sweeping Europe.

We'll be tracking the latest development from Madrid, and monitoring the
financial markets' reaction to Rajoy's success.

Financial crises aren't just a European fashion either - in the US, lawmakers
appear deadlocked over measures to cut America's huge debt pile. With
Wednesday's deadline looming - this debt crisis could enter a new. even more
alarming phase....

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 21, 2011
                                 First Edition

@ YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 540 words


Attack on 'scroungers' The review of the way long-term sickness benefits are
assessed is a sick joke ("End of the sick note", 19 November).

The Government may dress it up as away of ensuring people can regain confidence
and make a contribution to society (as if they aren''t already) but the truth is
that they pander to the readers of certain tabloid papers who believe most
claimants are workshy scroungers.

In fact, Mind found that 99.5 per cent of long-term sickness claimants were
genuine. So this policy will most likely cause these genuine claimants to lose
the money they receive. This Government in reality would rather not pay benefits
at all. B NICOLSON CAMBRIDGE Why Ukip was necessary For Amol Rajan (17 November)
to claim that the Ukip stance on immigration is "stupid and myopic, but that is
true of the much of the public" borders on bigotry.

If the Conservative Party had stayed true to its core principles and hadn't
moved so far to the left that there is now little to choose between the liberal
aspirations of all three main parties, there wouldn't be a need for a breakaway
party that truly speaks for a deeply despondent proportion of the country who
know that their interests are no longer being represented. DAVID HALLAS BATLEY,
YORKSHIRE Blatter's own goal Straight-talking and clearly well-intentioned, Neil
Warnock (19 November) misses most of the point in his criticism of Sepp Blatter,
when he states that "every black player in every country" i was wrong Particle
problems The particles that (might have) travelled faster than the speed of
light between Switzerland and Italy were neutrinos, and not - as we stated -
neutrons (19 November).

should refuse to play in the next international game. What action would he
suggest for Park Ji-Sung? Or Ryan Giggs? NEIL BLOWER LEIGH, LANCASHIRE The
beginning of Christmas Stefano Hatfield (19 November) writes that he does not
start Christmas shopping until Christmas Eve. It was reported that Hilaire
Belloc didn't start Christmas until 5pm on Christmas Eve.

Do we know when Mrs Belloc started Christmas? Isn't it usually the women who buy
and prepare the food, write Christmas cards from Mr and Mrs X, and buy presents
for everyone except themselves? MAUREEN LAMPARD HIGH WYCOMBE Sick of sloppy
speaking Why do so many TV presenters seem unable to pronounce the word "sixth"?
I keep hearing about George the Sick, a team enjoying their sick win, a sick
goal and a runner who was sick in an African race (could have been the water).

I can't believe that anyone could be given a job on TV when they can't speak
properly. Or perhaps this is a new fashion in London that we northerners haven't
cottoned on to yet. DAVE DIXON NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE God save us from cynicism Why
the snide remark (Letter from the Executive Editor, 18 November) about "God Save
the Queen" at the London Olympics - "if we will ever actually hear it played"?
In the 2008 Olympics we won 19 gold medals and came fourth in the table above
both Germany and Australia! On what do you base your comment apart from
negativism? JEAN GUEVARA German geography Berlin is in Brandenburg, in what used
to be Prussia, rather than the southern state of Bavaria (page 48, 19 November).

MORE COMMENT on independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 21, 2011 Monday 3:45 PM GMT

EU bans claim that water can prevent dehydration;
Brussels bureaucrats were ridiculed yesterday after banning drink manufacturers
from claiming that water can prevent dehydration.

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward and Nick Collins

LENGTH: 635 words


EU officials concluded that, following a three-year investigation, there was no
evidence to prove the previously undisputed fact.

Producers of bottled water are now forbidden by law from making the claim and
will face a two-year jail sentence if they defy the edict, which comes into
force in the UK next month.

Last night, critics claimed the EU was at odds with both science and common
sense. Conservative MEP Roger Helmer said: "This is stupidity writ large.

"The euro is burning, the EU is falling apart and yet here they are:
highly-paid, highly-pensioned officials worrying about the obvious qualities of
water and trying to deny us the right to say what is patently true.

"If ever there were an episode which demonstrates the folly of the great
European project then this is it."

NHS health guidelines state clearly that drinking water helps avoid dehydration,
and that Britons should drink at least 1.2 litres per day.

The Department for Health disputed the wisdom of the new law. A spokesman said:
"Of course water hydrates. While we support the EU in preventing false claims
about products, we need to exercise common sense as far as possible."

German professors Dr Andreas Hahn and Dr Moritz Hagenmeyer, who advise food
manufacturers on how to advertise their products, asked the European Commission
if the claim could be made on labels.

They compiled what they assumed was an uncontroversial statement in order to
test new laws which allow products to claim they can reduce the risk of disease,
subject to EU approval.

They applied for the right to state that "regular consumption of significant
amounts of water can reduce the risk of development of dehydration" as well as
preventing a decrease in performance.

However, last February, the European Food Standards Authority (EFSA) refused to
approve the statement.

A meeting of 21 scientists in Parma, Italy, concluded that reduced water content
in the body was a symptom of dehydration and not something that drinking water
could subsequently control.

Now the EFSA verdict has been turned into an EU directive which was issued on
Wednesday.

Ukip MEP Paul Nuttall said the ruling made the "bendy banana law" look
"positively sane".

He said: "I had to read this four or five times before I believed it. It is a
perfect example of what Brussels does best. Spend three years, with 20 separate
pieces of correspondence before summoning 21 professors to Parma where they
decide with great solemnity that drinking water cannot be sold as a way to
combat dehydration.

"Then they make this judgment law and make it clear that if anybody dares sell
water claiming that it is effective against dehydration they could get into
serious legal bother.

EU regulations, which aim to uphold food standards across member states, are
frequently criticised.

Rules banning bent bananas and curved cucumbers were scrapped in 2008 after
causing international ridicule.

Prof Hahn, from the Institute for Food Science and Human Nutrition at Hanover
Leibniz University, said the European Commission had made another mistake with
its latest ruling.

"What is our reaction to the outcome? Let us put it this way: We are neither
surprised nor delighted.

"The European Commission is wrong; it should have authorised the claim. That
should be more than clear to anyone who has consumed water in the past, and who
has not? We fear there is something wrong in the state of Europe."

Prof Brian Ratcliffe, spokesman for the Nutrition Society, said dehydration was
usually caused by a clinical condition and that one could remain adequately
hydrated without drinking water.

He said: "The EU is saying that this does not reduce the risk of dehydration and
that is correct.

"This claim is trying to imply that there is something special about bottled
water which is not a reasonable claim."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 20, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Voters may get tax breaks for party donations

BYLINE: Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 400 words


MEMBERS of the public will be able to give up to £1,000 tax free to political
parties as part of an overhaul in the way politics is funded.

In an attempt to curb the influence of wealthy donors and companies, a £10,000
cap will be placed on individual donations. Gifts of less than £1,000 a year
from ordinary people will be entitled to the same tax breaks as charitable
donations.

All political parties with representation at Westminster will benefit from the
changes, including the Green party, which has one MP.

However, the British National party and UKIP will not qualify because, although
they have MEPs and councillors, they have no seats in the House of Commons.

The proposals will be published this week by the committee on standards in
public life, chaired by Sir Christopher Kelly. The committee is also expected to
recommend a move towards state funding, believed to be equivalent to about £3
for each vote cast for a political party.

The Liberal Democrats, who have few millionaire supporters, are keen advocates
of state funding and a £10,000 cap. However, they face opposition from the
Conservative party, which is given millions by wealthy backers, and the Labour
party, which receives the bulk of its funding from trade unions.

Margaret Beckett, a former Labour cabinet minister and a member of the standards
committee, has written a formal letter to Kelly, expressing her party's
reservations about the proposals. She fears that restricting the amount that
Labour can receive in union affiliation fees could cut one of the party's main
sources of funding and interfere in its internal running.

Her "note of dissent" will be included in the committee's final report. The note
is also understood to express concern about a proposal to force union members to
actively choose whether to support Labour, rather than opting out if they
object.

Amid further signs of dissent, Oliver Heald, a Conservative member of the
committee, has refused to sign the final report.

He has also written a note of dissent that will be included in the document,
saying the proposed cap of £10,000 on individual donations is too low. In
addition, he wants union members to be able to affiliate themselves with any
political party, not just Labour.

David Cameron has made it clear that he wants the cap to be set at £50,000. The
Tories fear a lower amount would prevent dozens of millionaire backers from
offering support.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kelly: donation overhaul

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday

SIMON HEFFER COLUMN

LENGTH: 1551 words


THAT HE CAN'T CONNECT WITH HIS PARTY IS WORRYING. THAT HE CAN'T CONNECT WITH THE
PUBLIC MAY BE FATAL

One benefit for our government from the eurozone crisis is that it diverts
attention from how badly things are going in Britain. It is not just that
certain coalition policies are failing: it is that nobody in government, least
of all the Prime Minister, seems aware how angry the public is about the current
lack of leadership.

This week saw enough bad news to rattle even the most stable and harmonious
administration a€" and this one is neither. The Governor of the Bank of England,
for example, announced a dismal growth forecast of 1 per cent for next year a€"
and thata€[TM]s if we are lucky.

More than a million young people are unemployed: and, thanks to the wretched
education system, many school-leavers lack the basic skills to become
employable. A quarter of a million patients languish on NHS waiting lists beyond
the 18-week treatment target date.

Our masters in Europe, especially the Germans, seek to humiliate us by imposing
a financial transactions tax that would cripple the City of London. And our
politicians stare from the sidelines at the mounting economic catastrophe in
Europe, whose consequences they appear incapable of understanding.

Two excellent articles in the Mail this week a€" one by Melanie Phillips, the
other by Robin Harris, author of a new history of the Conservative Party a€"
outlined the importance of David Cameron re-connecting with the Tory mainstream.
Both argued that his undue subservience to the views of Nick Clegg and the
Liberal Democrats is alienating him from his party.

That is true. But I fear something far more profound and politically dangerous
is also happening: the alienation of Mr Cameron from the mainstream of public
opinion.

Whereas his estrangement from many of his MPs and Conservative Party members is
a profound worry, this group constitutes only a relatively small number of
people. A total of 10,706,647 voted for the Tories in May 2010 a€" a figure that
only a brave party loyalist could think will rise at the next election.

The supposed big idea of this administration was a€˜the Big Societya€[TM]. A key
element was supposed to be the e-petition (which forces MPs to consider debating
an issue in the Commons once an online petition gets more than 100,000
signatories).

However, this week the Mail reported that secret talks are being held about
watering down this new power of voters following a series of embarrassments for
the Government.

When people demanded a vote on the restoration of the death penalty, our
out-of-touch political class was horrified. And when an e-petition called for a
referendum on Britaina€[TM]s future relationship with Europe, Mr Cameron and his
whips went to ridiculous lengths to stop Tory MPs supporting it.

It remains to be seen whether the latest debate triggered by an e-petition a€" a
demand for the withdrawal of proposed fuel tax rises a€" will persuade the
Government to recognise public feeling. And the likely next one a€" on former
diplomat Sir Andrew Greena€[TM]s petition to restrict immigration a€" is likely
to cause difficulties for a Prime Minister whose own instincts are liberal but
whose partya€[TM]s, and indeed whose countrya€[TM]s, instincts are definitely
not.

Ministers are now discussing whether to raise the threshold for the number of
signatures needed.

I have never subscribed to the notion peddled by Labour that because Mr Cameron
is an Old Etonian a€˜toffa€[TM] he cana€[TM]t understand what Labour
patronisingly calls a€˜ordinary peoplea€[TM]. I think his problems are, indeed,
founded elsewhere.

He takes, it seems, an entirely liberal, metropolitan view of politics. Worse,
he seems to be becoming less of a politician, and more like a general manager,
obsessed a€" as he always has been a€" with image and public relations.

As a result, he seems unable to engage with a large swathe of the public who
have strongly-held political convictions, because he has few himself.

For example: I dona€[TM]t think Mr Cameron realises the depth of anger in middle
England about the latest immigration scandal a€" the revelation that the Home
Office decided, without any consultation, to relax border checks. The shocking
fact that foreigners entering Britain were not vetted has understandably made
the public feel betrayed by a government which has deliberately left the country
vulnerable to criminals and, worse, terrorists.

Then there is Europe. I dona€[TM]t think Mr Cameron understands the fury of
voters a€" questioning why we continue to be a part of an institution that is
increasingly inept, corrupt and anti-democratic.

On Monday, Mr Cameron said the alternative to the European Union for Britain was
to be like Norway, which is subject to every rule imposed by Brussels but
powerless to influence those rules. What on earth is wrong with being like
Norway a€" a happy, prosperous, advanced, independent nation?

If such a fatuous analogy is the best the Prime Minister can do to try to
promote his vision of Britaina€[TM]s relationship with Europe, then the game is
certainly up.

Above all, I dona€[TM]t think he understands how angry people are about the
worsening state of the economy. Initially there was strong support for public
spending cuts because people realised just how wasteful Labour had been. But he
has frittered away that goodwill by not having a growth strategy to counter the
necessary slashing of public spending.

Unemployment now threatens to give Labour a trump card, because neither the PM
nor Chancellor George Osborne seems to have a clue how to reverse the trend.

Thus we have a void where strong political leadership ought to be. There is no
clear sense of where Britain is going, or of how the Prime Minister plans to
pull Britain out of this slump.

Several political pundits have compared David Cameron with Harold Macmillan: not
because of their image as Old Etonian toffs, but because Macmillan saw his role
as prime minister in the Sixties as presiding over the management of decline. I
fear Mr Cameron has settled for a similar path. This is simply not good enough.

Taking a firm lead to improve the economy, or to enforce national security at
our borders, or to demand a new relationship with Europe, all entail
confrontation.

Also, it would mean that Mr Cameron would have to assert Conservative principles
over the small minority of Lib Dems who have contrived to dictate terms in a
government, as well as upsetting the deluded pro-Europeans who have brought a
continent to its knees.

Perhaps Mr Cameron is so careless of public opinion because he sees Labour, led
by the uninspiring figure of Ed Miliband, as no threat to his ambitions to
retain power. I fear, though, he is profoundly wrong. Labour is deftly moving to
capture some of what should be Tory ground.

Party strategists have noted the way mainstream public opinion is going and are
assiduously trying to mould their policies to move with it. Douglas Alexander,
the shadow foreign secretary, has already sought to outflank the Tories on
Europe by talking about the need to safeguard Britaina€[TM]s sovereign powers.

Other Labour figures have talked of the aspirations of the white working class
having to be considered with regard to immigration and welfare policies.
Crucially, Labour is far more popular with women than the Conservatives are.

However, the truth is that Labour, because of their policies while in power, are
hypocrites when they attack Tory immigration policy, hypocrites when they attack
government economic policy, and hypocrites when they attack Mr Camerona€[TM]s
position on Europe.

But we should never forget that Labour managed to win 258 seats in the 2010
general election despite the fact that the Labour governmenta€[TM]s wholesale
destruction of the British economy was fresh in votersa€[TM] minds.

Tragically, because the country is in the middle of austerity cuts and all too
quickly forgetting this, Ed Milibanda€[TM]s electoral chances are now being
boosted. Labour also is a magnet for the many disillusioned Lib Dems.

Meanwhile, Ukip, with its strong Tory, anti-Europe views, is attracting an
increasing amount of support from disaffected Conservative voters.

If Mr Cameron does not make a visible effort to articulate the hopes and fears
of the public, and start leading them towards better days rather than just
managing mediocrity, he will hand the next election to Labour on the proverbial
plate.

THIS CUNNING PLAN...

A couple of weeks ago the Prime Minister said he would stop overseas aid to
countries that opposed homosexual equality. Uganda and Ghana have reacted by
expressing outrage and told him where he can put his money.

This has made me wonder whether Mr Camerona€[TM]s comment was a cunning ruse to
reduce our controversial _612bn aid budget a€" appeasing traditional
Conservatives a€" while, at the same time, appearing to be even more right-on
than ever. Who would put such a trick past him?

* Questions about Mr Camerona€[TM]s poor leadership followed alleged derogatory
remarks by Tory backbencher Patrick Mercer. Among a tirade of abuse was the
assertion that Dave was the worst politician since Gladstone. If he really
believes thata€[TM]s the case, history teaching must be even poorer than I
thought.

Gladstone was the greatest PM of the 19th century. What he has done to merit
comparison with Dave is beyond me.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Water firm to defy 'ridiculous' EU

BYLINE: Giles Sheldrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 353 words


ONE of Britain's best-selling bottled water companies came out fighting last
night in the wake of the EU branding water unhealthy.

Highland Spring labelled a Brussels ban on widely held claims that drinking
water prevents dehydration as "ridiculous" and vowed not to yield to the threat
of prosecution.

The firm, based in Perthshire, highlights the hydrations benefits of water on
its website. And last night bosses insisted it was "business as usual".

Highland Spring chief executive Les Montgomery said: "It is right to mock this
EU directive which is based on a legal technicality and just another typical
example of Brussels bureaucracy." As exclusively revealed in the Daily Express
yesterday the EU issued scarcely believable regulations forbidding bottled water
sellers suggesting the product can stop the body drying out.

Following a three-year investigation involving 21 scientists from across the
continent, bureaucrats insisted they had seen no evidence to prove the link.

A European Food Safety Authority report stated that low levels of water in body
tissue was a symptom of dehydration rather than a risk factor that could be
controlled by drinking water.

It was signed off by European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso. The law
comes into force next month and now anyone defying the diktat could face up to
two years in jail.

However, Highland Spring continues to state on its website: "If you don't top up
the water level in your body, you'll quickly start to become dehydrated."

Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall, who sits on the European Parliament's Public
Health Committee, said: "I applaud Highland Spring for their robust and entirely
reasonable stand."

Ministers have questioned the wisdom of the regulations but have not ruled out
the potential for prosecutions.

A Department of Health spokesman said: "Of course water hydrates. While we
support the EU in preventing false claims about products, we need to exercise
common sense as far as possible." Highland Spring has been bottling water since
1979. Now owned by Arab billionaire Mahdi al-Tajir, the company last year sold
77 million gallons of water.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Best-selling water

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brussels orders Britain to let in more migrants from around the world

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 598 words


EUROCRATS ignited outrage last night by ordering Britain to open its doors to a
fresh wave of mass immigration from around the world.

In a highly provocative diktat from Brussels the European Commission urged the
EU's 27 member nations to admit millions more newcomers from beyond Europe's
borders and adopt welcoming "migrant-centred" policies.

"To ensure prosperity, Europe must become a more attractive destination in the
global competition for talent," said a document from the EU's ruling body.

It also made clear that new measures to "facilitate and organise legal
immigration" to EU nations from eastern Europe, Asia and a string of North
African countries were already on the way.

The astonishing open-door border policy, outlined in a "renewed EU migration
strategy" published by the Commission, triggered a furious backlash in Britain
yesterday.

Euro-MP Gerard Batten, the UK Independence Party's immigration spokesman, said:
"This is the EU calling for yet more migration. Many of those migrants will
gravitate to the UK.

"These migrants will either take jobs, thus making our unemployment situation
worse, or end up on benefits costing the state even more money."

Tory MP Philip Hollobone said: "Most British people will be absolutely horrified
by this latest proposal from the European Commission.

"It flies in the face of their fundamental concern that, as a country, we are
already full up and there is no space for any more migrants.

"This is a threat to open the floodgates."

Sir Andrew Green, of the pressure group MigrationWatch, said: "This document is
gobbledygook. The only good news is that we are not part of their visa system."

But Eurocrats claimed that more immigration into Europe was needed to help boost
the continent's economy.

"The EU needs to boost its relationships with non-EU states to better reap the
mutual benefits migration can bring," said the migration strategy document
published in Brussels.

It claimed that a new border policy was needed following the Arab Spring
political upheaval in North Africa and the Middle East this year.

Among proposals in the strategy was a series of new "Mobility Partnerships" to
be offered to the EU's immediate neighbours and Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt.

"These partnerships are focused on facilitating and organising legal migration,
effective and humane measures to address irregular migration, and concrete steps
towards reinforcing the development outcomes of migration," the document said.

"Concluding visa facilitation and readmission agreements are to be part of these
partnerships," the document added.

Among the aims was to "make EU action more migrant-centred, with the aim of
empowering migrants and strengthening their human rights in countries of origin,
transit and destination."

The document is bound to trigger concerns in Whitehall that the EU is ready to
wreck the Coalition's drive to curb immigration to Britain.

Ministers have pledged to cut annual net immigration from around 200,000 a year
at present to "tens of thousands" a year. But campaigners are warning that
Britain's population will exceed 70million within 16 years if current trends
continue.

?More than nine out of 10 immigrants living in the UK have settled in England,
according to a MigrationWatch report published yesterday. Only seven per cent of
newcomers to Britain head for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

The huge influx has contributed to England's status as the sixth most-crowded
country in the world.

In a league table of population density included in the report, England came
behind Bangladesh, Taiwan, South Korea , Lebanon and Rwanda.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Best of enemies... David Cameron and Angela Merkel agree to differ at a
news conference in Berlin yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GERMANS DECLARE WAR ON OUR £

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 466 words


BRITAIN will soon be forced to scrap the pound and join the euro, one of
Germany's most senior figures said yesterday.

In a chilling threat to UK sovereignty, German finance minister Wolfgang
Schauble predicted that all Europe would one day use the single currency. "It
will happen perhaps faster than some in the British Isles currently believe," he
said. His sinister warning followed the emergence of a secret German plan to
build a powerful new economic government for the eurozone and block an EU
referendum in Britain.

A leaked German foreign ministry memo detailed plans for a new European Monetary
Fund. It also claimed the EU's treaty could be altered to centralise more power
without triggering a vote.

In a further sign of growing German supremacy within the EU, David Cameron was
yesterday rebuffed by Chancellor Angela Merkel in talks over how to tackle the
euro crisis.

Last night British opponents of the EU were horrified by the bellicose threat to
Britain's economic independence. Tory MP Peter Bone said: "I would be happy to
have a bet with the German finance minister that the euro will disappear before
the pound. It is a completely absurd suggestion that will never happen."

Fellow Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "It is a tragedy that a continent
of millions of hard-working people is run by clowns like this."

And UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "This German bullying is
deeply unpleasant and the sooner we leave the EU the better."

Frosty Dr Schauble, who has used a wheelchair since being shot in an
assassination attempt in 1990, is nicknamed "Dr Strangelove" in diplomatic
circles.

In his astonishing outburst yesterday, he insisted he "respected" Britain's
decision to remain outside the euro. But he claimed that the UK would ultimately
not be able to resist the tide of history.

His warning came amid a furious outpouring of anti-British sentiment in Berlin.
Top-selling newspaper Bild asked: "What is England still doing in the EU?" while
another paper branded Britain "the sick empire".

Dr Schauble's remarks came before the frosty meeting between Mr Cameron and Mrs
Merkel in Berlin yesterday. The German Chancellor rejected outright Mr Cameron's
opposition to a new EU-wide financial tax that would have a devastating impact
on the City of London.

And she refused to be persuaded by his call for the European Central Bank to
support the euro. Money markets took a dip after their failure to agree.

Despite smiles and protestations about their close "friendship", their awkward
body language at a news conference betrayed bitter differences.

Last night a YouGov poll for Prospect magazine showed 51 per cent of Britons
would vote to leave the EU in a referendum while only 32 per cent would vote to
stay in.

OPINION: PAGE 18

Germans try to kill off pound

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 19, 2011 Saturday 2:05 PM GMT

The dull bigotry of BBC Europhiles

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 268 words


There was a feeble gag on Radio 4 just now which imagined Nigel Farage, the UKIP
leader, protesting that Queen Victoria 'shouldn't have married a German'. In
Beebworld, obviously, anyone who criticises the EU is secretly motivated by
xenophobia. There was, though, a slight flaw in the joke, of which the
scriptwriters were evidently unaware. Nigel Farage is himself married to a
German.

Never mind, eh? Much easier to pretend that all Eurosceptics are Basil Fawlty
than to listen to what they're actually saying.I was reminded of a delicious
moment duringthe recent Spectator debate on leaving the EU, when a retired
French teacher in the audience evoked all the people who had fallen in past
European wars, and asked Freddie Forsyth how he'd feel if his grandchildren were
to face death in another such conflict. Freddie didn't catch the question. 'She
wants to know if you'd like your grandchildren to be killed,' boomed Rod Liddle,
the moderator - a pretty good summary of a particular strain of British
Euro-enthusiasm: self-righteous, aggressive and irrelevant.

Not all Euro-integrationists are like that, of course. Some are intelligent and
idealistic, and I am proud to number a few such among my friends. But I am
forever being struck by how many people who, in any other circumstance, would
consider themselves progressives, line up behind an anti-democratic and
backward-looking project whollyto flaunt their distaste for patriotism.

If you base your foreign policy around supporting things simply because you
don't like the people who oppose them, you end up - well, you end up in the mess
we're in now.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 19, 2011 Saturday 7:00 AM GMT

Highland Spring vows to defy EU rule on water labelling;
A leading British producer of bottled water yesterday refused to comply with a
new EU ruling which bans manufacturers from stating that drinking water can
prevent dehydration.

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

LENGTH: 337 words


Highland Spring described the edict as "ridiculous" and vowed to not to bow to
the threat of prosecution.

The company, based in Blackford, Perthshire, makes the claim in promotional
material on its website.

But following a three-year investigation, Brussels officials concluded that such
a statement could not be proven and banned it, meaning that anyone using the
claim could face a two-year jail term.

Highland Spring chief executive Les Montgomery said: "It is right to mock this
EU directive which is based on a legal technicality and just another typical
example of Brussels bureaucracy.

"It is a ridiculous ruling when we are in the midst of the current euro crisis:
Everyone knows water is essential for health.

"As far as we are concerned we will continue to champion bottled water as one of
the healthiest drinks available and the only beverage you need to hydrate as
part of a healthy lifestyle."

The ruling came after two German professors who advise food manufacturers on how
to advertise their products applied for the right to use the claim on labels in
order to test EU advertising rules.

They wanted to state that "regular consumption of significant amounts of water
can reduce the risk of development of dehydration" but the request was refused,
meaning that the ban will become law.

Highland Spring states on its website: "If you don't top up the water level in
your body, you'll quickly start to become dehydrated.

"As a general rule, you need about two litres of fluid a day just to maintain a
healthy level of hydration."

The company was applauded for refusing to enforce the latest EU regulation.

UK Independence Party deputy leader, MEP Paul Nuttall, said: "I applaud Highland
Spring for their robust and entirely reasonable stand.

"British business should not be cowed by the idiocies of Brussels and we in this
country should support them."

The Department of Health has urged common sense to be exercised but refused to
rule out the potential for prosecutions in the UK should the rules be broken.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Merkel skating on thin ice with her own electorate;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 179 words


UKIP leader Nigel Farage rightly points out that the euro debt crisis has led to
a German-dominated Europe but I doubt if that situation reflects the wishes of
the majority of the German people ("Crisis has led to 'a Europe ruled by
Germany' ", November 17).

Chancellor Angela Merkel is now skating on thin ice with her own electorate,
many of whom would rather have Deutschmarks in their pockets instead of dishing
out euros to the ailing economies of Greece and Italy.

The proposal of one of Mrs Merkel's allies, that a tax on the City of London
should be used to help bail out the eurozone, would be greeted with equal dismay
on this side of the Channel.

Such a tax has its merits but if levied it should be used to rebuild British
manufacturing as a source of employment.

A stronger British economy within a looser European confederation would be to
the benefit of all but since the selective protectionism and the immigration
controls required would fall foul of EU rules we can only hope for the speedy
death of the euro and our own liberation.

Jim Higgins, Maghull, Merseyside

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Daft hysteria over the EU's ruling on water and dehydration

BYLINE: Martin Robbinsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 903 words

ABSTRACT

The EU has not that said water isn't healthy, and it's ruling on the vexatious
claim that bottled water can prevent dehydration is perfectly sensible.

FULL TEXT

I was in a pub in Farringdon last night when a picture of the front page of The
Express materialized on a TV screen, screaming semi-literately that, "EU SAYS
WATER IS NOT HEALTHY." We swiftly neutralized the offending appliance, but
stupidity is highly contagious, and this morning an newborn EU myth oozed from
the presses, that the EU's European Food Standards Authority have ruled water to
be unhealthy. Youcouldntmakeitup.

Or maybe you could, because The Express headline is made up. The Mail's effort,
"Now barmy EU says you CAN'T claim drinking water stops dehydration," is more
accurate, but Steve Doughty writes obtusely, and his agenda is made pretty clear
by his choice of 'quotees'. Or perhaps I should say the Express's choice, since
Doughty apparently used the exact same people to get remarkably similar quotes
from.

Political comment comes from Euroskeptic Tory MEP Roger Helmer, and Euroskeptic
UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall, (full disclosure: my views on the EU fall somewhere
between 'huh' and 'meh'), while the two professors quoted are the same people
who submitted the claim in the first place, although you'd be hard-pressed to
tell from Doughty's copy. So that's a nice balanced range of opinion, although I
do appreciate the irony of Euroskeptics seeking the views of German food
scientists to attack European scientists daring to offer British people advice
about science.

(If you look at the date on the document I just linked to, you'll notice that
this was all published in February, which makes it remarkable that so many
journalists happened to leap on this story at the same time, completely
independently of each other, without anyone copying what anyone else did or
churnalizing each other in any way whatsoever).

So what about the actual claim? Well you can read the EU's ruling here (PDF),
and the first thing to note is that this isn't really a rule so much as a piece
of advice, which member states are free to interpret as they wish. The Express
finally admit this in the very last line of their hysteria, when they eventually
allow an EU spokesperson to get a line in edgeways: "This is a specific case
with specific characteristics. Either way the final decision is for member
states."

The specific health claim tested is outlined in the ruling:

The regular consumption of significant amounts of water can reduce the risk of
development of dehydration and of concomitant decrease of performance.

The claim wasn't submitted for a genuine product, but was created as a
deliberate 'test' exercise by the two professors, who were apparently already
unhappy with the European Food Standards Authority. The panel were well aware of
it's absurdity too, noting drily that "the proposed risk factors," the
conditions addressed by the hypothetical product, in this case water loss, "are
measures or water depletion and thus are measures of the disease (dehydration)."

Leaving that aside, there are two major problems with the claim: drinking water
doesn't prevent dehydration, and drinking-water doesn't prevent dehydration.

Firstly, "regular consumption" of water doesn't reduce the risk of dehydration
any more than eating a pork pie a day reduces the risk of starvation. If I drink
half a pint of bottled water while running through a desert in the blistering
sun, I'll still end up dehydrated, and if I drink several bottles today, that
won't prevent me from dehydrating tomorrow. The key is to drink enough water
when you need it, and you're not going to get that from any bottled water
product unless it's mounted on a drip.

Secondly, dehydration doesn't just mean a lack of water, or 'being thirsty';
electrolytes like sodium are important too. If salt levels fall too far, the
body struggles to regulate fluid levels in the first place. That's why hospitals
use saline drips to prevent dehydration in patients who can't take fluids
orally, and why people with diarhhoea are treated with salt-containing oral
rehydration fluids. Presumably the next big investigation at the Express will
expose the shocking waste of NHS money on needless quantities of saline
solution, when jolly old tap water would work just as well.

So the ruling seems pretty sensible to me, or at least as sensible as a ruling
can be when the claim being tested is vexatious in the first place. It's
accurate advice, and it prevents companies selling bottled water from making
exaggerated claims for their products, which is a good thing. They even have the
support of the British Soft Drinks Association, who tweeted just as this piece
was going live with the following statement:

The European Food Safety Authority has been asked to rule on several ways of
wording the statement that drinking water is good for hydration and therefore
good for health. It rejected some wordings on technicalities, but it has
supported claims that drinking water is good for normal physical and cognitive
functions and normal thermoregulation.

It's also an great opportunity to challenge received wisdom, and to make the
point that keeping the human body hydrated is about much more than just drinking
tap water when you're thirsty. Unfortunately, it seems a lot of journalists are
more interested in promoting second-hand hysteria than informing their readers.
Which is a bit sad.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 18, 2011
                                 First Edition

@ YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1110 words


No jobs? No industries The Coalition thinks that the recent poor figures in
youth unemployment are down to the euro crisis. They are not, they are down to
the fact that we no longer have industries that can absorb these people.

As a secondary school leaver in Nottingham in 1960, without any qualifications,
I was offered apprenticeships by no fewer than four major employers. These were
all "hands on" companies that took the vast majority of our year's school
leavers. I didn't fancy any of these, but as my father so succinctly put it:
"Don't think your going to sit on your ar** all day doing nothing." One week
later I was working at the local Co-op store as a retail assistant.

School friends went to the coalfields, or engineering, but we all had the
promise that if we didn''t like it, there was always something else.

The recent crisis is really about the belief by a previous Prime Minister that
we were now a "postindustrial society". Shame nobody told the Germans.

JOHN LAURENCE BOSTON, LINCOLNSHIRE Workers oppressed Christina Patterson''s view
("Time for the public sector to wake up", 16 November) sounds as reasonable as a
big spoonful of syrup, but is effectively a Thatcherite dream: the creation of a
world where workers are so grateful simply to have a job that pay-freezes,
pension devaluations and the erosion of hard-won rights are accepted as
inevitable. Workers, know your place!

DAVID SCOTFORD BURY ST EDMUNDS, SUFFOLK.

The planned strike has been provoked by the latest attack on public servants.
Already hit with huge job losses and a pay freeze, they now face a big increase
in contributions and a reduction in benefits for the pension they will have
worked hard for.

PAUL KURLAND BILLERICAY, ESSEX Congratulations to Christina Patterson for her
brilliant article - one with such logical argument and common sense as I had
thought were lost forever in this strange fantasy-ridden 21st-century Britain
where people find it increasingly difficult to take personal responsibility for
their actions, with corresponding difficulty in determining the difference
between right and wrong.

ALAN THOMAS LONDON SW19.

Who are you calling stupid? Amol Rajan believes the views of much of the public
are, "stupid and myopic" (Free View, 17 November). Surely i should be above
publishing this sort of condescending tosh. Perhaps the public are attracted to
UKIP because the party has policies, unlike the Tories, Labour and the Lib Dems,
whose raison d''être is solely to attain power.

MARK CASE KINGSTEIGNTON, DEVON Bloodthirsty anthem So, Tony Newton wants our
National Anthem to have something "more uplifting, akin to La Marseillaise"
(letter, 16 November).

Does he really want to exult in the rumbling of the invading army, come to slit
the throats of our sons and wives? Or take up arms against the tyrannical foes
and water the furrows of our fields with their foul blood? Uplifting? Degrading
rather. Utterly bloodthirsty and barbaric. I would prefer something more
civilised.

GEORGE LOCKWOOD MARCH, CAMBRIDGESHIRE Smoke at your peril If you are eating a
sandwich or a packet of crisps while driving a policeman can stop you and charge
you with driving without due care and attention. So why is it not against the
law to smoke a cigarette? PAUL CHARD RYE, EAST SUSSEX MORE COMMENT on
independent.co.uk @YOUR VIEW TEXTS, TWEETS AND EMAILS society". Shame nobody
told the Germans.

JOHN LAURENCE BOSTON, LINCOLNSHIRE No jobs? No industries The Coalition thinks
that the recent poor figures in youth unemployment are down to the euro crisis.
They are not, they are down to the fact that we no longer have industries that
can absorb these people. Bloodthirsty anthem So, Tony Newton wants our National
Anthem to have something "more uplifting, akin to La Marseillaise" (letter, 16
November).

Congratulations to Christina Patterson for her brilliant article - one with such
logical argument and common sense as I had thought were lost forever in this
strange fantasy-ridden 21st-century Britain where people find it increasingly
difficult to take personal responsibility for their actions, with corresponding
difficulty in determining the difference between right and wrong.

Workers oppressed Christina Patterson''s view ("Time for the public sector to
wake up", 16 November) sounds as reasonable as a big spoonful of syrup, but is
effectively a Thatcherite dream: the creation of a world where workers are so
grateful simply to have a job that pay-freezes, pension devaluations and the
erosion of hard-won rights are accepted as inevitable. Workers, know your place!
Does he really want to exult in the rumbling of the invading army, come to slit
the throats of our sons and wives? Or take up arms against the tyrannical foes
and water the furrows of our fields with their foul blood? ALAN THOMAS LONDON
SW19.

As a secondary school leaver in Nottingham in 1960, without any qualifications,
I was offered apprenticeships by no fewer than four major employers. These were
all "hands on" companies that took the vast majority of our year's school
leavers. I didn't fancy any of these, but as my father so succinctly put it:
"Don't think your going to sit on your ar** all day doing nothing."One week
later I was working at the local Co-op store as a retail assistant. Uplifting?
Degrading rather. Utterly bloodthirsty and barbaric. I would prefer something
more civilised.

DAVID SCOTFORD BURY ST EDMUNDS, SUFFOLK. GEORGE LOCKWOOD MARCH, CAMBRIDGESHIRE
The planned strike has been provoked by the latest attack on public servants.
Already hit with huge job losses and a pay freeze, they now face a big increase
in contributions and a reduction in benefits for the pension they will have
worked hard for. School friends went to the coalfields, or engineering, but we
all had the promise that if we didn''t like it, there was always something else.
Who are you calling stupid? Amol Rajan believes the views of much of the public
are, "stupid and myopic" (Free View, 17 November). Surely i should be above
publishing this sort of condescending tosh. Perhaps the public are attracted to
UKIP because the party has policies, unlike the Tories, Labour and the Lib Dems,
whose raison d''être is solely to attain power.

The recent crisis is really about the belief by a previous Prime Minister that
we were now a "postindustrial Smoke at your peril If you are eating a sandwich
or a packet of crisps while driving a policeman can stop you and charge you with
driving without due care and attention. So why is it not against the law to
smoke a cigarette? PAUL CHARD RYE, EAST SUSSEX PAUL KURLAND BILLERICAY, ESSEX
MARK CASE KINGSTEIGNTON, DEVON MORE COMMENT on independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Immigration: A warped debate

BYLINE: Jim Jepps

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1029 words


Sometimes politics in Britain can be pretty dispiriting, and never more so than
when we're talking about immigration. I expect the Conservatives to reach for
the dog whistle on this, especially when David Cameron is the man behind the
morally repulsive 2005 election slogan "Are you thinking what we're thinking?" I
also expect the Liberal Democrats to sit there and watch their coalition
partners do whatever they please. After all, they don't want to jeopardise those
comfy Cabinet seats do they?

However, it's difficult to forgive the sight of excited Labour frontbenchers
licking their lips and rubbing their hands together as they relish the
opportunity to attack the government from the right on immigration. The orgasmic
bliss on their faces as they pose as the toughest, meanest gang in town is
something not easily forgotten. The idea that Theresa May is soft on immigration
is frankly bizarre. It's only weeks since she was in hot water over "cat-gate,"
in which she stole wholesale an anecdote from Ukip leader Nigel Farrage to
attack the Human Rights Act over an "illegal immigrant" who was allowed to stay
in this country because he owned a cat. Utterly wrong of course - the man was
not an illegal immigrant, the Human Rights Act had nothing to do with the case
and, most damning of all, the ownership of a cat was actually one of a number of
regularly used proofs that his long-term relationship was real. Sadly while
May's Cabinet colleague Ken Clarke thought her outburst "laughable" and
"child-like" the effect of the Tory and Labour approach to migrants is far more
serious. Generally the anti-immigrant oratory is not aimed at ending immigration
but ensuring that immigrants are marginalised while they are here. Polish
workers were never in danger of being thrown out of the country en masse during
the height of the anti-Pole rhetoric, but they did directly suffer from the
almost daily beasting in the press distancing them from their workmates and the
communities in which they live. Moving away from the media narrative on the
current border control scandal and towards the facts - the so-called relaxation
of border controls was actually a targeting scheme. Yet the media are determined
to portray this as a relaxation. The change resulted in an increase in the
number of firearms seized - which would have to be regarded as a good thing. Due
to Labour's bombastic approach we can look forward to this government bending
over backwards to prove it hates foreigners so that no-one, but no-one, can
accuse them of being soft on immigration. All the while this is legitimising the
far-right. You don't hear the expression "global citizen" much these days, but
the concept is a good one. We should reject the idea that someone is worth more
or less depending on which side of a line on a map they were born. As the Green
Party put it earlier this year, "Everyone is equal no matter what the colour of
their passport." Unison general secretary Dave Prentis said: "The problem with
migration is not migrant workers but greedy and exploitative employers, unfair
migration laws and a lack of support for migrant workers and their families.
Unison believes that migrants have the same rights as all other workers - to be
treated fairly, with dignity and with respect." While you hear the argument
sometimes that migrant workers are used to undercut wages and divide the
workforce, the answer to exploitation cannot be to crack down on the exploited.
Where divisions exist they stem from the constant treatment of immigrants as
some kind of problem despite the evidence that migrant workers make an
invaluable contribution to the country. Immigrants are blamed as a strain on the
health service, yet the NHS would collapse overnight if it were not for the
migrant workers who form its essential backbone. Immigrants are blamed for
taking "British" jobs or housing or school places without once recognising what
migrants are giving us every single day, including creating jobs, building
houses and teaching our kids. We can see this most clearly when we look at the
damage restricting immigration controls has done to the economy. The Campaign
for Science and Engineering (Case) has raised concerns, saying: "Government
proposals to drastically limit the settlement rights of migrants coming into the
UK could seriously damage the country's science and engineering base." Case
director Imran Khan said: "When the immigration cap was imposed we had to fight
pretty hard to warn the government of the damage that it could do to science and
engineering ... The government is effectively saying to the world's top
scientists: 'Well, you can come and work here - but we'll be kicking you out
after five years.' "That's not nearly enough for the kind of long-term research
that the UK has built its reputation on and it will mean that we are not even
considered as a venue by the world's best talent." Even the dreaded City of
London Corporation is not best pleased with the coalition's approach. It
published a research report this week which argues that "businesses have faced
direct additional costs in adhering and adapting to changing migration policy"
with the greatest cost falling on small businesses. It says that government
policy has "resulted in businesses postponing or delaying expansion and growth
plans." Of course some companies are happier. The New York Times has highlighted
how the outsourcing of immigration controls has led to gross injustice, deaths
and misery for some and big profits for others. They describe how a "handful of
multinational security companies" in the US, Australia and Britain have made big
money locking up adults and kids whose only crime is to be the wrong side of a
line. By allowing the debate to always be defined by how much we want to curb
the right of movement we have handed those who divide us from each other one of
their most powerful tools. It's time we took the debate back by insisting that
we all deserve equality no matter where we are from. The sad fact is that
immigration controls under this and previous governments have consistently
worked against the interests of the poor, both domestic and imported.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Jail threat on water

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 92 words


BUSINESSES who claim that drinking water prevents dehydration could see bosses
jailed for up to two years under a barmy new EU ruling.

Brussels bureaucrats say there's NO evidence to prove the link following a
three-year probe.

A new directive banning any boast on bottles of water will be introduced in the
UK next month. Earlier this year the European Food Standards Authority refused
to back claims that significant amounts of water reduce dehydration risk.

Last night UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall said: "This makes the bendy banana law look
positively sane."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Jail threat on water

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 55 words


BUSINESSES who claim drinking water prevents dehydration could see bosses jailed
for two years under EU rules.

Brussels bureaucrats say there's no evidence to prove the link - so from next
month water bottle boasts will be banned in the UK.

Last night UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall said: "This makes the bendy banana law look
positively sane."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Crisis has led to 'a Europe ruled by Germany'

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 350 words


FAILURE to solve the euro debt crisis has led to the rise of a "Germandominated
Europe", UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage told Euro MPs yesterday.

He claimed a lack of leadership by top European Union bureaucrats had forced
German Chancellor Angela Merkel to take charge of the floundering drive to
tackle economic turmoil. Their collective failure had produced something which
people "had spilled blood to stop", he said.

During a debate in the European Parliament, Mr Farage savaged the dithering by
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, Economic Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn, European Council President Herman Van Rompuy and Jean-Claude Juncker,
the Luxembourg Prime Minister who is chairman of the eurozone group of EU
countries.

The MEP asked them: "Who is in charge? None of you have any democratic
legitimacy for the roles you hold.

"Into this vacuum steps Angela Merkel, and we are now living in a
Germandominated Europe, something this European Union was supposed to stop."
Addressing Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Farage added: "I don't want to live in a
German-dominated Europe but you played a role."

He said Europe's leaders had had the Greek Prime Minister "removed and replaced
by a puppet government", then "you decided Silvio Berlusconi has to go and
replaced him with Mario Monti, a former commissioner and fellow architect of
this disaster, who is not even a member of parliament".

Mr Farage continued: "It's like being in an Agatha Christie novel and waiting to
see who will be bumped off next - except that we all know who the villains are."
In a right of reply, a furious Mr Juncker - stabbing the air with his finger -
attacked those he said were using the debate to score points along political
lines, and discussing the merits or otherwise of Mrs Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy - the duo making the running in the eurozone crisis.

Mr Juncker complained he was only given five minutes to respond to points raised
by MEPs, some of whom, he said, had used the debate to address areas they wanted
to address, and not the issue on the agenda of "economic governance".

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ukip leader Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Reply: Response: Far from growing, UK rightwing extremism may be on the wane:
The far right is in chaos, and it's unlikely both the BNP and EDL will survive
for long, say Matthew Collins and Sunder Katwala

BYLINE: Matthew Collins and Sunder Katwala

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 522 words


You report on new research from the thinktank Demos, where researchers
"persuaded more than 10,000 followers of 14 parties and street organisations in
11 countries to fill in detailed questionnaires" ('We're at a crossroads in
history: either we fight or hate and division will win', 7 November).

This tells us more than ever before about what motivates online engagement with
far-right movements, including the BNP and English Defence League. But this
innovative method of research does not - indeed cannot - reveal anything about
whether their support generally is growing.

You state that the "far right is on the rise across Europe". Whatever the
situation in the rest of Europe, the far right is not on the rise in the UK.
Both the BNP and EDL are in a state of chaotic collapse. The BNP is crippled
with debt. The party denies that it uses funds available to Nick Griffin as an
MEP for national party work, but some believe it could not function otherwise.
The EDL is seen as a greater contemporary threat, but its influence may have
peaked too.

You note that the EDL "struggles to muster more than a few hundred supporters
for demonstrations" and it has shrunk online too. Hope Not Hate's monitoring
shows that the EDL had more than 80,000 online supporters on Facebook before the
massacre in Norway. After killer Anders Breivik's online engagement with the
group led to its temporary suspension, the EDL has failed to rebuild this level
of interest, which currently stands at 18,700. Many had joined with one click of
the mouse - over 11,000 in one day when the EDL successfully exploited Anjem
Choudary's idiotic poppy-burning stunt - but were not engaged enough to return.

Nick Griffin's BNP troubles are well known; the factional fight engulfing the
EDL is not. This pits the EDL "Infidels" faction, strongest in the north,
against EDL activists from the south and the Midlands. The Infidels hark back to
the street fascism of the 1980s, working closely with the remnants of the
National Front. This disrupts the EDL strategy of maintaining a moderate facade,
claiming to oppose Islam without supporting racism or violence. A Newcastle
meeting to resolve differences last month collapsed into a street fight.

It is unlikely that both the BNP and EDL will survive for long. Disaffected
members of both the EDL and BNP are planning to form a new group from the
wreckage, and hope to link up with the English Democrats and fringe elements of
Ukip, though it is difficult to see how any new populist party could escape
these poisonous roots.

None of this is cause for complacency. The chaotic failures of far-right
movements does not mean that the grievances they exploit have gone away. As you
report, the Demos research finds culture, not economics, has driven far-right
populism. Mainstream parties must address issues of identity and belonging, as
well as opportunity and economics. But there is no reason to gloomily accept
that the extremists are winning.

Matthew Collins is a researcher for Hope Not Hate and author of Hate: My Life in
the British Far Right. Sunder Katwala is director of British Future

matthew@hopenothate.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 17, 2011
                                 First Edition

Why Ukip could be a true scourge of the Tory Party;
FreeView from the editors at i

BYLINE: Amol Rajan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 430 words


In his seminal book The Progressive Dilemma, the historian David Marquand
lamented the splitting of the centre-left vote in Britain. The existence of both
the Liberal Party (later the Liberal Democrats) and Labour had ripped asunder
the country's centre-left majority, bequeathing a Tory-dominated 20th century.

This split was painfully evident during the recent referendum on electoral
reform. Though Labour joined the Lib Dems in proposing a switch to the
alternative vote, a seemingly endless procession of Labour dinosaurs made the
conservative case for retaining the current system. This was probably crucial in
dashing hopes for change.

Marquand's analysis is right about the past century. Three-party politics
scarred the centre-left.What's interesting about Westminster's current
configuration is that four-party politics is on the way, and will probably scar
the centre-right.

Ukip - a "libertarian, non-racist party seeking Britain's withdrawal from the
European Union" - is the product of civil war in British conservatism during the
1980s, one victim of which was Margaret Thatcher's reign as Prime Minister.

Europe divided Thatcher's Tory Party into a soft, modernising faction and a
harder, resistant one. The modernisers won the Tory Party.

The resistant bunch deserted it. As the writer Peter Oborne put it recently, "
Ukip is in reality the Conservative Party in exile". That is one reason why it
now regularly achieves 7 per cent in national polls.

Ukip has policies far beyond Europe, and its members are generally patriotic,
pinstriped types. Their views on immigration are stupid and myopic, but that is
true of much of the public. As the whole European federalist project
disintegrates, Ukip will appear prescient, and voters will give them credit.

This will damage the Tories in two ways. First, by depriving them of crucial
votes in marginal constituencies; and second, by pulling the Tories away from
the centre ground, where elections are won.

It follows that anyone who thinks of themselves as centre-Left, including all
Labour and Lib Dem voters, has an enormous incentive to strengthen and promote
Ukip. I have a feeling that, disgruntled at the manner of his departure from the
Cabinet and the tedium of backbench life, Liam Fox might fancy switching to Ukip
if offered its leadership.

Though barely noticed, the progressive dilemma has acquired a tenacious sibling
across the political divide. In the 21st century, the conservative dilemma will
be disastrous for conservatism. twitter.com/amolrajan

Liam Fox might fancy switching to Ukip if offered its leadership

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

Occupy movement: Critics have their say

BYLINE: Nigel Farageguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 837 words

ABSTRACT

Nigel Farage, James Barty, Dan Hodges: Occupy is wrong to attack the bankers -
it should focus on the EU and politicians, and be more self-critical, say our
panel

FULL TEXT

Nigel Farage: 'It's the FSA and its plethora of EU bodies that's failed'

I have been unsure, from the start, what the Occupy movement was all about,
although I did suspect that it was just fatuous, anti-enterprise, left-wingery.

However, an evaluation by the new Exeter section of Occupy, helped me to see
that the movement is not merely and simplistically anti-capitalist, and made me
prick up my ears.

Nevertheless, it seems even more the case to me, that Occupy - in looking to
besiege the stock exchange - has chosen the wrong target.

The banking collapse was caused, more than anything, by bad government policy
and the total failure of bad regulation, rather than by greed: even if mighty
politico-commercial influences pushed governments into doing what they did, that
is another matter - a way of manipulating markets rather than participating
properly in them - and was not the fault of the stock exchange.

It is the Financial Services Authority, and its plethora of EU regulatory
agencies, that has failed; not the many, generally well-run firms making up the
UK's financial services industry.

The main targets for Occupy should be the EU Central Bank and the EU commission,
which have not only blundered economically, but are now prepared to destroy
democracy itself in order to remain in control.

When an Occupy demo in the centre of Frankfurt makes world news, I shall hurry
to join in.

· Nigel Farage is leader of the UK Independence party

James Barty: 'The UK's financial sector is best in class'

The Occupy movement would have us believe that the financial sector is to blame
for all the problems we currently face and so we should tax it, regulate and
shrink it. Are they right?

No. For a start, while bankers did play a big role in the crash, they were not
the only culprits. Politicians, regulators and central bankers have done a great
job in offloading the blame. The signs were there for the regulators and the
central bankers in terms of rapid credit growth and exploding personal sector
and bank balance sheets, but they chose to ignore it. Politicians, particularly
the last Labour government, more than spent the growth dividend without ever
asking if it was sustainable.

In the UK punishing the financial sector runs two large risks. Firstly it
threatens the recovery. Regulatory proposals to raise equity ratios and
ringfence the retail banks are reasonable in principle, but if you ask banks to
be more cautious and raise more capital they are not going to lend. The UK needs
a working banking sector, because that is how the bulk of our SMEs fund
themselves and the best chance of success for the chancellor's credit easing is
for it to encourage the banks to lend.

As for the financial sector as a whole, it is one of the few areas where the UK
is best in class. That is why all the large investment banks have a big presence
in London, why we have some of the biggest and best hedge funds and why the
world uses our accountancy and law firms. Shrink it if you want to but then
explain to the builder, restaurant owner, hotel manager and cleaners who benefit
from the income they create why they have to take a cut in their living
standards.

· James Barty is senior adviser on financial policy at Policy Exchange

Dan Hodges: 'Now the means is the end'

If the Occupy movement didn't exist, the banking community would have to invent
them. Actually, I'm not sure they haven't: "The St Paul's protest - brought to
you by friends of Lehman brothers".

Last year a poll on public attitudes towards the bankers showed 76% support for
capping bonuses. A poll conducted last week showed 20% support for the Occupy
movement. The St Paul's "occupiers" have so far managed to alienate
three-quarters of those sharing their antipathy towards the devil's horseman of
the Square Mile. They're certainly having an impact.

They've also claimed some scalps. The canon, chaplain and dean of St Paul's have
all resigned. Though it should be pointed out all three expressed support for
the protestors. As far as I'm aware not a single banker has so far resigned,
been sacked, or relinquished their bonus as a result of the campaign.

There are many who claim Occupy are "setting the agenda". Though they then tend
to concede they're not entirely clear what that agenda is. I'm not sure I agree.
I remain to be convinced that if it wasn't for 200 protestors ensconced on the
steps of St Paul's the eurozone crisis, savage coalition austerity measures or
total implosion of global capitalism would be passing us by without comment.

There was a time when the direct action movement argued the end justified the
means. No longer. Now the means is the end. Are our campaign objectives being
met? Do we even have any objectives? Doesn't matter.

Meanwhile the devils' horseman are laughing. All the way to the bank.

· Dan Hodges is contributing editor of Labour Uncut

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 15, 2011 Tuesday 1:36 PM GMT

The state is failing its duties. The British people will soon run out of
patience

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1476 words


There have been a couple of erudite reports recently that no doubt cost a great
deal of money to produce, and came to rather similar conclusions. One was
looking at the way in which the scale of the disorders and looting escalated,
particularly in London this summer; the other at the difficulty in maintaining
an atmosphere conducive to teaching in classrooms.

Their conclusion was broadly that if rules are not enforced then more and more
people will ignore them. As if anyone who has ever brought up children or
house-trained puppies, let alone commanded men at times of danger, could not
have told us that for nothing!

So I have some sympathy for the poor clergy at St Paul's. They have been rightly
condemned for their muddleheaded response to the layabouts on the steps of the
cathedral. Now the infection has spread westwards with an encampment disfiguring
Exeter Cathedral.

But for years there has been an ugly encampment in Parliament Square. If
Parliament cannot enforce decent conduct on its doorstep, who in office has any
right to criticise the hapless clergy for their inadequate response?

Come to that, for how long has public authority failed to deal with the property
thieves called squatters, or the so-called travellers who defy planning laws. Or
indeed with the squalid foreign criminals and fake asylum seekers living on
welfare and laughing at all attempts to throw them out, or even keep their
dependants out.

What we are seeing is a significant failure of the state to observe its side of
the social contract between the governors and the governed. The first duty of
the state is to secure its frontiers against unwelcome intruders. The second is
to uphold the right of its citizens to go peacefully about their business and go
freely on the Queen's highway. The state is failing in both.

In short, laws not enforced (and that includes the Companies Acts duties on
directors of banks). They are brought into disrepute and ignored.

In general we do not live in a lawless society that's heedless of its common
obligations. But the thieves, swindlers, cheats and hooligans are growing in
numbers, as they go unpunished.

Perhaps it is in part a concern about the failure of the state to honour its
obligations that has impelled so many decent people this year to demonstrate a
solidarity across the generations at the remembrance ceremonies across the
country.

I stood at the War Memorial on Friday for the civic service in the East Anglian
town where I live. There was utter silence at 11 o'clock. Children, mothers,
fathers, old men and young, experienced a solidarity which they clearly found
comforting and profound even as many were moved to tears.

On Sunday an even bigger crowd was there to witness the military parade and then
to cram into the packed parish Church. I asked one young women if she always
attended. "No," she said, "I have not been here since I was seven. This year I
don't know why, but I had to come." There were tears in her eyes.

Is there some connection between all these events? Are we unconsciously finding
some common ground on which, despite our differences, the decent folk of this
country can all stand and shame our leaders? I do not know, yet I cannot but
wonder why all these years after the two great wars, more and more of us feel
the need to come together in respect for those who fell in the wars to protect
us against our enemies.

...

Oh Dear! I had not realised until taking up blogging how many self-delusionists
there are wandering around unsupervised.

Now come along chaps. I did not make a forecast that Our Masters would succeed
in an attempt at a coup d' tat here. And I used the words "certainly not now".
But I did question who would be Brussels' man and how would they hope to get him
into office. I went on to say Brussels' hopes rest on a hung Parliament, a
Lib-Lab Coalition, and a need of help from Our Masters, who would then exact a
price for that help.

I am not as certain about the outcome of the 2015 election as some of those who
posted their confident forecasts. As I have written in the past I do think it
likely that the Lib-Dems will be punished at the polls, but that the
coalitionists will be given some sort of ticket by Mr Cameron and that some
others will defect to Labour for a similar arrangement in order to survive.

Mind you, it is not just that the authors of some posts either did not read, or
did not understand, what I wrote. Some of them were unaware of the coups against
Greece and Italy to secure Brussels' men into office as Prime Minister without
troubling about them being elected to Parliament. Alas, I did not have a
sensational scoop. It had all been reported in the papers and even on the BBC.

Happily there were a lot of grown ups who were aware of the world around us and
I was glad to see that davidlindsay, peteh, biatech, chaswarner, faustiesblog,
eurobot, alhamilton, Chris Wesson, randysddod, moraymint, veritas,rapscallion,
boudicca, robertson_james, Owen_Morgan, tommykid and more did follow my argument
well enough. I think Old Labour might have something in saying that Our Masters
might prefer Mandelson (who has already sworn his oath of allegiance to them)
but imposing a peer really would be a step too far.

I understand why darkseid should say, "no, no, no! Clegg installed by Brussels?
It's fantasy". All very well but until now it would have been only fantasy to
imagine two coups d'tat in a fortnight organised by the Groupe de Frankfort. I
doubt if they could get away with it here, but if they get Spain and Portugal
under their belts too their ambitions will no doubt grow.

Sadly, NonAlignedUK rather lost the plot too, saying that I was naive, stupid
and absent of any ideas. I do think he should read what I have written about the
initiative in drafting a new treaty which should be undertaken by the Prime
Minister. He might agree or disagree with it, but that proposal is there.

Then Sam Bennet had a terrible hissy-fit saying that my blog "rockets off the
scale of ridiculous". As Jim Good wrote, he is so "last fortnight", or as emmiem
put it "Lord Tebbit described events as they happened and david_in_rome
confirmed from there, 'yes, it happened'." I shall be kind to Sam Bennet and
assume that he has had no access to the newspapers, radio or TV news since
before Papandreou was replaced by Our Masters from Frankfort with Papademos.

Then although it seems that tepid cocoa has curdled and been put down the sink
we have a new poison pen poster. Or perhaps the same one, calling itself lennox
10. I am grateful to soysauce1 and crownarmourer for their remarks and to
steven_w who deplored these poison pen attacks (and was called a "thick clown"
for his pains), but we do have to understand that it is part of the sickness. It
is much the same with stalkers. We can only hope that they will receive the help
which they so obviously need.

Turning again to the rational comments, I noted a maturity of thought about the
prospects of a UKIP victory in 2015. There is, of course, the European Election
of 2014 which, as iansboy said, could be a game-changer. General Patton, a UKIP
supporter, offered some sage advice, saying that in 2015 electors should vote
for the 81 group of Tory MPs, as he will do for Zac Goldsmith, even if, like
him, they campaign elsewhere for UKIP.

Then rsmith advised me to defect to UKIP, but I think that pragmatist was right
to say that would be but a ten-day wonder. I am sure that I can do more inside
than outside the tent.

I am afraid that flyingscotsman is becoming a bit of a bore. However at the risk
of encouraging him, I should say that I have said over and over again that the
solution to the problem of our Parliament is quite simple. Just elect better
people. Yes, it would require rather more brains and effort than ranting on the
internet, but that is what has always worked in the past and could do so again
now. I am glad that steven w reminded us of that article in which Clegg declared
himself a "European" who believes that the "British need to be put back in our
places".

It seems likely to me that jonbw, himself a Labour Party member, spoke for many
others in saying he thought I was right about the EU and the euro, that Cameron
is a Blairite using Clegg as cover, and that the Eurosceptics in both his Party
and mine should more often make common cause. As soysauce wrote, those who said
that the euro would work still have not learned.

There is no doubt that catweazle spoke for many people in his comment on a
contribution from steve_london who had said that we would be better off ruled by
Our European Masters, "over my dead body". That was our reply in 1940 too.

Lastly my thanks to pedestrian blogger for his monumental put down of
david-sparks, whom he called a cause of embarrassment: "you make a fool of
yourself, you are regarded with contempt." Could not have put it better myself.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 15, 2011 Tuesday 10:00 AM GMT

Vote Match Republican Primaries tell you who you agree with - and you might not
like the results

BYLINE: By Tim Stanley

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 493 words


The Telegraph has just launched a new application that lets you find out which
Republican presidential candidate best matches your opinions and priorities.
These vote matching tools are useful, fun and frightening. Like me, you might
have to keep whatever result you get a secret. Just to be sure, I cleared my
internet history, erased my hard drive, poured turpentine over my laptop and
buried it in the back garden. I still don't feel entirely safe. The family
Rottweiler has been sniffing around the gravesite for the past half hour. Wotan
can smell the wrong.

This app is particularly useful because, after all these debates, it's still
tough to define each member of the Republican field. They confirm to certain
stereotypes (the flipper, the windbag, the crazy man, the sleaze and the angry
Pennsylvanian) but these don't necessarily match where they stand on the issues.
It was striking in the debate on Saturday just how philosophically flexible they
can be. Herman Cain plays the fiscal conservative, but he supported the bailout.
Rick Perry seems to be on the fence about building the fence. And Mitt Romney's
all over the place. Ron Paul is the only truly consistent candidate, but the New
World Order called this morning and told me I wasn't allowed to print that.

Therefore it's helpful to see where these men and women sit on specific
policies, and how they relate to you as a voter. The application is very simple
to use - just click here to be taken through to the page where you'll be quizzed
on subjects ranging from the economy to civil liberties. You'll get a chance to
say which subjects you think are the most important. Finally you'll be told who
you agree with most. Before you do anything, take a look at this page which
explains the project.

I love these things. I like to run the tool with honest answers first then, when
it produces an answer I don't like, I do it all over again with tailored
answers. I usually find it takes two or three goes to match my results to the
person I feel I ought to be voting for. That's how, in 2010, I managed to get
from UKIP to the Labour Party in just under two hours.

As for this vote matching tool, I'll be honest and say that the answer I came up
with was... Michele Bachmann. I'm surprised because I would have thought my
views on foreign policy were unorthodox enough to put me in the Ron Paul camp.
But I suspect that the part where I ranked my issues tilted the results towards
the Minnesota Congresswoman. This election, it's the economy, stupid.

For a person of my station, this is a humiliating result. I always did my best
to stay a cut above the Middle American conservatives: did a fellowship at
Harvard, went skiing in Aspen, made friends with a few of the richer Democrats,
even donated a little money to reseed the golf club green. But, despite all
this, the Daily Telegraph says that Michele Bachmann and me are ideological
bedfellows. It seems this blue blood is a red neck after all.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Bridge

BYLINE: Andrew Robson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 417 words


To see me talk though today's deal, go to The Times's website or The Times IPad
App.

What do you as South make of trick one, on today's 6? deal from a high stake
rubber at UKIP treasurer Stuart Wheeler's Chilham Castle. Try to deduce as many
inferences as you can.

Having opened 4?, West leads the two

of spades and East plays the queen. Do you think something fishy is going on?
For sure. East's queen of spades is consistent with a holding headed by the
queen, king-queen, or aceking-queen. The vulnerable West has opened at the
four-level and so must surely have at least one of the top spade honours.
Therefore West has underled (at least) his ace.

Why? Answer West is trying to put his partner on lead and his choice of the two
of spades (a suit preference card asking for the lower-ranking suit) makes it
clear he has a void club and is hoping for a ruff. West would hardly gamble the
ace-underlead if he had a likely trump trick (for if there was a spade trick,
there would be two defensive tricks: down one), so East rates to hold the king
of trumps (which declarer must hope is singleton or doubleton).

Declarer now has enough clues: East has the king of trumps and clubs are not
splitting. He should play to set up hearts and spurn the trump finesse. After
ruffing the spade, at trick two he ruffs a low heart, then cashes the ace of
trumps.

A disgruntled East's king of trumps falls. Declarer ruffs the second spade,
ruffs a second heart,

(1) Two-suited take-out, initially assumed to be minors (but could be hearts and
a minor).

(2) Partner will be at least 5-5 in his suits. Note that South rightly refrains
from mentioning his eight-card suit.

both following to reveal the 3-2 split, then plays queen and a third trump to
West.

Declarer ruffs West's spade return, crosses to his ace of clubs, cashes the ace
of hearts felling East's king and the suit is good. 12 tricks and slam made.

Note that failure to ruff a heart at trick two would not be fatal. Say declarer
instead leads a trump to the ace at trick two. East's king is felled and he now
ruffs the second spade with his last trump, ruffs a heart and plays queen of
trumps and a third trump to West. He ruffs West's spade return and cashes the
last trump to squeeze East in hearts and clubs (try it).

andrew.robson@thetimes.co.uk

Dealer: West, Vulnerability: East-West Rubber (Chicago) .7 5 ??AQ7542 ?KQ1042
?AKJ109842 ?J 9 ?J 10 9 ?-N WE S ?Q63 ?K106 ?K ?J98753 .??AQ875432 ?8 6 3 ?A 6
SW NE 4? 4NT(1) 5? 6?(2) End

Contract: 6?, Opening Lead: ? 2

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 13, 2011 Sunday

KNIFE YOUR FOES, DON'T BE A NICE GUY ... JOIN ANY PARTY TO GET ON

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS AND GLEN OWEN

LENGTH: 577 words


THE Cabinet's master of political black arts, Chris Huhne, has left a trail of
victims in his wake.

They include his own party leader Nick Clegg, Home Secretary Theresa May and,
allegedly, his ex-wife Vicky Pryce.

Now it is clear why he is so expert at hatching such cunning plans Z he has been
doing it for nearly 40 years.

In 1973, as a long-haired 19-year-old student of Philosophy, Politics and
Economics (PPE) at Magdalen College, Oxford, he gave a witty masterclass for
would-be political Machiavellis on how to 'stab' their rivals in the back.

An article he penned for the university magazine Isis reeks of the cynicism for
which Energy Secretary Mr Huhne, 57, has become renowned in Westminster. His
guide for would-be politicians said:

l 'Stab' your foes when you get the chance.

l Join whichever party offers the best chance of getting to the top.

l Don't go into politics if you are a 'nice guy'.

l Politicians are 'arrogant toadies'.

'The first weeks of Michaelmas are habitually punctuated by the puzzled cries of
political freshmen wondering just which party or group they ought to join,'
writes Mr Huhne, then political editor of Isis.

'The answer is simple lads: the one you'll get on best in.'

Warming to his theme, the thick-skinned Mr Huhne adds: 'Oxford politics is
superbly opportunist and extremely dirty. If you don't mind having mud liberally
smothered over you by your opponents . . . then go into politics. If you're a
nice guy who likes his mamma and his home comforts, you should stick to more
domestic affairs.'

He adds that he is 'speaking as one who has been knifed, stabbed or what you
will on too many occasions to enumerate'.

He is none too flattering about political student leaders at Oxford, saying 'the
vast majority are and will remain mediocre nonentities. Remember it's a game:
Play politics for students who haven't much else to do'.

Serious political wannabes should join the 'hacks world of Parliamentary
fantasy', the Oxford Union debating society, says Mr Huhne. 'Here you can
marshal your voters, count your chances, predict results, watch fallen stars,
and stab if anyone presents an exposed back. The imagination takes over; the
President is an absolute monarchy, the Librarian a Crown Prince, the Treasurer a
Lord High Chamberlain. All prance and frolic like the toadies they are.'

Mr Huhne upset Mr Clegg during the Lib Dem leadership contest when he was caught
out dubbing him 'Calamity Clegg'.

More recently he was accused of trying to smear Mrs May. He tipped off a
journalist that her controversial claim that an immigrant defied a deportation
order by arguing he had a right to stay with his pet cat was copied from UKIP
leader Nigel Farage. He also faces the risk of being prosecuted over claims that
he got his ex-wife to take speeding points on his behalf.

Mr Huhne's Oxford days were marked by radicalism. Also in 1973, he brandished a
park bench as part of a mob that smashed its way into a historic university
building in a protest over funding.

One of the students who participated said later: 'The ringleaders were all
members of the International Marxist Group. Chris wasn't actually a member as I
recall, but he was close enough to them to be trusted and be involved in the
action. He was very Left-wing at the time.'

Mr Huhne's Left leanings and wild antics Z he was also a member of the infamous
'Saraceno Set' drinking society Z were at odds with his privileged education at
elite Westminster School and the Sorbonne.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 13, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHAT ARE THE PM'S OPTIONS ON EUROPE?;
INSIDE POLITICS

BYLINE: Iain Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 770 words


What should David Cameron's strategy be in negotiating with Europe?

There are 27 states in the EU, but 10 are not in the eurozone. Rather than
standing on the sidelines, the Prime Minister should offer to lead that group,
to ensure that Franco-German efforts to stitch us up with a more closely
integrated Europe are resisted. At the moment, the Government appears to be
backing attempts to create a two-speed EU, but that would leave Britain isolated
and put vital national interests, such as the City of London, at risk.

What are the first steps?

For one thing, the integrationist Foreign Office needs a rocket put under it -
which would greatly encourage the PM's fractious party.

Next, via a combination of weighty speeches and behind-the-scenes diplomacy, Mr
Cameron should also start preparing the ground ahead of the potential
disintegration of the eurozone, and the resulting complete recasting of the EU
model.

Even if the attempt at forming a "turbo-core" is successful, countries that
remain outside (which could soon include those expelled from the single
currency) will look for a rallying point to ensure the EU is not simply the
creature of the French and Germans.

In either event, Mr Cameron would be well placed to lead the non-euro nations,
and even to negotiate a settlement founded on Europe being a free-trading
assembly of selfgoverning states. It could be the making of his premiership.

But can the Prime Minister control his party?

Mr Cameron used to say that one of his greatest achievements as leader was that
the Tories had not had the usual damaging row about Europe. He can no longer
make that claim.

Tory MPs are engaged in fraught arguments about what Britain's response should
be, and are busy lamenting ministers' hesitant approach. This is making party
management increasingly difficult, as MPs pressurise the Government to offer a
stronger lead.

Does Cameron have any leverage?

The PM has one significant advantage. His parliamentary party is now
overwhelmingly Eurosceptic, but there isn't unanimity about what MPs want on
Europe. The best estimate is that roughly a third favour full withdrawal, a
third favour semi-detachment and the radical repatriation of powers, and a third
back the leadership's "Wait and see, and don't offend the Lib Dems" approach.

It took only a few days for splits to open in the so-called "81 Group", named
after those who defied Mr Cameron and voted for a referendum on our relationship
with the EU. Rival groupings have since been established: the latest, a
cross-party initiative under rising star Andrea Leadsom, will draw up a list of
powers that could be returned.

How can Cameron keep both the Eurosceptics and Nick Clegg happy?

He can't. It is becoming increasingly apparent that Mr Cameron is trapped
between his Eurosceptic party and the Europhile Lib Dem leader. This was less of
a problem when Europe was perceived to be a second-tier issue, but it is now the
defining one.

Some of those close to Mr Cameron - such as his policy guru, Steve Hilton -
think he should worry less about satisfying the Lib Dems (who stand to be
annihilated in the event of an election) and embrace authentic, tough
Euroscepticism. George Osborne, the endlessly political pragmatist, urges
caution.

But with the French and the Germans careering towards treaty changes, a wave of
referendums looks inevitable. Britain could not avoid its own vote, along with
the renegotiation that MPs demand and Mr Clegg is sworn to resist. It is
perfectly possible that the Coalition could break apart.

Does this leave the Tories vulnerable to Ukip?

It has not escaped the notice of Downing Street that Ukip has been rising
steadily in the polls as the crisis builds: it is now hitting 7 per cent in some
surveys, only a point or so behind the Lib Dems. If a significant number of Tory
voters drain away, it could let Labour through in closely fought marginal seats.
Encouraged by his personal pollster, Andrew Cooper, the PM has recently adopted
a more Eurosceptic tone, to try to send a message of reassurance to voters
considering defection. It is difficult to see that being enough.

So, Labour must be well positioned to exploit the situation?

Hardly. Despite Ed Miliband urging Mr Cameron to show leadership, it is not
clear what he thinks British policy should be. The Labour leader is so scared of
looking remotely Eurosceptic - particularly given that his party is mostly
blindly pro-EU - that he has not capitalised on the fact that his old boss,
Gordon Brown, and his colleague Ed Balls were instrumental in keeping Britain
out of the euro.

¦ Iain Martin is a leading Conservative commentator

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 12, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ukip a dead cert?;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uk telegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Richard Eden; Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 125 words


The euro's troubles have provoked excitable talk about the UK Independence
Party's electoral future. Stuart Wheeler, its treasurer, is, however, realistic
about the present.

"The average age of a Ukip member is 72," the former Conservative Party
treasurer says at a party in the City. "Thousands of us are going to die every
year. Having said that, we are getting a lot of new, younger members." Ukip was
once dismissed by David Cameron as "a bunch of fruitcakes and loonies and closet
racists".

Wheeler, 76, appears to be warming to its eccentricities, if his neckwear at the
party is anything to go by. He was wearing a tie decorated with brightly
coloured frogs. "I'm wearing this tie to prove Ukip are not anti-French," he
jokes.

Edited by Richard Eden

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 12, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory high command aims to build the bionic Cam

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 787 words


READERS of a certain vintage will remember fondly the Seventies TV series The
Six Million Dollar Man. It was a lot of money in those days - before we were
familiar with billions, let alone the trillions that the euro bailout may
eventually run to. Anyway the idea was that an astronaut, Steve Austin, had
suffered severe multiple injuries in a bumpy landing. But rather than leaving
him permanently disabled the "Office of Scientific Intelligence" decided to
deploy cuttingedge technology to restore him to health.

Only there was a twist. The bionic implants given to Austin provided him with
enhanced, super-human capacity. In the words of the voiceover to the memorable
title sequence Austin was to be: "Better, stronger, faster." "Gentlemen, we can
rebuild him. We have the technology," intoned the narrator.

After the crash-landing of last month's Conservative EU rebellion, a similar
rebuilding operation is under way on David Cameron.Chief technologist is
Cameron's opinion pollster Andrew Cooper but all of his kitchen cabinet of
advisers are involved.

There has been a recognition among this circle that in his bid to "detoxify" the
Tory image and stay close to his Lib Dem coalition partners the Prime Minister
allowed a dangerous gulf to open up not just with his own grassroots membership
but also with a large swathe of the electorate. They want to heal that rift.

So there has already, for example, been a notable toughening-up in Cameron's
language about Europe. He is suddenly willing to be seen banging heads together
over the euro crisis and to speak openly about the prospect of that currency's
demise. Speaking to a business audience on Thursday the PM said: "If the leaders
of the eurozone want to save their currency then they, the governments and
institutions of the eurozone, must act now."

ON IMMIGRATION, too, Mr Cameron is sounding like a real Tory these days.
Annoyingly for his rebuilding team, Theresa May's dif-ficulty over border checks
has temporarily clouded the issue. But it did at least give the Prime Minister
the opportunity to lambast Labour's record in the Commons this week.

"We are having a lecture on responsibility from a party that trebled
immigration, let an extra 2.2 million people into our country, allowed everyone
from Eastern Europe to come here with no transitional controls, built up a
backlog of half a million asylum claims and made no apology about it," said
Cameron. "Even today, when the Leader of the Opposition was asked whether too
many people were let into this country, his answer was a very simple 'no'," he
raged, leaving nobody in any doubt that his answer would be "yes".

"There has certainly been a change in tone," says one of the 81 Tory Euro
rebels. "Now the key questions will be whether he keeps it up and what it leads
to." Shifts in the polls have been an important influence but not, oddly, shifts
between the Conservatives and Labour.

It is the fact that Ukip is on seven per cent while the Lib Dems are marooned on
about eight per cent that has changed the terms of trade. The former has drawn
most of its extra support from disenchanted former Conservatives and Cameron's
team needs to stem the flow.The latter no longer matters so much as most of its
erstwhile support has defected to Labour.

Cameron has 18 months in Downing Street under his belt now. He has some notable
achievements to his name - the toppling of Colonel Gaddafi and his handling of
the Bloody Sunday report, for instance. So the feeling that he cannot afford to
call the Lib Dem bluff in case an election ensues has abated. It is now
understood that the Lib Dems are on political death row and are most unlikely to
wish to bring forward the date of their execution.

Steady achievement over time is their only hope of recovery. And if they did
spark an election the Conservatives could expect to win at least 20 Lib Dem
seats and have a shot at an outright majority. There is also an understanding
that the next election may be more of a straight fight with Labour.

Ed Miliband appears to have dropped his "squeezed middle" idea and taken up the
slogan of the St Paul's protesters: "We are the 99 per cent." Recently he used
it against Cameron in the Commons, portraying himself as representing the 99 per
cent and Cameron the most privileged one per cent.

Such an attack offers both a challenge and an opportunity for Cameron. The
challenge is to avoid being seen to be on the side of the undeserving rich. The
opportunity is to emphasise that neither is he on the side of the undeserving
poor - Labour's Achilles' heel. But to take that opportunity Cameron must talk
and act tough on such issues as immigration, crime and welfare fraud. Better,
stronger, faster - that's the idea anyway.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWER: David Cameron getting fit
Picture: STEFAN ROUSSEAU/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 12, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU RULES TO SLASH HOUSE PRICES;
EU 'assault' puts UK homes at risk

BYLINE: Sarah Westcott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 462 words


A BID by the EU to restrict Britain's mortgage market would see house prices
plummet, experts warned yesterday.

The new rules would dry up funds and force hundreds of thousands of people to
sell up.

The glut of homes on the market would then see supply outstrip demand, causing
prices to crash.

Brussels bureaucrats want to bring the UK's crucial buy-to-let sector into line
with Continental practice. That would mean landlords could no longer get a
buy-to-let mortgage based on rental income.

Instead they would have to rely solely on their personal income. There are about
1.5million buy-to-let mortgages in the UK. Many landlords use second properties
to back up their pension.

A Ukip spokesman said last night: "It is outrageous that the EU should try to
dictate to lenders and borrowers the basis on which loans should be enacted.

"This unwarranted assault on the buy-to-let market will inevitably result in
less affordable rental housing. It will put the lives of 1.5million British
investors and their tenants into turmoil." The Building Societies Association
also spoke out against the move.

Paul Broadhead, head of mortgage policy, said: "If the EU goes down this route
lenders could be forced to change the way they underwrite buy-to-let mortgages.
In the worst case, people wouldn't have enough money to finance their buy-to-let
mortgages and the sector could potentially stop overnight.

"Three quarters of these buy-to-let landlords are individuals, couples and
families and if they cannot remortgage their properties they will have to sell,
creating an influx of property on to the market and potentially reducing
prices."

The EU draft directive is set to be voted on by MEPs early next year.

It comes just as Britain's housing market is rebounding, with average prices up
£2,000 last month.

The buy-to-let sector is worth several billion pounds and has reached its
busiest levels since 2008 thanks to strong tenant demand.

The private rental sector is also increasingly important to the economy,
increasing by almost a million homes in just five years. But the EU plans could
put fresh growth under threat by reducing the supply of properties.

Ed Mead, of the Association of Residential Letting Agents, said: "Potential EU
legislation might drive many buy-tolet landlords away from what is a vital part
of UK housing provision.

"This must be viewed with caution. Our Government ought to be wary of taking a
lead from the EU here and actually encourage informed investment into this
sector with tax breaks, not lumping buy-to-let in with those residential
purchasers who need all the protection they can get.

"Housing minister Grant Shapps should send a memo to his opposite number at the
EU: If it ain't broke, don't fix it."

WHY IT PAYS TO LIVE IN A MARKET TOWN: PAGES 36&37

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 12, 2011 Saturday 7:00 PM GMT

As the eurozone crisis deepens, what are David Cameron's options?;
Faced with Franco-German manoeuvres abroad and a divided party at home, the PM
must choose his course with care.

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

LENGTH: 809 words


What should David Cameron's strategy be in negotiating with Europe?

There are 27 states in the EU, but 10 are not in the eurozone. Rather than
standing on the sidelines, the Prime Minister should offer to lead that group,
to ensure that Franco-German efforts to stitch us up with a more closely
integrated Europe are resisted. At the moment, the Government appears to be
backing attempts to create a two-speed EU, but that would leave Britain isolated
and put vital national interests, such as the City of London, at risk.

What are the first steps?

For one thing, the integrationist Foreign Office needs a rocket put under it -
which would greatly encourage the PM's fractious party. Next, via a combination
of weighty speeches and behind-the-scenes diplomacy, Mr Cameron should also
start preparing the ground ahead of the potential disintegration of the
eurozone, and the resulting complete recasting of the EU model. Even if the
attempt at forming a "turbo-core" is successful, countries that remain outside
(which could soon include those expelled from the single currency) will look for
a rallying point to ensure the EU is not simply the creature of the French and
Germans. In either event, Mr Cameron would be well placed to lead the non-euro
nations, and even to negotiate a settlement founded on Europe being a
free-trading assembly of self-governing states. It could be the making of his
premiership.

But can the Prime Minister control his party?

Mr Cameron used to say that one of his greatest achievements as leader was that
the Tories had not had the usual damaging row about Europe. He can no longer
make that claim. Tory MPs are engaged in fraught arguments about what Britain's
response should be, and are busy lamenting ministers' hesitant approach. This is
making party management increasingly difficult, as MPs pressurise the Government
to offer a stronger lead.

Does Cameron have any leverage?

The PM has one significant advantage. His parliamentary party is now
overwhelmingly Eurosceptic, but there isn't unanimity about what MPs want on
Europe. The best estimate is that roughly a third favour full withdrawal, a
third favour semi-detachment and the radical repatriation of powers, and a third
back the leadership's "Wait and see, and don't offend the Lib Dems" approach. It
took only a few days for splits to open in the so-called "81 Group", named after
those who defied Mr Cameron and voted for a referendum on our relationship with
the EU. Rival groupings have since been established: the latest, a cross-party
initiative under rising star Andrea Leadsom, will draw up a list of powers that
could be returned.

How can Cameron keep both Eurosceptics and Nick Clegg happy?

He can't. It is becoming increasingly apparent that Mr Cameron is trapped
between his Eurosceptic party and the Europhile Lib Dem leader. This was less of
a problem when Europe was perceived to be a second-tier issue, but it is now the
defining one. Some of those close to Mr Cameron - such as his policy guru, Steve
Hilton - think he should worry less about satisfying the Lib Dems (who stand to
be annihilated in the event of an election) and embrace authentic, tough
Euroscepticism. George Osborne, the endlessly political pragmatist, urges
caution. But with the French and the Germans careering towards treaty changes, a
wave of referendums looks inevitable. Britain could not avoid its own vote,
along with the renegotiation that MPs demand and Mr Clegg is sworn to resist. It
is perfectly possible that the Coalition could break apart.

Does this leave the Tories vulnerable to Ukip?

It has not escaped the notice of Downing Street that Ukip has been rising
steadily in the polls as the crisis builds: it is now hitting 7 per cent in some
surveys, only a point or so behind the Lib Dems. If a significant number of Tory
voters drain away, it could let Labour through in closely fought marginal seats.
Encouraged by his personal pollster, Andrew Cooper, the PM has recently adopted
a more Eurosceptic tone, to try to send a message of reassurance to voters
considering defection. It is difficult to see that being enough.

So, Labour must be well positioned to exploit the situation?

Hardly. Despite Ed Miliband urging Mr Cameron to show leadership, it is not
clear what he thinks British policy should be. The Labour leader is so scared of
looking remotely Eurosceptic - particularly given that his party is mostly
blindly pro-EU - that he has not capitalised on the fact that his old boss,
Gordon Brown, and his colleague Ed Balls were instrumental in keeping Britain
out of the euro.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 12, 2011 Saturday 7:28 AM GMT

Princess Michael is the latest member of the Royal family to declare passion for
Downton Abbey;
Princess Michael of Kent is keen for Julian Fellowes, the creator of Downton
Abbey, to turn her book into a television drama.

BYLINE: Tim Walker. Edited by Richard Eden

LENGTH: 480 words


The Duchess of Cambridge is not the only royal fan of Downton Abbey. Princess
Michael of Kent tells Mandrake that she has become addicted to the costume drama
created by Julian Fellowes, whose wife, Emma, is her lady-in-waiting.

"What Julian kindly does now is give me the videos, so I can watch it at my
convenience," the Princess says at a fund-raising concert for The Passage
homeless charity. "I enjoy everything Julian does - he is a genius."

Marie-Christine, who is married to Prince Michael, told me in February that she
was hoping Lord Fellowes would turn her historical novel about royal love in
Renaissance France, The Serpent and the Moon, into a television series to rival
his ITV hit.

Strictly libellous

Arlene Phillips, the former Strictly Come Dancing judge, has published an
instruction book, Dance to the Musicals, but readers will have to wait a little
longer for her memoirs.

"There are so many people who could be affected, and I wouldn't want to upset
anyone," she tells Mandrake at the Galaxy National Book Awards in Knightsbridge.

"Coming to London and entering the industry is the section I am hesitating over
writing. When I started choreographing music videos, on every single one some
kind of big drama broke out and it always involved a big superstar.

"That's the thing that is stopping me. There are so many stories, but what can I
say and what can't I? I saw some things that would shock people. I mean things
that well known stars would not appreciate being printed."

Snow Poppycock

Jon Snow has maintained his stance on "poppy fascism" by refusing to wear a
symbol of remembrance as he presents Channel 4 news.

"The British Legion love me," he insists at the House of Trivia quiz organised
by the human rights charity Reprieve. "My speaking out means that the poppy
campaign stays in the news, so they are fine with it."

Of the U-turn by Fifa that allowed England players to wear poppies on black
armbands in Saturday's match against Spain, he says: "Football is a law unto
itself."

Ukip a dead cert?

The euro's troubles have provoked excitable talk about the UK Independence
Party's electoral future. Stuart Wheeler, its treasurer, is, however, realistic
about the present.

"The average age of a Ukip member is 72," the former Conservative Party
treasurer says at a party in the City. "Thousands of us are going to die every
year. Having said that, we are getting a lot of new, younger members."

Ukip was once dismissed by David Cameron as a "a bunch of fruitcakes and loonies
and closet racists". Wheeler, 76, appears to be warming to its eccentricities,
if his neckwear at the party is anything to go by. He was wearing a tie
decorated with brightly coloured frogs. "I'm wearing this tie to prove Ukip are
not anti-French," he jokes.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 11, 2011 Friday

NOW EU WANTS FLAG ON ENGLAND SHIRTS

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 595 words


AFTER FIFA POPPY ROW, A BRIGHT IDEA FROM BRUSSELS

WITH the eurozone in disarray, it's hardly the time for the EU to be flag
waving.

But proposals passed by the European Parliament yesterday say our sporting
heroes should wear the EU flag on their national team shirts.

As the eurozone faces the worst crisis since its formation, bureaucrats were
yesterday discussing the move.

The measures stipulate that the EU's blue and yellow flag should be worn by all
our teams Z including those in football, rugby, cricket and the British Olympic
team.

The EU flag should also be flown at major British sporting events such as the FA
Cup Final, the Ashes series, Wimbledon and the British Grand Prix.

The idea is contained in a report on 'The European Dimension in Sport', which
was overwhelmingly approved by the European Parliament's Culture and Education
Committee.

Following an outcry, the report concedes that member states should be allowed to
make the final decision on whether to the EU flag should be displayed on
clothing.

But Conservative MEPs said the proposals were the latest example of Brussels
attempting to impose itself on Britain's way of life.

The controversy follows FIFA's climbdown Z following intervention from Prince
William and the Prime Minister Z after it tried to ban the England football team
from wearing poppies in tomorrow's friendly against Spain at Wembley.

The Brussels report 'suggests that the European flag should be flown at major
international sports events held on the EU territory'.

It also says that sports should 'consider the idea of having it displayed on the
clothing of athletes from Member States, alongside with the national flags;
underlines that it should be entirely voluntary and up to Member States and
sports organisations to decide whether they will use the aforementioned
options.'

Brussels already has the power to fine organisations in certain circumstances
for not flying the EU flag.

Recently it emerged that the University of Northampton was fined more than
656,000 for not displaying the EU logo to acknowledge it had received funding
from the European Regional Development Fund.

Emma McClarkin MEP, Conservative spokesman on culture, education and sport in
the European Parliament, said: 'In the UK we are immensely proud of our national
teams.

'The European flag means nothing to our fans and we do not want it anywhere near
our teams' shirts. Nor do we want it flying over Wembley, Lord's or Wimbledon.

'Much of this report attempts to set out European rules or standards for things
we already do perfectly well in the UK.

'They should let us get on with enjoying our sport and stop trying to tell us
how to run it.'

Other major proposals in the report include a call on national governments to
make trafficking of performance-enhancing drugs illegal, the creation of a
European database of hooligans and the creation of a specific tax framework for
sport

UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall said: 'It is outrageous that the Culture Committee in the
European Parliament now wants to push the UK to fly the EU flag at the Olympic
Games and display the flag on footballers' jerseys.

'Athletes are proud to play for England or run for Great Britain, they have no
love or allegiance to the EU so why should they be pushed to wear this flag of
occupation on their jerseys?'

He added: 'This is another desperate bid by the EU to promote itself in the face
of growing opposition to what it is doing to peoples' lives and livelihoods.

'Hopefully this idea of flying EU flags will sink as quickly at the Euro
currency is at the moment.'

k.walker@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 11, 2011 Friday

HOW BRUSSELS SQUANDERED 63.7BN

LENGTH: 402 words


DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

EUROPE made 63.7billion of dodgy payments last year, incorrectly blowing
taxpayers' cash on agriculture, energy and transport.

The wasted money was revealed as the European Court of Auditors refused to sign
off the spending in the EU's accounts for the 17th year in a row.

In total, 3.7 per cent of the 6101billion annual budget was 'materially affected
by error', according to the auditors.

The scale of the errors was so high that it represents around a quarter of the
cash that British taxpayers send to Brussels every year.

Some 61.1billion was spent incorrectly through the bloated and bureaucratic
Common Agricultural Policy.

More than double that, some 62.5 billion, was blown on cohesion funds, which
cover spending on energy and transport, where there was an error rate of 7.7 per
cent.

Another 696million was wasted in erroneous spending on aid, 6107million on
'research' and a further 631million on administrative errors.

A spokesman for the Open Europe think tank commented last night: 'The EU budget
is too large, too complex and completely irrational.

'UK taxpayers send billions to Brussels and receive some of it back, but with
various strings attached on how it can be spent. The two main spending
programmes Z farm subsidies and the regional funds Z are a bureaucratic
nightmare.'

The spokesman added: 'The UK should use its veto over the upcoming negotiations
on the long-term EU budget to demand significant cuts and reform of the outdated
policies that it is funding.'

Polish MEP Ryszard Czarnecki, part of the Right-wing group that includes the
British Conservatives, said: 'For nearly 4 per cent of the euro budget to be
affected by error is unacceptable.

'The Commission needs to start naming and shaming the culprits.'

EU taxation commissioner Algirdas Semeta partially 'named and shamed' the
offending countries.

He told MEPs that two-thirds of the material errors found in a sample of
projects were the responsibility of the Spanish, Italian and Czech authorities.

Former European Union chief accountant and UK independence party MEP Marta
Andreasen said: 'The way the EU makes payments from its budget is getting worse,
not better. This should send alarm bells ringing across member states'
governments.

'However, I fear there is a business-as-usual mentality, where "irregularities"
are tolerated despite the huge amounts of money involved that cannot be properly
accounted for.'

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 11, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now eurocrats want to fly their flag at Olympics

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 544 words


AN "ARROGANT" attempt to have the EU flag flown at international sporting events
held in Britain, including next year's London Olympics, sparked outrage
yesterday. Members of the European Parliament backed calls for the blue and
yellow emblem to be displayed at "major international sports events" within the
EU.

Critics said it was a blatant bid to hijack the 2012 Olympics - won by London
against rivals that included Paris and Madrid - as well as other showcase
tournaments.

The Parliament's Culture Committee also wants sportsmen to wear the symbol on
their kit.

Despite wording being toned down to stress the measures would be voluntary,
MEPs' refusal to drop the ideas altogether shows a deep-seated desire for them
to become reality.

The proposals, in a report setting out a menu for European regulation of
professional sport, will further fuel British frustration with the EU shown in
the huge response to the Daily Express crusade to get the UK out.

Encouraging It comes a day after football's international governing body, Fifa,
backed down over its ban on England wearing remembrance poppies tomorrow for
their match against Spain.

Yesterday's meeting of the Culture Committee agreed a report which will now go
to the full European Parliament.

If approved, the EU Commission will devise legislation which national
governments would need to agree to take effect.

It includes encouraging EU athletes to display the European flag on their kit.

The Daily Express first highlighted the proposal in July. But it has now been
demoted by MEPs to a "suggestion" that sports bodies consider displaying the
flag on jerseys, alongside national flags, at international events and that it
be "entirely voluntary".

Critics said European politicians were clearly intent on foisting the EU flag on
major contests like the Ashes, Wimbledon and the British Grand Prix, as well as
the Olympics, and would keep pressing the case. Ukip deputy leader Paul Nuttall,
a former Tranmere Rovers player who sits on the European Parliament's Culture
Committee, failed in his bid to get the proposals scrapped.

He said: "The Olympics sees all nations coming together to compete and celebrate
sporting achievements. The EU sees it solely as an opportunity to display their
arrogance. "Let's get this straight: The 2012 Olympics are the London Olympics,
that is London, England, part of the UK. They are not the Brussels Olympics, nor
the Berlin Olympics.

"There are 27 nations in Europe who will be sending teams to London. Their
athletes will be competing for themselves and their countries. This is how it
should be." Mr Nuttall said Ukip and the Daily Express had forced a dilution of
the eurocrats' initial demands in the face of public criticism - but the victory
may be only temporary. He said: "The EU never gives up, because it does not
really care what people think.'' Emma McClarkin, Tory sport spokesman in the
European Parliament, said: "We are immensely proud of our national teams in the
UK.

"The European flag means nothing to our fans and we do not want it anywhere near
our teams' shirts. Nor do we want it flying over Wembley, Lord's, Wimbledon or
the Olympics.

"Much of this report attempts to set out European rules for things we already do
perfectly well in the UK." OPINION: Page 18

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEPs want the EU flag to fly at London's Olympic Stadium, above, and to
be worn by sports stars like Jessica Ennis, right
Picture: BEN STANSALL / GETTY AND JAVIER SORIANO / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 11, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU slaps its flag on England stars' kit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 112 words


ENGLAND'S soccer stars face having the EU flag foisted on to their shirts after
a Brussels vote.

Tory MP Andrea Leadsom last night slammed the "stupid" idea - which would also
see our Olympic athletes sporting it.

She hit out after Euro culture committee MEPs voted 28 to one for the emblem to
be worn "with the national flags".

Absurdly, the Union Flag does NOT feature on England soccer shirts - only the
three lions crest.

Ms Leadsom stormed: "Players shouldn't wear the EU one. It's utterly ridiculous"
UKIP MEP Paul Nuttall branded it an insult in the wake of the battle to overturn
FIFA's ban on our players wearing poppy emblems.

The EU insisted the move was "voluntary".

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shirty . . mock-up top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 11, 2011 Friday 5:56 PM GMT

Keep an eye on Nick Clegg: Brussels would love to install him as our PM

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1121 words


It is not so much that Berlusconi has been toppled. That had been coming for a
long time. It is that he is to be replaced by a former EU Commissioner, Sgr
Monti, which demonstrates the extent of the power exerted by those Masters of
Europe. It is the second coup d' tat in less than a fortnight. "Who next?" we
might well ask. Could it be us? Certainly not just now, but who would be
Brussels' man in London and how might they hope to get him into office?

Despite the recent extraordinary posturing of Michael Heseltine, we can be sure
that he is seen as yesterday's man by Our Masters in Brussels. He muffed his
part in the plot to remove Margaret Thatcher from office and missed his chance.
Even apart from that, his extraordinary declaration that he still believes we
should join the euro and of his commitment not just to European political union,
but to global governance, has removed him from the field of political
rationality.

I suspect that Our Masters' man is now Mr Clegg. He is a man of absolute loyalty
to Brussels. He simply ignores the views of the Prime Minister, the Cabinet, the
Conservative Party and voters with his calm assurance in Brussels that those who
want a return of powers to Westminster are a "fanatical" fringe. At the moment
he is no more than the cuckoo in the nest and the eurocrats' hopes for Mr Clegg
rest on a hung Parliament in 2015 with Labour the largest party, and Miliband,
like Cameron in 2011, having been unable to capitalise on the sitting
Government's difficulties.

We can be sure that a Lib-Lab government would not long have the confidence of
the markets and Brussels' terms for assistance would include replacing the
lacklustre Miliband with their man Clegg.

Having put the banker who helped to fiddle the Greek economic data to get Greece
into the euro into office in Athens and selected former Commissioner Monti to
govern as the Commission's man in Rome, Our Masters must be thinking that they
can pick and choose the leaders of almost any member state.

It may be that the markets will stop them. It may be that the British people
will find a democratic way to frustrate them. If not, as the European economy
drags the world back into recession, there will be blood on the streets of
Europe.

As Enoch Powell said long ago, "there can be no European Democracy because there
is no European demos".

...

As Lord London wrote, very soon it will be the Italians and then what about us?
Events have been moving quickly in the unfolding drama of the eurozone and a
number of you wondered how I could see any hope in what was happening. Well, I
did emphasise that it was no more than that. My hope was, and is, that Greece
might regain its ability to manage, for good or ill, her own affairs. That would
no doubt be painful, but surely less so than the remorseless grinding down of
their economy under the instructions of those who are not responsible to the
Greek people. That was well understood by Suboptimal Planet.

It was frederico who was first to point out that the polls showed that only 25%
of Greeks want to leave the Euro. Then why were the Masters of Europe so
insistent that they should not be allowed to vote? I thought it a pity he
spoiled his contribution by a cheap sneer that UKIP would be happy to destroy
the Euro and EU even at the expense of ruining this country.

I find it depressing that so many Europhiles are unable to comprehend that some
of us take the considered view that the euro is a danger to Europe and that
Britain would be better off governing itself. Which brings me to emmiem who was
not sure what I meant by "liberation" for the Greeks. Well, just that. Letting
them be free to run their own economy and enjoy or suffer the consequences.

A good many you including Islington Blue and durnovia agreed with mollyxxx that
the Greeks should take the 50 per cent write-down of their debt and leave the
euro setting the precedent for Italy and Spain. Then, of course we would all
have to prop up our banks, but there could be an end to improvident lending and
borrowing in sight. Others like vingoe and wilson thought Greece would be better
off remaining in. Personally, I doubt it and I think it increases the chances of
violent disorder in that country.

It was very helpful of billca to post the Der Spiegel interview on how Germany
might leave the euro and create a new hard currency with some other North
European states.

Laveen Ladharam asked two good questions. Firstly, is it not in our interest to
have a decent eurozone? And secondly would it be better to have two such zones?
I think the answers must be yes and yes, but it is clearly impossible to have a
17-, let alone 27-country eurozone that works. It might be possible to have two,
but even then there are formidable difficulties in creating the two centralised
governments that would be needed and making them democratically accountable. It
is pie, perhaps mud pie, in the sky.

It was kind of emily rose to say it was "sweet of me" to praise Attlee and Bevin
for the creation of Nato and the British nuclear deterrent. It reminded me of a
discussion on the future of NATO in which I was involved with Jim Callaghan and
Helmut Schmidt when Jim reminded Helmut Schimdt of the purpose of Nato. It was
he said, "to keep the Americans in, the Russians out and the Germans down". It
was a good job that they were great friends.

Indeed Attlee and Bevin were right to reject French and German overtures to join
them on the road to the euro disaster we are now seeing. It is a pity that
wombat51 is not as wise as those Labour statesmen or crownarmourer, and that he
imagines it is the EU that has kept the peace in Europe.

I thought that the flyingscotsman took a much too short-term view of Parliament.
That institution managed our affairs in a way which avoided violent revolution,
saw us through the industrial revolution, the creation of the British Empire and
more than one attempt by our enemies to attack us. It is since 1945 that it has
failed and only because of the people we elected to it.

I was pleased to have support from pjon and briankill, both civil servants, on
the way in which the civil service has been damaged since 1997.

I very much agree with buckrogers who deplored the "vituperative posts, often
with no basis of fact". As he said, to disagree does not give the right to be
abusive. I suspect that marcus_junius_brutus may be right to say it is because
such people have no argument to put. Nor do I care for the poison-pen brigade of
cowards led by tepidcocoa 83, hiding in anonomity to spew untruth. I am not sure
whether they are best consigned to the psychiatrists couch or the Magistrates
Court. Certainly they have no place in decent company nor rational discussion of
any issue.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

Reply: Letter: Europes shameful democratic deficit

BYLINE: Nigel Farage MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 74 words


*Caroline Lucas rather misses the point when she portrays the Green party as an
alternative to the current political class (Letters , 8 November). Her party is
as much a part of the pro-EU consensus as the Lib-Lab-Con, and virtually all of
her policy ideas come straight from the European commission.

Ukip totally opposes this new form of unelected government and is picking up
significant support as a result.

Nigel Farage MEP

Ukip, South East England

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 10, 2011 Thursday 1:46 PM GMT

Eurozone crisis: who is pulling the strings in Europe?;
As the escalating eurozone crisis has toppled governments in Italy and Greece,
decision-making is increasingly being driven by France, Germany and a powerful
group of Brussels officials.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

LENGTH: 1244 words


It has been dubbed Europe's Politburo: a "self-appointed body of powerful
individuals prepared to topple national governments if they fail to toe the
line."

The so-called Groupe de Francfort came together last month at a party for the
retiring chief of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet.

They met four times at the margins of the G20 summit - and marked themselves out
by sporting GdF lapel badges. But who are the "Groupe de Francfort"?

Angela Merkel 57, GermanyPosition: German Chancellor since November 2005,
re-elected in 2009 for another four years. Democratically elected? Yes.
Qualifications: Elected to Bundestag in 1990, minister twice. President of the
European Council and lead the G8 in 2007. Now the de facto leader of the EU.

It is time for a breakthrough to a new Europe. A community that says,
'Regardless of what happens in the rest of the world, it can never again change
its ground rules', that simply can't survive. I'm convinced of this. Because the
world is changing so much, we must be prepared to answer the challenges. That
will mean more Europe, not less Europe.

Friends say: Europe's Iron LadyFoes say: "La Boche" (Nicolas Sarkozy)

Nicolas Sarkozy                      56, FrancePosition: President of the French
Republic since May 2007, serving a five-year termDemocratically elected?
YesQualifications: Mayor of Neuilly-sur-Seine, Minister of Budget, Minister of
Finance and Interior Minister. EU president during the 2008 financial crisis,
pushing for G20 summits and financial regulation in the eurozone. Sent the first
fighter jets to back Libyan rebels.

The consequences of a failure of the euro would be so cataclysmic that we could
not possibly entertain the idea. We couldn't even play with the idea of
entertaining the idea... Mrs. Merkel and I will never, never allow the euro to
fail. Never will we allow the euro to be destroyed... The euro is Europe.
Germany and France have known three barbaric wars. Now Europe is the most stable
continent in the world.

Friends say: "The best man in the world" - Sameh Mahmoud, Libyan rebel
fighter.Foes say: "The King of bling bling" - the French press, for his love of
exotic holidays and Rolex watches.

Christine Lagarde                      55, France.Position: Managing Director of
the International Monetary Fund since July, for a five year term. Replaced
Dominic Strauss Strauss-Kahn following rape allegations, of which he was later
cleared. Democratically elected? No.Qualifications: Lawyer, chair of
international law firm Baker and McKenzie, French Minister of Economic
Affairs.If we do not act, and act together, we could enter a downward spiral of
uncertainty, financial instability, and a collapse in global demand. Ultimately,
we could face a lost decade of low growth and high unemployment.

Friends say: "Is this the world's sexiest woman?" (The Guardian newspaper.)Foes
say: "Farcical" (Oxfam, because of lack of transparency in her IMF selection.)

Mario Draghi                      64, Italy Position: President of the European
Central Bank since November, for an eight-year term Democratically elected? No.
Qualifications: Economist with a PhD from MIT; lead the privatisation drive from
the Italian Treasury and pushed the country into the euro. A vice president of
Goldman Sachs, before being named head of Italy's central bank after the
incumbant resigned in a corruption scandal. It would be pointless to think that
sovereign bond rates can stably be brought down for a protracted period by
outside intervention. The first and foremost responsibility lies with national
economic policies. Put your public finances in order.Friends say: "Super Mario"
(The Italian press)Foes say: "Mama Mia! For Italians, inflation is a way of
life, like tomato sauce with spaghetti." (Germany's Bild tabloid, on the idea of
Draghi running the ECB.)

José Manuel Barroso                      55, PortugalPosition: President of the
European Commission since 2004, re-appointed for five years in
2009Democratically elected? No Qualifications: Portuguese MP since 1985,Foreign
Minister, Prime Minister in 2002-04. Holds 21 honourary degrees.

All the European Union members should have the euro as their currency. The idea
that we have two unions in Europe means disunion... It was an illusion to think
that we could have a common currency and single market with national approaches
to economic and budgetary policy.

Friends say: "Lots of ability, but no strong convictions on anything, and he's
driven not by money, but by power." (Ana Gomes, Portuguese MEP.)Foes say: "An
unelected bureaucrat who is overseeing a system that is falling apart." (Douglas
Carswell, Tory backbencher).

Herman Van Rompuy                      64, BelgiumPosition: President of the
European Council since 2009, serving a 30-month term. Democratically elected?
No.Qualifications: Belgian Senator, 1988-95, Representative 1995-2009. Prime
Minister, 2008-09. Keen blogger and haiku writer. Opposed Turkish entry into the
EU.

We have together to fight the danger of a new Euroscepticism... In every member
state, there are people who believe their country can survive alone in the
globalised world. It is more than an illusion: it is a lie... The biggest enemy
of Europe today is fear. Fear leads to egoism, egoism leads to nationalism, and
nationalism leads to war.

Friends say: "Furiously intelligent"(An EU diplomat)Foes say: "An overpaid
catastrophe" (Nigel Farage, Ukip leader.)

Olli Rehn                      49, Finland Position: European Commissioner for
Economic and Monetary Affairs since 2010, serving a five year
term.Democratically elected? NoQualifications: DPhil, Oxford;European
Commissioner for Enlargement 2004-10; economic adviser to the Finnish PM
2003-04.

Let me be very blunt on this: It's either the EU institutions, according to our
own rules, procedures and democratic accountability, or the market forces that
will do the job. For me, as a committed European and a committed democrat, the
choices are clear.

Friends say: "Purposeful. Serious. Not at all a typical glad-handling
politician" (An EC official)Foes say: "Low profile" (The Economist)

Jean-Claude Juncker                      56, LuxembourgPosition: Chairman of the
European Finance Ministers since 2005, reappointed four timesDemocratically
elected: Yes, as PM of LuxembourgQualifications: Prime Minister of Luxembourg
since 1995. Minister of Finance 1989-2009. Owns a pinball machine.

Monetary policy is a serious issue. We should discuss this in secret, in the
Eurogroup. I'm ready to be insulted as being insufficiently democratic, but I
want to be serious... I am for secret, dark debates.

Friends say: "Highly regarded... he is a deep-dyed fanatical federalist" (The
Economist)Foes say: "Master of lies" (Austria's Der Standard)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

The Little Englanders marginalising Britain to play to the gallery | Michael
White

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1726 words

ABSTRACT

By backing the government's line that Britain should not increase its IMF
contribution, Labour is pandering to the unappeasable Eurosceptic faction

FULL TEXT

So Silvio Berlusconi's grubby fingers have finally been prised off the levers of
power in Rome - at least in theory. About time, too, for a rogue who shafted his
country.

Who does that leave as the EU's most unreliable national leader? It's a hotly
contested field but, for shortsighted tactical manoeuvres based largely on
domestic party calculation, David Cameron must be be in with a chance. But is Ed
Miliband's Labour party far behind?

First Berlusconi. Let's wait until he actually does resign - preferably with a
garlic-soaked stake through his political heart - before celebrating this
overdue event.

He may be plotting to bounce back via a surge of public support or the general
election his rackety coalition is now seeking. He knows that the public
prosecutor will be on his case as soon as he loses the protection of office -
remember, the ailing Jacques Chirac is on trial in Paris, albeit too ill to be
in the dock in person.

As Larry Elliott complains here, there's a democratic deficit in much of the
current turmoil. The eurozone's leaders - a shadowy, half-elected caucus that
Larry calls the Frankfurt Group - have, in effect, sacked the prime minister of
Greece, and now Italy's too.

Portugal's and Ireland's governments have already fallen to election defeat, and
Spain's is poised to be voted out too. That's always an important distinction:
better the voters do it than Angela Merkel and Sarko.

Gordon Brown's defeat in 2010 is more complicated, but perceived economic
failure was a crucial component of the story - not so much a democratic deficit
as a financial one. That's true across the troubled eurozone belt, where voters
enjoyed the boom (cheaper goods and credit) but turned on their elected leaders
when it all went wrong.

The politically unaccountable nature of the eurozone project is not yet the
decisive factor, but may become so as the logic of the present crisis forces
greater central control over national budgets and deficits. Let's hope they are
more successful than central banks and ratings agencies were in controlling the
"too big to fail" banks.

Will the euro survive? The European commission president, José Manuel Barroso,
said yesterday that all EU states, except Britain and Denmark with their
opt-outs, have a legal responsibility to join eventually - no ifs or buts. It is
the new norm.

Maybe, but that suggests to me that Barroso is just a Portuguese law professor
turned technocrat who doesn't know much history. He left the Portuguese
premiership for Brussels in 2004, just as Lisbon's own budget deficit was
ballooning - he got out in time.

But what about Britain's role in the euro-drama which, so today's Guardian
splash suggests, may almost halve next year's projected UK growth from 2.2% to
1.2%, according to the CBI, and what about the performance of the coalition's
official opposition, Miliband-led Labour?

Jonathan Freedland's Guardian column pays generous tribute to Brown's role in
preventing Tony Blair's woolly-headed sentimentality towards the euro from
taking sterling into the new currency and in making the 2009 G20 meeting in
London more of a success (the claim is disputed by some economists) than this
month's shambles in Cannes.

It's a fair point, though Johnny is kinder than he should be about Brown's
persistent habit, as chancellor, of borrowing much more than was prudent as the
boom ("no more boom and bust" was a very silly slogan) headed towards the cliff.

Over-leveraged banking caused the crisis, but the Treasury's over-reliance on
taxes from financial services was part of the problem when it all crashed. It's
not quite like the 1930s.

At fault, too, was Brown's tripartite division of responsibility for regulation,
which took everyone's eyes off the ball. So was his refusal to admit in the
election run-up that his Britain had a deficit problem that was undermining the
confidence of flighty markets - not a Greek problem, to be sure: that is a
phoney coalition story line - but a potential problem, as France's tottering AAA
status (yet another emergency budget looms) reminds even him today.

That said, with his vast experience and earnest internationalism, Brown would
have done a better job of managing the international dimension of the crisis
than Cameron and George Osborne are doing.

In placating their own Eurosceptic backbenchers and party activists - not to
mention the dark, sullen group of angry voters who vote Ukip, BNP or not at all
- they have marginalised Britain in Europe in all sorts of ways in order to play
to the gallery.

The issue that matters most to us all, because it's such an important part of
the economy, is the EU's determination to load Europe's financial services
industry - mostly located in London and other British cities - with new
structures, regulation and taxes.

They are designed to prevent a repetition of recent excesses, a laudable goal,
but getting highly technical models wrong may merely damage the industry or
drive much of it to New York or Asia.

Good riddance? I don't think so. How do you think we are going to rebalance the
economy, pay down the deficit and finance future growth? But most of the
problems the UK economy faces are home-grown. Yes, exports have risen since the
20% devaluation of sterling, but imports have risen much faster. We can't blame
foreigners for those choices, though plenty try.

The Openeurope lobby has published a document that claims EU regulation and
wider social law costs the UK economy £8.6bn a year - money that could otherwise
generate 140,000 extra jobs.

I'm sure there's some truth in its claims just as there is (greater) force in
Jonathan Sumption QC's (he's the new man on the supreme court) overnight speech
saying the European convention on human rights is encroaching on what are
rightly political decisions (just like the bankers).

Do they really think we would avoid all EU regulation from outside, or the outer
circle? Does Norway? Would British manufacturing capacity be miraculously
transformed? Would the £8.4bn be invested in productive capacity, or wasted on
tax cuts, much of which would be spent on imports?

But the symbolic retreat that highlights the coalition's retreat (I do not count
occasional bleats from Nick Clegg) into domestic insularity is the
much-trumpeted failure both to contribute more directly to the eurozone bailout.

Even worse is its refusal of a British increase to the IMF's reserves, the
global firefighting fund. In this, Labour has joined the Tories in pandering to
the unappeasable Eurosceptic faction.

Cameron and William Hague have a political problem.

The government recently passed the Sovereignty Act, a fatuous promise to grant a
referendum if further powers are transferred to Brussels. It was meant to
appease the sceptics, and failed. If the eurozone demands a treaty change to
consolidate a fiscal union in which Britain would not be involved, the sceptics
will demand their own renegotiation and referendum. Cameron will probably try to
avoid it.

Is Labour doing better? Not really. The shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, the brains
behind Miliband's economic policy, has a five-point plan for growth - see here -
which has some merits.

It, and the emerging reality of stalled growth, is already forcing Osborne
towards an unacknowledged Plan B, where hair-shirted deficit-cutting targets
slide.

But what about the government's refusal to contribute to an expansion of the
IMF's funds (no one ever lost money lending to the IMF, by the way) to help
restore confidence that demand can be sustained in the faltering global economy?

Cameron and Osborne say the eurozone has enough funds to resolve its own
problems, prop up the indebted countries, recapitalise the banks and create its
own backstop (the European financial stability facility or EFSF) in sufficient
"big bazooka" size to impress the markets: inadequate gestures that fail are
always counterproductive, as the EU has repeatedly shown.

That's correct. Balls agrees. They have all refused to contribute further to the
EU bailout fund, unlike Sweden and Poland, both also outside the zone. But it is
quite another thing to say - and for Balls to echo - that Britain will not up
its contribution to the IMF, one of the pillars of the postwar world, the
greatest expansion of human prosperity (not just Europe and the US either) in
history.

Why do they do it? On the specious grounds that IMF funds should not be used to
prop up the eurozone, which - unlike many countries hit by liquidity problems
and debt - has deep enough pockets to sort itself out. You can read Balls's many
explanations on his website, which carries many of his speeches and radio
interviews (he has a very assiduous press officer) like this one and this one.

I understand his argument, but don't accept the political judgment that
underpins it. The spurious justification is that the IMF money might filter its
way back into propping up the eurozone when the European central bank should
really have the clout to be the EU's bank of last resort. True, but it smacks of
appeasement to the Little Englanders in every party.

Foreigners won't care. They may shrug at a Little Englander Tory-led coalition
donning its woad warpaint and hope it collapses soon (which it won't). But
internationalists, champions of co-operation in a rules-based and ever more
complex world, who look on Labour as their natural ally, won't read the small
print.

They'll just see tactics, the sort of manoeuvre for which the late Harold Wilson
- a great party manager, not much missed - was famous but not admired beyond the
party. It all sits ill with the internationalist speech being made by Jim
Murphy, Labour's defence spokesman, today.

Cameron's G20 report to MPs on Monday was not impressive, but he was tired and
did manage a good joke about proposing a cheese tax to the French.

Miliband was worse, his brother David's intervention was better. All were
drowned out by the wails of Eurosceptic Tory MPs who want to repatriate
"sovereign" powers home from Brussels to Westminster, then hand the final
decision over to a referendum.

If Britain ever needs friends and allies abroad again, perhaps in an unplanned
financial crisis, I hope they've got a few in their back pockets. But who?

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

MEPS SAY CARDIFF IS NOT UP TO EU POST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words


By LYNDSEY TELFORD SENIOR civil servant Kevin Cardiff suffered another setback
in his bid for a top EU money job when MEPs turned against him.

Four representatives said the Finance Department secretary general - on whose
watch EUR3.6billion was "found" in the State books - is unsuitable for the
EUR180,000-ayear job.

That's despite Finance Minister Michael Noonan giving his full support.

But Labour MEP Phil Prendergast said: "He might be technically qualified for the
job, but the issue of the EUR3.6billion will have to be revisited."

At a Public Accounts Committee meeting Ms Prendergast hit out at Mr Cardiff and
accused him of not showing any remorse for the blunder.

He added: "His body language last week didn't seem to show any apology
whatsoever for the fact he has brought a huge amount of embarrassment on
Ireland.

"Any aspect of fiscal policy from the Department of Finance should show us in a
good light and this doesn't show us in a good light."

Fine Gael MEP Sean Kelly, said: "If he thinks [the job] is going to be a doddle
then he has another think coming." Fianna Fail's Pat "The Cope" Gallagher said
he was looking forward to hearing the outcome of the Budget Control Committee
meeting in Brussels on Thursday when MEPs will consider Mr Cardiff's nomination.

He added: "If the socialists and the European People's Party members say they're
not going to support him then he doesn't stand a chance."

Former chief accountant of the European Commission Marta Andreasen spoke out
against the Government and Minister Noonan on Monday for their support of Mr
Cardiff.

The MEP with the UK Independence Party said the Irish Government was behaving
irresponsibly by backing someone whom she believes is unfit for the European
job.

Labour's Nessa Childers said he adamantly opposed to Mr Cardiff's nomination.

He added: "My opinion has always been quite clear about this from the very
beginning when I first heard of his appointment.

"I felt he was inappropriate even before the EUR3.6billion incident.

"In the circumstances - of the preceding years and his economic background,
where he was during the last few years - he's not appropriate."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GAFFE3 MrCardiff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Blunder man to manage EU cash

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words


BRUSSELS' shambolic attitude to finance was laid bare yesterday after the EU
appointed the man behind a (EURO)3.6billion (£3billion) accounting blunder to
keep track of its spending.

Kevin Cardiff, Ireland's former top finance civil servant, could join the
European Court of Auditors despite the humiliating error.

He is facing ridicule in Ireland after failing to spot that a (EURO)3.6billion
debt was entered twice into Ireland's public accounts, adding 2.3 per cent of
GDP to the country's debt.

Ireland's debt at the end of 2010 had to be readjusted from (EURO)148billion
(£127billion) to (EURO)144.4billion (£124billion).

Outrage Mr Cardiff is expected to earn around (EURO)180,00 a year for his new
role when it begins next year.

But his appointment triggered outrage last night.

UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen, a former EU chief accountant, said: "Someone who
nearly cost his country billions should not be allowed anywhere near an audit of
EU accounts."

Mr Cardiff had been secretary general at Ireland's Department of Finance since
March 2010.

His nomination to the European Court of Auditors for six years is subject to the
approval of MEPs.

A confirmation hearing before the budgetary control committee is expected this
month.

The Luxembourgbased auditors' court calls itself the "financial conscience" of
the European Union.

It is independent from other EU institutions and has to keep track of EU money,
making sure it has been properly managed.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday

Reply: Letter: Greens back the Occupy movement

BYLINE: Caroline Lucas MP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 266 words


John Harris is right to criticise the mainstream parties for their lack of
vision, values and imagination (This moribund mainstream risks letting loose the
ghouls, 5 November). The Liberal Democrats no longer occupy the centre left, and
Labour is mired in the past. However, that doesn't mean the only alternative is
the "evil genius" of Nigel Farage and Ukip. There is another party providing a
real alternative and we are steadily gaining ground. We have our first MP, our
first council in Brighton and Hove, and our membership has increased by 45% in
the past 18 months. We are leading the calls for tax justice and for a fairer,
greener alternative to the Tory-led government's disproportionate spending cuts.
In parliament, for example, I have tabled a private members' bill to tackle tax
avoidance and evasion, and at prime minister's questions last week, I challenged
David Cameron to support a Robin Hood tax on financial trading. The Green party
has been vocal in its support of the Occupy movement from the start.

Meanwhile, the leaders of the mainstream parties have failed to engage with what
is happening at St Paul's and at protests across the country - showing just how
out of touch they really are with the public mood for change. Yesterday Ed
Miliband spoke of the need to "listen to the protesters" from afar in a vapid
and defensive article for the Observer, which only highlighted the fact he had
lacked the courage to visit Occupy LSX himself. It seems only the Green party is
willing to match progressive politics with meaningful action.

Caroline Lucas MP

Green, Brighton Pavilion

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

SUPPORT FOR COCK-UP AUDITOR

BYLINE: SARAH BARDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 151 words


MICHAEL Noonan yesterday threw his weight behind underfire Kevin Cardiff,
insisting he fully supports his nomination to the European Court of Auditors.

The secretary general of the Department of Finance has been under massive
pressure since a EUR3.6billion blunder was uncovered on his watch.

The enormous cock-up - the result of loans between two State agencies being
counted twice - was blamed on an accounting error.

And now an MEP has quizzed whether he is suitable to make the move to Europe.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreason said Mr Cardiff's nomination should be
withdrawn.

She said: "Of course it wasn't him personally, but the fact is that he was the
head of that Department and you bear the ultimate responsibility when you are
the head of the Finance Department."

However, A department spokesman yesterday said the Government still fully
supports Mr Cardiff as its nominee for the auditors' post.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NOMINEE Cardiff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tor y showdown for Cameron in revolt over bailing out EU

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 410  words


DAVID Cameron is expected to face pressure today from senior Cabinet ministers
and backbench MPs to take a tougher stance on Europe.

Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith and his former aide Owen Paterson,
the Northern Ireland Secretary, are understood to be meeting the Prime Minister.

They are expected to push Mr Cameron to take a clearer lead on Europe after his
decision to order MPs to vote against an EU referendum.

Mr Cameron is also expected to face criticism in public from MPs when he
delivers a Commons statement on last week's G20 summit.

There is a growing revolt over his willingness to put more taxpayers' cash at
the disposal of the International Monetary Fund as the eurozone crisis
continues. G20 leaders agreed the IMF should have more resources.

Mr Cameron incensed many Tories by suggesting they would not get a say on
boosting the UK's total potential commitment, from GBP 29.5billion to GBP
40billion, because Parliament agreed the principle of the GBP 10billion increase
in a vote in July.

Some Conservatives will argue a debate should still be allowed because, in the
current circumstances, the cash would almost certainly be ploughed straight into
the eurozone.

They also fear that further increases in Britain's contribution to the IMF could
be sought if countries such as Italy - a much bigger economy than Greece - need
rescuing.

Only GBP 5billion of Britain's current GBP 29.5billion loans guarantee has been
put to use. The extra GBP 10billion the UK could put at risk by guaranteeing IMF
loans isn't yet in circulation.

Mr Cameron will say the IMF exists to help the whole world, that only three of
its 53 programmes are in the eurozone - Greece, Portugal and Ireland - and that
as lending can only be made to countries, cash cannot go into a general bailout
fund.

But Lib Dem Treasury Chief Secretary Danny Alexander said yesterday he was happy
for UK money to go to Greece via the IMF. Godfrey Bloom, UKIP MEP, said: "I fear
Danny has just let the cat out of the bag.

This Government will go to any lengths to pour British taxpayers' money down the
drain that is the failed euro project. If we must spend the money, shouldn't we
spend it helping Greece out of the euro rather than condemning them to penury
within it?'' A report by the think-tank Open Europe is expected to warn that
Britain will be stuck in a "permanent minority" of non-euro countries in EU
decision-making after Lisbon Treaty rule changes take effect in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron, left, is under pressure over extra cash for the IMF.
Iain Duncan Smith, right, will press the PM to be tougher on Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Tor y showdown for Cameron in revolt over bailing out EU

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 407  words


DAVID Cameron is expected to face pressure today from senior Cabinet ministers
and backbench MPs to take a tougher stance on Europe.

Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith and his former aide Owen Paterson,
the Northern Ireland Secretary, are understood to be meeting the Prime Minister.

They are expected to push Mr Cameron to take a clearer lead on Europe after his
decision to order MPs to vote against an EU referendum.

Mr Cameron is also expected to face criticism in public from MPs when he
delivers a Commons statement on last week's G20 summit.

There is a growing revolt over his willingness to put more taxpayers' cash at
the disposal of the International Monetary Fund as the eurozone crisis
continues. G20 leaders agreed the IMF should have more resources.

Mr Cameron incensed many Tories by suggesting they would not get a say on
boosting the UK's total potential commitment, from GBP 29.5billion to GBP
40billion, because Parliament agreed the principle of the GBP 10billion increase
in a vote in July.

Some Conservatives will argue a debate should still be allowed because, in the
current circumstances, the cash would almost certainly be ploughed straight into
the eurozone.

They also fear that further increases in Britain's contribution to the IMF could
be sought if countries such as Italy need rescuing.

Only GBP 5billion of Britain's current GBP 29.5billion loans guarantee has been
put to use. The extra GBP 10billion the UK could put at risk by guaranteeing IMF
loans isn't yet in circulation.

Mr Cameron will say the IMF exists to help the whole world, that only three of
its 53 programmes are in the eurozone - Greece, Portugal and Ireland - and that
as lending can only be made to countries, cash cannot go into a general bailout
fund.

But Lib Dem Treasury Chief Secretary Danny Alexander said yesterday he was happy
for UK money to go to Greece via the IMF.

Godfrey Bloom, UKIP MEP, said: "I fear Danny has just let the cat out of the
bag. This Government will go to any lengths to pour British taxpayers' money
down the drain that is the failed euro project." A report by the think-tank Open
Europe is expected to warn Britain will be stuck in a "permanent minority" of
non-euro countries in EU decision-making after Lisbon Treaty rule changes in
2014.

Greek Premier George Papandreou and opposition Antonis Samaras last night agreed
on a new coalition government to approve a eurozone bailout deal before holding
elections.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron, left, is under pressure over extra cash for the IMF.
Iain Duncan Smith, right, will press the PM to be tougher on Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Eurosceptics boost revolt as Cameron risks GBP 10bn bailout

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 365  words


DAVID Cameron is expected to face pressure today from senior Cabinet ministers
and backbench MPs to take a tougher stance on Europe.

Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith and his former aide Owen Paterson,
the Northern Ireland Secretary, are understood to be meeting the Prime Minister.

They are expected to push Mr Cameron to take a clearer lead on Europe after his
decision to order MPs to vote against an EU referendum. Mr Cameron is also
expected to face criticism in public from MPs when he delivers a Commons
statement on last week's G20 summit.

There is a growing revolt over his willingness to put more taxpayers' cash at
the disposal of the International Monetary Fund as the eurozone crisis
continues.

G20 leaders agreed the IMF should have more resources.

Mr Cameron incensed many Tories by suggesting they would not get a say on
boosting the UK's total potential commitment, from GBP 29.5billion to GBP
40billion, because Parliament agreed the principle of the GBP 10billion increase
in a vote in July.

Some Conservatives will argue a debate should still be allowed because, in the
current circumstances, the cash would almost certainly be ploughed straight into
the eurozone.

They also fear that further increases in Britain's contribution to the IMF could
be sought if countries such as Italy - a much bigger economy than Greece - need
rescued.

Only GBP 5billion of Britain's current GBP 29.5billion loans guarantee has been
put to use.

Mr Cameron will say the IMF exists to help the whole world, that only three of
its 53 programmes are in the eurozone - Greece, Portugal and Ireland - and that
because lending can only be made to countries, cash cannot go into a general
bailout fund.

But Liberal Democrat Chie f Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander raised
eyebrows yesterday by saying he was happy for UK money to go to Greece via the
IMF.

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "I fear Danny has just let the cat out of the bag.
This Government will go to any lengths to pour British taxpayers' money down the
drain that is the failed euro project.

"If we must spend the money, shouldn't we spend it helpin g Greece out of the
euro rathe r than condemning them to penury within it?''

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron, left, says extra cash for the IMF won't bail out the
eurozone.
Iain Duncan Smith, right, will press the PM to be tougher on Europe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Embattled Cameron needs a Grand Bargain;
A bit of give-and-take could free the coalition to be more bold. Vince Cable as
Health Secretary, for starters?

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1061 words


David Cameron's Government is beset by many of the same problems after 18 months
that the previous Conservative Government suffered after 18 years: the scale of
backbench rebellion; the violence of language between Downing Street and the
Eurosceptics; the relentless hostility of the Centre Right press; the lack of a
political narrative; the sense that, because of factors beyond its control, this
is a government that is in office but not in power.

Fortunately for the Prime Minister, Ed Miliband is no Tony Blair. The
Conservative Party is lagging in opinion polls, but the gap is nothing like the
one that sank John Major. Relying on Labour weakness is nonetheless a gamble,
not a strategy.

Mr Cameron invested too much in Gordon Brown's basement ratings at the last
election. If he is to win an outright majority next time he cannot afford
complacency. He needs to have led a successful government and not simply be less
disliked than the Labour leader.

Two big challenges currently stare Mr Cameron in the face: the need to reboot
the economy and the need to prevent his own party from serious infighting over
Europe.

While Britain cannot insulate itself from the eurozone's problems, it can
maximise its chances of prospering despite them. This month George Osborne will
deliver his Autumn Statement. In a political world where every event is
overhyped, it is easy to miss the things that really matter; this speech from Mr
Osborne is in that category. We are getting to the point in the parliamentary
cycle when, if economic medicine isn't dispensed soon, the patient will still be
digesting it by the time of the election and not feeling much improvement.

Most Tories know what the economy needs. It needs emergency tax relief - funded,
if necessary, by faster cuts in public spending. It needs radical pruning of the
red tape that is suffocating small businesses and the employment prospects of
the young. It needs a moratorium on the green measures that handicap Britain's
manufacturers. It can't have these things, partly because of resistance from the
Liberal Democrats.

Lib Dem roadblockery is also a principal reason why Mr Cameron can't be as
Eurosceptic as most of Britain would wish. Until recently the team around the
Prime Minister doubted the strength of sceptical feeling inside the Conservative
Party. Two weeks after the biggest rebellion on Europe yet, those doubts have
been dispelled. Mr Cameron needs to seize the opportunity of the eurocrisis to
modernise Britain's relationship with Brussels. If our economy is to flourish in
the years ahead it cannot remain chained to a European model where levels of
tax, regulation and protectionism are crippling competitiveness.

Some unhappy Conservative backbenchers believe that Mr Cameron can force
progress on these fronts simply by insisting that Nick Clegg surrenders ground.
They think that Mr Cameron has already conceded too much on immigration, human
rights legislation and family policy. They say that Mr Clegg would be committing
political suicide if he brought down the Government when his party is scoring
only 10 per cent in the polls. They may be right, but Mr Cameron doesn't want an
election, either - and such confrontationalism isn't in his nature.

Somehow Mr Cameron must restore the coalition to its rose garden heyday. Critics
of hung parliaments who expected lowest-commondenominator government were,
briefly, confounded by Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg. The Liberal Democrats gave the
green light to deficit reduction and serious reform of the welfare state. Mr
Cameron agreed, in return, to Mr Clegg's plan to take the low-paid out of income
tax and for extra money for inner-city schools. The Tories got new constituency
boundaries. The Lib Dems got a vote on AV.

If the coalition is to prosper there must be another Grand Bargain moment. The
Prime Minister needs a relatively free hand to renegotiate with Europe. That
shouldn't be impossible if Mr Clegg knows that, ultimately, any new arrangement
would have to be approved in a referendum.

Second, Mr Cameron needs radical economic reform and, in truth, the Lib Dem
leader needs it too. Mr Clegg will need gifts from his coalition partner,
however, if only to appease the more recalcitrant in his party. Few things have
caused his party more unhappiness than the health reforms. By installing someone
like Vince Cable as Health Secretary, Mr Clegg can ensure those reforms are
implemented in accordance with what Shirley Williams and others see as the best
traditions of the NHS.

The Liberal Democrats could also be offered higher taxation of accumulated
wealth in return for lower taxation of wealth creation. Not only could this
include the end of the counter-productive 50p tax, it would also be a genuinely
dynamic thing to do. Britain taxes income too much and unearned wealth too
little.

Conservatives interested in a more enterprise-friendly tax system should embrace
a change that involves, for example, higher council tax on high-value properties
and fairer income tax thresholds.

My suspicion is that many Tory backbenchers are in such a bad mood that even
this deal will be difficult for them to swallow. Their leader will need to sugar
the pill with a revolution in how he manages his party. In fact, Mr Cameron has
never tried party management, preferring party control. He has acted as a
presidential Il Duce rather than as a prime ministerial first among equals. He
has marginalised alternative voices - stuffing the front bench, his No 10
private office, the House of Lords and Tory HQ with über-loyalists.

He calculated that he could get away with this. He thought that his alliance
with the Liberal Democrats protected him from rebellious elements within his own
party. He miscalculated. He underestimated the extent to which the new intake of
Tory MPs is ideologically Conservative and constituency-focused rather than
instinctively careerist.

Mr Cameron needs to change course or he'll find that he himself has become the
squeezed middle of British politics: squeezed on the left by a Labour Party that
has not had its moral superiority threatened by the electorally impotent Big
Society; squeezed on the right by the United Kingdom Independence Party,
floating on a reservoir of disaffected Tory voters.

The Prime Minister needs a free hand to renegotiate on Europe

Lib Dems would get higher taxation on accumulated wealth

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                November 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let's dump silly pomp

BYLINE: Sally Bercow

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 739 words


FOR the last couple of years I've been to the ever-so-grand Lord Mayor's
Banquet, held in the Guildhall every November. As Speaker of the House of
Commons, my husband John is considered to be one of the "great and the good" and
hence worthy of an invitation - and I get to accompany him.

So, determined to be a loyal and supportive wife (for one evening at least), I
hire a posh long frock (my husband's formal wear may be financed by the public
purse, rightly or wrongly, but mine sure isn't!) and scrub up.

The banquet itself is quite something.

Of course it's preposterously pompous - packed with men with weird titles
(Aldermen and Sheriffs, for heaven's sake!) wearing fancy dress with
magnificent, bejewelled women hanging off their arms, receiving lines, toasts,
trumpets and self-congratulatory speeches.

The food is rather lush too and there's always a laugh to be had if you look
hard enough. Last year I bumped into UKIP's Nigel Farage and snuck out for a
ciggie and the year before I swapped dress hire stories with a splendidly
down-to-earth Alderman's wife.

The whole thing is kind of fun, in a faintly ridiculous ("who'd have thought I'd
be doing this") kind of way. It's a rather quaint, harmless bit of tradition. Or
so I thought... Thanks to the Occupy London Stock Exchange protest, I now think
differently. Because of its moves to evict the campers at St Paul's (now put on
hold), the spotlight has swung firmly on to the City of London Corporation, the
organisation with the Lord Mayor at its head.

And what a bizarre and rotten institution hides behind all the ceremony and
flummery! The Corporation may be the local council for the City of London but
it's a council like no other.

Firstly, it's a long way from being democratic. It's dominated by the financial
elite and very much geared towards the interests of our bankers and brokers.

How? Well, the voices of the city's 9,000 residents are drowned out by the
32,000 business votes that go to City companies. Yes, that's right, companies
get a vote. Lots of votes, in fact.

What's even worse is these companies can vote without consulting their employees
- so it's not as if the tea lady even gets a say.

Secondly, the Corporation is staggeringly rich and controls an enormous pot of
money - "the City's Cash" - much of which it uses to lobby for (surprise,
surprise!) the financial services industry.

No one knows just how enormous the Cash is - but it must be truly massive
because it's said to bring in a few hundred million quid a year in investment
earnings alone. And, handily enough, the Corporation can spend it how it likes.

Thirdly, and most importantly, the whole City of London is one great big feudal
fiefdom with special privileges that date back to time immemorial. And these
allow it to play a big part in the whole grubby business of making sure the
wealthy pay as little tax as possible and certainly don't have to answer too
many questions about what they're up to.

As well as having its own Lord Mayor (poor Boris Johnson, the plain old
democratically-elected Mayor of London, doesn't get a look-in), the City's even
got its own police force (er, why?). And some other very odd officials,
including a "Remembrancer"' who "ensures the City's rights and privileges are
protected" in the House of Commons. He's a lobbyist at the very heart of
government, there to push the interests of the financial services industry.

The same industry that's dug our economy into such a big hole. Can you see why
we're thinking this is all a bit fishy, Mr Remembrancer? So I won't be going to
the Lord Mayor's Banquet with the husband next week. Boycotting it stops me from
being a hypocrite but doesn't do much else. What we need is for our politicians
to man (and woman) up, take on the City of London and put an end to this
outdated nonsense.

After all, they'd have the public on their side. Most of us are exasperated
that, as the Archbishop of Canterbury put it, it seems to be "business as usual"
in the City. Despite the fact the bankers caused the crash, three years on their
pay and bonuses remain at astronomical levels.

The Green Party has got it right: let's bring the Square Mile into line with the
rest of London under the Greater London Authority and the common-or-garden
mayor.

Let's not allow ourselves to get all misty-eyed with pomp and tradition any
longer and let's drag these shadowy interests into the open air.

And into the 21st Century, while we're at it!

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ EVER SO GRAND: The Lord Mayor's Parade

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 6, 2011 Sunday

NOW THE UNION JACK IS UNDER ATTACK

LENGTH: 771 words


IT has become traditional for David Cameron to appear at European summits in
front of both the Union Jack and the EU emblem to illustrate the dual
sovereignty between London and Brussels.

But now a senior EU official has caused outrage by appearing to suggest that the
national flags of member states should be dropped in favour of the EU design of
a circle of stars on a blue background.

Christine Roger, the communications director of the European Council, the EU s
governing body, made her comments in a speech to 650 spin doctors from local
authorities across Europe, including the UK. she called for a new, dedicated
public-relations budget to help sell the EU as a brand to its increasingly
disenchanted citizens.

The meeting in Brussels last month, which cost taxpayers across the Continent
tens of thousands of pounds, came as EU leaders were fighting to contain the
eurozone economic crisis.

In her speech, a copy of which has been seen by The Mail on sunday, Ms Roger a
veteran Brussels apparatchik posed a series of leading questions, including how
Europe should be defined. are we talking about a state-to-be? about a
federation? she asked.

Then, as she flashed up a picture of French President Nicolas sarkozy standing
next to both a French and EU flag, she said: how much do we believe in
ourselves? For how long will we see heads of state with the European flag
alongside the national flag? If we don t believe in ourselves, why should the
world outside do so?

Last night, as Eurosceptic politicians accused her of calling for countries to
sacrifice their national identity to promote the EU, Ms Roger insisted that she
had been misinterpreted.

One of her aides said: What is meant in this presentation is clearly not about
national flags. On the contrary, it is part of a discussion on how better to
organise the branding and visual identity of the various European institutions
and agencies for which there is, at present, no overall brand architecture. The
question, For how long will we see Heads of State with the European flag
alongside the national flag? is meant to underscore the importance of the
European brand being clear and simple. In other words the implication is, if it
is not, will member states continue to use it?

In her presentation, Ms Roger also called for more money to be poured into the
EU s image as a single entity .

She said: If member states do not invest enough in the European brand, a
proliferation of sub-brands is sure. Branding contributes to improving Europe s
internal and worldwide reputation as a social and political entity, making
Europe s achievements easy to identify for stakeholders and citizens [and]
building a sense of common belonging.

She called for more money to be ploughed into advertising the benefits of the
EU, adding: There is no common funding for a European communication policy. She
said one should be developed to communicate on European achievements .

UKIP leader Nigel Farage described the plans as a further example of national
identities being trampled. This summit was a disgusting waste of taxpayers
money, typical of the delusional EU and its staff who see any disaster as an
opportunity and think that money grows on trees, he said. This organisation has
recently voted to increase its budget while hard-working people struggle in a
financial crisis. Their choices and priorities are so unwelcome and so unhelpful
it s as if they are having a competition within the EU to see who can be the
most stupid. I must say, the competition is looking pretty fierce. Local
Government Secretary Eric Pickles also entered the row last night, questioning
why communications experts from British councils had been sent to the meeting to
hear Ms Roger and other experts speak. I don t think it s appropriate that
taxpayers should foot the bill for a spin doctors summit in Brussels, said Mr
Pickles. I cannot understand what the business case is for councils attending
events such as this. During these tough economic times, local authorities should
be focusing all their efforts on protecting frontline services.

A spokesman for the EU Committee of the Regions, which organised the meeting,
said: The event brought together communications managers from local, regional,
national and EU authorities to share case studies of communication activities
aimed at bringing the European Union closer to the citizens. When organising
this event we made great efforts to keep the costs down and achieve the best
possible impact with very limited resources. The total cost amounted to around
50,000 (643,000) for a two-day event bringing together 75 speakers and 650
participants.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU accused of Athens coup after threat to end payments;
Prime minister told he must make way for unity government prepared to make cuts

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 527 words


THE EU was accused of carrying out a coup yesterday after the head of the
European Commission threatened Greece with "paralysis of the country" unless MPs
removed their prime minister to form an unelected "national unity government".

José Manuel Barroso, the Commission president, warned that unless George
Papandreou was deposed, Greece would not be able get its next payment from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund, leading to national default
and bankruptcy.

"What we expect to happen is to have a government of national unity," he said.
"What is the other option? Default and have real difficulties to pay wages to
the public servants, to the schools, to the hospitals, which will lead to
paralysis of the country. I am sure that the majority of the Greek people do not
want this kind of chaos."

Even after Mr Papandreou abandoned his plan to hold a referendum on the EUIMF
austerity plan, senior French, German and European officials demanded that he
step down to allow for a "technical" government that could implement the
measures.

"We respect Greek democracy and Greece's right to decide on its own future,"
said Mr Barroso. "At the same time, we need Greece to demonstrate commitment to
the decisions that it has itself subscribed to."

Raoul Ruparel, of the Open Europe think tank, said a new "compliant" Greek
government would be a "victory for the EU elite". Nigel Farage, the leader of
the UK Independence Party, accused David Cameron of giving tacit agreement to
the overthrow of European democracies by supporting closer "fiscal union" in the
eurozone and EU. "Cameron is actively encouraging the countries of southern
Europe to sleepwalk into slow-motion, sugar-coated coups d'etat," he said. Le
Soir newspaper in Belgium described Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy as
"putschists at the head of Europe".

The German Chancellor and the French president summoned Mr Papandreou to Cannes
on Wednesday night to instruct him to call off his plans to hold popular votes
on Greece's involvement in Europe. The prime minister was accompanied by
Evangelos Venizelos, his finance minister, and they were given the ultimatum
that Greece would not receive "a penny more" in aid payments unless Athens
convinced the EU that it was "ready to make the commitments that come with euro
membership".

On returning from the meeting, Mr Venizelos set about preparing the ground for
Mr Papandreou's departure and a new transitional national unity government
involving the Right-wing opposition. By yesterday, the plot was well advanced,
with Lucas Papademos, a former European Central Bank vice-president, tipped to
be its head.

Mr Papandreou had for months resisted strong EU pressure to suspend normal
parliamentary democracy for a unity government to impose austerity measures
required to cut the country's crippling debt, expected to reach 160 per cent of
GDP this year.

President Sarkozy said yesterday that "things are progressing" towards a
technocrat administration in Greece.

"I am pleased to see there are suffi-cient responsible politicians in Greece who
have understood that message and who have been able to see the national
priorities," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mystery of Clegg's pension

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 70 words


UKIP peer Lord Pearson has tabled a parliamentary question demanding to know
whether Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg is entitled to a European Commission pension.
Clegg worked for the commission for five years before going into party politics.
If he is in its pension scheme then the terms will prevent him from criticising
the EU and may thus help to explain his extreme Europhilia. Like Lord Pearson I
think we should be told.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

rebels who could be the tory party's salvation

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 815 words


WHEN an earthquake occurs survivors typically wander around stunned for a while
before brushing themselves down and coming to terms with their new landscape.
Something akin to that has been happening at Westminster following the political
earthquake that took place there on the night of Monday October 24 when 81
Conservative MPs voted for a referendum on the European Union in open defi-ance
of a three-line whip imposed by David Cameron.

The valiant 81 have not formed a formal group - as was erroneously suggested
earlier this week - but there is nonetheless a special bond between them. Each
of them looked the party whips in the eyes and defied them by voting for
democracy despite threats to their career prospects. In short they showed
themselves to be men and women of courage and principle.

Stuart Jackson and Adam Holloway, who lost their jobs as parliamentary private
secretaries because of their backing for a referendum, have become revered
figures among backbench colleagues. New MPs with gumption such as Priti Patel
and Nick de Bois have won massive respect too.

But those who hitherto saw themselves as leading figures in backbench Tory
Euroscepticism, yet failed to support the motion put down in the debate
triggered by the signatures of Daily Express readers, have lost face and status.

The much-heralded but ill-defined Fresh Start group on Europe headed by Camborne
and Redruth MP George Eustice is now regarded by many as a discredited Downing
Street front organisation. Mr Eustice's decision to table a "wrecking" amendment
in a bid to prevent our referendum motion being voted upon and his subsequent
abstention have done him no favours in the eyes of colleagues.

Then there is the strange case of Guto Bebb, the Tory MP for Aberconwy, who was
one of the early signatories of the People's Pledge undertaking to campaign and
vote for a referendum but who did the opposite in the Commons. Mr Bebb, who has
a majorsuccessful ity of less than 3,400, writes: "Despite being in favour of
lancing the boil of the European debate I was not persuaded that my concerns
about the motion had been dealt with."

SURELY I am not alone in being unpersuaded that Mr Bebb is a man anyone should
wish to have on their side in a fight. I take a similarly dim view of my own
constituency MP Angie Bray, majority 3,716, whose sole contribution to the
debate was to parrot the approved party line that "a referendum at this time
would simply create uncertainty".

Talking to Tory MPs since the vote I have heard time and again about how they
were inundated with letters and emails from constituents urging them to defy the
party leadership and back a referendum.

Polls show that around 75 per cent of Tory grassroots members wish Britain to
leave the EU. After the three-line whip against a referendum the Conservative
leadership has no plausible claim to speak for such people But the anti-EU party
Ukip, led by Nigel Farage, does have such a claim and is already making new
inroads into Tory support.

Ukip hit seven per cent in YouGov's tracker opinion poll for the second time in
a week yesterday - just one point behind the Lib Dems. Farage also made a highly
appearance on BBC Question Time on Thursday of last week and many Tory MPs are
now braced for further big defections to Ukip from their associations.

"My members do not think David Cameron understands their views and beliefs,
especially on Europe. They think the rest of the collective party leadership,
including William Hague, has sold out. I am sure we are going to lose people to
Ukip over the coming months," one of the 81 told me. Another added: "Ukip's rise
will concentrate the minds of careerists in marginal seats. Cameron has
alienated one-third of his parliamentary party after just 18 months and more
every day."

Since the vote the course of events has continued to underline the arguments of
those of us who believe Britain would be better off out of the EU. It is already
clear that yet more British taxpayers' money will be heading to the eurozone,
via the IMF, in contravention of a pledge given by Chancellor George Osborne.

One of Osborne's closest advisers observed this week that it will soon become
permissible for mainstream politicians to argue that Britain should leave the
European Union.

If that is a hint that Mr Osborne, who sees himself as a future leader, is
privately coming round to this view but is not yet ready to say so then I
suggest he gets a move on. Because the Commons EU referendum debate has been the
making of dozens of his colleagues who were prepared to make a stand.

It is the 81 who now have the strongest bond with the Tory membership out in the
country, not members of the Government machine no matter how elevated.

Indeed were I a betting man I would have a small wager that the successor to
David Cameron will be found not around the Cabinet table but among the 81 Tory
heroes of October 24.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRINCIPLED: Clockwise from top left, Priti Patel, Adam Holloway, Stuart
Jackson and Nick de Bois
Pictures: DAVID WIMSET/UPPA/DAVID MANSELL/THE GUARDIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Mystery of Clegg's pension;
LEADER

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: LEADER; 35

LENGTH: 70  words


UKIP peer Lord Pearson has tabled a parliamentary question demanding to know
whether Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg is entitled to a European Commission pension.
Clegg worked for the commission for five years before going into party politics.
If he is in its pension scheme then the terms will prevent him from criticising
the EU and may thus help to explain his extreme Europhilia. Like Lord Pearson I
think we should be told.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Rebels who could be the Tory Party's salvation;
LEADER

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: LEADER; 35

LENGTH: 815  words


WHEN an earthquake occurs survivors typically wander around stunned for a while
before brushing themselves down and coming to terms with their new landscape.
Something akin to that has been happening at Westminster following the political
earthquake that took place there on the night of Monday October 24 when 81
Conservative MPs voted for a referendum on the European Union in open defiance
of a three-line whip imposed by David Cameron.

The valiant 81 have not formed a formal group - as was erroneously suggested
earlier this week - but there is nonetheless a special bond between them. Each
of them looked the party whips in the eyes and defied them by voting for
democracy despite threats to their career prospects. In short they showed
themselves to be men and women of courage and principle.

Stuart Jackson and Adam Holloway, who lost their jobs as parliamentary private
secretaries because of their backing for a referendum, have become revered
figures among backbench colleagues. New MPs with gumption such as Priti Patel
and Nick de Bois have won massive respect too.

But those who hitherto saw themselves as leading figures in backbench Tory
Euroscepticism, yet failed to support the motion put down in the debate
triggered by the signatures of Daily Express readers, have lost face and status.

The much-heralded but ill-defined Fresh Start group on Europe headed by Camborne
and Redruth MP George Eustice is now regarded by many as a discredited Downing
Street front organisation. Mr Eustice's decision to table a "wrecking" amendment
in a bid to prevent our referendum motion being voted upon and his subsequent
abstention have done him no favours in the eyes of colleagues.

Then there is the strange case of Guto Bebb, the Tory MP for Aberconwy, who was
one of the early signatories of the People's Pledge undertaking to campaign and
vote for a referendum but who did the opposite in the Commons. Mr Bebb, who has
a majority of less than 3,400, writes: "Despite being in favour of lancing the
boil of the European debate I was not persuaded that my concerns about the
motion had been dealt with."

S URELY I am not alone in being unpersuaded that Mr Bebb is a man anyone should
wish to have on their side in a fight.

I take a similarly dim view of my own constituency MP Angie Bray, majority
3,716, whose sole contribution to the debate was to parrot the approved party
line that "a referendum at this time would simply create uncertainty".

Talking to Tory MPs since the vote I have heard time and again about how they
were inundated with letters and emails from constituents urging them to defy the
party leadership and back a referendum.

Polls show that around 75 per cent of Tory grassroots members wish Britain to
leave the EU. After the three-line whip against a referendum the Conservative
leadership has no plausible claim to speak for such people But the anti-EU party
Ukip, led by Nigel Farage, does have such a claim and is already making new
inroads into Tory support.

Ukip hit seven per cent in YouGov's tracker opinion poll for the second time in
a week yesterday - just one point behind the Lib Dems. Farage also made a highly
successful appearance on BBC Question Time on Thursday of last week and many
Tory MPs are now braced for further big defections to Ukip from their
associations.

"My members do not think David Cameron understands their views and beliefs,
especially on Europe.

They think the rest of the collective party leadership, including William Hague,
has sold out. I am sure we are going to lose people to Ukip over the coming
months, " one of the 81 told me. Another added: "Ukip's rise will concentrate
the minds of careerists in marginal seats. Cameron has alienated one-third of
his parliamentary party after just 18 months and more every day."

Since the vote the course of events has continued to underline the arguments of
those of us who believe Britain would be better off out of the EU. It is already
clear that yet more British taxpayers' money will be heading to the eurozone,
via the IMF, in contravention of a pledge given by Chancellor George Osborne.

One of Osborne's closest advisers observed this week that it will soon become
permissible for mainstream politicians to argue that Britain should leave the
European Union.

If that is a hint that Mr Osborne, who sees himself as a future leader, is
privately coming round to this view but is not yet ready to say so then I
suggest he gets a move on.

Because the Commons EU referendum debate has been the making of dozens of his
colleagues who were prepared to make a stand.

It is the 81 who now have the strongest bond with the Tory membership out in the
country, not members of the Government machine no matter how elevated.

Indeed were I a betting man I would have a small wager that the successor to
David Cameron will be found not around the Cabinet table but among the 81 Tory
heroes of October 24.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRINCIPLED: Clockwise from top left, Priti Patel, Adam Holloway, Stuart
Jackson and Nick de Bois

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 5, 2011 Saturday 8:20 AM GMT

EU accused of Athens coup after threat to end payments;
The EU was accused of carrying out a coup yesterday after the head of the
European Commission threatened Greece with "paralysis of the country" unless MPs
removed their prime minister to form an unelected "national unity government".

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

LENGTH: 489 words


José Manuel Barroso, the Commission president, warned that unless George
Papandreou was deposed, Greece would not be able get its next payment from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund, leading to national default
and bankruptcy.

"What we expect to happen is to have a government of national unity," he said.
"What is the other option? Default and have real difficulties to pay wages to
the public servants, to the schools, to the hospitals, which will lead to
paralysis of the country. I am sure that the majority of the Greek people do not
want this kind of chaos."

Even after Mr Papandreou abandoned his plan to hold a referendum on the EU-IMF
austerity plan, senior French, German and European officials demanded that he
step down to allow for a "technical" government that could implement the
measures.

"We respect Greek democracy and Greece's right to decide on its own future,"
said Mr Barroso. "At the same time, we need Greece to demonstrate commitment to
the decisions that it has itself subscribed to."

Raoul Ruparel, of the Open Europe think tank, said a new "compliant" Greek
government would be a "victory for the EU elite". Nigel Farage, the leader of
the UK Independence Party, accused David Cameron of giving tacit agreement to
the overthrow of European democracies by supporting closer "fiscal union" in the
eurozone and EU. "Cameron is actively encouraging the countries of southern
Europe to sleepwalk into slow-motion, sugar-coated coups d'etat," he said. Le
Soir newspaper in Belgium described Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy as
"putschists at the head of Europe".

The German Chancellor and the French president summoned Mr Papandreou to Cannes
on Wednesday night to instruct him to call off his plans to hold popular votes
on Greece's involvement in Europe. The prime minister was accompanied by
Evangelos Venizelos, his finance minister, and they were given the ultimatum
that Greece would not receive "a penny more" in aid payments unless Athens
convinced the EU that it was "ready to make the commitments that come with euro
membership".

On returning from the meeting, Mr Venizelos set about preparing the ground for
Mr Papandreou's departure and a new transitional national unity government
involving the Right-wing opposition. By yesterday, the plot was well advanced,
with Lucas Papademos, a former European Central Bank vice-president, tipped to
be its head.

Mr Papandreou had for months resisted strong EU pressure to suspend normal
parliamentary democracy for a unity government to impose austerity measures
required to cut the country's crippling debt, expected to reach 160 per cent of
GDP this year.

President Sarkozy said yesterday that "things are progressing" towards a
technocrat administration in Greece.

"I am pleased to see there are sufficient responsible politicians in Greece who
have understood that message and who have been able to see the national
priorities," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 4, 2011 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Vote U-turn is latest twist in Greek farce

BYLINE: By Alison Little and Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 542  words


GREEK hopes of a referendum on the EU bailout were evaporating last night after
a day of high farce and chaos in Athens.

In a sudden U-turn, Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou offered to drop his
proposal for a national vote in return for opposition support for the bailout
plan.

His humiliating change of mind followed widespread reports that he had quit his
post in the face of a cabinet revolt.

And he still faces being ousted in a crunch confidence vote in Greece's
Parliament today.

One Greek MP branded the government "a madhouse".

Mr Papandreou told an emergency meeting of his cabinet: "I will be glad even if
we don't go to a referendum, which was never a purpose in itself.

I'm glad that all this discussion has at least brought a lot of people back to
their senses."

But his about-face - less than 48 hours after his surprise announcement of a
referendum - ignited fears that EU chiefs had bullied Greece into accepting the
GBP 111billion international bailout deal under threat of withdrawing all cash
support.

Euro-MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said:

"For a while the people of Britain were jealous of Greece, after all they were
going to get a referendum. But of course now we can only feel empathy with them.
They are in a similar boat - no referendum and a Government that nobody ever
voted for.

"What we are seeing here is the slow but deliberate strangulation of democracy
to suit the jaded dreams of the European elite."

The situation was mired in confusion last night as the Greek opposition appeared
to reject Mr Papandreou's olive branch offer of talks on forming a government of
national unity.

Greek opposition leader Antonis Samaras urged Mr Papandreou to resign and
demanded snap elections in six weeks.

Differing reports about what was happening in Greece were regularly being
received at the meeting of heads of government and finance ministers at the G20
summit in Cannes. Some ministers were consulting their mobile phones during
talks to check on the latest news from Athens.

Chancellor George Osborne later told reporters that it was "clearly a pretty
fluid situation" in Greece, adding: "I don't particularly want to comment - not
least because it might have changed while I'm talking to you now."

Sources added later that the Greeks were coming under "strong political
pressure" from the G20 leaders, including French president Nicolas Sarkozy and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, "to sort themselves out".

Mr Papandreou's U-turn followed tense talks with Chancellor Merkel and President
Sarkozy on Wednesday evening.

They effectively told the Greek Prime Minister to accept the EU's rescue
proposals - including severe austerity measures - or face losing any financial
support from the EU and the International Monetary Fund.

Earlier the chairman of the group of eurozone countries, Jean-Claude Juncker,
said plans were in place for a Greek exit from the euro.

"We are absolutely prepared for the situation that I have described and do not
want to see come about, " he said.

Meanwhile pressure for European voters to be given a say was growing in other
parts of Europe.

In Germany, the influential Bild newspaper called for a national referendum on
whether German taxpayers should keep bailing out the eurozone.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou, centre, with ministers in a
cabinet meeting in Athens yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Don't stand with the right

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 170 words


The working-class and progressive movement also has its own critique of the EU,
its policies and structure. So the question for the labour movement is, how do
we differentiate our position from that of the far-right? I'd suggest this
differentiation is best achieved by articulating our own progressive agenda and
not allying with those same rightwingers in pursuit of some mythical "common
national interest," which is the driving idea of the UKIP-supported People's
Pledge campaign that we are urged to support at the end of Ms Hoey's article. We
do not share any political common ground with the far-right and I strongly
disagree with those on the left who have signed up to it. By joining forces with
the likes of UKIP and the Tory right, they are risking the very danger that Ms
Hoey warns against - that of being associated with the Daily Express-reading,
"stop-immigration-political-correctness-gone-mad" brigade. If you don't want to
be called a little Englander, don't join their campaigns. Karl StewartLondon
SW19

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Noddy and the boy Thatcher

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 607 words


Groucho Marx famously said that he would never join any club that would have
someone like him as a member. Many have had cause to rue their failure to heed
this sage dictum. The Lib Dems, Mark Thatcher (of whom more later) and now, in a
move which can only elicit a world weary sense of the inevitable, we have seen
disgraced Tory shill Neil Hamilton throw his Noddy hat into the UKIP ring. Yes,
this week has heralded the announcement that Thatcherite spiv Hamilton - the man
for whom nadir has no meaning - has at last found some kindred spirits and
jumped aboard the BNP-lite bandwagon by getting himself elected to its national
executive committee.

The obvious question this raises is who approached who in this grand guignol of
the grotesque and who is pulling the strings. Being approached by Farage and his
cronies must be the most unappealing invitation to gang membership since Gary
Glitter attempted to set up a stall at freshers' week. On the other hand being
given bedroom eyes by the Hamiltons would make even hardened perverts blanche.
Hamilton was elected by 3,588 votes out of a total of 5,863, we are informed.
The fact that such a proportion of UKIP would vote for an avaricious, racist
cretin is hardly an earth-shattering revelation - they voted for Kilroy after
all - but who knew there were that many of them? Hamilton said he was back in
politics to "fight as never before to restore self-government and self-respect
to Britain." He denounced the three main party leaders as "Euro-elitists" who
had "sold Britain down the river." Hamilton of course only flogged his services,
and his vote, for bundles of cash and free holidays at the Ritz, which is merely
the Tory way after all. "We have a Parliament of eunuchs and hypocrites," he
sneered in reference to the failed Tory revolt over the EU referendum. The
churlish might at this juncture point out that it takes one to know one... In
Who's Who, Hamilton now describes himself as being a "writer, actor, broadcaster
and entertainer." Well, he certainly entertained this column when he vowed to
clear his name over the cash for questions scandal and then was forced into
ignominious resignation. Commenting on the election of Hamilton to the highest
echelons of the party UKIP fuhrer Nigel Farage, evidently with a straight face,
parped: "His experience and wisdom will contribute significantly to UKIP at a
time when the party is seeing increased membership and support." Letting
Hamilton loose at the helm of UKIP as like giving Silvio Berlusconi the keys to
a brothel. And speaking of people who just can't help themselves, as observed
above, the boy blunder Mark Thatcher's name popped up again like a dose of
herpes this week with the announced publication of fellow Wonga Coup conspirator
Simon Mann's autobiography. Old Etonian mercenary Mann, with hilarious
understatement, told the Independent that in retrospect his "biggest mistake was
approaching Mark Thatcher." Do you think Simon? Do you really? If most people
were planning to overthrow a west African dictator to get their hands on the oil
cash and you were looking for a "fixer" to ensure the whole operation ran with
well-oiled precision the name Mark Thatcher would be some way below that of
Wile-E Coyote on your go to list. Although maybe he was recalling the last time
Thatcher cocked up in Africa and his mother sent the SAS to bail him out. Mann's
self-aggrandising memoir is risibly entitled Cry Havoc. Given how the whole coup
transpired it should probably have been called "Oh Bugger!" They say you can
judge a man by his enemies. You can certainly spot a pillock by whom he chooses
as friends.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TXT US ON 07900 946 486

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 134 words


Don't forget to include your name. Standard text rates from your provider apply

WELL done, Greece - EU not all about Germany and France.

FRANK, Wakefield, Yorks

COME on MP Julian Smith, admit how many friends and relations you have given a
leg-up at our expense. Compensation of £200k for a cop who tried to help a
relative, against millions spent on so-called "assistants" in Parliament.

LORRAINE, Keighley, Yorks

SO npower have been hit with a £2million fine - more money for the Government to
squander.

YVONNE, Leeds

WITH UKIP on the rise, we've now got an alternative government waiting in the
wings who are ready to leave the EU.

ALAN JOHNSON, Romford, E London

HUGE problem with adoption is PC councils. No wonder people are going abroad to
adopt. We were refused because I smoked and we are Catholics.

K, London

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Peter Oborne

SECTION: FEATURES; TEASERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 6 words


Comment p30

Ukip is primed to cause havoc

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

As the landscape starts to shift, Ukip can create political havoc;
The main parties' cosy alliance is about to be blown apart by Nigel Farage's
Eurosceptics

BYLINE: PETER OBORNE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1206 words


The modern history of the Conservative Party has been poorly understood, mainly
because it has been written by the winner - the modernising faction that
undermined the leadership of William Hague and Iain Duncan Smith before seizing
control after the 2005 election defeat.

These modernisers like to portray recent Tory history as a victory for change,
pragmatism, progress and sanity. But this relentlessly optimistic account
ignores the central truth: the Conservative Party formally split in the decade
that followed the political assassination of Margaret Thatcher in 1990.

The first manifestation of this split was the creation of the Anti-Federalist
League by the distinguished historian Alan Sked in 1991, at just the time that
the Maastricht Treaty was signed. The decision to deprive eight Conservative MPs
of the whip in the mid-1990s was another significant moment. Sir James
Goldsmith's Referendum Party took the disintegration process one stage further.

Sir James was far more successful than is widely appreciated, and forced the
Conservative government to pledge a referendum on future European treaty
changes. He also sucked away many Tory activists. When the Referendum Party
folded after his death the following year, these activists tended not to return
to the Conservatives. Many of them gave their loyalty to Ukip, the protest party
led by Nigel Farage which now campaigns for Britain to leave the European Union.

In contrast to the racist BNP, which tends to attract former Labour supporters,
Ukip is in reality the Conservative Party in exile. Many of its senior members
wear covert coats and trilbies, making them look like off-duty cavalry officers.
They are fiercely patriotic and independent.

Farage himself is a very jolly chap who smokes, drinks and occasionally gets
into minor trouble. He is instantly recognisable as the kind of man who would
have served loyally in the post-war Conservative Party and would have been
popular with opposition parties. He is one of the relatively few politicians I
actually look forward to meeting. Indeed, Mr Farage, who abandoned the Tories on
the day that Margaret Thatcher quit as party leader, is entirely representative
of his membership, many of whom are small businessmen, or served in the Armed
Forces, and are extremely public-spirited.

It was widely noted that party activists were heavily outnumbered by lobbyists
at this year's Conservative conference. One of the reasons was that so many Tory
activists have gone off to join Ukip. Practically all of its supporters were
instinctively at home in the party of Margaret Thatcher. A steady trickle of
former Tory grandees have defected to Mr Farage's party: Alexander Hesketh, the
former treasurer and chief whip in the House of Lords, is the most recent.

If a Left-wing party had reached Ukip's size and consequence, the media would be
fascinated. But, because of its oldfashioned and decidedly provincial approach,
it has been practically ignored. In the 2004 European elections, the party
gained a sensational 16 per cent of the vote. Had it been the Greens or the
Communists that had pulled off this feat, the BBC would have gone crazy. Instead
it chose not to mention this event, coolly classifying Ukip as "other".

For the metropolitan elite, the party scarcely exists. This is why last Sunday's
YouGov poll showing that support for Farage's party had crept up to 7 per cent -
just one point fewer than the Liberal Democrats - gained no coverage. But the
significance of this is very great. I believe that Ukip is about to take over
from the Lib Dems as Britain's third largest political party.

The Lib Dems are finished for the foreseeable future - the invariable fate of
the smaller party in a coalition government. They will be fortunate to retain a
dozen seats at the next general election. Meanwhile, Ukip will probably overtake
them in the polls over the coming months, most likely pulling well ahead as the
general election approaches. The European elections, due in two and a half
years' time, will provide an important test: my guess is that Ukip will perform
very strongly, while the Lib Dems will be all but wiped out.

It is becoming painfully apparent that Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy made a
historic mistake at the end of the last century. Had the Lib Dems then made the
decision to reflect popular opinion and challenge the European Union, they could
have been a genuinely radical party, capable of confronting head-on and
overtaking their two main rivals. Instead (to the despair of several of their
MPs), they timidly chose to become a voice of the European machine in Brussels,
meaning they became part of the consensus and were never able to make the
breakthrough they wanted.

As a result of this failure of nerve and vision, Britain's political
architecture is about to be transformed. Since the Second World War, our third
national party has been on the Left. This has meant that Conservative
governments have often been pulled towards the centre, while Labour governments
have had crucial cover. We are now moving towards a new era, in which the most
significant third force may be on the Right.

The consequences of this are, at this stage, hard to predict. It is possible
that Ukip may develop into a rebellious third party, like Jean-Marie Le Pen's
Front National in France, but this is unlikely: Le Pen's party was semi-fascist,
and Ukip seems too fundamentally British, conservative and decent to go down
that frightening route. Furthermore, our electoral system holds back Ukip, just
as it does the Lib Dems. Though it is easier now to imagine the former surging
to victory in a by-election, with the latter extinguished as a vehicle for
protest votes, it is virtually inconceivable that Mr Farage's party can win
parliamentary seats at the next general election.

But Ukip can still exercise a determining influence. The strength of its
national support means that it holds the future of scores of Tory MPs in its
hands. By running a candidate in a marginal seat, it can deprive the Tories of a
few thousand votes, more than enough to cause him or her to lose - indeed, one
Tory, David Heathcoat-Amory, ironically himself a Eurosceptic, blames Ukip for
his loss in the 2010 election.

Meanwhile, the party can throw its weight behind Tory candidates fighting for
their lives against Lib Dem or Labour rivals. But in return, of course, it is
entitled to demand a price and insist that those candidates pursue strong
anti-European policies. This ability to determine or affect the result in
individual constituencies means that Ukip can intervene dramatically in the Tory
civil war over Europe which broke out after last week's Commons vote. It can
terminate the careers of ministers and loyal backbenchers, while throwing a
lifeline to rebels.

Ukip's strength is very easy to explain. The leadership of the three mainstream
parties have made an error. They are determined to cleave to the centre ground.
Ukip alone has the courage to stand outside this cosy alliance and to cause
havoc. Meanwhile, it goes without saying that a Tory leader can never win an
election so long as the broader Conservative movement is so painfully split.

Comment on Peter Oborne's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Held, gang that flew 230 Poles into UK in £2m benefits scam

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 374 words


A POLISH gang which trafficked more than 200 people into Britain in a £2million
benefits scam has been smashed. A total of 31 suspected gangsters were being
held last night after a series of co-ordinated raids in London, Birmingham and
Warsaw.

The busts came after a two-year investigation involving UK customs investigators
and British police liaising with police in Poland.

Yesterday it emerged that most of the 230 people brought to Britain by the gang
had mental health problems.

They had been promised jobs here but, on arrival, were tricked into signing
papers to open bank accounts. The fraudsters then falsely applied for tax credit
and other benefits using their victims' details. They sent the cash to
ringleaders in Poland.

Their victims were left destitute and living on the streets.

Most have now been returned to Poland, where they are being supported by local
authorities.

Greed Officers from Scotland Yard, accompanied by their Polish counterparts,
searched five addresses in south and east London yesterday, where two suspects
were seized. Searches were also carried out in Birmingham.

In Poland police swooped on other gang members as they gathered for a wedding,
arresting 29.

Lawrence Webb, the UK Independence Party's London mayoral candidate, called the
arrests the only "bright spot" of the story.

He added: "This is a perfect storm of the frailties of our systems. Our
immigration service lets them in, our benefits system lets them rip off the
taxpayer. Then, after being picked up by the police - a bright spot - and sent
down to likely minimal sentences we will not be able to deport them as they are
EU citizens."

Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland, of the Met's Human Exploitation and Organised
Crime Command, said: "These vulnerable victims were trafficked here to be
exploited and satisfy the greed of these criminals.

"They were brought here under the impression they were getting a job, but were
left with nothing."

The Revenue and Customs' criminal investigation unit said it had looked at more
than 230 tax credit awards worth in excess of £2million.

Polish police major Monika Sokolowska said: "We were used to people trafficked
for prostitution or slavery, but this new form of trafficking is becoming ever
more prevalent."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We allow rip-off, says Lawrence Webb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anger at Archbishop for backing St Paul's rabble

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 386 words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's faced growing calls to leave last night as
the rift between the church and the City of London widened.

Comments from the Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams earlier appeared to
back the anti-capitalist sit-in by calling for a new "Robin Hood" tax on banks.

David Cameron yesterday showed his support for Dr Williams, although he played
down the idea of a tax on financial transactions.

The PM said: "I think the Archbishop speaks frankly for the whole country when
he says that it is unacceptable in a time of difficulty when people at the top
of our society are not showing signs of responsibility."

Pressure on the Occupy London squatters to leave continues to grow amid fears
the protest could spoil next year's London Olympics and the Queen's Diamond
Jubilee.

Tory MP for the Cities of London and Westminster Mark Field said: "It is
essential we get the site cleared. All of us want to avoid any confrontation or
the risk of violence but London is going to be a showcase for the Olympics and
St Paul's is an iconic London building.

"It is essential by that stage this unsightly camp has been moved on. The
Archbishop is rather unwise to talk about a Robin Hood tax as he is entering an
extremely controversial element of British politics.

"It stands in some contrast that he was utterly silent during the first two and
a half weeks of the protest and then feels it is appropriate to give a view of
some political controversy."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "I am the last person to oppose the right of
protest as I have been doing it all my life.

But it is time for the tents to go from outside St Paul's. I am sure that the
protest was never about damaging the Church, rather to fight against the
failures of the banking regulation system."

The demo has strained relations between the Church and the City after the
cathedral announced it would not be taking legal action as City lawyers took
steps to evict the protesters.

Stuart Fraser, the City of London policy chairman, said: "The church has changed
its position with regards to a camp being on its land, which means that we have
had to rethink as well. So we have pressed the pause button."

The Daily Express's Boot Them Out! crusade demands the squatters be removed
before Remembrance Sunday on November 13.

CRUSADE BOOT THEM OUT!

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A masked protester sits it out in a suit of armour at St Paul's
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

St Paul's mob told they can stay into New Year

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 380 words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's have been offered a deal which will see them
stay into the New Year.

The City of London made the offer, according to the demonstrators' lawyer
yesterday, after announcing it was abandoning legal action against the protest
group.

The terms are thought to cover a reduction in the number of tents and follows St
Paul's deciding not to take legal action to evict the camp.

The protest group's lawyer John Cooper QC said: "We are legally advising our
client on the offer from the City tonight involving Occupy LSX remaining on site
until the New Year."

Last night the City of London confirmed it had held talks with camp leaders.

A spokesman said: "They are going to come back to us on Friday. We talked about
the constriction of the site and duration."

The move would see the camp still in place on Remembrance Sunday on November 13.

Last night protesters said they were "delighted" with the local authorities'
"U-turn".

Tina Rothery, said: "We would have to make a slight reduction in tents in order
to free up space for the fire brigade."

She added: "We are delighted. This is a great U-turn."

But pressure on the Occupy London squatters to leave continues to grow amid
fears the protest could spoil next year's London Olympics and the Queen's
Diamond Jubilee.

Tory MP for the Cities of London and Westminster Mark Field said: "It is
essential we get the site cleared.

All of us want to avoid any confrontation or the risk of violence but London is
going to be a showcase for the Olympics and St Paul's is an iconic London
building.

"It is essential by that stage this unsightly camp has been moved on."

CRUSADE BOOT THEM OUT!

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "I am the last person to oppose the right of
protest as I have been doing it all my life.

But it is time for the tents to go from outside St Paul's. I am sure that the
protest was never about damaging the Church, rather to fight against the
failures of the banking regulation system."

CRUSADE BOOT THEM OUT!

The demo has strained relations between the Church and the City after the
cathedral announced it would not be taking legal action as City lawyers took
steps to evict the protesters.

The Daily Express's Boot Them Out! crusade demands the squatters be removed
before Remembrance Sunday on November 13.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A masked protester sits it out in a suit of armour at St Paul's
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

St Paul's mob told they can stay into New Year

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 373  words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's have been offered a deal which will see them
stay into the New Year.

The City of London made the offer, according to the demonstrators' lawyer
yesterday, after announcing it was abandoning legal action against the protest
group.

The terms are thought to cover a reduction in the number of tents and follows St
Paul's deciding not to take legal action to evict the camp.

The protest group's lawyer John Cooper QC said: "We are legally advising our
client on the offer from the City tonight involving Occupy LSX remaining on site
until the New Year."

Last night the City of London confirmed it had held talks with camp leaders.

A spokesman said: "They are going to come back to us on Friday. We talked about
the constriction of the site and duration." The move would see the camp still in
place on Remembrance Sunday on November 13.

Last night protesters said they were "delighted" with the local authorities'
"U-turn". Tina Rothery, said: "We would have to make a slight reduction in tents
in order to free up space for the fire brigade."

She added: "We are delighted.

This is a great U-turn."

But pressure on the Occupy London squatters to leave continues to grow amid
fears the protest could spoil next year's London Olympics and the Queen's
Diamond Jubilee.

Tory MP for the Cities of London and Westminster Mark Field said: "It is
essential we get the site cleared. All of us want to avoid any confrontation or
the risk of violence but London is going to be a showcase for the Olympics and
St Paul's is an iconic London building.

"It is essential by that stage this unsightly camp has been moved on."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said:

"I am the last person to oppose the right of protest as I have been doing it all
my life. But it is time for the tents to go from outside St Paul's. I am sure
that the protest was never about damaging the Church, rather to fight against
the failures of the banking regulation system."

The demo has strained relations between the Church and the City after the
cathedral announced it would not be taking legal action as City lawyers took
steps to evict the protesters.

The Daily Express's Boot Them Out! crusade demands the squatters be removed
before Remembrance Sunday on November 13.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A masked protester sits it out in a suit of armour at St Paul's
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Held , gang that flew 230 Poles into UK in GBP 2m benefits scam

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 28

LENGTH: 373  words


A POLISH gang which trafficked more than 200 people into Britain in a GBP
2million benefits scam has been smashed.

A total of 31 suspected gangsters were being held last night after a series of
co-ordinated raids in London, Birmingham and Warsaw.

The busts came after a two-year investigation involving UK customs investigators
and British police liaising with police in Poland.

Yesterday it emerged that most of the 230 people brought to Britain by the gang
had mental health problems.

They had been promised jobs here but, on arrival, were tricked into signing
papers to open bank accounts.

The fraudsters then falsely applied for tax credit and other benefits using
their victims' details. They sent the cash to ringleaders in Poland.

Their victims were left destitute and living on the streets.

Most have now been returned to Poland, where they are being supported by local
authorities.

Officers from Scotland Yard, accompanied by their Polish counterparts, searched
five addresses in south and east London yesterday, where two suspects were
seized. Searches were also carried out in Birmingham.

In Poland police swooped on other gang members as they gathered for a wedding,
arresting 29.

Lawrence Webb, the UK Independence Party's London mayoral candidate, called the
arrests the only "bright spot" of the story.

He added: "This is a perfect storm of the frailties of our systems. Our
immigration service lets them in, our benefits system lets them rip off the
taxpayer. Then, after being picked up by the police - a bright spot - and sent
down to likely minimal sentences we will not be able to deport them as they are
EU citizens."

Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland, of the Met's Human Exploitation and Organised
Crime Command, said:

"These vulnerable victims were trafficked here to be exploited and satisfy the
greed of these criminals.

"They were brought here under the impression they were getting a job, but were
left with nothing."

The Revenue and Customs' criminal investigation unit said it had looked at more
than 230 tax credit awards worth in excess of GBP 2million.

Polish police major Monika Sokolowska said: "We were used to people trafficked
for prostitution or slavery, but this new form of trafficking is becoming ever
more prevalent."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: We allow rip-off, says Lawrence Webb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Anger at Archbishop for backing St Paul's rabble

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 382  words


PROTESTERS camped outside St Paul's faced growing calls to leave last night as
the rift between the church and the City of London widened.

Comments from the Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams earlier appeared to
back the anti-capitalist sit-in by calling for a new "Robin Hood" tax on banks.

David Cameron yesterday showed his support for Dr Williams, although he played
down the idea of a tax on financial transactions.

The PM said: "I think the Archbishop speaks frankly for the whole country when
he says that it is unacceptable in a time of difficulty when people at the top
of our society are not showing signs of responsibility."

Pressure on the Occupy London squatters to leave continues to grow amid fears
the protest could spoil next year's London Olympics and the Queen's Diamond
Jubilee.

Tory MP for the Cities of London and Westminster Mark Field said: "It is
essential we get the site cleared. All of us want to avoid any confrontation or
the risk of violence but London is going to be a showcase for the Olympics and
St Paul's is an iconic London building.

"It is essential by that stage this unsightly camp has been moved on. The
Archbishop is rather unwise to talk about a Robin Hood tax as he is entering an
extremely controversial element of British politics.

"It stands in some contrast that he was utterly silent during the first two and
a half weeks of the protest and then feels it is appropriate to give a view of
some political controversy."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said:

"I am the last person to oppose the right of protest as I have been doing it all
my life. But it is time for the tents to go from outside St Paul's. I am sure
that the protest was never about damaging the Church, rather to fight against
the failures of the banking regulation system."

The demo has strained relations between the Church and the City after the
cathedral announced it would not be taking legal action as City lawyers took
steps to evict the protesters.

Stuart Fraser, the City of London policy chairman, said: "The church has changed
its position with regards to a camp being on its land, which means that we have
had to rethink as well. So we have pressed the pause button."

The Daily Express's Boot Them Out! crusade demands the squatters be removed
before Remembrance Sunday on November 13.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A masked protester sits it out in a suit of armour at St Paul's
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 3, 2011 Thursday 5:51 PM GMT

Ukip, the party of England's reticent majority

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 487 words


The Telegraph's big beast, Peter Oborne,has an interesting piece in today's
paper about an almost unmentioned phenomenon in modern British politics - the
rise of Ukip to become the country's strongest-ever fourth party.

Almost unmentioned by the mainstream media, the anti-Brussels party now
routinely picks up 6 or 7 per cent of the vote in opinion polls, barely below
the Liberal Democrats. As he writes:

If a Left-wing party had reached Ukip's size and consequence, the media would be
fascinated. But, because of its old-fashioned and decidedly provincial approach,
it has been practically ignored. In the 2004 European elections, the party
gained a sensational 16 per cent of the vote. Had it been the Greens or the
Communists that had pulled off this feat, the BBC would have gone crazy. Instead
it chose not to mention this event, coolly classifying Ukip as "other".

For the metropolitan elite, the party scarcely exists. This is why last Sunday's
YouGov poll showing that support for Farage's party had crept up to 7 per cent -
just one point fewer than the Liberal Democrats - gained no coverage. But the
significance of this is very great. I believe that Ukip is about to take over
from the Lib Dems as Britain's third largest political party.

Indeed. The BBC are only interested in Right-wing parties when they're
unquestionably toxic - such as the BNP - or whether they can be presented as
"angry white guys", like the Tea Party. Because Ukip cannot be be put into
either category, they are of little interest to the centre-Left media (and
painting Ukip as "hard" Right is a bit difficult when they're half in favour of
legalising marijuana).

Where I would differ with Oborne in my analysis is the extent to which Ukip is
the Conservative Party in exile. It certainly wins most of its voters from the
Tories, but it also gains considerable support from ex-Labour and Liberal
Democrat people, many of whom do not share the party leaderships' obsession with
Europe or with other high-status opinions.

Ukip's appeal goes beyond the European issue, which is not an immediate issue to
many people. Rather it appeals to the many people who do not share a set of
assumptions held in Westminster; people who don't believe it's the state's job
to enforce equality or eradicate discrimination; who don't approve of the
educational reforms of the 1960s; who believe that the welfare state has damaged
social capital and trust, and in particular the socialisation of children; who
don't support most positive human rights; who don't really feel happy about the
growth of the state into so many areas of private life; who don't believe that
immigration has necessarily made Britain a better place; and who think that
crime should be properly punished.

That's a very big constituency, including very large minorities of Labour and
Liberal Democrat voters and a majority of Tories - indeed one might call them
England's reticent majority.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 3, 2011 Thursday 3:47 PM GMT

As the landscape starts to shift, Ukip can create political havoc

BYLINE: By Peter Oborne

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1216 words


The main parties' cosy alliance is about to be blown apart by Nigel Farage's
Eurosceptics

The modern history of the Conservative Party has been poorly understood, mainly
because it has been written by the winner - the modernising faction that
undermined the leadership of William Hague and Iain Duncan Smith before seizing
control after the 2005 election defeat.

These modernisers like to portray recent Tory history as a victory for change,
pragmatism, progress and sanity. But this relentlessly optimistic account
ignores the central truth: the Conservative Party formally split in the decade
that followed the political assassination of Margaret Thatcher in 1990.

The first manifestation of this split was the creation of the Anti-Federalist
League by the distinguished historian Alan Sked in 1991, at just the time that
the Maastricht Treaty was signed. The decision to depriveeight Conservative MPs
of the whip in the mid-1990s was another significant moment. Sir James
Goldsmith's Referendum Party took the disintegration process one stage further.

Sir James was far more successful than is widely appreciated, and forced the
Conservative government to pledge a referendum on future European treaty
changes. He also sucked away many Tory activists. When the Referendum Party
folded after his death the following year, these activists tended not to return
to the Conservatives. Many of them gave their loyalty to Ukip, the protest party
led by Nigel Farage which now campaigns for Britain to leave the European Union.

In contrast to the racist BNP, which tends to attract former Labour supporters,
Ukip is in reality the Conservative Party in exile. Many of its senior members
wear covert coats and trilbies, making them look like off-duty cavalry officers.
They are fiercely patriotic and independent.

Farage himself is a very jolly chap who smokes, drinks and occasionally gets
into minor trouble. He is instantly recognisable as the kind of man who would
have served loyally in the post-war Conservative Party and would have been
popular with opposition parties. He is one of the relatively few politicians I
actually look forward to meeting. Indeed, Mr Farage, who abandoned the Tories on
the day that Margaret Thatcher quit as party leader, is entirely representative
of his membership, many of whom are small businessmen, or served in the Armed
Forces, and are extremely public-spirited.

It was widely noted that party activists were heavily outnumbered by lobbyists
at this year's Conservative conference. One of the reasons was that so many Tory
activists have gone off to join Ukip. Practically all of its supporters were
instinctively at home in the party of Margaret Thatcher. A steady trickle of
former Tory grandees have defected to Mr Farage's party: Alexander Hesketh, the
former treasurer and chief whip in the House of Lords, is the most recent.

If a Left-wing party had reached Ukip's size and consequence, the media would be
fascinated. But, because of its old-fashioned and decidedly provincial approach,
it has been practically ignored. In the 2004 European elections, the party
gained a sensational 16 per cent of the vote. Had it been the Greens or the
Communists that had pulled off this feat, the BBC would have gone crazy. Instead
it chose not to mention this event, coolly classifying Ukip as "other".

For the metropolitan elite, the party scarcely exists. This is why last Sunday's
YouGov poll showing that support for Farage's party had crept up to 7 per cent -
just one point fewer than the Liberal Democrats - gained no coverage. But the
significance of this is very great. I believe that Ukip is about to take over
from the Lib Dems as Britain's third largest politicalparty.

The Lib Dems are finished for the foreseeable future - the invariable fate of
the smaller party in a coalition government. They will be fortunate to retain a
dozen seats at the next general election. Meanwhile, Ukip will probably overtake
them in the polls over the coming months, most likely pulling well ahead as the
general election approaches. The European elections, due in two and a half
years' time, will provide an important test: my guess is that Ukip will perform
very strongly, while the Lib Dems will be all butwiped out.

It is becoming painfully apparent that Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy made a
historic mistake at the end of the last century. Had the Lib Dems then made the
decision to reflect popular opinion and challenge the European Union, they could
have been a genuinely radical party, capable of confronting head-on and
overtaking their two main rivals. Instead (to the despair of several of their
MPs), they timidly chose to become a voice of the European machine in Brussels,
meaning they became part of the consensus and were never able to make the
breakthrough they wanted.

As a result of this failure of nerve and vision, Britain's political
architecture is about to be transformed. Since the Second World War, our third
national party has been on the Left. This has meant that Conservative
governments have often been pulled towards the centre, while Labour governments
have had crucial cover. We are now moving towards a new era, in which the most
significant third force may be on the Right.

The consequences of this are, at this stage, hard to predict. It is possible
that Ukip may develop into a rebellious third party, like Jean-Marie Le Pen's
Front National in France, but this is unlikely: LePen's party was semi-fascist,
and Ukip seems too fundamentally British, conservative and decent to go down
that frightening route. Furthermore, our electoral system holds back Ukip, just
as it does the Lib Dems. Though it is easier now to imagine the former surging
to victory in a by-election, with the latter extinguished as a vehicle for
protest votes, it is virtually inconceivable that Mr Farage's party can win
parliamentary seats at the next generalelection.

But Ukip can still exercise a determining influence. The strength of its
national support means that it holds the future of scores of Tory MPs in its
hands. By runninga candidate in a marginal seat, it can deprive the Tories of a
few thousand votes, more than enough to cause him or her to lose - indeed, one
Tory, David Heathcoat-Amory, ironically himself a Eurosceptic, blames Ukip for
his loss in the2010 election.

Meanwhile, the party can throw its weight behind Tory candidates fighting for
their lives against Lib Dem or Labour rivals. But in return, of course, it is
entitled to demand a price and insist that those candidates pursue strong
anti-European policies. This ability to determine or affect the result in
individual constituencies means that Ukip can intervene dramatically in the Tory
civil war over Europe which broke out after last week's Commons vote. It can
terminate the careers of ministers and loyal backbenchers, while throwing a
lifeline torebels.

Ukip's strength is very easy to explain. The leadership of the three mainstream
parties have made an error. They are determined to cleave to the centre ground.
Ukip alone has the courage to stand outside this cosy alliance and to cause
havoc. Meanwhile, it goes without saying that a Tory leader can never win an
election so long as the broader Conservative movement is so painfully split.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Comment: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 697 words


&#10002;A fine mess at St Paul's Cathedral, with just one upside. Plenty for the
new head of communications to be getting on with, whoever it shall be. Many
questions arise from the debacle, and here's one: what next for the hero of the
hour, Giles Fraser, the canon chancellor who did the right thing and walked out?
Well, there are possibilities, for Southwark Cathedral is right now choosing a
new dean to replace Colin Slee, who died last November. It's late in the day.
But there are 11th-hour calls for the authorities to draft Fraser in as the new
dean. Supporters say he would be a strong candidate, high profile, liberal, a
good media performer, charismatic - and he knows Southwark diocese. He was vicar
of Putney for nine years before moving to St Paul's. He'd even be able to look
out of his window in the dean's house, next to the Globe on London's South Bank,
with a fine view of the dome of St Paul's just across the river. With the right
wind, he might one day hear the evensong of the bailiffs, wrestling with
protesters, ripping down their tents.

&#10002;To Westminster now - where it is Labour's position, and it is a
reasonable one, that if you really want answers on the environment, you really
want the secretary of state. So Labour was pretty put out when minister Greg
Clark was fielded by the government to explain the coalition's decision to cut
the subsidy available for households to harness solar energy. Not only is that
cut unfair to householders of modest means, argued the climate change shadow
Caroline Flint, but it also threatens jobs and businesses in what should be a
growing industry. It's not that Labour has anything against Clark, but they do
take exception to the secretary of state Chris Huhne, who apparently sought to
mollify the party's opposition by offering Flint a chance to talk about it
privately on Sunday evening. "She said no to the chat, and told his team that
cosy Sunday night chats weren't the way to do business, and that with thousands
of jobs on the line, the Commons should have the chance to debate things
properly," a source tells us. With his hopes of a cosy stitch-up dashed, the
debate took place, and Labour gave the coalition both barrels. Clark took the
hit; and Huhne was nowhere to be seen.

&#10002;It's amazing - some turnaround, some life. Ex-Tory MP Neil Hamilton,
here revealed and disgraced in 1996 as "A liar and a cheat" over the cash for
questions scandal: now elected to the national executive of Ukip. You just can't
keep a good man down. Or Neil.

&#10002;And as the phone-hacking hearings continue, there is well-earned
posthumous triumph for the News of the World, vindicated by convictions arising
from Mazher Mahmood's exclusive about cricket match-fixing allegations. Dark
days ahead for the players themselves and, of course, for Pakistani cricket.
Nothing for officials to do but rebuild the team and hope in time to rebuild a
reputation. And they might change the name of the Gaddafi cricket stadium in
Lahore to something else.

&#10002;Finally, yesterday's reference to Fred "Nutty" Sharpe, head of the
Flying Squad in the 1930s and star of a new history of the unit, brings further
recollections of the man who made DC Gene Hunt from TV's Life on Mars look like
Larry Grayson. In his memoir, Nutty pronounced on the newly arrived migrants
from eastern Europe in the early part of the last century. They were, he
observed: "Russians in top-boots, leather leggings and fur hats; wild-looking
people from the most outlandish parts of that great uncivilised land." Bad,
plain bad, they were. "A lot were desperadoes and went in for crime straight
away." But it wasn't all bare-knuckled stuff with Nutty. Raiding an illegal club
in the West End in the 20s, he showed he could be quite stylish: "I went to the
Manhattan Club in evening dress and opera hat with a friend who was a man about
town," he recalled. "The music stopped as the cry went up 'It's a raid'." They
seemed to take it "as a lark, for it gave them a thrill. But they changed their
views when they appeared before the beak." Collars were felt; the law prevailed.
And Nutty didn't hit anybody.

diary@guardian.co.uk

twitter.com/hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2011



CORRECTION: The Diary column was corrected because the original named the
minister who explained the coalition's decision to cut subsidies for solar power
as Greg Clark. It was Greg Barker.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    November 2, 2011 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Diary: A free meal with a lobbyist? No such thing;


BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: DIARY

LENGTH: 694 words


What is the collective noun for lobbyists? An inveigle? There will be aninveigle
of them around Parliament this morning, when the Labour MP Paul Flynn opens a
debate on whether the nation's £2bn lobbying industry should be more regulated.

Mr Flynn is not the sharpest of operators when it comes to looking after himself
- he was the only Labour MP to make Ed Miliband his fifth choice out of five in
last year's leadership election - but he can be formidably stubborn in pursuit
of a cause. On Monday, he pulled off the rare feat of getting the Speaker, John
Bercow, to admit that he may have made an incorrect ruling.

Mr Flynn had intervened during questions to the Communities Secretary, Eric
Pickles, to ask why he had not declared a five-star dinner he had enjoyed at the
Savoy, paid for by one of the country's biggest lobbying firms, Bell Pottinger.
Mr Bercow ruled the question out of order on the technicality that when Mr
Pickles registers his interests - or fails to - he is acting as an MP, not a
minister, so cannot be questioned about it when he is at the Dispatch box
answering questions as a minister.

Ah, but there is also the ministerial code, Mr Flynn retorted. The code says
ministers must declare any hospitality they accept in "a ministerial capacity" -
and Mr Flynn wants to know why Mr Pickles thinks he got a free dinner off Bell
Pottinger if it was not because they want to lobby him in a ministerial
capacity. So his question should have been allowed under the rules. "Perhaps it
should have been, perhaps the fault was mine," Mr Bercow conceded.

There will be more about that Savoy dinner and the wealth of private contacts
between ministers and lobbyists in today's debate. The Inveigle will be there,
listening rather than inveigling. And after that, no doubt, lobbyists will be
paying for lunches and dinners all over Westminster so that they can explain why
Mr Flynn is wrong.

Menacing Denis

A series of photographs went on display in Parliament yesterday, showing a
collection of our leading statesmen and stateswomen, past and present, looking
solemn - with one exception. In the middle of the row there is a picture of a
ferocious looking old man, sticking his tongue out at the camera. It is the
former Labour Chancellor, Denis Healey, who was 93 when the picture was taken.
Healey used to behave like that towards fellow Labour MPs whose judgement he did
not rate, which - some say - is what cost him the party leadership.

Party piece

The UK Independence Party is delighted to report that the former Tory MP Neil
Hamilton has been elected to its executive, bringing much-needed political
experience to that committee. They might do well now to check that he has in
fact joined Ukip. When senior Conservatives wanted to rid the party of this man
who had done so much to damage its reputation, he gloatingly retorted that he
could not be expelled because, although he had been a Tory MP for more than a
decade, he was not a party member.

Cheers, Dave!

When David Cameron traversed the globe last week to join other Commonwealth
leaders in Australia, it was noted that he spent as much time airborne as he did
at the summit itself, discussing human rights, eradicating polio, and what
happens if William and Kate's first child is a girl.

The Australian Prime Minister, Julia Gillard, was asked by an Australian
journalist why the British Prime Minister was leaving early, skipping an
official dinner and Sunday's programme of events. She replied that there were "a
lot of pressures on people's time given issues in the global economy" plus the
G20 meeting this week in Cannes.

What went unreported was that during his 38-hour stopover, Mr Cameron found time
for something a little more relaxing than the global economy. He gave the press
pack the slip, and headed off quietly in a white saloon car to the Sandalford
wine estate in the Swan Valley to enjoy a private tour of the vineyards with
Sandalford's chief executive, Grant Brinklow, and a spot of wine tasting.

This could all have been kept secret but for the modern social media. Before Mr
Cameron's feet had touched British soil again, pictures of his "private" visit
were out in cyberspace.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

A free meal with a lobbyist? No such thing;
The DIARY

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 702 words


What is the collective noun for lobbyists? An inveigle? There will be an
inveigle of them around Parliament this morning, when the Labour MP Paul Flynn
opens a debate on whether the nation's £2bn lobbying industry should be more
regulated.

Mr Flynn is not the sharpest of operators when it comes to looking after himself
- he was the only Labour MP to make Ed Miliband his fifth choice out of five in
last year's leadership election - but he can be formidably stubborn in pursuit
of a cause. On Monday, he pulled off the rare feat of getting the Speaker, John
Bercow, to admit that he may have made an incorrect ruling.

Mr Flynn had intervened during questions to the Communities Secretary, Eric
Pickles, to ask why he had not declared a five-star dinner he had enjoyed at the
Savoy, right, paid for by one of the country's biggest lobbying firms, Bell
Pottinger. Mr Bercow ruled the question out of order on the technicality that
when Mr Pickles registers his interests - or fails to - he is acting as an MP,
not a minister, so cannot be questioned about it when he is at the Dispatch box
answering questions as a minister.

Ah, but there is also the ministerial code, Mr Flynn retorted. The code says
ministers must declare any hospitality they accept in "a ministerial capacity" -
and Mr Flynn wants to know why Mr Pickles thinks he got a free dinner off Bell
Pottinger if it was not because they want to lobby him in a ministerial
capacity. So his question should have been allowed under the rules. "Perhaps it
should have been, perhaps the fault was mine," Mr Bercow conceded.

There will be more about that Savoy dinner and the wealth of private contacts
between ministers and lobbyists in today's debate. The Inveigle will be there,
listening rather than inveigling. And after that, no doubt, lobbyists will be
paying for lunches and dinners all over Westminster so that they can explain why
Mr Flynn is wrong.

Menacing Denis

A series of photographs went on display in Parliament yesterday, showing a
collection of our leading statesmen and stateswomen, past and present, looking
solemn - with one exception. In the middle of the row there is a picture of a
ferocious looking old man, sticking his tongue out at the camera. It is the
former Labour Chancellor, Denis Healey, who was 93 when the picture was taken.
Healey, above, used to behave like that towards fellow Labour MPs whose
judgement he did not rate, which - some say - is what cost him the party
leadership.

Party piece

The UK Independence Party is delighted to report that the former Tory MP Neil
Hamilton has been elected to its executive, bringing much-needed political
experience to that committee. They might do well now to check that he has in
fact joined Ukip. When senior Conservatives wanted to rid the party of this man
who had done so much to damage its reputation, he gloatingly retorted that he
could not be expelled because, although he had been a Tory MP for more than a
decade, he was not a party member.

Cheers, Dave!

When David Cameron traversed the globe last week to join other Commonwealth
leaders in Australia, it was noted that he spent as much time airborne as he did
at the summit itself, discussing human rights, eradicating polio, and what
happens if William and Kate's first child is a girl.

The Australian Prime Minister, Julia Gillard, was asked by an Australian
journalist why the British Prime Minister was leaving early, skipping an
official dinner and Sunday's programme of events. She replied that there were "a
lot of pressures on people's time given issues in the global economy" plus the
G20 meeting this week in Cannes.

What went unreported was that during his 38-hour stopover, Mr Cameron found time
for something a little more relaxing than the global economy. He gave the press
pack the slip, and headed off quietly in a white saloon car to the Sandalford
wine estate in the Swan Valley to enjoy a private tour of the vineyards with
Sandalford's chief executive, Grant Brinklow, pictured below with Mr Cameron,
and a spot of wine tasting.

This could all have been kept secret but for the modern social media. Before Mr
Cameron's feet had touched British soil again, pictures of his "private" visit
were out in cyberspace.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Conservative voters are turning against the EU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 241 words


HALF of all Conservative MPs would like Britain to leave the European Union
according to one survey, while another reveals that three-quarters of
grass-roots party members back those MPs who rebelled last week.

Such polls offer further evidence that the Conservative Party is now
predominantly an anti-EU political movement. The complicating factor of course
is that its leadership does not appear to have caught up with this fact.

It is time for David Cameron, William Hague and the rest of the collective Tory
leadership to take stock. When those at the top of a party no longer articulate
the aspirations of their members and voters they should not be surprised if that
party loses support.

A large majority of the public and an even bigger one of Conservativeinclined
voters want a referendum on EU membership. If the Prime Minister and the Foreign
Secretary refuse to back such people and instead seek to thwart them then they
will find a very large constituency of support drifting to other parties.

One poll last weekend found that UKIP is now running just one point behind the
Liberal Democrats in popularity. In the short term that is predominantly a
problem for the Lib Dems. But senior Conservatives cannot afford to smirk at the
fate of their junior coalition partners because most of UKIP's support is coming
from disenchanted former Tories.

If a tougher anti-Brussels line is not forthcoming soon that steady trickle
could turn into a flood.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE VOICE OF THE SCEPTIC CELEBRITIES

BYLINE: JOANNA DELLA-RAGIONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 323 words


THE term "climate change" is, according to Lord Lawson, "a propagandist's term,
it trips off the tongue nicely". The former chancellor is by no means alone in
dismissing what he calls "the global warming nonsense".

Children's TV presenter Johnny Ball says he has been "mocked, vilified,
besmirched" for his views that the emphasis on the damage caused by carbon
dioxide has been "massively over-stated".

Environmentalist David Bellamy is among others who have been publicly lynched as
climate change deniers.

Bellamy has said: "I'm sceptical about man-made climate change. There's
absolutely no proof that carbon dioxide will kill us all. It's not a poison it's
the most important gas in the world. Carbon dioxide is an airborne fertiliser.
How can farmers grow increasing amounts of food without a rise in CO2?"

But he admits his views have had a hugely adverse effect on his career. "I used
to be very popular but most of the green people won't even speak to me any more.
When I was sacked from the Wildlife Trusts because of my views they didn't tell
me, I read about it in the paper."

Last June Lord Monckton, the outspoken deputy leader of UKIP, claimed the
Australian government's chief climate change adviser Professor Ross Garnaut held
fascist views.

At a Los Angeles conference he quoted Prof Garnaut as saying: "The outsider to
climate science has no rational choice but to accept that, on the balance of
probabilities, the mainstream science is right in pointing to high risks from
unmitigated climate change."

"That's a fascist point of view," said Lord Monckton, a vehement climate change
sceptic. "That you merely accept authority without question. Heil Hitler, on we
go."

He later said: "I have written to Ross Garnaut to withdraw unreservedly and to
apologise humbly."

But Garnaut himself admitted that the nature of the discourse surrounding
climate change has become "less civilised, noisier and more ignorant".

JOANNA DELLA-RAGIONE

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FROZEN OUT: TV's David Bellamy
NOT CONVINCED: TV's Johnny Ball

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

50% of Tory MPs want Britain to leave the EU

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 587 words


HALF of all Tory MPs want Britain to pull out of the EU, it emerged yesterday.

More than 150 - nearly twice as many as those who voted for a referendum last
week - want the UK to free itself from the shackles of Brussels interference.

Conservative rebel Mark Reckless claimed as many as half of the 306-strong
Parliamentary party were in favour of total withdrawal.

He said the proportion was "probably quite similar to the country as a whole",
and he cited a recent YouGov opinion poll that claimed 52 per cent of people
want to come out of Europe and only 31 per cent want to stay in.

Isolated

The row over Europe deepened yesterday as Nick Clegg fired a fresh warning to
Tory Eurosceptics not to leave Britain isolated in the EU, ratcheting up tension
with the coalition Government.

The Deputy Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Isolation costs
jobs, costs growth, costs people's livelihoods.

"That is why people need to be careful what they wish for, because if you
wilfully move to the margins of Europe, you will find that it is hitting people
where it hurts most terms of their jobs and their livelihoods.

"And that is not something I think anybody should seriously want."

Mr Clegg said the "urgent, overriding national priority" for the whole coalition
should be to promote jobs and growth. He said: "We do that by being in the
centre of the argument, not on the outer fringes of the argument in Europe.

"If instead we rush headlong down a cul-de-sac of increasingly arcane,
legalistic arguments about changes to treaties that may or may not be open to
renegotiation in the future, then I think that would be a form of displacement
activity from our overriding national duty. We have got to get the best out of
the European Union, not seek to get out of the European Union."

His comments came as David Cameron braces himself for the first test of his
authority since 81 Conservative MPs defied the Whip over a referendum on Europe.

There was considerable anger within the Cabinet at Mr Cameron's decision to
force Conservative MPs to vote against the motion.

Next week MPs debate plans to approve the EU £900billion budget and are expected
to demand a vote, another blow to the Prime Minister.

Backbench MPs could try to pressure the Government to veto plans for new taxes
to fund the budget.

OPINION: PAGE 12

GREECE SET TO REJECT EURO BAIL-OUT IN REFERENDUM

GREECE plunged Europe further into crisis last night by announcing a referendum
on the debt reduction deal...just days after it was hammered out.

The surprise pledge by premier George Papandreou stunned fellow leaders.

While key details on the referendum have yet to be agreed, jittery markets are
calling for certainty that the eurozone will get its house in order.

Polls suggest that 60 per cent of Greeks do not back the rescue plan -
suggesting a defeat for beleaguered prime minister George Papandreou.

If the deal is rejected there will be greater pressure for the country to
default on its debts and quit the single currency - another disaster for the
euro. Back home, Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "The British people will be
looking at Greece thinking if they can have a referendum why can't we?"

The announcement was just another wave in a tsunami of bad news yesterday. Stock
exchanges fell and traders were spooked by reports China may not now invest as
much in the bail-out fund as hoped. The OECD warned of a slowdown in the zone
next year, saying G20 leaders due to meet this week had to take bold decisions
to stave off recession.

CITY: PAGE 44

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fresh EU warning from Nick Clegg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

GREECE SET TO REJECT EURO BAIL-OUT IN REFERENDUM

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 190  words


GREECE plunged Europe further into crisis last night by announcing a referendum
on the debt reduction deal. . . just days after it was hammered out.

The surprise pledge by premier George Papandreou stunned fellow leaders.

While key details on the referendum have yet to be agreed, jittery markets are
calling for certainty that the eurozone will get its house in order.

Polls suggest that 60 per cent of Greeks do not back the rescue plan -
suggesting a defeat for beleaguered prime minister George Papandreou.

If the deal is rejected there will be greater pressure for the country to
default on its debts and quit the single currency - another disaster for the
euro. Back home, Ukip leader Nigel Farage said: "The British people will be
looking at Greece thinking if they can have a referendum why can't we?"

The announcement was just another wave in a tsunami of bad news yesterday. Stock
exchanges fell and traders were spooked by reports China may not now invest as
much in the bail-out fund as hoped. The OECD warned of a slowdown in the zone
next year, saying G20 leaders due to meet this week had to take bold decisions
to stave off recession.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE VOICE OF THE SCEPTIC CELEBRITIES

BYLINE: JOANNA DELLA-RAGIONE

SECTION: FEATURES; 29

LENGTH: 320  words


THE term "climate change" is, according to Lord Lawson, "a propagandist's term,
it trips off the tongue nicely". The former chancellor is by no means alone in
dismissing what he calls "the global warming nonsense".

Children's TV presenter Johnny Ball says he has been "mocked, vilified,
besmirched" for his views that the emphasis on the damage caused by carbon
dioxide has been "massively over-stated".

Environmentalist David Bellamy is among others who have been publicly lynched as
climate change deniers.

Bellamy has said: "I'm sceptical about man-made climate change.

There's absolutely no proof that carbon dioxide will kill us all. It's not a
poison it's the most important gas in the world. Carbon dioxide is an airborne
fertiliser. How can farmers grow increasing amounts of food without a rise in CO
2?"But he admits his views have had a hugely adverse effect on his career.

"I used to be very popular but most of the green people won't even speak to me
any more. When I was sacked from the Wildlife Trusts because of my views they
didn't tell me, I read about it in the paper."

Last June Lord Monckton, the outspoken deputy leader of UKIP, claimed the
Australian government's chief climate change adviser Professor Ross Garnaut held
fascist views.

At a Los Angeles conference he quoted Prof Garnaut as saying: "The outsider to
climate science has no rational choice but to accept that, on the balance of
probabilities, the mainstream science is right in pointing to high risks from
unmitigated climate change."

"That's a fascist point of view, " said Lord Monckton, a vehement climate change
sceptic . "That you merely accept authority without question.

Heil Hitler, on we go."

He later said: "I have written to Ross Garnaut to withdraw unreservedly and to
apologise humbly."

But Garnaut himself admitted that the nature of the discourse surrounding
climate change has become "less civilised, noisier and more ignorant".

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NOT CONVINCED: TV's Johnny Ball
FROZEN OUT: TV's David Bellamy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

50% of Tory MPs want Britain to leave the EU

BYLINE: By Tom Morgan

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 392  words


HALF of all Tory MPs want Britain to pull out of the EU, it emerged yesterday.

More than 150 - nearly twice as many as those who voted for a referendum last
week - want the UK to free itself from the shackles of Brussels interference.

Conservative rebel Mark Reckless claimed as many as half of the 306-strong
Parliamentary party were in favour of total withdrawal.

He said the proportion was "probably quite similar to the country as a whole",
citing a recent YouGov poll that claimed 52 per cent of people want to come out
of Europe and only 31 per cent want to stay in.

His comments come amid fresh demands for an EU vote after Greece announced it
was to hold a plebiscite on a new European bailout.

Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said he wants voters to decide in a
referendum if they want the 100 billion euro handout.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage said:

"The majority of British people will be looking at Greece thinking if they can
have a referendum then why can't we?"

The domestic European row deepened yesterday as Nick Clegg fired a fresh warning
to Tory Eurosceptics not to leave Britain isolated in the EU, ratcheting up
tension with the coalition Government.

The Deputy Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today programme:

"Isolation costs jobs, costs growth, costs people's livelihoods.

"That is why people need to be careful what they wish for, because if you
wilfully move to the margins of Europe, you will find that it is hitting people
where it hurts most."

Mr Clegg said the "urgent, overriding national priority" for the whole coalition
should be to promote jobs and growth.

He said: "If instead we rush headlong down a cul-de-sac of increasingly arcane,
legalistic arguments about changes to treaties that may or may not be open to
renegotiation in the future, then I think that would be a form of displacement
activity from our overriding national duty.

"We have got to get the best out of the European Union, not seek to get out of
the European Union."

His comments came as David Cameron braces himself for the first test of his
authority since 81 Conservative MPs defied the Whip over a referendum on Europe.

Next week MPs debate plans to approve the EU GBP 900billion budget and are
expected to demand a vote, another blow to the Prime Minister.

Backbench MPs could try to pressure the Government to veto plans for new taxes
to fund the budget.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fresh EU warning from Nick Clegg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Half of all Tory MPs want UK to make break from Brussels

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 516  words


HALF of all Tory MPs want Britain to pull out of the EU, it emerged yesterday.

More than 150 - twice as many as voted for a referendum last week - want the UK
to free itself from Brussels interference.

Tory rebel Mark Reckless said that as many as half of the 306-strong
Parliamentary party were privately in favour of total withdrawal.

The MP for Rochester and Strood said the proportion was "probably quite similar
to the country as a whole", citing a recent YouGov poll which said 52 per cent
of people want to come out of Europe and 31 per cent stay in.

His comments come amid fresh demands for an EU referendum after Greece announced
it was to hold a public vote on a new European bailout package.

Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said he wants voters to decide in a
referendum whether they want to adopt the 100billion euro handout.

"We trust citizens, we believe in their judgement, we believe in their decision,
" he told the Greek Parliament.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said:

"British people will be looking at Greece thinking, if they can have a
referendum then why can't we?"

The row deepened yesterday as Nick Clegg fired a fresh warning to Tory
eurosceptics not to leave Britain isolated in the EU.

The Deputy Prime Minister said that demands from Tories in the coalition for the
repatriation of powers from Brussels could cost jobs and growth in the UK.

He accused eurosceptics of a headlong rush down "a cul-de-sac of increasingly
arcane legalistic arguments" about changes to EU treaties which may never
actually happen. His comments came as David Cameron braces himself for the first
test of his authority since 81 Tories defied the Whip to vote in favour of a
referendum on the UK's relationship with Europe.

There was anger within the Cabinet at Mr Cameron's decision to force
Conservative MPs to vote against motion using Parliament whips.

Next week MPs will debate plans to approve the EU's budget and are expected to
demand a vote, which would be another blow to Mr Cameron.

There were also suggestions that backbench MPs could try to pressure the
Government to veto plans for new taxes to fund EU's GBP 900billion budget.

Mr Cameron is also facing rising coalition tensions because of Mr Clegg's
pro-european mutterings.

The Deputy Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today programme yesterday:
"Isolation costs jobs, costs growth, costs livelihoods.

"That's why people take care what they wish for. If you willfully move to the
margins of Europe, before you know it you'll find it's actually hitting people
where it hurts most in terms of jobs and livelihoods. That's not something I
think anybody should seriously want."

Mr Clegg said the "urgent, overriding national priority" for the coalition
should be to promote jobs and growth.

"We do that by being in the centre of the argument, not on the outer fringes of
the argument in Europe, " he said.

"We've got to get the best out of the European Union, not seek to get out of the
European Union."

Over the weekend Mr Clegg inflamed the simmering row by claiming it would be
"economic suicide" for Britain to "retreat to the margins" of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pro-Europe deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

More and more UK voters turning against the EU;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 206  words


HALF of all Conservative MPs would like Britain to leave the European Union
according to one survey, while another reveals that three quarters of grassroots
party members back those MPs who rebelled last week.

Such polls offer further evidence that the Conservative Party is now
predominantly anti-EU.

The complicating factor, of course, is that its leadership does not appear to
have caught up with this fact. It is time for David Cameron, William Hague and
the rest of the collective Tory leadership to take stock. When those at the top
of a party no longer articulate the aspirations of their members and voters they
should not be surprised if that party loses support.

A large majority of the British public wants a referendum on the EU. If the
Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary refuse to back them they will find a
very large constituency of support drifting to other parties. One poll last
weekend found the UKIP now running just one point behind the Liberal Democrats,
but senior Tories cannot afford to smirk at the fate of their junior coalition
partners because most of UKIP's support is coming from disenchanted former
Tories.

If a tougher anti-Brussels line is not forthcoming soon that steady trickle
could turn into a flood.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 110 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday

Politics Live blog: Tuesday 1 November

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 5838 words

ABSTRACT

Join Andrew Sparrow for rolling coverage of all the day's political developments
as they happen

FULL TEXT

3.00pm: Here's an afternoon summary. I need to finish a bit earlier than usual
today.

[#xfffd] The Commons culture committee has released new documents about phone
hacking at the News of the World. My colleague Lisa O'Carroll is covering the
findings on a live blog.She highlights an email that raises concerns about
alleged illegal activity on the News of the World including the identification
of car owners via their number plates.

Among the documents [Gordon] Taylor's lawyers got through a process of discovery
were a list of News of the World journalists and detailed table of Data
Protection Infringements between 2001 and 2001.

"A number of these names are still with us and some of them have moved to
prominent positions on NoW and The Sun. Typical infringements are 'turning
around' car reg and mobile phone numbers (illegal)," says the email.

It adds: "This evidence, particularly the email from the News of the World is
fatal to our case."

[#xfffd] David Cameron has said that Britain regards cyber attacks as a "tier
one threat". Speaking at the London cyberspace conference, he said:
"Internationally, we're inviting others to join us in a network wide enough and
powerful enough to face these threats down." Cameron also said it was important
not to crush what was good about the internet.

The internet has profoundly changed our economies too.

Studies show it can create twice as many jobs as it ever destroys.

It's estimated that for every 10 per cent increase in broadband penetration,
global GDP will increase by an average of 1.3 per cent.

So it is in our interests if we want our economies to grow and get our people
back to work, we've got to push harder than ever for wider access - and that's
what we're doing in the UK.

[#xfffd] The Metropolitan Police Authority has revealed that compensation
payments to vicims of the summer riots could cost the government up to
[#xfffd]300m. As the Press Association reports, more than 3,800 claims from
business and property owners have been received by the MPA. Bob Atkins, the
MPA's treasurer, told the London assembly that he estimated the total value of
claims to be between [#xfffd]250m and [#xfffd]300m.[#xfffd] David Cameron has
told senior ministers to roll up their sleeves to push through infrastructure
projects to boost the slow economy.

Thanks for the comments.

2.44pm: Here's a short afternoon reading list.[#xfffd] James Chapman at the
Daily Mail, who is married to a Greek, on the crisis gripping that country.

If you think our leaders are remote and out of touch, try the inertia and
corruption of Greece's ruling classes. For years, Greek voters have been saddled
with choices between the third-rate products of self-proclaimed political
dynasties: the Papandreous, the Venizelos, the Karamanlis. As is usually the
rule (thank goodness Westminster doesn't really do dynasties, Hilary Benn aside)
none of them is as good as their fathers or grandfathers was. Politicians are
now so despised by the people that Greek MPs cannot show their faces in Athenian
tavernas for fear of being mobbed.

The political class has failed even to persuade the Greeks of the need for
spending cuts and tax rises, let alone convince them they have got the detail
right. And don't let anyone tell you the cuts aren't real, that austerity isn't
being implemented in Athens. It has been dictated by the EU and the IMF. The
yacht owners will find a way round all the tax rises of course, as they always
do. But the ordinary Greek is hurting. As in Britain, the pumped-up public
sector is beginning to shed jobs. A big rise in VAT has sent the cost of living
spiralling, and is beginning to hit tourism. Pensioners are threatened with 20
per cent overnight cuts in their retirement payments. A new property tax,
meanwhile, will hit five million families.

Increasingly, the Greek newspapers are filled with anti-German rhetoric. Posters
of favoured Army generals are beginning to be seen in Athens, and a coup is not
completely out of the question (it's only 35 years since the end of the military
junta).

[#xfffd] Mark Gettleson at Political Pulse says a poll of City figures revealed
a "profound level of scepticism" about the chances of the European bailout plan
succeeding.

Taken as a whole, however, the city slammed the agreement, with just 24%
expressing even a modicum a confidence in it and 65% seeing themselves as
sceptical, including 18% 'completely sceptical'. As fielding took place in the
48 hours following the deal, long before the Greek referendum wheeze was
announced, none of this bodes well.

2.35pm: LabourList has conducted its latest poll of Labour members on the
performance of members of the shadow cabinet. And, according to Mark Ferguson,
the results aren't good for Stephen Twigg, the new shadow education secretary.
He's one of only two people with a net negative rating. The other is Ivan Lewis.

2.07pm: Ben Fenton is doing a sterling job on Twitterposting the highlights from
the latest stash of phone hacking documents. (See1.51pm.) Here's an example.

Crone to Myler: "The damning email is genuine and proves we actively made use of
a large number of extremely private voicemails." #phonehack

2.00pm: ConservativeHome has published its latest poll of Conservative members
on the performance of cabinet ministers.Tim Montgomerie says William Hague is
"sharply down, with nearly a quarter of members now dissatisfied with his
performance". But Hague is still in the top six. Iain Duncan Smith is at the
top, followed by Michael Gove and Eric Pickles. And George Osborne comes fourth.
Montgomerie finds this surprising. "Despite his controversial support for fiscal
union and a rather toothless growth agenda 79% of members are satisfied with
him," Montgomerie says.

1.51pm: The Commons culture committee has published on its website eight
documents relating to phone hacking.The FT's Ben Fenton says on his Twitter feed
they look explosive.

1.10pm: Here's a lunchtime summary.

[#xfffd] Official figures have revealed that in the third quarter of 2011
Britian's economy grew by 0.5% - marginally higher than expected. As Katie Allen
reports, economists had been expecting at least some rebound from growth of just
0.1% in the second quarter and the consensus forecast was for 0.4% growth in the
third quarter. But the relatively good news was offset by more grounds for
pessimism. A separate report released at the same time indicated activity in the
manufacturing sector shrank at the fastest pace for two years in October,
suggesting the UK could fall back into negative growth before the end of the
year. And - as Graeme Wearden has been reporting on his live European debt
crisis blog - stock markets have been falling over Europe following the news
that Greece will hold a referendum on the eurozone bailout package. At 2.30pm
Larry Elliott, the Guardian's economics editor, will be discussing the figures
in a live internet Q&A.

[#xfffd] Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, has suggested that the Greeks should
vote against the European bailout plan in their referendum. "What the Greek
government should be doing is agreeing a plan with the eurozone which will
actually work and I'm afraid over the last couple of years we've seen tax rises
and rising unemployment in Greece," Balls told Sky. "If the prime minister says
to the country 'Trust me, this will work', then I hope he gets support. But I'm
not sure this is the right plan, it's not been working so far." Asked about the
referendum, Downing Street said: "Each country will need to follow its own
process and it wouldn't be right for us to comment on that. What we got last
week was an agreement on a package which comprised the three elements we thought
were necessary and important. What we need to do now is focus on filling in the
detail. It is for Greece to decide on the political processes that are
appropriate for it to make decisions." (See 12.03pm.)

[#xfffd] William Hague has said that cyberspace must not be "stifled by
government control or censorship". In a speech at the opening of a London
conference on cyberspace, he issued a challenge to China and Russia. "Nothing
would be more fatal or self-defeating than the heavy hand of state control on
the internet, which only thrives because of the talent of individuals and of
industry within an open market for ideas and innovation," he said.[#xfffd] Only
[#xfffd]1.2m of new money will be available to fund the revised anti-gang
strategy being announced by Theresa May, the home secretary, this afternoon. As
Alan Travis reports, a further [#xfffd]10m is to be "redirected" from other
as-yet unspecified areas of Home Office work into a cross-government package,
which will stress that the problem cannot be left to the police alone and that
only partnerships working with doctors, social workers, and teachers can make
inroads into the problem. There have been reports that the package will involve
gang injunctions. But, as my colleague Patrick Wintour points out on
Twitter,these were devised by Labour and actually launched by the coalition in
January.

[#xfffd] David Cameron has said that he regrets the way PMQs makes him come
across as "a macho, aggressive male". "It is confrontational, adversarial and
quite difficult to be anything else unless you want to get completely squashed
by the other side," he said in an interview with Grazia magazine. "I think that
sometimes you can come across in a way that you don't mean to, that's not the
real you. You come across as a macho, aggressive male and I think that's what
PMQs tends to push you in to."

[#xfffd] The Scottish government has revived its plan to introduce minimum
prices for alcohol. As the Press Association reports, The SNP administration had
been blocked by opposition parties when it tried to set a floor price per unit
last year but now has a majority in the Scottish parliament. Health secretary
Nicola Sturgeon said: "Scotland's unhealthy relationship with alcohol is one of
the most pressing public health challenges facing us as a nation and we need to
take action to tackle it. Here we have a second opportunity to add the missing
piece in the legislative jigsaw: introducing minimum pricing. I urge my
parliamentary colleagues to take it." Last year the price was expected to be 45p
per unit but no official limit has yet been set.

[#xfffd] The Department for Education has announced that children who spent more
than a year in care will get a new savings account, with the government
initially contributing [#xfffd]200.[#xfffd] Carole Caplin, Cherie Blair's former
lifestyle guru, has revealed that her phone is likely to have been hacked on the
orders of the News of the World. She made the disclosure after the Daily Mail
agreed to pay her "substantial" damages after she sued it for libel.

[#xfffd] Neil Hamilton, the former Conservative minister who lost his seat in
parliament after being embroiled in the cash-for-questions scandal, has been
elected to UKIP's national executive committee. As the Press Association
reports, Hamilton, whose candidacy for the NEC elections was backed by UKIP
leader Nigel Farage, said he was "delighted" to receive 3,588 (61%) of the 5,863
members' votes cast. Hamilton said: "I am back in politics to fight as never
before to restore self-government and self-respect to Britain."

[#xfffd] Lord Butler, the former cabinet secretary, has criticised David
Cameron's plan to change the cabinet secretary's role, so that the cabinet
secretary is no longer head of the civil service. "From all points of view I
regret the change," Butler told the Commons public administration committee.
"When there are things the Prime Minister wanted to have done, the leverage I
felt I had as head of the civil service enabled a great deal of co-operation
from colleagues on policy matters." Lord Armstrong, another former cabinet
secretary, told the same committee he also say problems with Cameron's plan.
Being head of the civil service was not a full-time role, he said.[#xfffd]
Andrew Lansley, the health secretary, has announced that an extra [#xfffd]30m
will be available to help people keep warm during the winter.

12.13pm:William Hague, the foreign secretary, has delivered the opening address
at the London cyberspace conference. He said that he would be making a more
substantial speech later and that it would contain a strong message.

Here's the key quote.

We believe that there is nothing better for the health and vibrancy of democracy
than the jostle, humour and rivalry of free speech. As the great lawyer Thomas
Erskine said in defence of the campaigner Thomas Paine in the 1790s, "let reason
be opposed to reason, and argument to argument, and every good government will
be safe".

I will be making a speech to the conference later on setting out the UK's
approach to the future of cyberspace. At its heart is a simple proposition: that
behaviour that is unacceptable in the 'real' world is also unacceptable in
cyberspace. This emphatically includes the curtailing of human rights.

Human rights are universal, and apply online as much as they do offline.

Freedom of expression and a free media are fundamental building-blocks of
democracy. Everyone has the right to free and uncensored access to the internet.
States should only interfere with these rights in exceptional situations and
then only if it is appropriate, effective, proportionate and in accordance with
international legal obligations.

My colleague Nick Hopkins, the Guardian's defence and security correspondent,
has filed a story on the speech. He says Hague was issuing a direct challenge to
China and Russia.

12.03pm: In an interview on Sky Ed Balls hinted that he thought the Greeks
should vote down the EU bailout plan. He said that the bailout plan imposed on
the country by the rest of Europe has not been working up to now. Here's the
full quote, which I've taken fromPoliticsHome.

It's very surprising indeed to have a deal last week announced at a summit with
no detail, which I'm afraid hasn't looked that strong since, and now with the
Greek government making this decision, seemingly without coordination with the
other eurozone partners. I have to say I think the Greek PM is fully within his
rights to say 'I want public support for carrying on with this path'. Because
what's the truth about Greece? Unemployment is up, the economy's flatlined there
too, they're not getting their deficits down either.

What the Greek government should be doing is agreeing a plan with the eurozone
which will actually work and I'm afraid over the last couple of years we've seen
tax rises and rising unemployment in Greece. It hasn't worked to boost
confidence. If the prime minister says to the country 'Trust me, this will
work', then I hope he gets support. But I'm not sure this is the right plan,
it's not been working so far.

11.35am: Here's some more reaction to the growth figures.

From Graeme Leach, chief economist at the Institute of Directors.

You can't see the road ahead from the rear-view mirror: today's GDP figures are
welcome news, but they fail to capture the dramatic events of recent weeks in
the eurozone. GDP growth is almost certain to flatten off, or even fall, in the
fourth quarter of this year due to postponed business investment and consumer
caution, even if the eurozone crisis stabilises. Unfortunately we don't think
the crisis is over, it will continue to haunt recovery prospects in the UK.

From Len McCluskey, the Unite general secretary

We should not be fooled by the superficial gloss that ministers will put on this
paltry figure of 0.5 per cent. The British economy is still heading towards the
rocks of a double-dip recession, unless George Osborne introduces a much-needed
Plan B rescue package.'People are losing their jobs and those that have them
feel insecure, so they are not going out to spend in the High Street - the
promised boost in private sector jobs to soak up the job losses in the public
sector is an illusion masquerading as a truth. It is clear that more demand
needs to be injected into the economy urgently.

From Howard Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS Global Insight.

Growth was clearly lifted in the third quarter by the making up of some activity
lost to one-off distorting factors in the second quarter. We expect the economy
to essentially stagnate in the fourth quarter.

From Tony Dolphin, chief economist at the IPPR.

The slowdown in the UK is the result of a mix of domestic factors, particularly
the Chancellor's tough fiscal stance (which has knocked confidence in the
private sector about future levels of demand), and global factors such as higher
oil and food prices.

In terms of employment, a recession now looks inevitable. The International
Labour Office warned yesterday that the world economy was on the verge of a new
and deeper jobs recession. In the latest three months (to August), employment in
the UK was 178,000 lower than in the previous three months. With the outlook for
output growth deteriorating, it is hard to see how the UK can avoid falls in
employment in the third and fourth quarters of this year - a jobs recession.

From Andrew Sissons, a researcher at The Work Foundation.

Growth of 0.5% is an unexpected piece of goods news for the economy. It is
particularly encouraging to see growth in business services, which will be key
to the recovery, although growth in the production sector of the economy remains
relatively slow.

But this good news does not disguise a labour market which has been in freefall
over recent months, and it is worrying to see government services making the
most significant contribution to growth.

11.23am: You can read all today's Guardian politics storieshere.And all the
politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, arehere.

As for the rest of the papers, here are three articles that are interesting.

[#xfffd] Philip Stephens in the Financial Times (subscription) says the Olympics
in London next year are going to be a nightmare.

London is promised an exercise in authoritarian elitism to rival Leonid
Brezhnev's Soviet Union. The people's games have been turned into the
apparatchiks' Olympics. The stadiums and arenas will overflow with politicians,
bureaucrats and corporate sponsors. More than 1m ordinary families have failed
to secure a single ticket even to the opening stages of the most obscure Olympic
sports.

Civil liberties are to be suspended for the duration of the games. David
Cameron's government is promising draconian penalties for anyone who dares
jeopardise the exclusive rights of commercial partners such as McDonald's and
Coca-Cola.

The long arm of Olympic law will reach well beyond running tracks, pools and
velodromes. Advertising sponsors have been promised what is chillingly called a
"clean city", handing them ownership of everything within camera distance of the
games. Wear a T-shirt expressing a preference for Burger King and Pepsi and you
may be thrown into the Tower. The crackdown extends to what the Olympic Stasi
call "advertising on the human body". Freedom of expression can go hang.

[#xfffd] Christopher Hope in the Daily Telegraph says tax inspectors are going
to start investigating people with second homes.

A team of HM Revenue and Customs inspectors is looking at people with second
homes in France, Spain and other holiday destinations to see if they are
cheating the taxman.

The inspectors have been told to claw back [#xfffd]560million in lost revenue by
2015.

The 200-strong team will be scrutinising advertisements placed by second home
owners in magazines and on the internet. They will be looking for undeclared
holiday rents and leased office space.

[#xfffd] Steve Doughty in the Daily Mail on the 10 factors the Office for
National Statistics will take into account when it tries to measure people's
happiness.

Do you get on well with your husband or wife? And how much do you trust your
local council?

The answers to these questions are among the ten signs the Government believes
best sum up Britain's happiness.

The list, published yesterday, will form David Cameron's 'happiness survey' upon
which future Coalition policies could be based.

Other measures include how much people worry about crime, whether they think
people get on well in their neighbourhood and how satisfied people are with
their income.

11.02am: For the record, here are today's polling figures.

From the YouGov overnight GB poll.

Labour: 41% (up 11 points since the general election)Conservatives: 39% (up
2)Lib Dems: 8% (down 16)

Labour lead: 2 points

Government approval: -22

From the ComRes poll in today's Independent.

Labour: 38%Conservatives: 34%Lib Dems: 14%

Labour lead: 4 points

10.56am: Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, has issued his reaction to the growth
figures.

Here it is in full.

Today's figures confirm that the British economy has been bumping along the
bottom for the past twelve months - flatlining when we need strong growth to get
unemployment and the deficit down.

As the ONS has said today, growth of just 0.5 per cent over the past year since
the chancellor's spending review - compared to 1.6 per cent in the US - is a
significant slowdown from the 2.6 per cent we saw in the previous twelve months
when we were starting to recover from the global financial crash.

The fact is that our recovery was choked off well before the eurozone crisis of
recent months by spending cuts and tax rises which go too far and too fast.

Already, the stagnant growth and higher unemployment that George Osborne's
failing policies have delivered mean the government is set to borrow [#xfffd]46
billion more than they planned. After today's figures, the chancellor will now
have to downgrade his growth forecasts for a fourth time later this month - and
revise up again his borrowing forecasts.

These are really worrying times for families and pensioners struggling to pay
the bills, young people out of work in record numbers and businesses on the
edge. The combination of sluggish growth, rising unemployment, falling
confidence and the latest surveys indicating a contracting manufacturing sector
and depressed business confidence mean this is no time for complacency from the
government.

"We now urgently need Labour's five point plan for jobs and growth to help
struggling families, get young people back to work and support small businesses.
The reckless thing to do is plough on regardless with a plan that isn't working,
the cautious thing to do on basis of all the evidence of this significant
slowdown is to act now."

10.27am:Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, has announced
details of when benefit claimants will start claiming universal credit, the new
"all-in-one" benefit that will replace a range of out-of-work benefits and
supposedly ensure that people will always be better of in work.

The press notice isn't on the Department for Work and Pensions' websiteyet, but
here are the key details.

[#xfffd] More than 1m people will be claiming universal benefit by April 2014.
[#xfffd] Universal benefit will be introduced in three phases. In the first
phase, from October 2013 to April 2014, 500,000 new claimants will receive it.
And another 500,000 existing claimants will move on to universal credit when
their family circumstances change significantly (ie, when they find work or have
a baby.) In the second phase, from April 2014 to the end of 2015, 3.5m claimants
will move over to universal credit. And in the final phase, from the end of 2015
to the end of 2017, another 3m families will move over.

[#xfffd] Some 30% of the technology needed for the universal credit IT programme
is now complete on time and on budget.

[#xfffd] The programme has already been tested on single claimants and couple
claimants. It is now being tested on claimants with children, ahead of time.

Commenting on the progess, Iain Duncan Smith said:

Universal Credit is the most radical redesign of the benefits system this
country has ever seen ... The programme is on track and on time for implementing
from 2013.

10.18am: Here is some reaction to the growth figures.

From George Osborne, the chancellor

We have to take these figures one step at a time, and this is a positive step,
the economy is growing, and that is a better number today than many people were
forecasting even this morning.

Now, of course, the British government has got this difficult journey from the
debts of the past. It is a journey made more difficult by the kinds of things
you see, for example today in the markets, because of the situation in the
eurozone, but we are determined to complete this journey on behalf of the
British people, so we have the jobs and growth, and the prosperity that everyone
wants to see.

From Brendan Barber, the TUC's general secretary

This was meant to be the quarter when the UK economy started bouncing back, but
that hasn't happened. You have to go back nearly a century to find a slower
recovery from a crash.

What's worse is that this is economic self-harm. The government's deep austerity
programme has choked off what was always going to be a slow and difficult
recovery. No doubt ministers will try and blame the Eurozone crisis, but these
figures date from before the recent difficulties.

The government must listen to the growing demands for a Plan B that puts growth
and fairness first.

10.02am: The better-than-expected growth figures have been offset by figures
showing that factory output fell in October at its fastest rate for two years.
Here'san extract from the Reuters story.

The manufacturing sector contracted at its fastest pace in more than two years
in October as new orders plummeted, adding to signs that the country is
teetering on the brink of recession, a survey showed on Tuesday.

The Markit/CIPS Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) slumped to 47.4
in October, its lowest since June 2009, from a downwardly revised 50.8 the month
before.

Many companies only maintained their activity by substantially reducing
backlogs.

A Reuters poll had predicted a far gentler fall to 50.0 -- the level that
divides growth from contraction -- and none of the 30 economists surveyed had
predicted such a dramatic tumble.

9.52am: Here's some Twitter reaction to the GDP figures.

From the BBC's Norman Smith

Treasury caution on 0.5 - "big challenges remain from eurozone crisis."

Treasury say 0.5 growth on a par with US ...."shows slow growth a global
phenomenon"

From ITV's Laura Kuenssberg

Labour sources say over last 12 months, US has had 1.6% growth, we've had just
0.5% over the year

From Channel 4's Faisal Islam

take into account likely q4 contraction, economy has grown 0.4% or less in total
over 15 months vs 3% predicted in 2010 deficit plan

From the Spectator's Fraser Nelson

It would be wise of gvt not to crow about 0.5pc GDP growth. ONS always revises
data. It uses decimal point to prove it has a sense of humour

There's more reactionon Graeme Wearden's European debt crisis live blog.

9.48am: And here's more from the ONS economic review.

GDP is estimated to have grown by 0.5 per cent in the third quarter of 2011. GDP
has increased by 0.5 per cent over the latest year, a significant slowdown from
the 2.6 per cent growth in the preceding twelve months.

Growth in the third quarter was led by the services sector which accounts for
just over 76 per cent of total GDP. Services contributed the whole of the 0.5
per cent increase in GDP in the quarter, with a small positive contribution from
the production industries being offset by a contraction in construction output.

Over the past year, GDP growth has been wholly dependent on growth in the
services sector, which in total contributed 0.9 points to GDP growth over the
year. Construction reduced GDP growth over the year by 0.3 percentage points,
and production industries by another 0.1 points. Within the latter manufacturing
was a positive contributor to growth but mining and quarrying reduced GDP growth
by 0.4 percentage points.

9.44am: Here is some more detail from the Office for National Statistics report
on the growth figures.

Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rose by 0.5 per cent in the third quarter (Q3) of
2011, driven by strength in the Services sector (in particular) and the
Production sector. The Construction sector showed a small decline.

The interpretation of the estimate for Q3 is complicated by the special events
in Q2 (for example, the additional bank holiday in April for the royal wedding),
which are likely to have depressed activity in that quarter. As with 2010 Q4 and
2011 Q1 (affected by the bad weather in Q4) it may be wise to look at 2011 Q2
and 2011 Q3 together, rather than separately. On that basis GDP has grown by 0.6
per cent in the last two quarters and by 0.5 per cent in the last year.

Returning to the latest quarter, there is no evidence to suggest that the riots
in August had any significant impact on GDP for Q3.

9.32am: Here's the Office for National Statistics news release about the growth
figures. Here's the 10-page statistical bulletin (pdf). And here'sa 9-page
economic review with further detail (pdf).

9.30am: Here's the growth figure for the third quarter of 2011. It's 0.5% -
which is slightly higher than expected.

9.27am:Matthew Hancock, a Conservative MP, has said that the concerns of the
Occupy London protester at St Paul's are "actually rather mainstream". This is
what he said on the Today programme. I've taken the quote from PoliticsHome.

I think that a lot of the concerns, as much as you can work out what coherent
concerns there are. A lot of the concerns from the protesters are actually
rather mainstream. The problem for rewards for failure in the system that we
have had in the last couple of decades, and of unfair gains going to those at
the top. These are problems that I as a Tory MP have written about, they are
even things that the Labour leader has admitted that they got badly wrong.

9.11am: Here's the statement that Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, has
issued in advance of this afternoon's announcement about gang violence.
(See8.49am.)

Action on gangs is vital. But this government is making it harder not easier to
take action against gangs by cutting 16,000 police officers and making 20% cuts
to youth services. Changing the law won't work unless there are properly funded
partnerships in place to deliver the action we need.

9.02am: St Paul's isn't the only site in London where protesters have been
gathering. Last night a crowd gathered at parliament to protest against the
government's plan to making squatting a criminal offence. Here's the Press
Association story.

Around 150 people have congregated outside the Houses of Parliament in a protest
against proposed changes to squatters' rights, according to reports.BBC Radio 5
Live said the large group of people gathered in Parliament Square in Westminster
shortly after midnight in a pre-planned demonstration ...The majority of
protesters moved away from the scene peacefully but around 40 people were
refusing to leave Parliament Square, claiming they were holding a Halloween
gathering, it was reported.According to eyewitnesses, a number of scuffles also
broke out between police and demonstrators with officers using batons.Scotland
Yard confirmed that 12 arrests have been made in connection with the ongoing
incident, but said the number was likely to rise.Under section 132 of the
Serious Organised Crime and Police Act (Socpa) - (April 2005), organising or
participating in an "unauthorised" demonstration within 1km of Parliament is a
criminal offence.

8.49am:Theresa May, the home secretary, has been doing a round of interviews
this morning ahead of her statement about gang violence in the Commons this
afternoon.

Here are the key points. I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome.

[#xfffd] May confirmed that she would create a new offence for people who trade
guns. Some details emerged yesterday.This is what May said today.

In London something like half of all shootings are gang-related. So dealing with
firearms is an important part of this, and at the moment I think it's important
for us to look at how we deal with firearms and the offences with firearms, and
so I am proposing that we actually look at a new offence and at actually
increasing the potential sentence for somebody who is found dealing in firearms.

[#xfffd] She said the government wanted to improve the way it intervenes to help
problem families.

The government, in its various forms, various bits of government, will often be
spending quite a lot of money on these families, but it's not being done in a
way that is effective and is offering the real help that these youngsters need
... What we will be doing is providing support through a taskforce, or a team of
people, that will be able to help at local level, identify what's going to be
the wisest way and the most effective way to spend money that's available to
deal with this issue.

[#xfffd] She said she wanted the Occupy London protesters at St Paul's Cathedral
to be removed as soon as possible.

The police and the Church and the Corporation of London need to work together to
clear the protest as soon as possible. Obviously what we've heard today, I
think, is that legal action is being taken.

8.40am: As usual, the economic crisis is dominating the day. The Greek decision
to hold a referendum on the bailout plan has spooked the markets and the FTSE
100 opened 2% down. Elsewhere in Europe there were some even bigger falls. We've
also got the much-anticipated growth forecast for the third quarter of 2011 at
9.30am. According to the Financial Times (subscription), economists are
expecting growth of just 0.3%. My colleague Graeme Wearden is taking the lead on
the economic news today in his European debt crisis live blog - he's already
been in action for an hour - but I'll be posting some of the political reaction
today's news too.

Otherwise, it's reasonably busy. Here's the agenda.

9am: The cabinet meets.

9.30am: Growth figures are published for the third quarter of 2011.

9.30am: Sir Michael Wilshaw, the government's preferred candidate to take over
as the new head of Ofsted, gives evidence to the Commons education committee in
a pre-appointment hearing.

10am: Lord Turner, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, and Hector
Sants, its chief executive, give evidence to the Commons Treasury committee.

10.10am: Andrew Robathan, the veterans minister, speaks at a conference on the
military covenant.

11.40am: William Hague, the foreign secretary, speaks at the London conference
on international cyber security. On Twitter the Foreign Office is inviting
people to submit questions about the conference using the #LondonCyber hashtag.

12.30pm: Nick Hardwick, the chief inspector of prisons, gives evidence to the
Commons home affairs committee about forced removals from the UK.

3.30pm: Theresa May makes a statement to the Commons about gang violence. She is
expected to announce a new offence of possession of an illegal firearm with
intent to supply, with a maximum sentence of life in prison.

As usual, I'll be covering all the breaking political news, as well as looking
at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a
lunchtime summary at around 1pm, and another in the afternoon.

If you want, you can follow me on Twitter at @AndrewSparrow.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 110 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday

News In Brief

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 239 words


Neil Hamilton joins Ukip executive POLITICS: Former Tory minister Neil Hamilton
has been elected to the national executive of the far-right UK Independence
Party, it announced today. His parliamentary career was ended in 1997 by the
cash-for-questions scandal.

He branded the three main party leaders as "Euro-elitists" who had "sold Britain
down the river," and said that only Ukip had "the balls" to do something about
it. G4S scraps huge ISS takeover BUSINESS: Notorious security company G4S
abandoned its plan to buy Danish cleaning firm ISS today after its shareholders
threatened to vote down the £5.2 billion deal. The British-based firm said it
scrapped the expansion plan - announced just two weeks ago - after shareholders
raised concerns over the scale of the takeover. The deal would have created a
huge cleaning and security conglomerate with 1.2 million staff and made the firm
the world's second-largest employer. Airline fined for dog's suffering TRAVEL:
An airline was fined today for causing unnecessary suffering to a dog that died
during a flight. Buster, an English bulldog belonging to a soldier returning
from duty in Cyprus, was found dead in a transport container on a Thomas Cook
Airlines flight at Gatwick airport. Mid Sussex magistrates' court was told that
his container was too small. The company was fined £6,500 and ordered to pay
£12,000 costs to West Sussex County Council's Trading Standards service.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
