
                               1 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 31, 2009 Saturday

REVEALED: THE MULTI-MILLIONAIRE ARISTOCRAT WHO HAS BEEN REVEALED AS THE BNP'S
BIGGEST DONOR. SO WHAT DOES HIS SERBIAN WIFE -- WHO WOULD BE BANNED FROM JOINING
THE PARTY HE BANKROLLS -- HAVE TO SAY ABOUT IT?

BYLINE: BY DAVID JONES

LENGTH: 1988 words


HIS family's power and influence may have waned since the days when they owned
great swathes of England, and a castle and country estates were named in their
honour. In his Suffolk manor, however, Charles Vernon Wentworth, 52, millionaire
scion of an aristocratic clan dating back to the Domesday Book, still carries
considerable clout.

His inherited wealth includes a 660-acre farm in Friston -- a pretty hamlet of
pink-washed cottages and narrow lanes. The village green and meeting hall also
belong to him, so parishioners must seek his permission to stage fairs and other
events there, just like commoners of old.

Inevitably, Mr Wentworth's importance makes him the subject of much local
gossip; and the fact that he is a rather reclusive, enigmatic figure who has
been married three times and habitually goes unshaven and wears scruffy old
clothes only adds to the air of intrigue that surrounds him.

Tongues were wagging again this week when newly-released documents revealed him
to be the British National Party's most generous benefactor, having reportedly
donated some 638,000 to Nick Griffin and his extreme Right-wing cronies in
recent years.

'Fancy him supporting that lot -- he's a disgrace to the Wentworths,' sniffed
one long-time resident, who declined to be named for fear of offending the man
who also funds the annual children's Christmas party.

Others were astounded, pointing out that their timeless rural idyll is hardly an
obvious breeding ground for the politics of fear and bigotry. Most people here
are relatively well-off, crime is virtually unknown (according to one parish
councillor, there have been two burglaries in 25 years) and ASBOs are something
you only read about in the Ipswich newspapers.

Furthermore, Friston appears to be the exclusively white Anglo-Saxon community
of Griffin's dreams. Among those residents I spoke to this week, no one could
think of a single person among its 300-odd inhabitants who comes from an ethnic
minority.

Clearly, then, they don't know much about their own squire's new bride. For, by
the deepest of ironies, the Mail has discovered that the latest lady in the
Wentworth manor is of Eastern European extraction.

Strolling along a damp autumnal lane in her Wellingtons and padded jacket this
week, her pet Doberman straining at the leash, the wife of the BNP's arch-backer
looked every inch the English landowner's wife.

Yet the maiden name of 39-year-old Zorka Wentworth was Ilic. Her mother is from
Kosovo, her late father Serbian. Having fled to Britain in the 1950s to escape
the tyrannical communism of Yugoslavia under Tito, they were precisely the sort
of immigrants who would be barred from entering the country if Griffin had his
way.

Although she was born in Bedfordshire, Zorka considers herself half-English and
half-Serb, speaks with a very slight Eastern European accent (presumably because
she was raised to be bilingual), is Serb Orthodox by religion and celebrates
both Serbian and English festivals.

This kind of duality would hardly be welcomed in Griffin's ethnically sanitised
Utopia. After all, during last week's Question Time debacle, the BNP leader
described white Britons as 'aboriginals': English, Scots, Irish and Welsh people
'who have been here for the last 17,000 years'.

Ludicrously, Mrs Wentworth -- who met her husband eight years ago, when she was
working as a chef in the local pub, and became his third wife last year -- would
not even be permitted to join the party her husband bankrolls so generously.

Charles and Zorka Wentworth are evidently struggling to see the irony.

Talking to the BNP's most unlikely darling couple this week, over cups of tea in
their stylish country kitchen, I began to understand why.

They seem far removed from the hate-filled BNP rabble-rousers who wave banners
in Northern mill towns. And as Mr Wentworth remarks wryly, he is no
'knuckle-dragging' skinhead.

Yet they give the distinct impression that they don't know nearly enough about
Griffin and his racially divisive policies, even though Mr Wentworth says he
read 'the bulk of' the party's manifesto before opening his cheque-book. 'Is it
really 638,000? I thought it was 628,000, but I can't recall. I don't keep
personal bank records.'

Does he support them, then, because he has some longstanding connection with
Griffin, who was raised just a few miles away in Suffolk and attended fee-paying
Woodbridge School, where two of Wentworth's four children were educated?

The squire scratches a stubbly chin and ponders. No, he replies, he wasn't
acquainted with the BNP leader until they were introduced at a party rally a few
years ago.

'I was smoking one of these, and Griffin didn't like it,' he grins, pointing to
his hand-rolled cigarette. 'Nick hates smoking.'

But why was he at the rally in the first place? What common ground does he share
with Griffin?

He grins again and continues: 'I think the death penalty for serious crimes is
an issue. I don't know how that would go down in a referendum. But for the likes
of the Harold Shipmans, and serial rapists and killers, I would like to see it
re-introduced.'

A short, square-built man with a complexion which suggests he enjoys his wine
(Serbian reds are a favourite), and a sardonic wit, Mr Wentworth shoots his wife
a meaningful glance, then adds: 'And obviously you are going to ask me about
immigration.'

His five-figure donation is all the more surprising given his experiences as a
young man in the United States.

After leaving public school, he went travelling there and his girlfriend fell
pregnant. Needing a job to support her, he joined the U.S. Air Force and served
for four years. This was long before 9/11 and he says they had a policy of
actively enlisting foreigners.

He says he formed friendships with several Hispanic servicemen. And later, when
he left the military and lived on the West Coast (he worked for a U.S. pest
control company before returning to his Suffolk estate), he also saw how
multiculturalism worked.

But why, if he accepts it works over there, would it not work here?

'America is historically a melting pot, isn't it?' he says, adding that its vast
size meant it was better able to accommodate people of diverse nationalities. In
contrast, he argues, this country is too crowded a nation to cope with an influx
of foreigners.

He recites the familiar argument about Britain being 'overloaded'; and since
none of the other parties seems willing to pull up the drawbridge, he has
joined, and funded, the BNP.

'I'm not vile or odious -- the adjectives they always attach to the BNP. I don't
agree with everything they're saying on this, but I'm sure you get die-hard
Labour supporters who don't agree with every policy their party has. Or Liberals
or Tories.'

Zorka interjects: 'He's not a racist; I'm not a racist. I know the man here.
He's not a Nazi.'

Perhaps not, but how can he possibly fund a party who would have turned away his
refugee parents-in-law, and possibly his wife?

'I don't think they would send her back home,' he says uneasily, then, almost in
the next breath, admits that he is not 'completely au fait' with BNP immigration
policy.

'As far as I'm concerned, if anyone's here legally, I think they should be
allowed to stay. They're not going to send her back home and neither will I.'

The new Mrs Wentworth grasps her husband's hand and smiles at him. She has met
'Nick', she says, and found him charming. In any case, she and her parents
aren't the type of Eastern Europeans he wants to see the back of.

'You can't tar everyone with the same brush,' she argues, seemingly unaware that
the average BNP thug, who lives in a very different Britain from the one she has
married into, does precisely that.

'My father got a job in the brickworks at 16 and worked hard all his life. My
mother came here at 14 and, at just turned 70, she has only just retired. They
never claimed benefits in their lives, and worked to make this country better.

'They aren't the same as the influx who have come here since the break-up of the
former Yugoslavia, and still come here now, demanding mobile phones and houses.

'A lot of them are Bosnian Muslims, but there are also Croats and Serbs. They
are so-called asylum seekers and refugees, but they are a lot of s*** basically.
They just came over to milk the country.'

Sensing that she is going too far, she catches herself and adds: 'Not all of
them, obviously.'

Soon, though, she is sounding off again. 'Britain has huge problems -- with
everything. I find it absolutely frightening. Youngsters nowadays terrify me;
you only have to pick up your newspaper every day.'

Does she have some first-hand experience of this? Do muggers lurk in the
hollyhocks?

'No, no -- but we are lucky to live in a tranquil part of the country,' she
says. 'Others are not so fortunate.'

My morning with the Wentworths left me perplexed. Since I find their politics so
abhorrent and worryingly ill-informed, I had expected to despise them. When the
conversation moves away from politics, however, they turn out to be a rather
engaging pair.

Mrs Wentworth has taught her husband some Serbian, and over a traditional Serb
dinner -- made with their home-grown vegetables -- they sometimes converse in
her language.

He is also knowledgeable about Balkan history, reminding me that the Serbs were
among Britain's greatest allies during the War and how thousands were
slaughtered by the Nazis. (Just how this squares with Griffin's admiration for
Hitler, he struggles to explain.)

There is much that is decent about Charles Wentworth and his 'alien' wife, too.
Each night, they invite the old man who lives alone nearby into their home for
supper.

And in addition to funding a Christmas party for every child in the village, Mr
Wentworth has purchased much of the play equipment on the village green --
anonymously, so as not to make a fuss.

Given his charitable nature, and his readiness to embrace her family's customs
and traditions, it comes as no surprise to hear that Zorka's mother 'adores
Charles', as did her late father.

Clearly, theirs is a model multicultural marriage -- one whose very success
makes a nonsense of the BNP's opposition to the mingling of races, ethnicities
and cultures.

This reinforces one's impression that the couple, though not by nature
malevolent, are dangerously naive and that -- in the absence of persuasive
policies from the main parties -- the BNP are playing on their fears to maximum
effect.

Judging by the names listed among the party's major financial backers this week,
other unlikely figures are falling into the same trap.

They include Plymouth widow Mrs Sheila Butler, the 83-year-old greatniece of
World War I hero Lord Horatio Kitchener, who has donated her 611,032 savings to
the BNP, because, she told me: 'Nick Griffin is a patriot -- like my
great-uncle.'

She said she had abandoned the Tories, and then UKIP, because 'I don't like it
that most people [here] are brown, yellow or green these days', and the BNP was
the only party that promised to recreate Britain as the country of her youth.

Another prominent donor is Kent fruit farmer Adam Champneys, who is reported to
have given the BNP 615,000 in the past year alone. He is battling a serious
illness and was unavailable for comment this week.

However, like Charles Wentworth and Kitchener's great-niece, this accomplished
pilot and antiques collector, who served in the Intelligence Corps, is far
removed from the disaffected, down-at-heel rabble one normally associates with
the BNP.

Whether or not we believe the BNP's spin doctors when they claim that membership
inquiries have soared on a wave of public sympathy after Griffin's Question Time
mauling, it would be foolish to ignore their broadening appeal.

For when a wealthy English landowner places one hand around the shoulder of his
new Eastern European bride and with the other signs a 638,000 cheque to a party
who would banish her from the country of her birth, we should all feel more than
a little worried.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 31, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Don't crush the little guys

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 86  words


THE Electoral Commission's persecution of UKIP is a disgrace. It proposes to
confiscate a donation of almost GBP 350,000 from the party on grounds of a
technical breach of electoral law: the money was given by a supporter who had
inadvertently fallen off the electoral register for one year only, not by some
foreign bigwig or tax exile. The Commission has been far less draconian in cases
of infringements by the main Westminster parties. Its approach could bankrupt
UKIP. That would be a gross disservice to democracy.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 30, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Neither of the main parties has a true policy on Europe

BYLINE: Adrian Hamilton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 734 words


IT'S A fair bet that the European embassies across London have been deluged
recently with cables from their foreign ministries demanding to know just where
British policy is headed. Are they to take seriously David Miliband's dramatic
declaration of faith in the European Union as the repository of Britain's
attentions and ambitions and what are they to make of the Conservative Party's
constant anti-European rhetoric and its promise to keep bashing away even if the
Lisbon treaty is signed?

I sympathise with them. They can't know. We in the media certainly don't know
and I suspect none of the politicians, least of all the Tory front bench,
seriously understand just what British European policy will be after the next
election. My only advice to the ambassadors and their governments is to keep
calm and remember two things. One is that Europe doesn't loom nearly as large in
the British debate as the current chatter over the presidency would suggest. And
the second point is that Britain is now in election mode. There is nothing,
nothing at all, which is not said or done without the vote in mind.

If David Miliband is now making much of his European credentials, it is because
he senses that the Conservatives are vulnerable on the issue and that he himself
has a chance to look more statesmanlike. And so with the Tories. If they oppose
Tony Blair's suggested appointment as the new president of the EU it's not just
because they fear his presence in Brussels but because they sense that the
appointment would not gain any votes back here. In many ways it would suit a
Conservative government to have Blair across the water. They could constantly
play on the differences. It just doesn't suit them to say so.

That's no cause for the Continent to despair of Britain's attitude to Europe.
True, it's been only half-engaged this last decade. But it's not anti-European
as such. UKIP, the BNP and others have gained traction as a result of the
turn-off from the major parties but there is no real evidence that their vote is
either going up that much or that it is Brussels which is driving the anger.
David Cameron may have his problems with his party on this score (he does) but,
as far as the public is concerned, an anti-European stance is not a critical
vote winner..

If there is a change in government next year David Cameron will have a fair room
to manoeuvre on the European issue so long as he looks as if he's playing the
nationalist card in Brussels (which he will). The tone of a Labour government,
if returned, will undoubtedly be more positive, but when it comes to the more
contentious issues of joining the euro, financial regulation, Turkey's
candidature and the Common Agricultural Policy, you'd have to be very naïve
indeed to take David Miliband's speech this week as signalling a great change of
approach.

Which is the nub of the question. The Lisbon Treaty has had a hard birth and
there is a tendency, on the Continent as here, to regard its signing as the end
of the story. It isn't. It is just the beginning.

Where the EU goes from here, towards greater integration or greater enlargement,
has still to be settled - two-speed, multi-speed or all as one. If President
Sarkozy and Chancellor Merkel want to press forward from the Lisbon base (as I
think they do) to a more integrated unit, then Britain is going to have to make
up its mind as to what it sees as a future Europe. Neither main party has even
begun to do so.

As for the presidency, it's really a sideshow. President Sarkozy, and most
British commentators, have presented it as a choice between an organiser behind
the scenes or a front man of celebrity status. This is the last way the choice
should be made. To pick either a grey man such as Jean-Claude Juncker or a
plausible rogue from a discredited era as Tony Blair would be wrong. It just
smacks - and on this William Hague is unfortunately right - of all that is worst
about the backroom dealings of the EU.

Europe's problem is not how it presents itself to the outside world, it is how
little support it has amonggst its own people. On that score what it needs is a
figure from a smaller country, preferably a woman, who can inspire its citizens
with the belief that the EU's future is theirs not with a bunch of power brokers
meeting behind closed doors as Brown, Merkel and Sarkozy did last night. Someone
like Mary Robinson, in fact.

a.hamilton@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday

National: Simon Hoggart's sketch: Werewolf howls and cries of scorn

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 513 words


One reason MPs love prime minister's questions is that it is so interactive. For
instance, they have noises which they can make when certain members rise to
their feet. It's a bit like Peter and the Wolf, in which each character is
greeted by a different tune from a different instrument.

For Daniel Kawczynski, the immensely tall Tory MP for Shrewsbury, the sound is a
sort of werewolf howl. I don't know why, except that Kawczynski does look rather
like the butler from the Addams Family and wears a suit that looks as if it once
belonged to a normal-sized person who was run over by a steamroller. Anyhow, he
was on the wrong end of a beautifully timed "Yowwww!" yesterday.

When Nick Clegg stands up he gets cries of "Oh, no!" from the Tories. This is
supposed to indicate a sort of horrified boredom, which is unfair, since Clegg
often makes excellent points. Though it would help if his voice was half an
octave lower, so that he sounded less like an annoyingly precocious schoolboy.

The Tories really go for Bob Spink, the MP for Castle Point, who defected from
them to Ukip. He is met with a sort of furious, bubbling yelp of scorn with
cries of "Traitor!" and "Turncoat!"

And someone who can expect future tormenting is Chris Ruane, Labour MP for Vale
of Clwyd. He began by saying - no, shouting - "Prime minister! We live in
dangerous times!"

The Tories loved this, and you can't blame them, especially as this March of
History intro turned into an entirely predictable question about the weirdos,
loonies and Waffen SS-fans whom the Tories have cosied up to in the European
parliament. It was a weedy question heralded by a bombastic prelude, and if it
wasn't either a plant by the whips, or a subtle joke by Ruane, then he has no
excuse. The bullies have marked him down for the future.

As for David Cameron, the Labour backbenchers, who have little enough to make
them happy these days, like to pick up the prissy, faintly camp style he
occasionally lets slip. Yesterday he said of Gordon Brown, "I'm not going to let
him get away with that!" in the manner of a men's fashion expert saying that
yellow cravat simply would not go with the navy houndstooth jacket, and they all
went "Whoooo!"

What intrigues me is Cameron's Zelig-like quality. Just as he admired Tony Blair
(if you analyse his opposition to Blair becoming president of Europe, it is
because he fears he would do the job too well), so he secretly wants to be like
Gordon Brown. As he did last week, the prime minister has abandoned rational
debate for the use of the word "Wrong!", which is designed to bring all argument
to a close. Yesterday he deployed it 13 times.

Cameron began by jeering about the government's change of mind over TA funding.
The prime minister offered a convoluted reply. "Honestly!" said the Tory leader,
"this prime minister can't even give a straightforward reply when he's
performing a U-turn!" Er, well, no.

Anyhow, Cameron went on to use the word "wrong" nine times - "the wrong policy
informed by the wrong values!" Unconscious imitation is the sincerest form of
unwitting flattery.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday

PRESIDENT BLAIR? WHY DOESN'T HE JUST STICK TO SOLVING THE MIDDLE EAST?

LENGTH: 659 words


QUENTIN LETTS WATCHES CAMERON PULL HIS PUNCHES

WHAT a chivalrous persona David Cameron has developed. He seems to lack the bile
we lesser mortals carry about in our ducts and sacs and spleens and Parker pens.

Mr Cameron ñ at least in public ñ cuts a Christian, positive-vibes figure, all
scrubbed and wholesome. A fruit smoothie from one of those premiumpriced,
eco-friendly food companies.

Give me a gin and french any day. But I suspect I am not representative of the
electorate.

At his monthly press conference yesterday Mr Cameron kept being asked about the
possibility of Tony Blair becoming 'President of Europe'.

If there is one thing to turn any proper Tory mauve with rage it is the prospect
of that warmongering, truth-warping, cronypromoting popinjay returning to the
political big time. Blair! God Almighty help us. And in an unelected European
superstate job, to boot.

It is at such moments that the beef-eating Englishman tears off his napkin,
seizes the waiter's carving knife, and charges out of the restaurant door in
search of vengeance. I'm turning Japanese, as the old pop song went.

The prospect of President Tony does not send only Tories loopy. Labour MPs are
appalled, too. They fear President Blair could play badly on the doorsteps and
harden Euroscepticism in this country.

So at Mr Cameron's press conference, held in a club near St James's Park, we
journalists were all crouched in the slips, waiting for the Tory leader to lash
out at slippery Tony.

Surely he would try to play a few shots and tonk Mr Blair's reputation to all
corners of the ground. Several TV cameras were in the room. Attendance was up.
The moment was poised.

In the event, however, the most Mr Cameron would do was to refer lightly, in
jest, to 'Il Presidente Blair' and to suggest that he would be an 'all-singing,
alldancing, all-acting' figurehead (he emphasised the 'acting' with the deftest
little delay and a hint of playfulness at the corners of his mouth).

The Tories did not wish to see the presidency of the European Council elevated
to such a level, he said. They hoped for a more 'chair-manic' approach.

In other words, they want it to go to some dull pudding from the Lowlands, one
of those professional Mercedes passengers with steel-rimmed glasses and a double
chin. Not that Mr Cameron would put it so bluntly.

William Hague, had he been standing in Mr Cameron's place yesterday, would have
flown into a long and funny riff about the ghastliness of Blair and his
shopaholic moll and all those herbal-tea- drinking Osrics he used to gather
about him at Downing Street, and how they were no doubt plotting a return to the
colours under President Tony.

But that, perhaps, is why Mr Hague's time as Tory leader ended in such failure.
He often sounded extreme. He enjoyed the ad hominem attack too much.

Mr Cameron takes the view that in public he should not rant and should generally
avoid personal torpedoes, except when performing in the Commons. This makes him
more acceptable to the liberal media, particularly the BBC. It also looks better
on television. As Robert Kilroy-Silk discovered when he was prominent in UKIP,
an angry outburst at a podium seldom comes across well on telly.

Mr Cameron's reticence yesterday may have frustrated the reporters. They were
hoping for something a good deal more zesty. But it was probably shrewd
politics.

AS FOR the atrocious Blair, what should a former party leader and prime minster
in his mid-50s do? He is plainly bored. He has energy. Understandably, he does
not wish to stay at home with the broomstick jockey.

I asked Mr Cameron if he had any suggestions as to what Mr Blair should do with
his life? After all, it is not impossible that he, Cameron, might one day be in
a similar position. Instead of seeking a role in Brussels, should Mr Blair
perhaps become master of an Oxbridge college? Head of a charity?

Mr Cameron replied: 'I thought he was solving the Middle East. He could continue
with that for a bit.'

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Political donation forfeiture;
Law Report

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 327 words


Court of Appeal Published October 28, 2009

Regina (Electoral Commission) v Westminster Magistrates Court, United Kingdom
Independence Party intervening

Before Lord Justice Waller, Lord Justice Goldring and Sir Paul Kennedy Judgment
October 19, 2009

Once an impermissible donation had been made to a registered political party and
the party had not returned it then a magistrates court should, on an application
by the Electoral Commission, order forfeiture of an amount equal to the value of
the donation.

The Court of Appeal so stated when allowing the appeal of the Electoral
Commission against a decision by Mr Justice Walker ([2009] EWHC 78 (Admin)) to
allow in part the commission's challenge by way of judicial review of a decision
by City of Westminster Magistrates Court (Senior District Judge Workman) on
August 7, 2007, to order forfeiture in the sum of £14,481 in respect of a number
of impermissible donations made by Mr Alan Bown to the United Kingdom
Independence Party.

The judge quashed the decision and remitted the application. The commission on
appeal sought clarification as to the proper approach to section 58(2) of the
2000 Act. Mr Michael Beloff, QC and Mr Jasbir Dhillon for the Electoral
Commission; Mr Alan Newman, QC and Mr Sam Blom Cooper for UKIP; the magistrates
took no part in the proceedings.

SIR PAUL KENNEDY said that the context of the discretion granted by section
58(2) to order forfeiture was narrow.

Once it was shown that a donation has been accepted in breach of section 54,
that was to say from an impermissible donor, and had not been returned as
envisaged by section 56, then a magistrates court should, if asked to do so, in
almost every case exercise its power under section 58(2) by ordering forfeiture
of an amount equal to the value of the donation. In other words there was a
presumption in favour of forfeiture.

Lord Justice Goldring and Lord Justice Waller agreed.

Solicitors: Treasury Solicitor; Moreland & Co, Haringey.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

After all the hype and hoo-ha, BNP support hasn't budged

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 410 words


The public is more balanced about the British National Party than Peter Hain and
other alarmists. Nick Griffin's appearance on Question Time last Thursday has
had no effect on the BNP's rating. There is a big difference between public
anxieties that the BNP seeks to exploit and voters' willingness to back the
party.

Two polls since Question Time show no evidence of any BNP bounce. Its support
remains in the recent 2 to 3 per cent range: and between 1.5 and 3 per cent over
the past year according to Populus. (These ratings are below those recorded by
the Greens and the UK Independence Party.) Small fluctuations at this low level
do not mean anything because of the margin of error. Moreover, the number having
a positive impression of the BNP has fallen from 11 to 9 per cent since June.

Anthony Wells, of UK Polling Report website, concludes: "Despite all the hoo-ha
and protests, despite the millions of people who watched Question Time, it
doesn't seem to have made any significant difference to how the public view
them, or how likely they are to support them (at least, not yet)."

Not yet is an important caveat. The alarmists have focused on last Saturday's
YouGov poll in the Telegraph identifying 15 per cent who say it was possible
that they would vote BNP in a future local, general or European election, and
the 7 per cent who say they would "definitely or probably" consider doing so.
But the same poll showed BNP support still at just 3 per cent.

An analysis on the Political Betting website of a mass of polling data shows
that two thirds of BNP supporters did not vote for any of the big three parties
in 2005, and most did not vote at all. Only a fifth are former Labour voters.
Overall, they are more likely to be working class than other parties' voters.
The BNP's real success is in mobilising previous non-voters.

There are, however, high levels of support for issues championed by the BNP. An
ICM poll for the News of the World had two thirds believing that recent
immigrants get more favourable housing and state benefits compared with "Brits".
Three fifths say mainstream parties have "no credible policies" on immigration
but only 44 per cent agree that the white working classes have been abandoned by
the mainstream parties.

The BNP articulates and distorts the fears of the disaffected about being
squeezed out of public services. The party will probably win votes in a few
areas but it is not a serious electoral threat nationally.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ON THIS DAY

SECTION: LW; 2

LENGTH: 147  words


100 YEARS AGO

A woman avoids drowning when a balloon journey, set for Norway to Holland, ends
in Southwold after a freak gale blows it across the North Sea.

75 YEARS AGO

Sir David and Sir Frederick Barclay are born 10 minutes apart. The brothers go
into business and are worth an estimated GBP 750 million today.

50 YEARS AGO

More than 1,000 people in Mexico are killed by a hurricane that strikes the
states of Colima and Jalisco in the west of the country.

25 YEARS AGO

Everton Football Club top the first division. Having beaten Liverpool at Anfield
a week earlier, they thrash Manchester United 5-0.

10 YEARS AGO

After searching for days, rescue teams discover that an avalanche has killed top
British climber Ginette Harrison in the Himalayas.

5 YEARS AGO

Robert Kilroy-Silk is accused of "behaving like a spoilt child" by the European
parliament after quitting the UK Independence Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 522  words


DAVID Miliband's enthusiastic endorsement of his old boss Tony Blair for the new
post of EU president is hardly a surprise. But what is more interesting is the
discreet role our former PM is already playing in the Labour leadership campaign
that everyone presumes our Foreign Secretary will one day launch.

"David listens to Tony more than just about anyone, " acknowledges a colleague.

"There's long been a concern David doesn't come across enough as a passionate,
tribal Labour politician to the party ranks. Tony has told him he needs to up
his game on that front if he is serious about becoming leader - and David
accepts that."

Presumably Miliband also accepts the irony of such advice coming from Labour's
least ever tribal leader.

THIS column continues to follow with keen interest what promises to be one of
the general election's most fascinating and conventiondefying contests: UK
Independence Party leader Nigel Farage's challenge to sitting MP and new Commons
Speaker John Bercow for his Buckingham seat.

I'm told the diminutive Bercow, above, is hopping with frustration at being
unable to engage in political hostilities with his opponent because of his
august office.

Worse still, Farage, who is already an MEP, is reported to be already securing
the backing of some local Tories. "John knows he has to hold his tongue and
remain above such things, " explains a friend. "That's the price he has to pay
for being elected Speaker."

Former Conservative colleagues remain resolutely unsympathetic.

HE HAS covered the most bitter party leadership contests and overseen the long
nights of numerous general elections but David Dimbleby was apparently
particularly relieved to come through last Thursday's Question Time unscathed.

The latest broadcast of the BBC's long-running debate show caused a furore last
week by featuring fascist creep Nick Griffin, of course.

"David was only too aware that if he wasn't seen to handle the situation
properly the knives would have been out for him, " says a colleague.

This week's episode is unlikely to prove as testing: "He's got Jacqui Smith. It
will be a doddle by comparison!"

RUTH Kelly's contribution to the nation's democratic process during her time in
office is very unlikely to detain future historians and since stepping down from
the Cabinet a year ago this month Kelly has slipped into obscurity.

Now I learn of another dubious accolade that won't be making it on to her CV
when she retires from Parliament at the next election.

A motorway service station in her Bolton West constituency has been officially
ranked the worst in Britain. It's just as well she isn't still in what proved to
be her final Cabinet post: Secretary of State for Transport.

IN PREVIOUS series of The X Factor it was almost obligatory for contestants to
have been "on a journey" - though interestingly, after it was pointed out here,
the practice dried up. Now, however, an equally irritating cliché has reared its
ugly head. Count the number of times the judges refer to their charges as being
in or out of their "comfort zone" while performing or claiming that they have
"nailed it". Give us a break, please.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 27, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The state is too big, voters say;
Majority support Tory plans to scale back 'big government', poll shows

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 528 words


TWO-THIRDS of voters back David Cameron's call for the size of the state to be
slimmed down, a ComRes survey for The Independent discloses today.

The poll also shows that the Conservatives remain on course for a comfortable
victory at the general election, despite a small drop in their lead over Labour.

The ComRes poll puts the Tories on 40 per cent (up two points since last month),
Labour on 27 per cent (up four), the Liberal Democrats on 18 per cent (down
five) with other parties on 15 per cent (down one).

There is no sign that the British National Party has achieved an electoral
bounce since Nick Griffin's controversial appearance on BBC1's Question Time:
its support is stuck at just 2 per cent.

The Tory leadership will be relieved that it has emerged from the party
conference season with its lead almost intact at 13 per cent, a fall of two
points. It had feared that the party's warnings of the need for swingeing cuts
in public spending would hit its support.

A large majority of voters said they supported Mr Cameron's central message to
his conference that "big government" needed to be scaled back.

Sixty-seven per cent said they agreed with the Tory leader that "the Government
has grown too big and needs a major overhaul to make it smaller". Only 28 per
cent disagreed, with his call for a smaller state supported across the social
spectrum.

Andrew Hawkins, chief executive of ComRes, said: "The Conservatives are on to a
winner with this campaign line."

Today's survey does, however, carry a new warning to the Tories - and a crumb of
comfort to Labour - that the Conservative poll rating is relatively "soft".
Nearly half of voters (45 per cent) say they agree David Cameron "seems
likeable, but I am not sure I am ready to see a Conservative government", with
49 per cent disagreeing.

Even 38 per cent of Tory supporters agree with the statement, underlining the
problem party strategists continue to face in converting hostility to the Brown
government into positive support for the Conservatives. Thirty-six per cent of
non-Labour voters also said they would consider backing a party they did not
support "just to try to keep Labour out of government".

A 13-point lead for the Tories would be enough to give Mr Cameron a majority of
66 in a general election.

The Liberal Democrats will be disappointed to have fallen back into the high
teens, although their 23 per cent rating last month probably reflected the fact
that polling was conducted just days after the end of their conference.

Support for other parties remains at a historic high, reflecting the continuing
disillusionment with mainstream parties. The Green Party, which is targeting the
constituency of Brighton Pavilion for a breakthrough at the election, has 5 per
cent support, with the UK Independence Party on 3 per cent and the BNP on 2 per
cent.

ComRes telephoned 1,004 British adults between 23 and 25 October 2009. Data was
weighted by past vote recall. ComRes is a member of the British Polling Council
and abides by its rules. Full tables at www.comres.co.uk.

"Cameron's claim that society's ills can be laid at the door of an over-active
state is too simplistic"

Editorial, page 24

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

QUESTION TIME BACKLASH GROWS

BYLINE: REPORTS BY COLIN FERNANDEZ

LENGTH: 1156 words


ARCHBISHOP AND BBC VETERAN JOIN PROTESTS OVER 'NICK GRIFFIN SHOW'

THE backlash against the BBC for allowing Nick Griffin on Question Time was
reinforced yesterday by a former Archbishop of Canterbury, a veteran broadcaster
ñ and even the Queen.

Lord (George) Carey said the BBC's handling of the programme allowed it to
become 'the Nick Griffin show' ñ and criticised its failure to challenge Mr
Griffin's 'despicable' claim to represent 'white Christians'.

Sue MacGregor, former presenter of Radio 4's Today programme, said the
corporation had made a serious mistake in giving a huge audito the British
National Party. It was also claimed that the Queen had expressed her disgust
that the BNP had used images of Churchill to support its campaign.

According to the News of the World, a courtier said: 'We are a country that has
always prided itself on the tolerance and common sense of its people. She is and
always will be above party politics. But she is appalled that Churchill's name
should be used to spread division.' Mr Griffin's appearance on Thursday's
Question Time provoked hundreds of demonstrators wielding placards and flares to
lay siege to the BBC's West London HQ, which was protected by an army of riot
police.

Yet the BNP is likely to be returning to TV screens soon, it emerged yesterday,
after the BBC's deputy director general Mark Byford said it 'should be invited'
again and that its party political broadcasts will be screened by the BBC at the
next election.

Mr Griffin himself said he would seek to appear in any debate between party
leaders if Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg were allowed to take part.

'We will put in a bid to be in any leadership debate,' he said. 'Politics is
more fragmented and we should be allowed to take part in any debate with the
party leaders, along with UKIP and the Green Party.'

Yesterday in a newspaper article, Lord Carey attacked Griffin's claim on
Question Time that the BNP ' represents Christian Britain'.

'To hear the phrase "Christian Britain" coming from the mouth of Nick Griffin
made me shudder,' he wrote. 'It was the most chilling moment of Question Time,
perhaps better described as the Nick Griffin Show.

'And what a pity that none of the other panellists challenged Griffin's
deceitful attempt to align his despicable policies with Christianity. This
squalid racist must not be allowed to hijack one of the world's great religions.

'The views of the BNP are not simply false, they are dangerous, indeed
irredeemably evil.'

Lord Carey added that the Government and opposition had allowed the BNP to
thrive by failing to act on immigration.

'The cowardly failure of successive governments to address our open borenceders
is the reason the BNP has gained admittance to the political mainstream,' he
wrote.

Sue MacGregor, who presented the Today show for more than 17 years, criticised
the BBC's alteration of the format of the programme ñ which meant nearly all
questions from the audience were focused on Griffin.

She said: 'I don't think it was right to completely skew the formula to him and
one issue. It either gave him a huge audience for his views, which I would not
approve of, or it gave the impression of attack dogs against Nick Griffin.'

Martin Bell, the former MP and BBC news reporter, said: 'I think the BBC is in
an impossible position. It has to give time to second-tier parties like the BNP,
the Greens and UKIP.'

But he added: 'I think they should have been a bit more careful to take
questions that were not about BNP and immigration at all.'

The corporation defended Question Time, with Mark Byford denying accusations
that the BNP's appearance was intended to boost viewing figures. He said: 'This
was never about audience chasing at all.'

The deputy director-general added that he had yet to receive a complaint from Mr
Griffin about his treatment on the show.

He denied claims that the panel and audience had acted like a 'lynch mob',
adding: 'I think it was democracy in action and democracy working.'

Claims that Mr Griffin's appearance had boosted his party's image found support
from bookmakers. William Hill cut its odds on the BNP winning a seat in the next
election from 10/1 to 7/2 following the broadcast.

c.fernandez@dailymail.co.uk

2-YEAR FIGHT TO GET HIM ON

THE independent company which produces Question Time for the BBC had been trying
to get the BNP on the show for years, it was claimed yesterday.

The programme gained an audience of more than eight million on Thursday, the
largest in its three-decade history.

Mentorn, which has produced the show since 1998, hoped the ratings triumph would
safeguard its multi-millionpound contract which will be up for tender again in
the next two years.

An insider told the Sunday Telegraph: 'From at least 2007 onwards the makers of
Question Time repeatedly asked the BBC for the BNP to be included in the show.
The BBC's position was that the BNP was an anti-democratic party that should not
be given a platform in a way that would treat them as mainstream politicians.

'But Mentorn kept pressing their case. They felt it would make great TV.
Although the company was too clever to say so, it was chasing ratings and
desperate to secure its contract.'

BNP CHIEF'S MINDERS AND THE PAST THEY DON'T BROADCAST...

WHEN Nick Griffin arrived at the BBC's West London HQ on Thursday, he was
surrounded by a phalanx of burly minders doing their best to appear respectable
in collars and ties. Yet at least five of them have a past to be ashamed of.
They include a disgraced former detective, a serial harasser of women and a
teacher who resigned his post over accusations of racism.

1 SIMON GOODRICKE:

Former West Midlands detective sacked for perverting the course of justice after
he tipped off two businessmen under police investigation. He was jailed for 18
months at Birmingham Crown Court in 1998. He was also convicted of defrauding a
pensioner of £1,000.

2 PETER MOLLOY:

One of 12 BNP members arrested in Liverpool in November 2008 over allegations
they were distributing racist material. Molloy, who describes himself as having
spent eight years in the Army, denied the racist claim and said the arrests were
'politically motivated'

3 ADAM WALKER:

A former teacher who heads Solidarity, a nationalist union linked to the party.
He had to resign from teaching in 2007 after being accused of posting
anti-Islamic comments on the web using a school laptop. He is accused of
unacceptable professional conduct by the General Teaching Council.

4 DOMINIC COGGINS:

His Facebook page displays offensively abusive material against black and Muslim
people, and includes jokes about the Holocaust. He lists his 'religion' as
'national socialist'.

5 STEPHEN AMES:

Car dealer from Norwich with a series of convictions for pestering women. He was
given an 18-month rehabilitation order for harassing a former girlfriend in 2001
and made subject to an indefinite restraining order. He was also convicted of
harassing two other women in 1999.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 26, 2009 Monday

Britain set to pay pounds 5m more a day to the EU budget

BYLINE: Martin Banks in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 467  words


BRITISH taxpayers have been asked to increase their contribution to the European
Union to  pounds 50 million a day.

MEPs have voted to increase the British payments in 2010 against the advice of
the European Commission and the European Council, which represents the bloc's 27
member states.

The increase would mean Britain funding the EU by an additional  pounds 5
million a day on top of its current annual net contribution of  pounds 4.1
billion.

The demand, which was condemned yesterday by the Conservatives and the UK
Independence Party, will fuel the political debate over whether Britain benefits
from being in the EU. More than 25 per cent of voters in this year's European
elections backed parties that want to take Britain out of the EU.

The European Parliament, which has co-legislative powers on budgetary issues, is
recommending that the EU budget for 2010 should rise from  pounds 106 billion
this year to more than  pounds 116 billion in 2010. The budget has to be signed
off by MEPs. The European Parliament and Council will now embark on what most
expect to be protracted negotiations in an attempt to resolve the impasse.

More than two thirds of the EU budget goes on the Common Agricultural Policy
(CAP) and "structural funds'' to Europe's poorer nations. Britain has a rebate
to compensate for the high costs of the CAP, which benefits the country much
less than others such as France because of its relatively small farming sector.

MEPs said the proposed budget rise was "absolutely necessary'' to finance the
EU-wide economic recovery plan.

But James Elles, the budgets spokesman for the Tory group of MEPs, said: "In the
midst of a recession now was not the time to be putting extra billions on to the
EU's budget.''

The European Conservative and Reformist group, to which the Tories belong,
unsuccessfully tabled an amendment supporting a lower figure suggested by the
European Council.

Marta Andreasen, a UKIP MEP, said: "This is unbelievable at a time of financial
and economic crisis. Is this the way the EU wants to bring the budget closer to
citizens? It is all very nice to want to subsidise the Special Olympics in
Poland and Greece and the European Youth Olympic Winter Festival in the Czech
Republic but our constituents have other priorities.''

Laszlo Surjan, a Hungarian MEP whose report recommending an increase was adopted
by MEPs late last week, forecast "very difficult and tough negotiations'' with
member states in an attempt to reach a compromise figure.

Treasury figures show that Britain is the EU's second biggest net contributor,
behind Germany.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "It is important to stress that UK citizens
benefit [from EU membership] in ways that are hard to quantify in cash, such as
an improved environment and trade deals negotiated by the EU.''

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                October 25, 2009
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WHY YOU MUST NOT BACK BNP;
DAILY STAR SUNDAY Says. . .

SECTION: LEADER; 7

LENGTH: 220 words


IT'S TIME to bin the BNP. In the interests of free speech, Nick Griffin was last
week allowed to peddle his BNP policies on mainstream television. His right to
hold and air these views, provided they are within the law, is something that
makes Britain great.

But now the BNP has had its moment in the limelight, it's time for us to stand
up and say what we believe in.

So here's a message for every one of you - the family of Daily Star Sunday
readers who make our jobs so much fun every single day.

There'll be local elections on May 6 - and most likely a General Election too.
And when you find yourself in that polling booth, we only have one thing to ask.

DON'T VOTE FOR THE BRITISH NATIONAL PARTY.

We don't care if you go Labour, Conservative or Liberal Democrat.

You can vote for the Greens or UKIP or any reasonable party.

Just don't encourage this bunch of racist ratbags.

The cat's out of the bag after Griffin's disastrous performance on Question
Time. He can't have it both ways.

He used to moan that his loathsome lot were excluded from the mainstream media.

But as soon as he was given the chance and shown up as the no-mark he is, he
moans that the big boys play too rough.

Griffin and the BNP judge people not by the content of their character but the
colour of their skin.

WE HAVE NO TRUCK WITH THAT AND NEITHER MUST YOU.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO-MARK: Nick Griffin on Question Time

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                October 25, 2009
                                 First Edition

Labour's special delivery to Griffin;
The BNP leader on TV was pure panto, but the real villains in this drama have
been at the cabinet table

BYLINE: John Rentoul

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1012 words


It was a terrific pantomime. Rarely is a live audience provided with such an
obvious villain to jeer. When Nick Griffin went back to the end of the Ice Age
as the source of his ideology, it was genuinely funny. When he the course of a
single sentence went in from telling Jack Straw that "skin colour is irrelevant"
to demanding that Britain be restored to its aboriginal "white" people, the
audience, alert to absurdity, hooted with that rarity of polite society,
derision.

The set design and props were wittily done, too, so that everyone on the panel
wore a poppy, even though Armistice Day is several miles away, and Sayeeda
Warsi, the Conservative peer, wore a huge floppy one so that she, at least,
could not be outdone by the BNP in borrowing the sacrifices of previous
generations.

A surprising feature of last week's programme, though, was the agreement that
immigration was a serious problem that had not been handled well. Everyone -
apart from the pantomime villain - agreed that immigrants make a valuable
contribution to Britain, and hurried on to the "but". Everyone said we must
listen to the concerns of the people who have voted BNP or might be tempted to
do so, who are not racist (it doesn't do for democratic politicians to insult
voters), but who had turned to Griffin's lot as a protest. Jack Straw was forced
to say that Frank Field, who has demanded a population limit, is a very good
friend of his. Griffin's only point scored, unless you count a man-not-the-ball
tackle on Straw's conscientious objector father, was to mock Chris Huhne's
positioning of the Liberal Democrats as an anti-immigration party too.

After all that fuss and bother, though, in which Griffin was rather messily
exposed, to the satisfaction of the right-thinking classes at least, as what
they knew him to be all along, what does it mean? The short-term result is bound
to be to help the BNP win more votes at next year's general election than ever
before. That may not seem to mean much. The party's progression through the New
Labour years has been from 0.1 per cent in 1997, to 0.2 per cent in 2001, and
0.7 per cent in 2005. Last week's ComRes poll for this newspaper put the BNP on
1 per cent. In next year's election it may make it to one point something. It
may even achieve the dizzying height of the 2.2 per cent won by the UK
Independence Party in the last election, or the 2.6 per cent recorded by James
Goldsmith's now-forgotten Referendum Party, two months before he, and it,
expired in 1997. And how much difference would that make, really? The best
estimate of the effect of the biggest recent fringe party irruption - the
Referendum Party's - is that it cost the Conservatives four seats in Tony
Blair's new dawn. If that's the worst of it, let's all calm down after the show
and get on with the real politics of which biscuit the Prime Minister prefers.

But it could be worse than that. For all the pap about how the BNP's success
reflects the failure of the "mainstream parties", it doesn't. It reflects a
failure of one party in particular: the Labour Party.

The proof lies in maps prepared by Ben Page of Ipsos MORI, which compare the BNP
vote in the London Assembly election of last year with that of the Labour Party
at its lowest point in the 1970s. They are strikingly similar: sociologically
and electorally, the BNP vote is the old Labour core vote. That was the secret
of Boris Johnson's victory: he won that vote; Ken Livingstone, pursuing the
rainbow coalition strategy of his early left origins, thought he could win by
mobilising the ethnic minority vote. So it is not just the BNP vote next year
that matters, although it will come at Labour's expense, but the hidden part of
the iceberg that goes over to the Conservatives.

Jack Straw was the right Labour politician to be on Question Time last week, in
two respects. One, he was responsible for the electoral systems that gave the
BNP its representation: on the London Assembly and in Europe. But as Home
Secretary he was also nominally responsible for immigration policy when it
started to go wrong in Labour's first term. The pre-1997 Conservative government
had restricted legitimate immigration tightly, so that, when five years of
strong economic growth exerted a pull on international labour markets, economic
migrants arrived in the form of asylum seekers. While Straw was at the Home
Office, it was a clapped-out government machine trying hopelessly to keep up
with international economic forces that threatened to overwhelm it. Tony Blair
had to intervene and devote resources and prime ministerial attention to the
issue in order to get the asylum system back towards a semblance of order. And
then, in 2004, a new wave of unexpected immigration from Poland opened up when
the European Union expanded from 15 to 25 countries.

That was the issue on which Huhne, the Lib Dem home affairs spokesman,
retrospectively opposed immigration, on the grounds that the Government forecast
had been too low. It was the point at which Labour's record on employment was
exposed - all net new jobs since 1997 went to foreigners - which is why "British
jobs for British workers" was such a poisonous sound bite for Gordon Brown. That
was how Labour failed its old core vote.

The BNP is Labour's creature; its supporters are working-class voters who feel
that they have been let down by a Labour government. BNP success is a measure of
Labour's failure; of the collapse of the New Labour coalition of the white
working class and the liberal middle class. More than that, it shows that our
expectations about politics and social change have been reversed. Our default
assumption is that government action is quick; social change slow. But
immigration has changed parts of Britain more quickly than New Labour politics
could anticipate or respond to.

What a paradox that New Labour, a political project designed to accommodate
social change (all that stuff about globalisation, shaping it not resisting it),
should have been caught out by the speed of change.

John Rentoul blogs at independent.co.uk/eagleeye

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 25, 2009

Ukip threat to a Cameron majority: Analysis shows that the Tories could lose out
in 50 marginals because of divisions over Europe

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff and Henry McDonald

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 394 words


David Cameron could be eased out of up to 50 seats at the next election because
of the United Kingdom Independence party (Ukip) splitting the Conservative vote,
Labour party analysis suggests.

Ukip plans to stand in marginal seats against Tory candidates who fail to back a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty in all circumstances. Cameron refuses to say
whether he would offer a referendum if the treaty were ratified, insisting
merely that he "will not let the matter rest".

A private analysis by Labour strategists suggests that in marginal
constituencies, even a few hundred extra votes for Ukip could frustrate Tory
challengers. One cabinet minister cited Ukip as one of the most important
factors in the battle for a hung parliament, telling the Observer it could "cost
the Tories 50 to 60 seats".

Labour's figures are based on 100 "supermarginal" seats where its MPs are
holding on with majorities of less than 2,000. These are the seats Cameron must
win to form a majority.

While Ukip will not win these seats, the minister said that if the party took
about two thirds of its support from Conservative-inclined rather than
Labour-inclined voters, it could keep the Tories out in around 50 seats.

Depending on Gordon Brown's ability to close the poll gap, the Ukip effect may
not be enough to keep him in power, but ministers believe it could deliver a
coalition or a small Tory majority.

Right-wing thinktank the Bruges Group, which calculates that Ukip cost the
Tories about 27 seats at the last election, said it had the potential to create
serious problems this time.

Robin Oulds, director of the group, said the large Tory poll lead disguised the
fact that much of its support was still piled up in south-east England, while
Ukip's was far smaller but more evenly spread.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leading spokesman, said he was drawing up plans to focus on
key marginals. Farage said he was "looking to" the possibility of Tory
candidates breaking ranks and endorsing a referendum in all circumstances.

John Curtice, professor of government at Strathclyde University, said Ukip could
pose problems for the Tories on "party indiscipline", with candidates tempted to
defy their leader over Lisbon. The threat from Ukip helps explain why Cameron
has hardened the party line on Europe, despite the concerns of some senior
Tories about their allies in the European parliament.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 25, 2009

Ukip threat to a Cameron majority: Research by Labour analysts shows that the
Tories could lose up to 50 marginals because of divisions over a referendum on
the Lisbon treaty

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff and Henry McDonald

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 534 words


David Cameron could be denied up to 50 MPs at the next election because of the
United Kingdom Independence party (Ukip) splitting the Conservative vote, Labour
party analysis suggests.

Ukip plans to try to divide the party by standing in marginal seats against Tory
candidates who fail to back a referendum on the Lisbon treaty in all
circumstances. Cameron refuses to say whether he would offer a referendum if the
treaty were ratified, insisting merely that he "will not let the matter rest".

A private analysis by Labour strategists suggests that in marginal
constituencies, even a few hundred extra votes for Ukip could frustrate Tory
challengers trying to take the seats. One cabinet minister cited Ukip as among
the most important factors in the battle for a hung parliament, telling the
Observer it could "cost the Tories 50 to 60 seats".

Labour's figures are based on 100 "supermarginal" seats where its MPs are
holding on with majorities of less than 2,000. These are the seats Cameron must
win to form a majority. While Ukip will not win these seats, the minister said
that if the party maintained its momentum and took about two-thirds of its
support from Conservative-inclined rather than Labour-inclined voters, it could
split the opposition vote sufficiently to keep the Tories out in around 50
seats.

Depending on Gordon Brown's ability to close the poll gap, the Ukip effect may
not be enough to keep him in power, but ministers believe it could deliver a
coalition or a small Tory majority.

The fringe party is struggling financially after a court ruling that it must
return a donation ruled inadmissible by the Electoral Commission, threatening
its ability to fight a general election. However, it has survived similar crises
before to increase its share of the vote in this year's European elections.

The right-wing thinktank the Bruges Group, which calculates that Ukip cost the
Tories about 27 seats at the last election, said it had the potential to create
more serious problems this time. Robin Oulds, director of the group, said the
large Conservative poll lead disguised the fact that much of its support was
still in south-east England, while Ukip's was far smaller but more evenly
spread.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leading spokesman, said he was drawing up plans to focus on
key marginals. He said he was "looking to" the possibility of Tory candidates
breaking ranks and endorsing a referendum in all circumstances.

John Curtice, professor of government at Strathclyde University, said Ukip could
pose problems for the Tories on "party indiscipline", with candidates tempted to
defy their leader over Lisbon. The threat from Ukip helps to explain why Cameron
has hardened the party line on Europe, despite the concerns of some senior
Tories about their allies in the European parliament. William Hague, the shadow
foreign secretary, insisted yesterday that Ukip would not be allowed to bounce
his party.

He said: "We won't be deciding on this policy [Europe] based on the activities
of what is a fringe party. We'll decide on what is best for the country and what
we really believe in. The real choice is between the failed government of Gordon
Brown and a new government under David Cameron."


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 25, 2009
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Griffin seeks part in leaders' TV debate;
BNP The extremist leader is to hold talks with the BBC to win more airtime, Jon
Ungoed-Thomas and Marie Woolf report

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed-Thomas; Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 968 words


NICK GRIFFIN, the leader of the British National party (BNP), is to hold talks
with the BBC to try to secure his party's biggest coverage in next year's
general election. It will include a bid to participate in the party leaders'
televised debate.

Griffin said the corporation was obliged to give his party more airtime than at
the last general election and to grant access to all its flagship programmes,
including Question Time.

The BBC has already written to the BNP about its political broadcasts and will
hold discussions with the party about coverage across all its programmes.

The BNP can expect extra time on television and radio, which will be partly
based on its success in the European elections, the increased number of its
candidates standing and the opinion polls.

Griffin said he would bid to take part in a proposed televised debate between
the party leaders. He said if Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, was
entitled to take part, then other leaders should be allowed to participate. "We
will put in a bid to be in any leadership debate," said Griffin. "Politics is
more fragmented and we should be allowed to take part in any debate with the
party leaders, along with UKIP and the Green party."

He said any boost in the opinion polls as a result of his Question Time
appearance on Thursday would be used to bid for even greater coverage. "They
will have to give us more broadcast time because there is clear evidence of
public support," he said. "If they don't, then we will take them to judicial
review."

There are concerns that the BBC's decision to invite Griffin on Question Time
has given new credibility to his party and boosted support. A YouGov poll
conducted after the programme was broadcast and published yesterday showed that
BNP support had risen from 2% to 3%. The poll also found that 22% would
"seriously consider" voting for the BNP in the future.

Peter Hain, the Welsh secretary, who had opposed Griffin's appearance, said: "It
was a catastrophic error of monumental political proportions. The consequences
of this will be very serious and are reflected in the increased poll rating."

There is also criticism that the BBC's handling of the BNP leader's appearance
may have backfired. The briefing notes on Griffin handed to audience members
detailed his comments denying the Holocaust and most of the programme was
devoted to the panel and the audience robustly interrogating him on his views.

John Mann, Labour MP for Bassetlaw and chairman of the all-party parliamentary
group against anti-Semitism, said: "The way the programme was run was a mistake.
It was typical BBC intellectualism, with the BBC trying to be smarter than
anyone else.

"There should have been questions on more issues, which would have exposed him.
What about expenses? Education policy? The level of self-indulgence shown by the
BBC was quite incredible."

Paul Wiffen, the London chairman of the UK Independence party, who was in the
Question Time audience, said it was a misjudgment that the programme had focused
on the BNP. "It was the Nick Griffin show instead of Question Time," he said.
"It was all just a piece of misdirection."

BNP officials say there was widespread support over the way Griffin was
"ambushed" on the programme, which was watched by 8m people. The party claimed
that 3,000 people had registered to join as members afterwards.

Griffin has complained to the BBC. "One or two questions about what a wicked man
I am, fair enough, but the whole programme?" he said.

In the last election the BNP had one party political broadcast but limited
coverage on television and radio programmes because of its lack of support. It
will now argue for greater access to the airwaves.

A senior BBC source said yesterday it was unlikely that the party would get an
additional party broadcast, because it did not gain a seat at the last
election.The party can, however, expect more coverage on news bulletins and
current affairs programmes in recognition of its MEPs in Brussels and the
additional candidates it will be fielding.

Griffin and the leaders of other small parties will almost certainly be excluded
from a leaders' televised debate.

The next BBC current affairs show likely to be targeted by the BNP is Radio 4's
Any Questions, hosted by Jonathan Dimbleby. It will be obliged to consider
inviting a BNP representative under impartiality rules. During Question Time,
Griffin compared his father's war record in the RAF with that of Jack Straw's
father, Walter, who was imprisoned in 1939 for being a conscientious objector.

Griffin's father, Edgar, 88, said this weekend he had spent most of the war in
England as a wireless mechanic and never saw any fighting.

Edgar Griffin said his request to be a pilot had been turned down. He was based
at RAF Wing in Buckinghamshire, and also in London and Birmingham. "If I was
going to see any fighting it was in the Home Guard," he said.

Edgar Griffin was a vice-president in the campaign team of Iain Duncan Smith,
then the Conservative party leader, in 2001. He was expelled when it emerged
that he was also nswering the phone for the BNP. Griffin said that he strongly
supported his son's appearance on Question Time. "It was amazing he was able to
stand [all that]," he said. "It was terrible. One lie after another."

Mark Thompson, the BBC's director-general, was accused of avoiding the storm of
criticism over Nick Griffin's appearance on Question Time by going on a survival
course for war reporters while his deputy defended the corporation's decision on
its news programmes. Thompson was attending the £425-a-day course in Berkshire
as protesters besieged Television Centre in west London. The BBC said it could
not comment for security reasons. Jerry Springer's Question Time, Editorial,
page 20

'' THEY WILL HAVE TO GIVE US MORE BROADCAST TIME

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The demonstrations outside the BBC last week, right, are likely to be
repeated if media coverage of Nick Griffin, left, and his party increases in the
run-up to the general election
PETER MACDIARMID/LEWIS WHYLD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 25, 2009
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

BNP leader 'paid for UKIP member list'

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo; Jon Ungoed-Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 640 words


NICK GRIFFIN is to be investigated by the privacy watchdog after the British
National party leader was accused of paying for a database containing the names
and addresses of members of a rival party.

The database, which belonged to the UK Independence party and contained the
details of about 3,500 of its members from London and the southeast, was passed
to the BNP by a disaffected member in return for about £500, sources say.

The BNP then canvassed many of the people on the UKIP list asking for funds to
help fight its campaign for June's European elections. The BNP went on to claim
two seats, including one for Griffin.

Last night the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), which oversees data
protection, said it would investigate. Under the terms of the Data Protection
Act, anyone who sells data without authorisation from the designated "data
controller" is guilty of an offence, as is the person who obtains it.
Transgressors are liable to a fine of up to £5,000.

Griffin said yesterday he had never personally paid for a UKIP membership list,
although he conceded that some UKIP details had been passed to his party by
former members. He added: "To the best of my knowledge no one in the party has
paid for such a list. Some UKIP members do join us and provide names of people
who might be interested to hear from us. We have never had an entire UKIP
membership list."

Last week Griffin said the anonymous leaking on a website of his own party's
membership - the second time it has happened in the past 12 months - was part of
a "concerted anti-BNP campaign".

One of the names on the UKIP database was Gerard Batten, an MEP for the party,
who has previously complained to the ICO about the apparent data breach. Last
night he said he was preparing a fresh complaint based on The Sunday Times's
evidence that the database had been bought and sold.

"We have long suspected the BNP had a [UKIP] membership list. The BNP do this
based on the false belief they can take away some of our members," he said.

Batten and others received unsolicited requests for donations from the BNP from
2008 until earlier this year. One appealed for funds for the BNP's European
election battle. It said: "If we can win one seat, the floodgates will open. One
seat, just one, would put us on the world stage and would lead to an avalanche
of popular support throughout this country."

Last year Batten wrote to the ICO: "I suspect my address and those of our UKIP
London members were illegally accessed from a UKIP database."

Now other sources, including from within the BNP, have confirmed that the
database was obtained and exploited by the party. "Nick Griffin bought the
database for surprisingly little, just a few hundred pounds," said a source.

It is understood that the privacy watchdog wrote to the BNP warning it not to
send Batten any more communications. But the source said the watchdog did not
know the party also had the names and addresses of 3,500 other UKIP members.

The ICO said: "Buying or selling personal data is against the law, unless there
is a public interest defence."

Guardian hacked The Guardian warned users of its jobs website last night that
their personal details might have been stolen by hackers.

Guardian Jobs, which has 1.4m users a month and stores the CVs of a wide range
of professionals, including public-sector workers, told users it was the victim
of a "sophisticated and deliberate hack". They were advised by e-mail to contact
an agency that helps the victims of identity fraud.

The security breach was detected on Friday and is being investigated by the
Metropolitan police.

A spokeswoman for Guardian News &Media said: "We are committed to protecting the
privacy of our users and are treating this situation with the utmost
seriousness."

IN THIS SECTION

'Nick Griffin, a triumph of political correctness' AA GILL, FOCUS, P17

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 25, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Shady past of BNP leader's bodyguards

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo; Jon Ugoed-Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 470 words


AS Nick Griffin was bustled into BBCTelevision Centre on Thursday afternoon, he
was shielded by burly minders, ranging from a former detective convicted of
fraud to a former teacher who allegedly posted anti-Muslim comment on the
internet.

Griffin's minders included: n Simon Goodricke. A former West Midlands detective
dismissed after allegations that he tipped off two businessmen under
investigation. He was jailed for 18 months at Birmingham crown court in 1998. He
was also convicted of defrauding a pensioner of £1,000. He has stood for the BNP
in council elections in Barnsley.

n Stephen Ames. The Norwich car dealer has a series of convictions for harassing
women. He admitted harassing a former girlfriend over nine months in 2001 for
which he was given an 18-month rehabilitation order n Dominic Coggins. Despite
Griffin's claim that the BNP is not a racist party, Coggins's Facebook account
displays outrageously abusive and racist material and says he wants a
numberplate spelling the word Nazi.

n Adam Walker. Head of Solidarity, a nationalist union linked to the party. He
had to resign his teaching post in 2007 after being accused of using a school
laptop to post anti-Muslim comments on the web. n Peter Molloy. One of 12 BNP
members held in Liverpool in 2008 over allegations they were distributing racist
material. Molloy denied the racist claim.

Meanwhile, Griffin himself is to be investigated by the Information
Commissioner's Office (ICO) after he was accused of paying for a database
containing the names and addresses of thousands ofmembers from a rival political
party. The database, which belonged to the UK Independence party (UKIP) and
contained the details of 3,500 of its members from London and the southeast, was
passed to the British National party by a disaffected member in return for about
£500, sources say.

The BNP then canvassed manyof the people on the UKIP list asking for funds to
help to fund its campaign in the runup to June's European elections.

The BNP went on to win two seats, including Griffin's.

Last night the ICO, which oversees data protection, said it would investigate
fully. Under the Data Protection Act, anyone who sells data without
authorisation from the designated "data controller" is guilty of an offence, as
is the person who obtains it.

Transgressors are liable to a fine of up to £5,000. The Ministry of Justice is
consulting on whether to impose custodial sentences for future breaches.

Griffin said yesterday that he had never personally paid for a UKIP membership
list, although he conceded that some UKIP details had been passed to his party
by former members.

How dare a filthy blackshirt sound so reasonable, Focus, page 17

The heavy mob

Five people who demonstrate the BNP's real values

1 Simon Goodricke

2 Peter Molloy

3 Adam Walker

4 Dominic Coggins

5 Stephen Ames

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 25, 2009

Is the party really over for Ukip?

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 659  words


Thomas Hardy fans will be familiar with the "Skimmington ride''. This was the
old practice whereby, when someone had affronted communal morality, a mob would
gather outside the culprit's house to make a loud noise by banging pots and pans
together while shouting abuse. Such an unlovely spectacle was the Skimmington
conducted by Thursday evening's Question Time, happily diverting attention from
several rather more important issues of the day, such as the suicide of the
Royal Mail. These might even have included the fact that, for the first time in
history, a British political party, rather more popular and respectable than the
BNP, may have to close down, following a court ruling which threatens it with
bankruptcy.

A neat summary of some of the illogicalities behind the Appeal Court's ruling
that the UK Independence Party, with 13 MEPs, must hand over  pounds 750,000 for
a trivial breach of electoral law, was provided on his blog by the BBC's
diligent political reporter Michael Crick.

As "Case A'', he described how, in 2005, Ukip received donations amounting to
pounds 363,607 from a bookmaker, Alan Bown. Mr Bown had a legitimate business
and had for years been on the electoral register where he lives in Kent. But,
due to an oversight, his name had not been included on the register for the year
when he gave the money. In 2007, when the Electoral Commission tracked this
down, a district judge ruled that Ukip should pay  pounds 18,000 as a penalty
for failing to check whether Mr Bown's name was on the register. This was not
good enough for the Commission, which appealed, demanding that all Mr Bown's
donations must be confiscated. When the Appeal Court last week supported the
Commission, this left Ukip with a legal bill amounting to  pounds 750,000 which
it hasn't got, thus facing it with bankruptcy.

Mr Crick then presented "Case B'', concerning Michael Brown, whose donation of
pounds 2.4 million was the largest ever enjoyed by the Liberal Democrats. Mr
Brown made his gift through a highly dodgy company called 5th Avenue Partners.
In 2008, before being found guilty on  pounds 10 million fraud charges, he
changed his name, grew a beard, he skipped bail and moved to Spain. The
Electoral Commission, having investigated this murky story, found that the Lib
Dems had accepted the donation in "good faith'' (even though it came from a
company built on fraud), and seems unwilling to take further action.

The Political Parties, Elections & Referendums Act 2000, which the Electoral
Commission was enforcing, was based on a report by the eminent lawyer Lord Neill
of Bladen, whose concern, over donations, was that they should come from
legitimate sources, not be anonymous, and should not be from people living
abroad. In the cases of Bown and Brown, one was an honest Englishman, running a
legitimate business whose only mistake was a minor error of paperwork; the other
is a very shady character who, having been caught out running a business built
on fraud, now lives anonymously abroad.

On which party, asked Mr Crick, do we think the Electoral Commission came down
like a ton of bricks? Apart from the Lib Dems, of course, no one will have
rejoiced more at last week's verdict than the Conservative Party. One of the
Tories' biggest fears, since Ukip came second in this year's Euro-elections with
2.5 million votes, has been that many otherwise natural Tories might be tempted
to vote for Ukip again in next year's general election - not just as
Euro-sceptics frustrated by Mr Cameron's weaselly line on the EU, but in protest
against the degradation of all our main parties by the allowances scandals.

If Ukip is forced out of play, many such voters will stay at home. The only
electoral beneficiaries of the court's ruling could thus be the BNP, who,
however disreputable themselves, might well win rather more protest votes
against the squalid antics of our "political class'' than they would have
received otherwise.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday

Analysis;
Mainstream parties should be grateful that he is no Le Pen

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 392  words


NICK GRIFFIN may have come across as evasive and awkward on Question Time, but
he will be well pleased with the extraordinary publicity his British National
Party has received and its impact on the opinion polls.

YouGov's survey for The Daily Telegraph, conducted immediately after Mr
Griffin's appearance on the BBC show, should give mainstream politicians serious
pause for thought.

It was assumed that Mr Griffin would condemn himself with his own words; and to
many, his views would have been repellent or downright bizarre. Yet the BNP is
clearly tapping into a reservoir of popular disgruntlement that the bigger
parties would be well advised to address.

As an extremist party, the BNP would normally be expected to do worse than
others on the margins of politics. However, YouGov suggests it has levels of
support roughly similar to Ukip and the Greens.

At the European elections in June, Ukip was by far the most successful of the
smaller parties, coming second behind the Tories. The BNP won two European seats
with around 900,000 votes, or six per cent of the total. The YouGov poll
suggests that it is not doing any better now, but there are a lot more people
who might vote BNP than anyone had thought.

While only 4 per cent said they would definitely consider voting for the party,
another 3 per cent said they probably would and a further 15 per cent said they
possibly would. In other words, more than a fifth of the electorate would or
might consider voting for an avowedly racist party.

Most significantly, more than half of those polled sympathised with the BNP's
views that successive governments had done too little to protect the interests
of white British people.

It seems, however, that Mr Griffin is not able to present himself as a credible
voice from the far-Right in the way that Jean-Marie Le Pen did in France. The
National Front leader's appearance on French television in the early-1980s made
him such a force to be reckoned with that he eventually contested the presidency
in a run-the off with Jacques Chirac in 2002.

But, as was apparent on Question Time, Mr Griffin is no Le Pen. Extremist
parties, if they are to flourish, need self-assured, charismatic leaders and his
stumbling and nervous performance showed that he does not possess such
qualities. Judging by the disaffection among voters, it is fortunate that he
does not.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP AND NOT THE BNP WILL BECOME THE MAIN ANTI-IMMIGRATION PARTY

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 405  words


AS the dust settles over the BBC studios in West London there are two key things
to be taken from Question Time.

First, there is a massive gap in the market for a non-racist party that is
against further mass immigration and ready to resist Islamofascism. Second, Nick
Griffin's BNP is not it.

Griffin's monstrous ideological baggage - his fraternising with the Ku Klux
Klan, his Holocaust denial, his other odious past utterances - was exposed in
front of a huge TV audience. He proved unable to discard any of it and thus the
appeal of him and his party will remain extremely limited in a country whose
finest hour came with the defeat of Nazi Germany. But when the discussion moved
on to Labour's lax and deceitful immigration policy it was clear the political
elite was in trouble.

Jack Straw waffled to no avail while Lib Dem Chris Huhne postured as a migration
sceptic rather than state his party's real belief in open borders. For the
Tories Baroness Warsi did better, acknowledging that Labour's lying about the
scale of the influx and refusal to limit it was having a drastic effect on
people's lives and proposing a cap on numbers.

But the Tories will not say what the cap should be or how it would be enforced
given that Britain has signed international agreements that limit its control
over its borders and that would not be torn up by David Cameron. Anyone from the
EU can come and live here, anyone can claim asylum and remain for years while
their case is considered. And the Conservatives, remember, are pressing for 72
million Muslim Turks to be admitted into the EU and thus gain an
incontrovertible right to settle in Britain.

So who can fill the gap? The obvious candidate is UKIP. In the past it has been
seen as a single issue, anti-European pressure group.

But its likely new leader Lord Pearson is keen to broaden its agenda to
highlight public concern over immigration and Islamism.

In the past its members have been smeared as "fruitcakes and closet racists".
But it has never been a racist party and has always had a substantial ethnic
minority membership. All the "mainstream" parties have stated that the BNP is
uniquely abhorrent because of the racial basis of its outlook. If any try to
smear UKIP in future it will rebound on them.

The BNP may get a short-term poll rise out of the publicity it has secured. But
I am glad to say that, despite some financial woes, UKIP's long-term prospects
are far rosier.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday

National: Question Time: Reaction from BBC viewers

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 550 words


A representative selection of comments on the BBC's Have Your Say blog: What
impact will Question Time have on politics?

Regardless of whether one supports Mr. Griffin and his BNP or not, last nights
programme proved to be debacle, not a debate. Viewers were subjected to a
premeditated and biased attack on Griffin. The panel, its presenter, and biased
audience conspired to disrupt any flow in discussion. Griffin was continually
bombarded by questions, often interrupted when responding. Yes, a true
reflection of British politicians, brimming with intellect and of course
integrity.

Nick Dinsdale, Clitheroe

I don't like Nick Griffin and I don't like the majority of BNP policies, but on
immigration he is absolutely correct. He is right too, on the Lisbon treaty
issue and the three main parties know that the vast majority of the electorate
feel the same as BNP on these issues. At the next election my vote will go to
UKIP or BNP.

douglas pritchard

The BNP have achieved a mandate in both local and European elections and as a
result are on the same platform as groups such as the Green Party. Exposing the
weaknesses of their arguments on a national level will hopefully educate those
without the common sense to see that they are a party based on ignorance and
hate.

Rich, Cheltenham

I would like to see our mainstream political parties appear on QT and get hit
with the same degree of criticism that Nick Griffiths (sic) was on the receiving
end. That would prick a few egos! I watched QT for a few minutes and gave up.
There was NO debate of discussion about the economy or any of the other major
issues that dominate our lives - just an non-stop attack on one of the guests.I
hate the BNP but started to feel sorry for Nick Griffiths so I gave up and went
to bed.

swerdna

Last night Question Time did not follow its usual format. There was no real
discussion about subjects and although it pains to me to agree with comments
made by the BNP leader, it was like an attack on him and a lynch mob, the
audience were not fully representative of the public. If Labour had not allowed
so many immigrants in we would not have had Nick on Question Time as his party
would not have got so many votes. There is real fear about our country being
'taken over'. Freedom of speach.

vmscott, Winchester

The 3 main parties yet again, did not show us how an intelligent adult debate
should be held! If we all followed their lead from last night's "debate" then
there would be anarachy in the UK and we would be even more divided than we are
now or have ever been! Not allowing your opponent to finish their sentences by
shouting over them is playground stuff! And how do any of them know what BNP
stands for if they dont listen? They asked questions but didnt want to hear the
answers? And thats equality?

jacob2, london

As an avid "Question Time"viewer, I tuned in last night and was absolutely
disgusted. Never before have I seen one member of a political party vilified in
such a distasteful way! I may not agree with BNP policies, but 1 million British
people do. That makes the BNP a small but growing minority in their own right.
How dare, a handpicked, unrepresentational audience, with obvious backing from
the BBC, use this open forum as a platform to bully ANYONE ! As a license fee
payer, I am ANGRY!

jane smith

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The untalented Mr Griffin;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 481 words


SO THE appearance of the BNP leader, Nick Griffin, on the BBC's Question Time
has come and gone. What has it left behind, aside from several hundred
frustrated protesters who failed to stop it from happening and Mr Griffin's
complaint to the BBC that he faced a "lynch mob"?

There was, rightly, much argument about whether the BBC should have invited Mr
Griffin to participate. Like it or not, however - and we dislike it intensely -
the British National Party is a legal entity; it puts up candidates for
election. It now has two legitimately elected MEPs.

In these circumstances, it would have been wrong for the BBC to treat the BNP
differently from other minority parties, whose leaders and elected
representatives appear routinely on the whole panoply of political programmes.
To have excluded them from Question Time any longer would have fuelled the
claims of the BNP and its supporters that, although they play by the rules of
the constitutional game, the BBC and the political establishment do not. It
would have compounded the BNP's sense of victimhood.

That said, it was probably inevitable - while patently undesirable - that the
programme turned into a Question Time like no other. Not only was there a throng
of protesters outside - probably more numerous and rowdy than the BBC and the
police had bargained for - but the composition of the panel and studio audience
was tailored to the BNP leader's participation.

And when Mr Griffin complained about having to face a "lynch mob" and being
"howled down" by the audience, regrettably, he had a point. There was a
hectoring and bullying aspect to the show that pitted the other four guests, and
the majority of the audience, against him. That might be a fairly accurate
representation of British opinion in relation to the BNP, but it is not what
happens when other minority parties, such as the Greens or UKIP, are on the
panel. Nor, when, say, UKIP appears is three-quarters of the time devoted to
Europe. Mr Griffin and the BNP dominated the proceedings.

For anyone tempted to support the BNP, Mr Griffin's poor response to pressure
might make them think again. As a politician, he was not canny enough to turn
his position to his advantage; he could not deploy wit in his defence, nor did
he have the confidence to protest to David Dimbleby - as he could have done -
that he had come to talk about policies, not take a beating. But the way in
which he was pilloried may have inspired more sympathy than he or the BNP
deserve.

When the hour was up, viewers might have learnt something about Mr Griffin's
strengths and, mostly, weaknesses, but they would not have been much clearer
about the party's policies. That was a failure of the programme and why, not
without misgivings, we say that the BNP needs to become a regular feature of
political discussions. It is not hectoring or mystique, but familiarity that
breeds contempt.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 24, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A normal show? There was never a chance of that;
Question Time panellists did their best to shun BNP chief

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin; Patrick Foster Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 869 words


On his way into the Question Time studios, a BBC staffer approached Jack Straw
and told him they wanted to make this show as normal as possible.

"There is no chance of that," replied the Justice Secretary as he prepared for a
night when he and other panellists would first snub, then recoil from physical
contact with, Nick Griffin.

The panellists, who usually mingle before the show in the Green Room, were given
separate dressing rooms. Mr Griffin said that he was treated "very decently" and
given a bowl of fruit. His aide, Simon Darby, nervously ate his way through an
entire box of Roses chocolates.

When one of Mr Straw's team went to the toilet, a policeman advised: "I wouldn't
do that, sir, you might find something unpleasant." The BNP leader, accompanied
by two minders, had entered seconds earlier.

Only as the panellists lined up in the corridor preparing to go into the
auditorium itself did interaction become possible. Mr Straw and Chris Huhne, the
Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman, were soon chatting. Mr Griffin edged
over towards them, perhaps hoping that his imminent arrival on the national
stage would mean that he would be treated by other politicians as a member of
the club.

"I could see him out of the corner of my eye," Mr Straw said. "We just moved
closer together and made it very clear he would not be welcome to join us.
Normally, I will shake hands with anybody. But not him."

Mr Griffin said: "There was no human contact between them and me at all. It was
very, very clear they weren't going to recognise me as a human being. I'm sure
they'd like to put me in a concentration camp."

Bonnie Greer and Baroness Warsi, the Tory communities spokeswoman, also did
their best to blank the BNP leader. "Sayeeda [Warsi] came rushing up to check I
was OK with having to sit next to him," Ms Greer said. "She was appalled."

Once seated on the stage, Mr Griffin repeatedly tried to engage the
American-born playwright in conversation. "He was trying to vibrate towards me,
I was trying to edge away from him," she said. "He was like some creepy guy who
bothers you in the pub. If I'd had a pint, I would have poured it over his
head."

The usual ice-breaker question from David Dimbleby was replaced by a simple
soundcheck, asking what each panellist had for breakfast. "Bacon and eggs," Mr
Griffin said.

And then they were off. The other panellists later expressed surprise that the
BNP leader, who had been billed as such a formidable and clever opponent, should
have been so bad.

Lady Warsi said: "A lot of his behaviour - the physical behaviour - didn't come
out on the television. He was very nervous. His hands were shaking, he was
perspiring. He came across as slightly unhinged in the studio."

Ms Greer said: "He seemed desperately insecure. He was like the new nerd in the
class. You know, the one who you later find out killed all the frogs in the
laboratory and put those anonymous notes in people's lockers."

At the end, Mr Straw swiftly went into the audience to find a woman who had
objected to being called "Afro-Caribbean", and received a hug.

There was no prospect of the panellists joining Mr Dimbleby for the standard
Question Time dinner. "I don't think any one of us wanted to break bread with
that guy," Ms Greer said.

The BNP leader, however, did seek again to strike up a relationship with Ms
Greer. "You need some education," she told him. "Come see me at the British
Museum and I'll give you some books." The BNP leader then handed her his
business card, which she is now considering putting up for sale on eBay.

According to his account yesterday, they agreed to swap reading lists. "Our
acquaintance is obviously very brief," Mr Griffin said. "But she's a smart and
charming lady. We may well meet up at the British Museum."

The other panellists, he complained, had "demonised me". For the second time
this week, he offered sarcastic gratitude to the BBC. "Thank you, Auntie," said
Mr Griffin, "for misreading the situation so catastrophically." Mr Straw denied
that there had been collaboration between the other panellists to make Mr
Griffin look stupid. "What it showed is that there is something basically decent
running through Britain and British politics from UKIP to the Socialist Workers
Party. But he is beyond the pale on that."

While Mr Straw conceded that he had "never done a gig quite like this", he
suggested that Mr Griffin had failed to understand that "even in normal
circumstances Question Time is a bit of a bearpit". "I know he is whingeing
about his treatment today. But my advice, as someone who has been around the
block a bit, is this: if you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen."

Leading article, page 2 Matthew Parris, page 21 Bonnie Greer, page 23 Letters,
page 25

Nick Griffin's opinion that "the sight of two men kissing in public is a bit
creepy" may be linked to a traumatic adolescent experience. The BNP leader told
The Times that Martin Webster, a former deputy leader of the National Front,
offered sex to him when he was a teenager. He said that despite often staying
overnight at Mr Webster's London flat, he did not know that the NF man was gay
"until he propositioned me when I was 16"."It was a bit of shock," Mr Griffin
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Griffin arriving for the broadcast in which he said he was
"demonised"
TAL COHEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 23, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Protests fill the internet

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 224  words


OUTRAGED viewers turned to the internet last night in their thousands to protest
against the BBC's decision to allow Nick Griffin to appear on Question Time.
Among comments were . . .

"The BBC is giving Griffin a ridiculous amount of air time in news programmes
and exacerbating an already volatile situation.

"Little else has been on the news.

How democratic is this when a tiny, unrepresentative, racist party gets more
coverage than anyone?

"I believe the BBC has this issue badly wrong and am very disappointed. This is
not fair reporting but far Right-wing bias."

ROBERT SMITH, SAWBRIDGEWORTH, HERTS, ON THE BBC WEBSITE.

"It's disgraceful in the first place that the BBC would invite on an individual
who has been convicted of incitement to racial hatred but to single him out as
some kind of special guest risks turning this whole thing into a pantomime.

Shame on the BBC."

GRAHAM, LIVERPOOL, ON THE BBC SITE.

"Majority of Nick Griffin BNP members have distorted views of history and
misguided information - especially regarding Britain's and EU history."

ERIC BALKHI, ON TWITTER.

"Expose the BNP lies through the media and interviews, but putting Griffin on
gives them equal stature to mainstream parties. Question Time should put Griffin
alongside similar parties on terms of electoral support - Green Party and Ukip."

J.STOLLIDAY, LONDON ON TWITTER.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 23, 2009 Friday 10:58 PM GMT

Opinion poll: more than half of British voters think the BNP 'has a point'

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 323 words


One statistic above all stands out from the YouGov opinion poll commissioned by
the Telegraph. And it's not that 22 per cent of respondents would consider
voting for the BNP, amazing though that is.It's that a majority of voters, while
they may despise the BNP, think it "has a point":

More than half of those questioned said they agreed with the BNP, or thought
that it "had a point" in wishing to "speak up for the interests of the
indigenous, white British people ... which successive governments have done far
too little to protect."This included 43 per cent who said that, while they
shared some of its concerns, they had "no sympathy for the party itself".

The implications of this poll are far-reaching. In some future election, a party
that campaigns against immigration and Islamic ghettos without descending into
racism could win many seats in Parliament. But can you campaign on this theme
without being racist? The answer is that no one has tried - though, as Ed West
reports, if the admirable Lord Pearson becomes leader of Ukip we may find out,
as he plans to shift the focus of the party from Europe to broader issues of
national identity.

The Tories have not made immigration and Islam central to their policies. It's
too early to do so, if they want to sanitise their image among middle-class
voters. Also, they lack the insight or the courage to recognise that the two
issues will soon be indivisible.The tragedy for this country is that it is now,
not in ten years' time when our social fabric has been torn to pieces, that
voters need a political party to do so. Even if the BNP were not so nasty,
deeply tainted by neo-Nazism, the paranoid ineptitude of its leaders would
render it useless as a vehicle for the recovery of national identity. And so
voters alarmed by the fiasco of mass immigration have nowhere to put their
cross. All they can do is tell opinion pollsters that a party of thugs and
bigots "has a point".

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday

EU could force Britain to take more refugees

BYLINE: Martin Banks in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 512  words


BRITAIN would be forced to take a greater number of asylum seekers under
European Union plans that would create a common asylum policy with uniform
criteria for deciding on cases.

Commission officials yesterday announced that the "final building blocks'' had
been put in place to "harmonise'' immigration.

However, critics condemned the proposal, saying it would strip Britain of its
sovereign powers to determine asylum policy.

Tim Kirkhope, the leader of the Conservative MEPs, said: "Britain stands to lose
its central pillar of its sovereignty: the ability to decide who can and can't
enter the UK.

"There are many things the EU can do to help growing immigration concerns but
such decisions should be based on goodwill from other national governments, not
on decisions forced on governments by Brussels.''

But Jacques Barrot, the European Commission's justice commissioner, said the
system would "eliminate differences'' and set out procedures to follow to avoid
unequal treatment.

He said the plans were designed to ensure asylum seekers would have the same
chance of being accepted or rejected in all EU member states.

"Our proposals represent a major step forward towards achieving higher standards
of protection, a more level playing field as well as coherence for the system,''
he said. Under the new rules, the authorities would be forced to present asylum
seekers with clear information on their rights as soon as they arrived in a
country.

The authorities would then be expected to apply the common criteria for
admission "robustly'' and to "identify more quickly persons in need of
protection and those who are not''.

The EU has made it clear it would like the allocation of asylum seekers to be
"proportionate'' based on population so that each country "shares the burden''
of asylum applications. Bigger countries including Britain would be expected to
take a larger share because of their size. Critics say this could see Britain
being "forced'' to accept refugees from "overburdened'' countries such as Malta,
which has seen a surge in asylum seekers from North Africa.

At present, the time taken to process applications differs from several weeks in
some EU countries to up to 12 months in others. Under the proposals, the
commission said all member states would process applications for asylum within
six months.

Critics said the policy would end Britain's right to determine its own asylum
policy.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "The mainstream
political parties can no longer pretend they have any control over our borders.

"On the day that the Office for National Statistics has made it clear that our
population is increasing faster than ever before, with two-thirds of that
increase attributed to immigration, the Commission makes it clear that there is
nothing we can do to halt the rise.''

Phil Woolas, the Immigration Minister, said: "We will consider and scrutinise
the details of the proposals very carefully and will apply a very cautious
attitude.''

The proposals will be discussed by the European Parliament in November.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 539  words


AND still the spectre of the biscuits continues to haunt Gordon Brown. Allies of
Tony Blair have been unable to resist crowing over the Prime Minister's
ridiculous dithering when faced with the question of what was his favourite
biscuit.

Now a former Blairite colleague takes a gleeful pleasure in recalling: "It was
well known that Tony would never touch the biscuits on offer during Cabinet
meetings as he was always obsessed with staying trim. Poor Gordon has never had
that kind of willpower." And, like an old packet of digestives, he's been
crumbling ever since.

EVEN though he has been in situ for four months now, Speaker of the House of
Commons John Bercow still can't feel safe in his ancient and historical post.

As this column has mentioned in the past he already faces a contest for his
Buckingham seat from UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage - breaking the
tradition that holders of his office are not opposed at general elections.

And he is evidently still in the sights of his formidable and once fellow Tory
backbench colleague Nadine Dorries, pictured.

This is the woman who last year said:

"Should John Bercow become Speaker I will do my best to make sure that it is one
of the shortest served appointments in the grand and glorious history of that
coveted chair."

I hate to tell the Speaker this but I fear Nadine hasn't dropped her grudge. On
her blog earlier this week she wrote: "My second afternoon appointment is with a
man who is writing a book about John Bercow. Some days are just better than
others."

JACQUI SMITH'S desperate 11th-hour attempt to save what's left of her political
career, by defending her wafer-thin majority of less than 3,000 in her Redditch
seat, continued during Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons yesterday. The
former Home Secretary, whose image is eternally discredited by the amount of
money she claimed from the public purse during the parliamentary expenses
scandal, obsequiously highlighted to the PM the fact she had "visited every
"SureStart children's centre" in her constituency - one of the Government's pet
schemes.

It won't stop her being annihilated at the next general election.

WHY do they do it? I'm referring to the politicians who feel the need to let the
rest of us know how trendy and in touch they are. The latest culprit is Culture
Secretary Ben Bradshaw, spotted making some tortuous dance moves at the Camden
Roundhouse in London where he was in the audience for Robbie Williams's comeback
show this week.

"Ben isn't the most natural of dancers, " says one observer. "He got rather
carried away and made quite a spectacle of himself on the night."

The minister is the latest man to learn that no matter whether you have children
or not, once you reach a certain age being branded a "dad dancer" is about as
embarrassing as it gets.

SMOKY-VOICED Scandinavian siren Mariella Frostrup, pictured, is rightly quoted
in a new interview with BBC creative director Alan Yentob in Saga magazine,
where he is taken to task by Winston Churchill's granddaughter Emma Soames over
the fact that so few older women are seen on our screens at the moment.

"Women over 50 disappear as fast as members of Mugabe's opposition, " Frostrup
remarks.

And you know she has got a point.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday

G2: TV matters

BYLINE: Mark Lawson

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 326 words


" The appearance of the BNP leader on Question Time (BBC1) tonight has generated
pages of political and moral comment, but Nick Griffin's inclusion also raises
perplexing questions of television grammar and etiquette.

The first is where he should be placed at the table. Traditionally,
non-politicians (Ian Hislop, Peter Hitchens) or minority politicians (UKIP's
Nigel Farage) have been put at the extremities.

And so producers will be able to use a straight-faced excuse of convention if
they go for the obvious joke and

position Griffin on the far right.

Next, how should the other panellists interact with him? With rare exceptions
(such as David Starkey's assassination of Ben Bradshaw on a recent edition),
English manners tend to prevail between speakers. But those alongside Griffin
dare not risk looking amused, interested or even neutral during his
contributions.

The best tactic might be the body language adopted by Ian Hislop when placed
next to a New Labour mouthpiece. His approach involved two twists: one of his
body away from the government minister, and another of his face into a scowl of
disapproval.

From years of sitting beside Bonnie Greer on the Newsnight Review sofa, I know
that she has the eyebrows and mouth to belittle Griffin both silently and
vocally; but the hostility needs to be dignified disdain rather than angry
ranting, or the BNP will simply feel justified in their paranoid sectarianism.

David Dimbleby has the hardest task tonight. Clearly, the BBC rules which demand
impartiality towards all

political parties need to be tacitly abandoned: for Griffin to be treated as if
he were no more contentious than a Lib Dem spokesperson would be a huge
propaganda victory for him.

Dimbleby will also need to perfect facial and vocal distancing techniques.

Dimbleby is currently making a TV series about art; he may be about to make a
show in which the facial contortions of panellists and presenter resemble one of
Goya's black paintings.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

HERE WE GROW;
POPULATION 71M BY 2033..TWO-THIRDS CAUSED BY IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 354 words


BRITAIN'S population is set to grow at the fastest rate in a century... with
two-thirds of the increase caused by immigration.

Numbers will jump by 10 million to 71 million in just 24 years, the Office for
National Statistics says.

That's less than half the time it took to go from 50 million to 60 million
between 1948 and 2005.

Every year, 425,000 more people will be living here - the equivalent of a city
such as Bristol.

The new figures predict 180,000 of these will be immigrants. And when the
immigrant baby boom is taken into account, migration will account for two thirds
of the population growth.

The big increase will raise fears that schools and hospitals will not be able to
cope.

The population boom will also put pressure on the housing market.

The figures also suggest the population will be a lot older, with three million
over-85s - more than twice the current number.

The number of centenarians is projected to increase seven-fold to 80,000.

Earlier this year, Home Secretary Alan Johnson said he "did not lie awake at
night" worrying about the population hitting 70 million.

PHIL WOOLAS

Immigration minister TODAY'S projections show population growth is starting to
slow. The impact of reforms we have made to immigration is working. Last year
saw a 44% fall in net migration and we expect that to be reflected in future
projections. Our new pointsbased system is giving greater control on those
coming here to work or study.

PETER MADDEN

Forum for the Future sustainable development charity IT puts greater pressure on
publicservices, increases competition forhousing and makes protectingthe
environment harder.

NIGEL FARAGE UKIP leader

IT'S a damning indictment ofdecades of failed policies. The rises will have a
devastating im-pact on infrastructure and culture.

DAMIAN GREEN

Shadow immigration minister THIS shows how irresponsible Alan Johnson was when
he said he did not lie awake worrying about a population of 70 million. The
failure of Labour to control immigration has left us in this difficult position.
Conservatives would introduce a limit on the numbers allowed to come here to
work as well as other measures.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

HERE WE GROW;
POPULATION 71M BY 2033..TWO-THIRDS CAUSED BY IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 371 words


BRITAIN'S population is set to grow at the fastest rate in a century... with
two-thirds of the total number a result of immigration.

In just 24 years the nation will increase by 10 million to 71million, the Office
for National Statistics says.

That's less than half the time it took to go from 50 to 60 million between 1948
and 2005. Statisticians are now checking to see if the rise is the fastest ever
recorded.

Every year, 425,000 more people will be living here, the equivalent of a city
such as Bristol. The new figures predict 180,000 of these will be immigrants.
And when the immigrant baby boom is taken into account, migration will account
for two thirds of population growth.

But new arrivals are 10,000 a year fewer than projected two years ago.

Immigration minister Phil Woolas said this was because the Government's points
system was working.

The figures also suggest the population will also be a lot older, with three
million over-85s - more than twice the current number. The number of
centenarians is projected to increase seven fold to 80,000.

Earlier this year, Home Secretary Alan Johnson said he "did not lie awake at
night" worrying about the population hitting 70 million.

PHIL WOOLAS

Immigration minister

TODAY'S projections show population growth is starting to slow. The impact of
reforms we have made to immigration is working. Last year saw a 44% fall in net
migration and we expect that to be reflected in future projections. Our new
pointsbased system is giving greater control on those coming here to work or
study.

PETER MADDEN

Forum for the Future sustainable development charity

IT puts greater pressure on public services, increases competition for housing
and makes protecting the environment harder.

NIGEL FARAGE UKIP leader

IT'S a damning indictment ofdecades of failed policies. The rises will have a
devastating im-pact on infrastructure and culture.

DAMIAN GREEN

Shadow immigration minister

THIS shows how irresponsible Alan Johnson was when he said he did not lie awake
worrying about a population of 70 million. The failure of Labour to control
immigration has left us in this difficult position. Conservatives would
introduce a limit on the numbers allowed to come here to work as well as other
measures.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                 Scots Edition

HERE WE GROW;
POPULATION 71M BY 2033..TWO-THIRDS CAUSED BY IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 364 words


BRITAIN'S population is set to grow at the fastest rate in a century... with
two-thirds of the total number a result of immigration.

In just 24 years the nation will increase by 10million to 71million, the Office
for National Statistics says.

That's less than half the time it took to go from 50 to 60million between 1948
and 2005.

Every year, 425,000 more people will be living here, the equivalent of a city
such as Bristol. The new figures predict 180,000 of these will be immigrants.
And when the immigrant baby boom is taken into account, migration will account
for two thirds of population growth.

Scotland's population is set to hit its highest level ever by 2012 - topping the
1974 record of 5.25million. Experts predict it will reach 5.54million by 2033.

But new arrivals are 10,000 a year fewer than projected two years ago.

Immigration minister Phil Woolas said this was because the Government's points
system was working.

The figures also suggest the population will be a lot older, with three million
over-85s - more than twice the current number.

The number of centenarians in the UK is projected to increase seven fold to
80,000 by 2033.

PHIL WOOLAS

Immigration minister

TODAY'S projections show population growth is starting to slow. The impact of
reforms we have made to immigration is working. Last year saw a 44% fall in net
migration and we expect that to be reflected in future projections. Our new
pointsbased system is giving greater control on those coming here to work or
study.

PETER MADDEN

Forum for the Future sustainable development charity

IT puts greater pressure on public services, increases competition for housing
and makes protecting the environment harder.

NIGEL FARAGE UKIP leader

IT'S a damning indictment of decades of failed policies. The rises will have a
devastating im-pact on infrastructure and culture.

DAMIAN GREEN

Shadow immigration minister

THIS shows how irresponsible Alan Johnson was when he said he did not lie awake
worrying about a population of 70 million. The failure of Labour to control
immigration has left us in this difficult position. Conservatives would
introduce a limit on the numbers allowed to come here to work as well as other
measures.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

HERE WE GROW;
POPULATION 71M BY 2033..TWO-THIRDS CAUSED BY IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 360 words


THE UK population will grow at the fastest rate in a century, with two-thirds of
the total a result of immigration.

In just 24 years the nation will increase by 10 million to 71million, the Office
for National Statistics says.

That's less than half the time it took to go from 50 to 60 million between 1948
and 2005. Statisticians are now checking to see if the rise is the fastest ever
recorded.

Northern Ireland's population will get bigger and older, with predictions that
the population is to rise by 4% over five years.

Figures released yesterday by the Statistics and Research Agency revealed the
number of pensioners is also on the rise, with 11% by 2014 and a 40% more in the
next 15.

At the moment there are 296,000 at current pensionable age but that is set to
increase to 416,000 by 2023 - an increase of 41 %.

In Britain, when the immigrant baby boom is taken into account, migration will
account for two thirds of population growth.

But new arrivals are 10,000 a year fewer than projected two years ago.

Immigration minister Phil Woolas said this was because the Government's points
system for entry was working.

PHIL WOOLAS

Immigration minister

TODAY'S projections show population growth is starting to slow. The impact of
reforms we have made to immigration is working. Last year saw a 44% fall in net
migration and we expect that to be reflected in future projections. Our new
pointsbased system is giving greater control on those coming here to work or
study.

PETER MADDEN

Forum for the Future sustainable development charity

IT puts greater pressure on public services, increases competition for housing
and makes protecting the environment harder.

NIGEL FARAGE UKIP leader

IT'S a damning indictment of decades of failed policies. The rises will have a
devastating im-pact on infrastructure and culture.

DAMIAN GREEN

Shadow immigration minister

THIS shows how irresponsible Alan Johnson was when he said he did not lie awake
worrying about a population of 70 million. The failure of Labour to control
immigration has left us in this difficult position. Conservatives would
introduce a limit on the numbers allowed to come here to work as well as other
measures.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 22, 2009 Thursday 4:09 PM GMT

The BBC is right for once - the BNP cannot be banned from the airwaves

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 531 words


It's not often I get the chance to say this, so here goes. The BBC is absolutely
right. No one can seriously disagree with a word of Mark Thompson's apologia in
today's Guardian, in which he explains the Corporation's decision to allow a BNP
politician on Question Time.

Oceans of ink have been spilt on this issue by columnists who fall into three
broad camps: those who say "We shouldn't accord the BNP any respectability when
they refuse to accord full dignity to all our citizens"; those who say "The best
way to defeat the BNP is to expose them to calm, rational arguments"; and those
who say "The BNP exist because the other parties seem remote and self-serving".

All three propositions can be reasonably advanced; all three are irrelevant.
This isn't about the BNP. It's about the BBC's duty of impartiality. As the
Director-General argues: "It is a straightforward matter of fact that, with some
6% of the vote and the election of two MEPs in this spring's European elections
- and with some success in local elections as well - the BNP has demonstrated a
level of support that would normally lead to an occasional invitation to join
the panel on Question Time."

Think, those of you who demand a ban, what you are asking for. You want the BBC
to over-rule the electorate. And on the basis of what? What would be the BBC's
mandate to make qualitative judgments of this kind?

On occasion, the Beeb has indeed allowed its partiality (unconscious partiality,
to be sure, but partiality none the less) to override its obligation to treat
all parties evenly. At the recent Norwich North by-election, for example, it
gave the Greens equal status with the big three, while ignoring the U K
Independence Party, which had done far better in recent elections and which,
despite the BBC's best efforts, handsomely beat the Greens on the day. The BBC
attracted widespread criticism on that occasion, including from this blog; so it
is only fair to praise the Corporation now.

Incidentally, I can't help noticing that some of those who are loudest in their
denunciations of the BBC - Peter Hain, for example - were themselves happy to
give the BNP disproportionate publicity in the run-up to the European elections.
It was precisely this kind of self-righteousness that allowed the BNP to do so
well (see here).

If only the other parties would stop swooning like Victorian matrons at the very
mention of the BNP, that party would lose its chief electoral asset, namely the
belief that a vote for radical socialism is the best way to signal your contempt
for the entire political class. Let the BNP stand on the basis of its
hate-filled, atavistic, far-Left platform (yes, far-Left: see here), and the
party will soon drop back to the two per cent that represents its real level of
support.

This will require some Labour types to stop using the BNP as a device to flaunt
their anti-fascist credentials ("See how nice I am? I hate those evil racists
even more than he does! He wants them banned from the BBC? I want them banned
from contesting elections!" etc) Chaps, we believe you. You really don't have to
keep repeating yourselves. Believe me: in the current climate, it's doing more
harm than good.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 22, 2009 Thursday 11:40 AM GMT

Forget Nick Griffin on Question Time: the BNP won't last

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 630 words


Pardon me for not joining in the hysteria about Nick Griffin being on Question
Time, but what is everyone worried about? Griffin is only a cry for help from a
disenfranchised, despised post-working working class, a group dumped and
betrayed by a Labour Party who see them as weaker players in their version of
Victim Top Trumps.

The Twitterati - and if you want to see the most stupid collection of things
ever written by anyone, ever, type "BNP" into Twitter - and the Guardian miss
the issue. Sunny Hundal has a piece here that focuses almost entirely on
Griffin's neo-Nazi past, but that's beside the point - most of the million or so
people who voted for the BNP know of their dark side, and disapprove, but are
prepared to overlook it (in the same way the Guardian conveniently overlooks the
rampant anti-Semitism, homophobia and weirdo misogyny of certain Muslim
groups).Griffin is a one-trick pony, but his trick, that immigration is way
above optimum levels, is pretty good.

But the horrified "not in my name" brigade have no need to fear,for the BNP will
not last - and here's why.

It's inevitable, as long as the demographic revolution continues, that an
anti-immigration party will become a major force in British politics, so long as
the Conservative party refuses to recognise that mass immigration brings more
downsides than benefits - but it's far more likely to be successful coming from
the centre-Right rather than the extremes of Left and Right.

It's inevitable, and it may happen sooner than we think. Yesterday I spoke to
Lord Pearson, the UKIP life peer responsible for inviting Geert Wilders to
London, and favourite to become the next leader of the party. Under Nigel Farage
the party has continued to campaign almost entirely on the issue of Europe, but
Lord Pearson told me that, if elected, he will make the threat of radical Islam
the major focus.

For too long UKIP, despite having many sensible ideas, has been seen as a
one-issue protest vote. They do well at the Euro elections, and then disappear
again for five years, because in everyday life Europe is not a major problem for
most of us - our misery is caused by crime, thuggery, immigration, corrupting
welfare, expensive and unreliable transport, violent schools, unaffordable
houses, high taxes and overbearing government.

And yet on a whole range of issues the three major parties are in consensus, and
wildly out of touch with public opinion, none more so than on the subject of
immigration and the resulting problem of Islamisation. Being concerned about
this doesn't make you a Nazi or a racist - that only Nazis and racists
vigorously campaign against a revolutionary change in our way of life is due to
the cowardice of our political culture and the undemocratic nature of our system
(and perhaps the British tendency to only wake up to a problem at the 11th
hour).

I'd like to believe that David Cameron will break the consensus, but I can't -
most of the senior Tories have already been taken by the bodysnatchers, a fact
we were reminded of when DC suggested they might have women-only shortlists.
[Groan.]

Lord Pearson also plans to introduce Swiss-style referenda on major issues,
subject to a million signatures, and to limit Parliament's remit only to
national affairs (so foxhunting, for example, would be decided by local
assemblies and local referenda). And he would also reduce the number of MPs to
250. What's not to like?

If he is chosen as leader, then there would be really no need to worry about the
BNP, most of whose non-racist voters would now have the choice of a non-racist
party that takes immigration seriously. That, not undemocratic and legally
dubious harassment by a load of twits outside BBC headquarters, will stop Nick
Griffin from ever appearing on Question Time again.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A catholic approach to weirdos is fine with me

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 726 words


I'm hugely in favour of this Roman Catholic raid on Church of England clergy and
laity. It's always best if people emerge in their true colours, and I am (for
instance) forever trying to persuade foaming-at-the-mouth Europhobes that they
really ought to leave the Conservative Party and join Ukip.

Were I an Anglican I would feel spiritually uncomfortable with anyone who
passionately believed that God hated the idea of women priests; and the more
reactionaries Pope Benedict can gather around himself and his Church, the faster
the whole thing will sink under the weight of its own weirdness.

There's a world of difference between those who, born and bred in a religion,
accept its weirder precepts with an embarrassed shrug, and change the subject,
and those whose enthusiasm for the weirder precepts so takes them over that they
feel driven by conscience to abandon one Church for another.

Beware the zeal of the converts. "As a Papist-in-the-pew," a Catholic friend of
a friend remarked to her yesterday, "I do hope we won't now face an influx of
misogynistic homophobes who like dressing up."

Londoners walk it

Amazing - the discovery, reported in yesterday's Times, that there's an historic
reason why those who want to stand still on London Underground escalators are
supposed to confound the rules of the road and stand on the right. This
fascinates me, not least because I've been pondering escalator behaviour for
years. Londoners might be surprised to know that walking up a moving escalator
is, in fact, in most places and at most times, exceptional behaviour: our
metropolis, where for many it's the norm, is unusual. Unless a fair proportion
of the public are insistent on keeping the "passing lane" moving freely by
walking, then the option is quickly lost because everybody starts standing all
over the place, and one knot of recalcitrants fouls up the whole flow.

Manchester thinks itself a world city, but on the escalator at Piccadilly
station they stand; as they do in the West End of London at Bond Street Tube
station, which emerges into a shopping mall. Shoppers are not entirely serious
people. People in hats almost never walk; and off-peak walking is less common.
In neither Barcelona nor Madrid do people walk much, if at all, and it's not
often seen on the Continent.

Walker-quotient is a measure of the seriousness of an urban population and the
importance of a city. The proportion of the travelling public who don't think
they have the time to stand around is a key indicator of the extent to which a
place is peopled with serious players. On this measure - both within the United
Kingdom and as compared with abroad - London wins hands-down.

Promises, promises

Re-reading party leaders' conference speeches almost before the prose has gone
cold, you do encounter the most appalling tosh. Is it all, I ask myself,
meaningless? Well, I've combed through the Prime Minister's Brighton speech and
extracted 20 passages containing clear undertakings, many of an immediate
nature. Gordon Brown promised:

A ban on unwise bankers' bonuses and disqualification of negligent directors

A new £1bn national investment corporation

Low carbon zones designated around the regions

10,000 extra skilled internships

10,000 extra green jobs partnered with green organisations

A fiscal responsibility act

Education/training for all until the age of 18

A patient's right to see GPs at evenings or weekends

Placement of 1

and 17-year-old parents in a network of supervised homes

Intervention in "every one" of Britain's "50,000 most chaotic families"

A requirement that parents pay for children's broken ASBOs

Local powers to ban 24-hour drinking

Making pubs pay for local nuisance

A citizen's right to timely responses from the police

Action squads in council estates before Christmas

A law obliging all British governments to spend 0.17 per cent of GDP on overseas
aid

Patients' rights to one-week cancer-screening results

Free personal care at home to the neediest elderly

A power for constituents to sack offending MPs

Removal of hereditaries from the Lords within a year

Already argument rages about Home Office moves to dilute, rather than beef up,
bans on 24-hour drinking, while Downing Street insists new, different
legislation is planned. Verdict? A tangle. My target? At least a third of them
(7) in a tangle or abandoned by Christmas, One down, 6to go. More news later.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Why I will debate Griffin: If the BBC will give him a
platform, then the Lib Dems must be there to defend opposing values

BYLINE: Chris Hughes

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 547 words


Nick Griffin of the BNP has been gagging to appear on Question Time because it
is a test of his continental-style strategy of normalising and legitimising the
extreme right. On the model of the Italian National Alliance, Jean-Marie Le
Pen's Front National and Pim Fortuyn in the Netherlands, Griffin is attempting
to yank his party into greater acceptability and live down its Mosleyite roots
of confrontation and street violence. Since the BNP's objectives have not
changed - and they remain racist - that is a very good reason to be sceptical
about the BBC's decision to give him a platform.

However, the issue is one of thresholds. The corporation has judged that two
MEPs in a nationwide election entitles the BNP to a voice on Question Time, just
as previously a similar threshold elevated Ukip and the Greens. The BBC's duty
of impartiality is too important to have broadcasting executives decide that
some opinions are acceptable and others are not - providing of course that those
opinions are within the law (notably in avoiding incitement to racial hatred or
violence). Therefore I do not criticise the BBC for making the invitation, even
though I am acutely aware that extending such democratic rights to a party that
does not respect them is paradoxical.

Peter Hain, the Welsh secretary, argues that the BNP should be excluded because
it admitted last week, in the court case brought by the Equality and Human
Rights Commission, that its constitution was in breach of the law by
discriminating against black and Asian people who might want to join.

But Griffin has already said that he will amend the constitution, and this was
anyway a bizarre technicality since I cannot imagine many black or Asian people
wanting to join an organisation arguing for them to leave the country. Refusal
of Griffin on these grounds would look like gerrymandering, and would play into
precisely the "us against the establishment" pose that Griffin likes to affect.

Once the BBC had decided to invite Griffin on the programme, the ball was in the
court of the democratic parties. Nick Clegg and I thought long and hard about
the issue. Should we signify acceptability for Griffin by appearing alongside
him? Would that merely make him seem mainstream? These are real risks. However,
once the BBC had extended the invitation, we concluded that it would be perverse
to exclude the liberal political tradition that is most diametrically opposed to
the authoritarian and nationalist views of the BNP. We had to take Griffin on.

The issue here is different to the old "no platform" policy. I would not appear
at a meeting organised by the BNP, and nor would I extend an invitation to
members of the party. It is no part of the business of an elected liberal to
drum up larger audiences for our most reviled opponents. They are welcome to
their freedom of speech, but they can choose their own street corner and their
own soapbox without my help.

But the BBC has decided to invite Griffin, and I fear that Thursday night's
excitement would not have been called off just because the Liberal Democrats
decided not to participate. Better, surely, to champion the great British values
of moderation and tolerance rather than give bigotry the only say.

Chris Huhne is the Liberal Democrat's Home Office spokesman

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Tories head for 100 majority as Brown fails to close gap: Cameron on course for
100 majority - poll

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 614 words


The divide between politicians and the public has widened after a stalemate
conference season and the return of the expenses scandal, according to a
Guardian/ICM poll published today. It shows that the conferences of all three
main parties put off more potential voters than they attracted - and a big
majority of people think MPs are being penalised fairly for past expenses
claims.

The Conservatives retain the upper hand with a 17-point lead over Labour,
unchanged since the September pre-conference Guardian/ICM poll. The opposition
now has a record lead on economic competence and a clear advantage over Labour
on the handling of expenses. On today's results, David Cameron could expect a
parliamentary majority of more than 100, with Labour holding on to fewer than
200 seats.

Conservative support is up one point since last month, to 44%. That is the
highest in the Guardian series since January, although it is one point lower
than in an ICM poll conducted for another newspaper earlier this month, which
found a 19-point lead. Labour support, also up one to 27%, has climbed slightly
from recent lows. But the party will be disappointed that its rating remains
below 30%, in contrast to results from two recent polls carried out using
different methodologies.

The Liberal Democrats seem to have lost out during the party conference season,
down one point to 18%, their lowest score in the Guardian/ICM series since June.

Support for smaller parties has continued to fall back since the European
election campaign, down one point to a total of 11%, although there are signs
that publicity about the British National party may have pushed up support, to
3%. Ukip is also on 3%, with the Greens on 2%.

Few voters show sympathy for MPs complaining about having to repay past
expenses. Only 13% think MPs have been unfairly treated by Sir Thomas Legg,
whose inquiry has warned many MPs about excessive bills for things such as
cleaning and gardening. A huge 81% think Legg has acted fairly.

Such a big majority suggests that party leaders have caught the public mood by
telling their MPs to accept Legg's demands. But worryingly for Labour, voters
are more impressed with Cameron and Nick Clegg's handling of the issue than with
Gordon Brown's. That suggests Labour may be the main loser from the crisis,
despite the fact that many Tory MPs have also been criticised over their
expenses claims. Overall, 51% think Cameron has handled expenses well, against
38% who say he has done badly, a net 13-point advantage. More people also think
the Liberal Democrats have done well over expenses, 46%, than badly, 29% - a
17-point advantage.

By contrast, only 24% think Brown has handled expenses well, against 66% who say
badly, a deficit of 42 points. The prime minister appears to be taking the blame
for a scandal he says is not of his making. Among Labour voters, 42% think Brown
has done well, against 49% who say badly. Among Conservatives 78% say Cameron
has done well, against 19% who say badly. Today's poll also finds that the
autumn conference season left voters unimpressed. Overall, voters say every
conference left them less likely to support one of the main three parties.

But Labour, where people who say they are less likely outnumber those who say
they are more likely by 42 points, appears to have come off worst. The
Conservative net deficit is four points, and the Lib Dem deficit 23 points.

* ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1002 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 16-18 October 2009. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1515 words


WHY I WOULDN'T GO ON QUESTION TIME WITH THE UNSAVOURY NICK GRIFFIN

THE CALL came early last week. Would I like to be on the same Question Time
panel as the BNP leader Nick Griffin? It took me all of five seconds to say:
thanks, but no thanks. There's no upside.

Best case, you monster him and come across as a bully. Worst case, he challenges
you to disagree with some of his views, perhaps on something as straightforward
as demanding a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, and you're immediately tarred as
guilty by association.

Once you've said he's a racist, where else is there to go?

The BBC haven't invited Griffin on to the show so that he can congratulate Jack
Straw on his stand against the Muslim veil, have a reasoned debate with the
Tories' Baroness Warsi about the level of capital gains tax on small business or
confront Chris Huhne over his enthusiasm for European integration.

Actually, if this were a special EU edition of Question Time, there might be
some justification for including Griffin. One million people voted BNP in the
European elections and the party has two MEPs.

But the BNP isn't a serious force at Westminster, nor is it likely to have any
MPs after the next General Election. So the BBC is under no obligation to give
Griffin a platform.

We are told the programme offers an opportunity to expose the BNP. To whom?

The party trawls for support among white working class voters, those the
advertisers refer to as C2DEs. How many of them do you imagine watch something
as cerebral as Question Time?

'Oi, Doris. I never realised the BNP were racists. I'll be voting LibDem in
future.'

If they're hoping that Griffin will come across as the reincarnation of Adolf
Hitler, they are going to be sorely disappointed. He won't rise to the bait.

I speak from experience. Back when I had a show on Sky TV, my producer thought
it would be a good idea to invite Griffin to appear.

After all, we'd had the Islamist headbanger Omar Bakri on the programme a couple
of weeks earlier, so why not?

Interviewing the shifty and unsavoury Griffin was like trying to nail jelly to a
wall. We went through his 'manifesto' point by point. There was little in it
which couldn't have been espoused by any of the main parties.

His law and order policies, for instance, were straight out of the David
Blunkett song book. He was against the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, just like
the Liberals. The Tories and UKIP were both promising to repatriate powers from
Brussels.

I put it to Griffin that what set the BNP apart was the large elephant not in
the manifesto, namely that it is the 'Wogs Out' party.

Even when I confronted him with the incontrovertible evidence in chapter and
verse, he shrugged and shuffled, mouthed a few platitudes and that was about it.
I may have pressed him again on the overtly racist appeal of the BNP, but it
didn't achieve anything.

Afterwards, I felt rather grubby. On another occasion we featured a man who'd
been forced out of his job as an engine driver because the union objected to his
BNP membership.

The researchers had also invited an excitable teenage 'cultural commentator'
from one of the unpopular papers by way of balance. He managed to work himself
up into such an hysterical, nasal lather of sweaty indignation -- squealing like
Ned Beatty in Deliverance -- that he succeeded only in making the BNP man seem
reasonable.

That's the danger on Thursday. If the rest of the panel and the handpicked
members of the audience gang up on Griffin, he'll lap it up.

AND IT'S difficult to maintain a crescendo of outrage for a whole hour. What
happens, for instance, when Griffin reminds Straw that it's Gordon Brown banging
the 'British Jobs for British Workers' drum and a Labour government now boasting
about repatriating illegal immigrants?

Don't forget, even though he leads a party of little more than a few skinheads
above a kebab shop, Griffin is a politician. He can lie, obfuscate and dissemble
with the best of them.

That's what politicians do.

As Melanie Phillips reiterated yesterday, Griffin's goons have been able to
goose-step their way on to territory vacated by mainstream politicians, who
collectively regard the patriotic white working class as bigoted peasants and
smear anyone who raises genuine concerns about immigration, however moderately,
as a 'racist'.

The Left, in particular, raise the BNP bogeyman at every available opportunity,
allowing themselves to flaunt their own 'goodness'. If the BNP didn't exist,
Labour would have to invent them.

Look, I don't have any real objection to sharing a platform with political
fanatics. Last time, it was Polly Toynbee.

In fact, I'm due on Question Time in November. But on Thursday, I'm glad to be
sitting it out.

There's no upside, except possibly for Griffin, which is as good a reason as any
for steering well clear.

WE'RE ALL DOOMED? I DON'T THINK SO

WITH no apparent irony, Gordon Brown insists we have just 50 days to save the
world from global warming.

Politicians do love their dramatic, artificial deadlines. Remember '24 hours to
save the NHS'?

The 50 days in question is the run-up to the Copenhagen climate carnival.
Apparently if we don't sign up to the new treaty, which will impose arbitrary
and draconian restrictions on carbon emissions, the Earth is doomed. According
to Gordon, thousands of people in Britain will die from floods, droughts and
heatwaves.

No, they won't. My hunch, considering the world has actually got colder this
century, is that never mind 50 days, the climate in 50 years will be pretty much
the same as it is today.

All Copenhagen will achieve is a wordy communique, which will be interpreted in
Britain as yet another excuse for politicians to extend their power, their
patronage and the punishment culture. It will mean higher taxes and higher
prices for just about everything.

Meanwhile, China and India will go on pumping out gases like there's no
tomorrow.

Which there will be, regardless of the selfaggrandising, apocalyptic rhetoric.

HEY DIDDLE DIDDLE, THEY ARE ALL ON THE FIDDLE

A BOLIVIAN man living illegally in Britain has won his appeal against
deportation on the grounds that he has a cat.

Because he jointly owns the moggy with his girlfriend, this was accepted by a
tribunal as sufficient evidence that he is in a stable relationship and fully
settled in this country.

Therefore sending him home would breach his right to a 'private and family
life'. Granting him indefinite leave to remain, Judge Judith Gleeson even joked
that the cat 'need no longer fear having to adapt to Bolivian mice'.

We're not even allowed to know the name of the Bolivian -- or the cat. Both have
been blacked out of court papers to protect their privacy.

Needless to say, the Borders Agency and the Home Office are tearing their hair
out. How can we ever tackle illegal immigration in the face of such judicial
stupidity?

Where does the right to a family life come into this case? The Bolivian and his
girlfriend are not married and there are no dependent children.

If the couple are determined to have a family life, they can have one in
Bolivia.

Surely if joint ownership of a cat has to be taken into consideration, his
application was bereft of all other merit.

Does this new loophole apply solely to cats, or can other pets be taken into
consideration?

If so, the courts will soon be clogged with other illegals appealing against
deportation because they have budgies or gerbils.

The case comes in a week in which the same court refused to deport 50 foreign
criminals, including killers and sex offenders, because it might infringe their
human rights.

Sir Andrew Green, from Migrationwatch, said: 'I despair. This is symptomatic of
the attitude held by many members of the judiciary, in complete disregard for
the impact of such decisions on the future of our community.

'Drawing pets into the consideration of such important issues is so utterly
absurd that you could not make it up.'

That could have been me speaking.

FORGIVE me, I know I really should get out more, but who is Stephen Gately?

NURSERY rhymes are being rewritten by the BBC to give them a happy ending and
bring them up to date with modern mores.

No doubt these days Old Mother Hubbard goes to the cupboard and instead of
finding it bare, it's groaning with healthy options and five-a-day vegetables.
The three blind mice all have laser surgery to give them perfect vision and
Georgie Porgie kisses the girls and is put on the sex offenders' register.

It's all gone Humpty Dumpty.

RECYCLED BLUES

THEY say no good deed goes unpunished. After my column complimenting Enfield
Council on the courteous and efficient way they handled my call about the
recycling not being collected, I have been inundated with complaints from other
residents less than gruntled with the refuse service.

Give me a break, please. I'm a columnist, not an ombudsman.

Don't call me, call the Town Hall. You may be pleasantly surprised.

THE health fascists never give up. They're now targeting-women who relax with a
glass of wine after a hard day juggling work and family, telling them they're
all going to die of liver disease.

It's enough to drive you to drink.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Road signs to carry metric;
distances

BYLINE: Harry Wallop Consumer Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 272  words


ROAD signs should give metric measurements as well as imperial, the Department
for Transport has suggested.

Signs for the width or height of bridges and the width of contra-flows should
use metric measurements alongside the imperial figures, a consultation paper has
proposed.

As many as 12 per cent of all crashes and accidents at bridges were caused by
foreign drivers, according to the department. Network Rail has expressed
exasperation at the number of bridges that are damaged by lorries that fail to
clear them.

"Using the imperial sign on its own will no longer be permitted,'' the
consultation paper said. The ruling would come into force in four years' time.

The UK Metric Association welcomed the proposal but said the department had
missed an opportunity to save costs and make the signs purely metric. "I think
it is a real shame that they have not followed this to its logical conclusion,''
said Robin Paice, the association's chairman.

The proposals angered some supporters of imperial measurement. Derek Clark, a
Ukip MEP, told Radio 4's Today programme: "I'm not against a metric equivalent
alongside in smaller characters, but it's the thin end of the wedge.''

The transport department insisted that the proposal was "absolutely not the thin
end of the wedge'' and said there were no plans to use kilometres, rather than
miles, on distance signs. "This is a specific solution to a specific problem,''
a spokesman said.

The metric association said the conversion of signs was intended as part of
metrication, which began in 1965 and should have been completed by 1973, but it
was put on hold in 1970 and never restarted.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UK road signs to go metric

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 223  words


METRIC signs are to be placed on Britain's roads at a cost of at least GBP
3million to end the chaos caused by foreign drivers.

Department for Transport officials plan to replace every sign on bridges,
tunnels and contraflows so they show width and height in metres.

The changes are expected to take four years. But supporters of the traditional
imperial system said they were concerned it would mean that feet, inches and
miles were eventually outlawed.

Shadow Transport Secretary Theresa Villiers said: "This must not be used as
backdoor metrification.

Imperial measurements have served this country well for hundreds of years."

UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clark said: "I'm not against a metric equivalent
alongside in smaller characters. But it's the thin end of the wedge."

Brian Gregory, from the Association of British Drivers, admitted drivers could
be confused by having two sets of measures but said the move was "inevitable" in
"an open European market".

The plans are aimed at halting the damage done by foreign drivers confused by
signs in feet and inches.

Figures from the DfT show that 12 per cent of crashes and accidents at bridges
are caused by foreign drivers, usually when huge lorries try to squeeze through
narrow gaps.

The DfT insisted last night there were no plans to use kilometres, rather than
miles, on distance signs.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Foreign drivers 'hit bridges'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Party conferences turned off voters

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 661 words

ABSTRACT

· Labour suffers most as three main parties fail to attract supporters,
Guardian/ICM poll reveals · Tories retain 17-point lead and huge majority say
MPs being fairly penalised over expense claims

FULL TEXT

The divide between politicians and the public has widened after a stalemate
conference season and the return of the expenses scandal, according to a
Guardian/ICM poll published today. It shows that the conferences of all three
main parties put off more potential voters than they attracted - and a massive
majority of people think MPs are being penalised fairly for past expenses
claims.

The Conservatives retain the upper hand with a 17-point lead over Labour,
unchanged since the September pre-conference Guardian/ICM poll. The opposition
now has a record lead on economic competence and a clear advantage over Labour
on the handling of expenses.

On today's results, David Cameron could expect a majority of more than 100, with
Labour holding on to fewer than 200 seats.

Conservative support is up one point since last month, to 44%. That is the
highest in the Guardian series since January, although it is one point lower
than in an ICM poll conducted for another newspaper earlier this month, which
found a 19-point lead.

Labour support, also up one to 27%, has climbed slightly from recent lows. But
the party will be disappointed that its rating remains below 30%, in contrast to
results from two recent polls carried out using different methodologies.

The Liberal Democrats seem to have lost out during the party conference season,
down one point to 18%, their lowest score in the Guardian/ICM series since June.

Support for smaller parties has continued to fall back since the European
election campaign, down one point to a total of 11%. There are signs that
publicity about the British National party may have pushed up support, to 3%.
Ukip is also on 3%, with the Greens on 2%.

Few voters show sympathy for MPs complaining about having to repay past
expenses. Only 13% think MPs have been unfairly treated by Sir Thomas Legg,
whose inquiry has warned many MPs about excessive bills for things such as
cleaning and gardening. A massive 81% think Legg has acted fairly.

Such a big majority suggests that party leaders have caught the public mood by
telling their MPs to accept Legg's demands. But worryingly for Labour, voters
are more impressed with Cameron and Nick Clegg's handling of the issue than with
Gordon Brown's.

That suggests Labour may be the main loser from the crisis, despite the fact
that many Tory MPs have also been criticised over their expenses claims.

Overall, 51% think Cameron has handled expenses well, against 38% who say he has
done badly, a net 13-point advantage.

More people also think the Liberal Democrats have done well over expenses, 46%,
than badly, 29% - a 17-point advantage.

By contrast, only 24% think Brown has handled expenses well, against 66% who say
badly, a deficit of 42 points. The prime minister appears to be taking the blame
for a scandal he says is not of his making.

Tory supporters are also much more likely than Labour's to back their party over
the issue. Among Labour voters, 42% think Brown has done well, against 49% who
say badly. Among Conservatives 78% say Cameron has done well, against 19% who
say badly.

Today's poll also finds that the autumn conference season left voters
unimpressed. Overall, voters say every conference left them less likely to
support one of the main three parties.

But Labour, where people who say they are less likely outnumber those who say
they are more likely by 42 points, appears to have come off worst. The
Conservative net deficit is four points, and the Lib Dem deficit 23 points.

· ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1002 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 16-18 October 2009. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

NUMBERS OF THE DAY

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 29 words


93.6%

The percentage of trains in Britain that were on time last month, according to
Network rail

£363,697

The size of an illegal donation that UKIP are being forced to pay back

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 590 words


Wheeler offers a ray of sunshine for Ukip

There was not, Pandora suspects, the cheeriest of moods among Ukip bean counters
yesterday, after the Court of Appeal declared nearly £350,000-worth of donations
to the party illegal.

The ruling follows the finding that retired bookmaker Alan Bown had given cash
and services to the Eurosceptic group despite not being listed on the electoral
roll.

Still, we hear news of one possible ray of sunshine - in the form of fellow
party donor Stuart Wheeler.

The spread-betting squillionaire controversially defected to the party this
spring after a long-winded falling out with the Conservatives, to whom he had
donated more than £5m. At the time he blamed the rift on the "dinosaur
Europhiles" on the Tory front bench.

Now Wheeler tells us that - if Nigel Farage's party are, as looks likely, forced
to forfeit the funds - he would be likely to step up and offer some replacement.

"Not the whole sum of course - that would be rather a lot!" explains Wheeler.
"But I might well help out. Funnily enough, I donated again in the past 10 days.
I'm sure some other donors would too. I'm very disappointed with the ruling."

Peston comes clean over his success

The BBC's shrinking violet business editor Robert Peston took to the stage
yesterday for a grilling by Lib Dem favourite Vince Cable as part of Cancer
Research UK's Turn the Tables event. Pandora readers were given the chance to
enter questions, of which the following was chosen: "Which best describes your
delivery style: 'ragged and querulous', 'strangulated' or 'excruciatingly hard
to listen to'?" Peston's reply? "All of the above. That's what got me to where I
am today." Thanks to Richard Kowenicki for that interrogative gem.

Retail therapy for the political class

Take a deep breath, and try to contain your excitement: the Tories have launched
their online store! Whether it will experience the same site-crashing rush as,
say, Agent Provocateur post-Kate Moss campaign remains to be seen, but we're
already picking out our shopping list. Get you very own partisan tie for just
£16. Or how about a dinky umbrella, tastefully embellished with meteorological
print - a snip at £35? Or, Pandora's personal favourite, a cotton babygrow
emblazoned with the words "future Prime Minister". Chic!

Olympic mayor cosies up to the Governator

Hitherto the preserve of the Conservative Party, California's "Governator"
appears to be the object of enthusiastic courting from the other side.

We hear that Arnold Schwarzenegger has been invited by the Labour Party's Sir
Robin Wales, Mayor of Newham, to attend a series of Olympic events in the East
London borough.

"We invited him because he used to train in the area," explained a spokesman for
the Mayor. Schwarzenegger was known to pump iron at Wag Bennett's Gym in nearby
Forest Gate.

Whether Boris Johnson will follow suit is an open question; relations between
the two have been frosty ever since Arnie remarked on Bozza's "fumbling" ways.

Mum of the Year gets conservative

It's that time again: the Bounty Celebrity Mum of the Year awards, an annual
opportunity to give unfathomable gongs to illogical winners (notably Kerry
Katona, two-time title holder). This year the irreproachable Sarah Brown has
been dropped from the nominations, only to be replaced with her Conservative
counterpart Samantha Cameron. Still, we doubt she'll be too distressed; other
nominees read like a roll call of the arbitrary. Kate Moss, Katie Price and Geri
Halliwell are currently fighting it out as favourites.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Signs to go metric

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 77 words


BRITISH road signs could soon go metric - to stop foreign drivers crashing.

One in ten lorries which hit low bridges involve EU truckers confused by feet
and inches. Transport chiefs are in talks about displaying height warnings in
both imperial and metric - and even speed limits in kilometres as well as miles.
Robin Paice, of the UK Metric Association, said: "It's common sense."

But UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clarke warned: "It's the thin end of the
wedge."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Signs to go metric

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 90 words


BRITISH road signs could soon go metric - to stop foreign drivers crashing.

One in ten lorries which hit low bridges involve EU truckers confused by feet
and inches. Transport chiefs are in talks about displaying height warnings in
both imperial and metric - and even speed limits in kilometres as well as miles.
Robin Paice, of the UK Metric Association, said: "It's common sense. It would
also save money by reducing bridge strikes which hold up traffic."

But UK Independence Party MEP Derek Clarke warned: "It's the thin end of the
wedge."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

They did it their way: famous career revivals (and retreats)

BYLINE: Chloe Lambert

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 638 words


Winners

Frank Sinatra

When Sinatra's music career fell into decline in the late 1940s, he reinvented
himself as an actor, winning an Oscar for his turn in From Here to Eternity. In
the 1970s he retired, only to come back again with a successful album and tour.
In 1980 his first album for six years was nominated for six Grammys and included
the much-loved Theme from New York, New York.

LordMandelson

After he was forced to quit the Cabinet not once but twice, no one thought they
would see the day when the Prince of Darkness came back into the light. But
after a shock reappointment by his old enemy Gordon Brown, Lord Mandelson has
managed one of the most

Losers

Robert Kilroy-Silk

His removal from the BBC for a newspaper column headlined "We owe Arabs nothing"
was not enough to deter the MP-turned-TV presenter Kilroy-Silk from fighting to
stay in the spotlight. In 2004 he was elected as an MEP for the UK Independence
Party but stood down just months later after party infighting. Next was the
doomed Veritas attempt, and after that there was only one place to go: I'm a
Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!

Britney Spears A much-hyped performance of her new single at the MTV Video Music
Awards was hoped to be the jump-start that Britney Spears needed. But things
were about to get worse: looking remarkable revivals in British politics. "If I
can come back, we can come back," he told last month's beleagured Labour
conference.

Take That

Sailing on the success of their biggest hit to date, Take That made the shock
announcement that they were splitting just when we couldn't get enough of them.
A fiercely loyal fanbase welcomed them back with open arms ten years later; even
without Robbie Williams, their recent tour sold out in 30 minutes and the album
Beautiful World went straight to No 1.

Mickey Rourke

In the 1980s Rourke was a sex symbol who had been compared to Marlon Brando, but
he soon confused and out of shape, she mimed her way through it, prompting some
to criticise her management for bringing her back too soon. Within months Spears
was sectioned and subsequently lost visitation rights to her children. She has
since enjoyed a more successful return to the pop world.

Michael Barrymore

The Big Brother house has become the last-chance saloon for comeback
celebrities, and this was the venue that Michael Barrymore chose for his return
to the limelight. He was generally well received and finished runner-up, but it
failed to relaunch his career. He was last seen playing Spike Milligan at the
Edinburgh Fringe.

gained a reputation for being unstable and difficult to work with, reportedly
turning down lead roles in films such as Highlander and Rain Man out of spite.
After ten years in the cold, he won critical acclaim and several awards for his
portrayal as a has-been fighter in The Wrestler. "I've been to hell," he has
said. "I'm not going back there."

Lance Armstrong

After having testicular cancer diagnosed at the age of 25, Armstrong was given a
40 per cent chance of survival. Two years later he went into complete remission
and was back on his bike. He went on to win seven Tour de France titles in a row
and set up the Lance Armstrong Foundation for cancer research and support.

Björn Borg dusted off the wooden tennis rackets that had taken him to glory a
decade earlier for his toe-curling return to the court in 1991. He lost his
comeback match, then suffered crushing defeats from low-ranking players with
modern rackets. In 1993, having failed to win a single game, he retired to the
Senior Tour.

The Sex Pistols

The title of the Sex Pistols' 1996 comeback tour, Filthy Lucre, left fans and
critics in little doubt about their reasons for reuniting. They made £1 million
apiece but lost their rock'n'roll credentials - Johnny Rotten was most recently
seen advertising Country Life butter.

Chloe Lambert

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

BYLINE: OUR LEADERS ARE QUEUING TO PROVE THEIR VIRTUE BY DENOUNCING THE VILE
BNP. BUT IT'S THEY WHO ARE TO BLAME FOR ITS RISE

LENGTH: 1274 words


THE MELANIE PHILLIPS COLUMN

THE participation on this Thursday's Question Time of the British National Party
leader Nick Griffin is a priceless publicity coup for his party.

From the commotion this is causing, a casual observer might imagine that Griffin
is the pivotal figure in British political life.

His appearance is being treated by the chattering classes as the biggest
showdown since Attila the Hun's rampage through Gaul was halted by the Roman
general Flavius Aetius in 451AD.

Never has a TV show attracted more feverish attention. Broadcasting executives
and party officials are drawing up and re-drawing battle plans and strategies to
deal with this one-man threat to the body politic. The selection of the other
panellists has been decided around one question alone -- how to contain and
demolish Nick Griffin. The reason for the frenzy is the fear that the
high-profile BBC1 Question Time panel format will enable him to present himself
as a reasonable politician. Alas, despite all the uproar, his opponents have
settled upon the wrong strategy. And the reason they have got it wrong is
precisely why Griffin has made the headway that he has. In a democracy,
politicians from distasteful but lawfully constituted political parties -- and
the BNP is a legal organisation, with two MEPs -- should not have their views
suppressed but taken on and defeated in argument. But to do so, the positions
they take and the source of their appeal have to be honestly acknowledged. And
that is what the political class is getting so badly wrong. For the strategy
being adopted to contain and destroy Griffin is to attack him for being a
racist. Which he is. But that is not the reason for his appeal. Those who
support him do not in the main do so because they are racially prejudiced. It is
because he also opposes mass immigration, Islamisation and the loss of
sovereignty to the EU.

STIGMATISED

These are all legitimate concerns which are widely held by people who fear the
loss of Britain's historic identity -- but which are stigmatised as beyond the
pale by an intelligentsia which considers any such expression of nationalistic
sentiment to be a form of racism.

The BNP really is racist. Its constitution states it is 'wholly opposed to
racial integration' between British and non-European people, and that it wants
to restore 'the overwhelmingly white makeup' of Britain before 1948.

But because legitimate feelings about national identity are also deemed to be
racist, Griffin has been able to present the entire political mainstream as a
conspiracy against the interests of ordinary people.

By cleverly sanitising the BNP message over recent years, he has thus been able
to pose as a victim of political correctness.

Yesterday, he showed his slipperiness in an interview on Sky News in which he
unblinkingly claimed that he now had no problem with 'settled ethnic minorities'
such as Afro-Caribbeans, Sikhs or Hindus, only with 'colonists who want to
change our country into something completely different' -- which is code for
those who want to Islamise Britain and replace its values with Islamic Sharia
law.

EXTREME

Such distinctions should fool no one. The BNP is hostile not merely to Islamic
supremacists but to all Muslims, including those who threaten no one's way of
life.

And as a report by the Centre For Social Cohesion reported recently, BNP members
and supporters still display significant enthusiasm for key neo-Nazi ideas
including condoning violence, anti-Semitism, admiration of Hitler's Germany and
extreme racist views.

The head of the BNP's legal team, Lee Barnes, has even advocated the downfall of
Western civilisation so that BNP supporters can 'take power in the ensuing chaos
with a mandate for radical change'.

And although last week's legal ruling means that the party can no longer bar
membership to non-white individuals, the fact remains that the membership policy
it is now being forced to change is a racist one.

Like all quasi-fascist movements, the BNP is supremely opportunistic, using
legitimate grievances which the political mainstream has ignored as a Trojan
horse for its own horrible objectives.

To expose Griffin on Question Time, he needs therefore to be opposed by people
who endorse the legitimate elements of his platform but repudiate the bigotry.

He should be taken on by the decent, white working and middle classes -- those
sections of the community from where he is drawing most support, and which most
urgently need to hear people like themselves say to his face 'not in my name'.

It is such people alone who can take the ground from under his feet. But
instead, his fellow panellists have been drawn from precisely the 'liberal
elite' that he rails against to such effect.

This is because there seems to have been a governing fear that if anyone gave
him any ground at all this would be tantamount to endorsing him.

So there are reports that an early proposal to fill the ' independent gadfly'
role on the panel by Douglas Murray, the right-of-centre director of the
anti-Islamist Centre For Social Cohesion, was vetoed because of the danger of
creating the impression that any of Griffin's ideas were legitimate.

Instead, playwright Bonnie Greer was selected. But as a Left-wing black
American, she is unlikely to get under Griffin's skin simply by virtue of the
colour of her own.

Because of electoral fairness restrictions, the programme had to offer the
remaining three panel places to Labour, the Tories and the LibDems.

All these parties promptly fell into the trap. The LibDems' choice, Chris Huhne,
can be picked off as a classic example of the out-of-touch, upperclass,
on-the-make political elite.

Labour's choice, Jack Straw, is compromised by his record of sucking up to
radical Islamists. And the Tories' choice, Baroness Warsi, is vulnerable to the
charge that in the 2005 General Election she campaigned in white areas of
Dewsbury for 'British identity and British citizens', while in Muslim areas she
played upon anti-war and anti-gay Muslim feelings.

Griffin can easily use such issues to land some powerful blows. And if the other
panellists try to destroy him as a racist, he will win hands down. All he has to
do is appear to be the victim of this 'liberal elite' -- merely for making
apparently reasonable points in a quiet and restrained manner.

After all, his personal target audience in the country at large are already
vilified as 'racist' or some variety of 'phobe' whenever they seek to support
bedrock British values. Every time that accusation is thrown at Griffin on
Thursday night, he will go up in their estimation.

BIGOTRY

The liberal intelligentsia has put the BNP's rise down to the bigotry and
imbecility of ordinary people.

Having turned patriotism from a civic virtue into a racial crime, however, it is
that elite which has driven thousands of decent, patriotic British people, both
white and dark-skinned, to supporting the BNP.

This is because it appears to be the only party (except for UKIP, which is seen
to be a single issue, anti-European organisation) that allows them to uphold
such a belief.

What a terrible indictment -- that the only party which allows people to express
their patriotism is one that exploits and manipulates such feelings for other,
unsavoury, ends.

The mainstream parties seem principally concerned to demonstrate their own
virtue by competing to be the loudest to denounce the BNP as vile and
despicable.

This, however, conceals a devastating reality -- that the people who are truly
responsible for the rise of the BNP by abandoning and demonising the ordinary
decent people of Britain are none other than themselves.

m.phillips@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Security must not take from the poor

BYLINE: David Croninguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 613 words

ABSTRACT

David Cronin: Europe's new diplomatic body will need careful monitoring to
ensure development aid is not siphoned off into security

FULL TEXT

Each year the European Commission  about (EURO)2bn to public relations firms
tasked with improving the EU's image. With that level of largesse, I would have
hoped someone would come up with a catchy title for the new diplomatic body
being planned in Brussels. No such luck: it will be known as the European
External Action Service, which is only marginally less insipid than its acronym,
EEAS.

Leaving aside its execrable title, there are good reasons why the establishment
of this service should be carefully monitored. Assuming that the Czech
president, Vaclav Klaus, is persuaded to , the EU's governments will appoint
their first collective foreign minister by the end of 2009. Once fully
operational, the service will provide this minister with a network of more than
5,000 officials stretching out into most parts of the globe. You don't have to
be a conspiracy theorist or a member of Ukip to suggest this smacks of
imperialism. José Manuel Barroso, the European commission president, two years
ago  as the first empire in history not to be created by force.

A more pressing question is what exactly the service will be responsible for.
Over the coming week, MEPs are expected to approve a  arguing that while the
service should be in charge of foreign and security policies (including
responding to emergencies), it should not deal with international trade or
development aid. Both of the latter policy areas would still be handled by the
EC, if parliamentary members get their way.

Unfortunately, however, there is a strong likelihood that the service will be
given at least  for development aid, though not for trade. This carries the
enormous risk that aid that should be used for one purpose only - to fight
poverty - will become subservient to a more strategic agenda based on
considerations of what is in Europe's own interests.

Indeed, this subservience has become increasingly pronounced during the past
decade. Eager to play their part in George Bush's war on terror, EU officials
have sought to use part of development aid earmarked for the Philippines,
Colombia, Indonesia, Pakistan and Malaysia for . This has prompted an
inter-institutional battle in Brussels, with the European parliament correctly
insisting that there are is no legal basis for development funds to be used in
this way.

Similarly, the receipt of EU aid is being increasingly linked to poor countries
agreeing to curb the flow of migrants from their countries to Europe. A pact
endorsed by the union's 27 governments last year  that migration issues should
be taken into account when EU development aid funds are being divvied up. Using
such funds in an attempt to keep foreigners out of Europe is surely at odds with
the stated objective of development aid: to reduce and eventually eliminate
poverty. That goal has now been incorporated into the Lisbon treaty - one of the
reasons why, despite the treaty's flaws, some anti-poverty activists  for a yes
vote during Ireland's referendum earlier this month.

In a , Jean-Marie Guéhenno, former chief of the UN's peacekeeping department,
complains that the EU has a "dogmatic conceptual division between security and
development issues". Call me old-fashioned, but I want to see development aid
used to heal the sick and put children in schools. Security operations are
sometimes necessary but they must be financed from other budgets, not those
reserved for the poor.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Ukip may forfeit £350,000 in donations

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 439 words

ABSTRACT

Court of appeal rules in favour of Electoral Commission in long-running dispute
over money given by retired bookmaker Alan Bown

FULL TEXT

The UK Independence party stands to forfeit nearly £350,000 in donations after
the court of appeal ruled today in favour of watchdog body the Electoral
Commission.

A long-running legal dispute between the commission and the party centred on
donations in the form of cash and services from retired bookmaker Alan Bown at a
time when he was not on the electoral roll.

Three judges ordered the case back to the magistrates court for a new decision
on forfeiture based on their findings.

Sir Paul Kennedy said: "In the present case I can detect nothing which would
entitle the magistrates court not to make the forfeiture order which the EC
seeks."

Bown had been on the electoral register in Thanet, Kent, but was removed by
mistake without his knowledge in December 2004.

He did not find out until December 2005 and was reinstated the following
February.

Ukip, which has one MP and 10 MEPs, admitted breaking the law, but said it was
due to a clerical error and that to order the forfeiture of the entire sum would
be disproportionate.

In August 2007, City of Westminster magistrates court held that, although Ukip
had not taken "all reasonable steps" to establish that Bown was on the roll, the
error was accidental.

It ruled that Ukip should forfeit only £18,481 of the total but the commission
brought a judicial review of the decision and the high court ordered a fresh
hearing.

That was put on hold when the watchdog referred the case to the court of appeal
to clarify aspects of the law. The Electoral Commission argued that the party
should return all the money, not just £18,481.

Today the Electoral Commission welcomed the court of appeal's judgment.

Peter Wardle, the commission's chief executive, said: "We brought this appeal
because the magistrates court decision created some uncertainty for political
parties about the way the law should be applied. In this case, a party had
accepted money that it should not have, but was allowed to keep most of it.

"Political parties need to raise money to campaign, develop policy and
communicate with voters. But all parties also need to follow the rules. And
these rules need to be clear, simple and easy to follow.

"Parliament decided that political parties should only be able to accept money
from individuals if they are on a UK electoral register. This provides a
straightforward test of whether they should accept money or not. They simply
need to check the electoral register. The United Kingdom Independence party did
not take these simple steps."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 19, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Freedom of speech is fine until the invective is against you

BYLINE: Yasmin Alibhai- Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1193 words


The ship flying the flag for free speech is often unsteady, sometimes leaky, as
it sails capricious, tempestuous seas. Sometimes even the captains jump off and
struggle to keep faith with its mission. Like the supremely erudite Stephen Fry
who has always, to my knowledge, been an uncompromising champion of free
expression, keeping watch on deck whatever the provocations.

Yet this Friday came the moment when Mr Fry couldn't abide by his own credo and
ferociously assailed the Daily Mail columnist Jan Moir for her freely expressed
views on the young pop star Stephen Gately. His gay lifestyle, she suggested,
was "more than a little sleazy" and his death was unlikely to have been from
natural causes. Now Fry commands a virtual army on the web. He can make or break
someone with under 140 characters.

He went for Moir on Twitter, later expanding to full-sail wrath on his blog: "a
repulsive nobody writing in a paper no one of any decency would be seen dead
with has written something loathsome and inhumane". Other big-name liberals and
gays have joined in. Advertisers are, apparently, worried and may abandon the
best-selling newspaper.

I can understand their rage. The column was ugly, insensitive and homophobic.
However, though I passionately believe in free speech, I am not an absolutist
nor a hypocrite. The only real argument is where the line is drawn. Perhaps
fundamentalists like Fry will now be more honest and accept that there are
limits. Even for them.

Milton, one of the fathers of freedom, brazenly excluded some from this
fundamental right: "When I speak of toleration and free expression, I don't mean
Catholics. Them we extirpate." Professor Stanley Fish, the American culture
critic, is incisive in his analysis. Everyone, he says, in the free-speech zone
understands what is permitted: "Everyone has a trigger point, which is either
acknowledged at the beginning or emerges at a point of crisis." Opinions are not
abstracts, they enter society and have to deal with its needs, too.

Seven events this month reveal the increasing tension between freedom and
responsibility. Each case is testing and spawns its own, particular dilemmas.
Only libertarian fools and fanatics would give set-piece answers. Test yourself.

First came the national furore over "Pakigate" and Strictly Come Dancing. Then a
picture of Brooke Shields, aged 10, nude, was withdrawn from view by the Tate
Modern. The photographer had paid her mum $450 for the image. Shields herself
has tried to have this object of exploitation removed from the public eye. So a
good call, I think, by the Tate.

The BNP's bulldoggish Nick Griffin, a white supremacist, admired by the Ku Klux
Klan, opponent of Jews, Muslims and mixed-race families, is invited on to the
nation's most prestigious TV programme. He, who would deny millions of us the
vote, is an emblem of democracy and his violent thugs who try to silence so many
of us black and Asian Britons become beneficiaries of free-speech doctrine.

Hitler won the votes of the majority. Would the BBC have done him the honour,
too? I say the BNP should be interrogated on news programmes but an appearance
on Question Time is a privilege which the BBC now bestows on racists. It sickens
those of us who expect better of the corporation.

Then comes the ghastly Dutch MP Geert Wilder who overturned the order banning
him from entering Britain imposed by the former Home Secretary Jacqui Smith. He
curses the Koran, damns and insults European Muslims, is a fearless xenophobe
and seems to enjoy the hurt he churns up.

Invited by a UKIP MP, they both celebrated their victory for freethinking. So
why then didn't Wilder accept any of the invitations from Muslim intellectuals
to debate his ideas in public? Because he, like many others of his ilk, appears
only to want to incite Muslims into behaving like "savages". How disappointing
it must have been for him not to have a fatwa to take back home.

I agree that he should be allowed into Britain and I was proud Muslims responded
with good sense. But to see him fêted as a hero in parliament was an affront.
This must mean free passage for proscribed hate-makers - rabid imams,
anti-Semites, homophobic black rappers. If not, it only confirms outrageous
double standards.

The most serious threat to free speech has come from David Miliband, now a
skilled double-dealer. He talks the talk on good British values and yet rejects
the judgement of two senior judges who demand disclosure of information that
could prove our intelligence services colluded with the US and others to torture
captured Muslims in the "War on Terror", in particular Binyam Mohamed who was
held in Guantanamo Bay for many years.

Next the drama over a scientific study on toxic dumping in West Africa by the
company Trafigura, whose lawyers obtained an injunction to keep the information
secret, including debates on the scandal in Parliament. The gaggers were duly
defeated but commercial confidentiality remains an effective weapon used by big
business to keep us in the dark.

Lastly, the scientist Simon Singh (a good friend) is being sued by the British
Chiropractic Association which objects to his attacks on the profession. He, who
is supported by Fry and others, got leave to appeal against an earlier ruling
that went against him. Many of us are silenced by the might of libel law. Money,
as Orwell wrote, "controls opinion". Singh wants more "freedom to criticise
fairly and strongly" on the blogs and scientific writing. I agree but too many
bloggers are mad or malicious. So what to do about them? Not easy.

Libertarian ideologues such as journalist Brendan O'Neill have no such moral
conundrums: "Offensiveness is part of life; the politics of inoffensiveness is a
threat to free speech and open debate." Yes, until people's deep feelings are
roused as were Fry's by Moir.

Any woman who has been sexually abused would not have seen the art in the image
of Brooke Shields. And Muslims, Asians and Black people are human, too -
experiencing the pain of gratuitous invective piled on us, day after day, by
toffs like Martin Amis and Wilder and racists like the BNP. Words do violence to
humans, more sometimes than sticks and stones. They can disable you to the point
of insanity.

Don't get me wrong. More and more freedom is what we must strive for, but a
complete lack of restraint leads to anarchy and dehumanisation. Those who react
against one set of expressed prejudices should imagine themselves into the pain
of others who feel incensed and violated. People like me want to come here to
live and breathe freer than we can in our old homelands.

I vehemently object to the way all legitimate questioning of Israel's illegal
policies is stamped out and the way minorities try to silence all those who
expose community oppression. But freedom is precious and needs to be protected
from dictators and censors, and sometimes from itself. That is something even
freedom ideologues seem suddenly to understand. Perhaps now the twittering
classes will band together to object to Miliband's dirty secrets or stand by
racial groups who are needlessly demonised. Just as Gately was.

y.alibhai-brown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                October 18, 2009
                                 First Edition

We asked you: Could you really stomach Tony Blair as EU President? These are
your responses

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 4015 words


YES


Yes; he's the one man with a backbone in this country. Carol Bridge . There is
only one answer ... yes, yes and yes. G Grud . Of course Tony Blair would be an
excellent EU president. The stupidity of rotating the presidency means that
Europe is losing its status in global affairs. As one of the largest markets we
must ensure that we influence decisions.

The growing influence of China and India means that without strong leadership
the EU will be sidelined. Tony Blair is known throughout the world and is
respected. We do not live in a dictatorship and the decision to got to war was
made by the House of Commons. The press in this country failed to comment on the
huge sums of money made by Tony Blair's predecessors. We somehow resent Tony
Blair for doing the same or making more because he is in demand on the world
stage. If the Lisbon Treaty is ratified there will be an EU President. Are we
saying that we would rather have another European in the role rather than Tony
Blair? I am one of many - that do not make the headlines and who is not anti-war
- who would welcome the appointment. Jane Ashby . Is this a possible case of
poacher becoming gamekeeper? Few have developed spin and self aggrandisement
better - yet escaped the sleaze and corruption allegations levelled at the EU.
It may be that Blair's mastery of "realpolitik" and lack of morality make him a
very strong candidate. Clive Peaple . Yes Please! Imagine! Britain leads Europe
once again, rather than all those nasty, negative headlines about the EU ruling
Britain. But failing Tony, then I'd like to see my neighbour's rather plump and
loveable cat Raffy as first President of the EU (although as Raffy died in the
spring, we would need notice to exhume him and have him tarted up a bit for
public office). Pete Stewart

HAVE YOUR SAY

Here, we publish all the responses which were sent by e-mail to our letters
page. There were more than 100 opposed to Mr Blair becoming EU President, and we
have edited these down from approximately 10,000 words in total to less than
4,000 words opposite. We have published all of the five who wrote in favour,
including one dripping in irony. Our website also received more than 100
responses, splitting in a similar, overwhelming proportion against the former
PM.

If you wish to join a petition against Mr Blair becoming EU President, go to
www.gopetition.com/online/16745.html

NO

Tony Blair should be brought before the ICC and tried for war crimes and crimes
against humanity with regard to the invasion of Iraq and complicity in torture
renditions. To put such a tarnished figure into office without trial would make
a mockery of all that is good about the EU. Dennis Sosnoski . Absolutely not.
Wilma Corradi . Blair and Bush should be put on trial for war crimes. They had
such indescribable and gutless contempt for democracy as to totally ignore the
largest democratic demonstrations in the history of the human race, in order to
go ahead with their predetermined and deadly project to impose "democracy" on
Iraq. And, of course, the marchers were right. The idea of giving the Teflon
parasite any sort of public office is utterly repellent. D Berg . Blair should
not be the first president of the European Union, or president ever. His
decision to take the UK to war when Iraq posed no threat, his lying over the
existence of weapons of mass destruction, his concealment of his commitment to
Bush to join the invasion when he pretended to the country that no such decision
had been taken are grounds for prosecuting him as a war criminal. He is unfit
for any public office, ever. Cynthia Hibbard . For Tony Blair to be president of
the EU would be far worse than Paul Wolfowitz, prime architect behind the Iraq
war, being head of the World Bank. Jon Waring . He doesn't have the moral
authority to be president of the EU because of his involvement in the Iraq war
and his support of Bush, and should not be appointed. It will be a black mark on
the EU community if it happens. Ken Bradish . Appointing Tony Blair to the
position of EU president is, to someone of my generation, like appointing
Richard Nixon as head of the UN. On Iraq alone, he is guilty of the most
flagrant and disgraceful deceit even for a politician; there is also the
incontestable charge that diverting resources to Iraq lost the war against the
Taliban in Afghanistan. JT . If any one in Europe has any doubt about the wisdom
of appointing Tony Blair, they should look at his record, in particular the
situation in March 2003. People in France and Germany will remember that it was
Blair who blamed them for deliberately ruining "a peaceful diplomatic settlement
in Iraq" [because they refused to support a second resolution at the UN] when as
we now know that Blair had already agreed to an invasion, regardless! Even now,
it seems incredible that he had such contempt for the truth that he was
comfortable blaming others while simultaneously telling us lies about WMD. It's
bizarre that he's even considered as a contender for this vitally important job.
Steve Parker . I do not want Blair to be president under any circumstances. It
would be a travesty of the office. Elizabeth Lawrence . No, the EU doesn't need
an opportunist like Mr Blair for its first president. Hanna Bloulos Hanna . No,
no, a thousand times no! He's only in it for the money so he can buy more houses
- in Belgium. R Platten . Do I think Tony Blair deserves to become the first
president of the EU? One word answer: No! Joe White . Blair is a lawyer with
scant respect for the law, other than to twist it for his purposes. Why must he
continue to be rewarded for his moral bankruptcy that led us into an illegal
war? Almost anyone else would be a better candidate than Blair. A Kassi . Mr
Blair showed himself to be weak and impressionable in his dealings with America,
and totally dishonest in his attitude to the electorate. Cliff Hanley . The UK
needs to know the whole truth and nothing but the truth in respect of his
decision to go to war. He should face prosecution. Lives have been lost and for
what? He is is a criminal and as such should have his ill-gotten gains
confiscated. All that Blair can do is swan around the world trying to convince
everyone just how great he is. Peter Johnson Grey . No. Peter Bell . In a word:
Never. JohDnhm . The answer is No. Jean-Claude Bailet . If I invade a
neighbour's property and commit mayhem without even a by your leave, I get taken
to court and possibly jailed. The same applies to Mr Blair. Roderic Kyle .
Amazingly, even Cherie has virtually said that he deceived us. Why is it that
the nationals of some countries are charged with war crimes, and those of
countries like the UK and the US can just walk away? Britt Coulthurst . I find
it loathsome that Blair should be considered for any office in Europe. He should
be brought to trial for his part in launching an illegal war on a defenceless
civilian population by lying about the alleged threat from Iraq. jonwoosnam .
Only after has has been acquitted or served his sentence, Charles Daniels . No.
He has blood on his hands and, with others, should be prosecuted for war crimes.
If he does become the first president, it will only further convince me that
lies and hypocrisy have absolutely won the day and that we most certainly live
in an Orwellian world. Elspeth Corrigan . I, like many, am absolutely against
Tony Blair becoming anything apart from an inmate at the European Courts of
Justice for war crimes. Matthew O'Connell . The Blair premiership will be
scarred by the fateful decision to go to war in Iraq. Beryl Milnes . No, most
definitely not. Bill. . No, no. Maria Dowbor . Any other candidate is preferable
to Tony Blair who is irretrievably marked by shackling himself to George Bush in
the war in Iraq. Additionally, his non presence as Middle East peace envoy gives
him the worst possible job reference. Dick Banker . Mr Blair should not be EU
president. Peter Harris . We must fervently pray that Tony Blair does not become
any type of EU leader. He would forever taint the EU in general and the role of
its president in particular with the horror that was the Bush/Blair arrogance.
Ray Kenna . If Blair were to become the president of the EU, I'll gladly
emigrate to the moon. How can any self-respecting, law abiding, moral individual
even contemplate such a calamity? As Mr Brierley rightly testified: he has blood
on his hands! Wasim Yunus . No, most certainly not. In the days before the
invasion of Iraq, as a key member of the UN Security Council, France let it be
known that it would veto any request for UN endorsement of an invasion. but
Blair and Bush went ahead anyway. The invasion was illegal, and Blair (and Bush)
should face charges of having committed war crimes. Ian R Elliott . Totally
opposed to this. Eirwen Thomas . If he is appointed, it will finish Brown off
completely. FLimited . When I first heard about the possibility of this
happening, I believed it to be a cruel joke dreamt up by some political
satirist. I could not imagine that somebody with Blair's track record could
conceivably put himself forward, or be supported by even the worst cynic, for
the post of EU president. B Schoer . Does Tony Blair deserve the EU presidency?
Emphatically no. His dishonesty over the Iraq invasion ruined what little
reputation this country had left. His cavalier disregard for Parliament, and
indeed his own cabinet, ruined what little we had left of democracy. And his
tying the UK's interests so closely to US Middle East policy has not protected
us from terrorism. Do I want to see him do all this for Europe? No. And any EU
president (if we ever have one) should be voted in by the citizens of Europe,
not selected by a self-interested clique of insiders. Lesley Docksey . During
the past few weeks, I have looked in vain in the German media and elsewhere for
reports of Mr. Blair's impending appointment as the first president of the EU.
There are very few and these few are less than enthusiastic or merely state that
the British Government promotes or endorses such an appointment. However, there
are many more in the EU who believe that Britain is a semi-detached member of
the EU, always wanting to dominate or disrupt the running of it and often
succeeding. Britain is not even a member of the eurozone and has opted out of
various other agreements, notably Schengen, mostly under Mr Blair's leadership.
In addition, Mr Blair is seen in Germany as a warmonger - hardly recommendations
for a politician to become president of the EU. Mary Robinson, former president
of the Irish Republic and former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights would be
a worthy candidate to become EU president; much more worthy than any of the
other candidates put forward in the media in the UK. Helga Hanson . Tony Blair
is a criminal. He should be locked up for war crimes against the Iraqi people
(alongside George Bush, Cheney and the like). Peace envoy: hah, EU president:
hah. K Badlan . Blair is a war criminal. Jason Collett . No, he deserves to be
in the Tower. Ian Allenby . Has the world gone completely mad? Deirdre Cooper .
Have you amassed a vast fortune over a few years spent destroying a once great
political party? Have you thrown your country's finest into a hellish conflict
lately? Do you thoroughly believe God is behind you in all of this? If so, apply
now for an exciting new position! "President required. Ability to lead 27
European member-states essential. Salary £247,000 plus benefits." Steve Jao .
Absolutely not! He is far too controversial, for one thing. For another, how can
we possibly accept an unelected president of Europe who is under suspicion of
having started a war under false pretences? Caroline Kenned . Absolutely no -
how can a man who took Britain to war against the wishes of the pople of Britain
be trusted with the presidency of the EU? Q Morris . The place for Blair is the
Hague. Geoffrey Durrant . He and his current "fool" are responsible for the
state of the UK. Can Europe afford to allow a similar decade of lies and deceit
to unroll as their foundation to success? DIL3730 . Never! He supported Iraq war
with that stupid Bush. He belongs to a country which is tepid with the EU and is
out of the eurozone. A little coherence in life! Maria Antonietta Di Credico .
Absolutely not. If the EU is ever to be a great institution for peace and social
justice, then it cannot have a liar in a leading role. Blair is no more than a
liar, and his lie has helped to lead to probably hundreds of thousands of deaths
and the destruction of Iraq. Devra Wiseman . As a former Labour voter in the
pre-Blair years, I do not think that he should be considered for the job of EU
president. Mo Bowman . No, he should not be EU president. Peter Harris . If the
integrity of the leadership of the EU leads to Blair being elected president I
shall abandon many years of support through the Lib Dems and support Ukip. Reg
Gale . Tony Blair has become a Catholic. To atone in a small way for all the
evil he has done, Tony Blair should give way all his money to the women and
girls of Iraq who were forced into prostitution through his invasion of Iraq, to
the families in Iraq who lost loved ones, to the families of British soldiers
who were killed in Iraq, to those who were wounded or maimed in the fighting, to
the families of those who suffered bereavement or injury through terrorism as a
direct result of his actions and to the family of Dr David Kelly who was hounded
to his death over the Iraq invasion. Blair should then retire to a Christian
monastery and live out the remainder of his life in prayer and contemplation
over the evil that he has committed. KJR Borthwick . No. I would support Mrs
Robinson, the ex-president of Ireland. Chris . Should Blair be president of
Europe? No! Who would be preferable? Anybody. Except Hoon, Straw etc. Is there
no protest group, no petition or other way of focussing opposition before it is
too late? Ed Edmunds . It is outrageous that this man's name should even be
considered for such a post. It is also utterly depressing that 34 per cent of
those canvassed in the UK should actually support his nomination. One can only
hope that the emergence of meaningful opposition to Blair will now burgeon into
a movement that will make him totally unacceptable. Brian Denoon . Stop Tony
Blair becoming the first president of the EU! There are many reasons (just to
mention one, the Iraq war) why I don't like him, but as an Italian who lives and
works in the UK, I especially can't forget that he used to be Berlusconi's best
buddy (and maybe still is, as far as I know). At a time when Europe is
dangerously underestimating the threat posed to democracy by Berlusconi and his
government, the choice of Mr Blair would indeed mark a dismal beginning for the
EU. Vincenzo Vergiani . No one should become EU president who has not been
elected by the people. No one chosen by the "representatives" of member-states
will command the respect necessary for such a position. The British Government
should not be party to this farce. John Gibbs . No, no, no! He is a liar. He
sent troops to Iraq on false pretences. He prevented British Aerospace being
sued by the Serious Fraud Office on false pretences, citing "national security".
He is one of the greatest hypocrites currently alive. What has he ever done for
justice and a better life for people who needed it most when he was in power?
Henk Slagter . A very definite No. At the times of both wars, he dissociated
himself from other European leaders in favour of the US. P Keogh . How anyone
can consider Tony Blair a worthy candidate for the EU presidency is beyond me.
He told bare-faced lies during the run-up to the war and betrayed his Labour
grassroots supporters by making common cause with the most incompetent, extreme
right-wing US administration in living memory. He should be tried for war
crimes, along with his buddies George Bush and Dick Cheney. Ernst A Klein .
Blair's appointment would not only be an affront to the hundreds of thousands of
victims of the Iraq war, it would be an insult to the European project itself.
Before becoming prime minister, it appeared that Blair might begin to turn back
the tide of British anti-Europeanism that so many of his predecessors, Labour
and Conservative, had done nothing to prevent. Instead, he failed to speak up
for the benefits of the EU, he vacillated, then buckled over the euro and he
allowed the US to dictate UK foreign policy. Even his "ethical arms policy"
turned out to be a shambles, as the BAE-Saudi Arabia contracts affair
demonstrated. It would be astonishing if continental Europeans were to support
his candidacy Simon Sweeney . Shameful! is all I can say. Laurent Du Pasquier .
An absolute No. Patrick Howley . Your feature has given me the only option I
know of to vote a resounding No to Blair. Thanks for the opportunity to state my
democratic non-partisan case. JNC . Tony Blair is guilty of war crimes and
crimes against humanity for the slaughter of an estimated 1.5 million innocent
Afghan and Iraqi people, and the deliberate contamination of their lands and
people with depleted uranium munitions and devastation of their countries and
economies. Tony Blair is not fit to become president of the EU. Philip Dawes .
He will drag us into the Third World War. Never, never, never must we allow Tony
Blair to become president of the EU. Maggie Milner . I am appalled at the
thought of Tony Blair becoming president of the EU. To me it's not a matter of
the money, it is a matter of his suitability to be the president. Not only is
Britain not a "full" member of the EU by retaining the pound against the euro,
but Blair deceived the country over Iraq and had no qualms about "telling
stories" on any subject on which he wished to impose his will. He wasn't even
honest about his true faith. I trust that the powers that be will see the "real"
Mr.Blair for what he is and select someone more worthy of the position. James
Harrison . I have been a life-long Labour voter. No more. Blair took this
country to war on a pack of lies. It was/is a war of aggression and as such he
and the his cabinet responsible for the decision are war criminals. Until they
are indicted, I will not vote Labour again. Oh, and the answer to your question?
A resounding "No". Dave . The Hon Member for Selly Oak (Clare Short) was correct
when she described Blair as a twat. Bill Thompson . No - he is unsuitable to
represent Europe, after the deaths and destruction he has caused in the Middle
East. It is particularly sad for Irish people after the good work he did in
helping bring about peace on our island - if that was his only legacy I would
support him. Tina Neylon . I agree with Peter Brierley, whose son died in Iraq,
that Blair has "blood on his hands", and regard him as unfit for any public
office. Margaret Nelson . The thought of that man becoming EU president just
makes my stomach heave. What a thick skinned b------ he must be. An ex-Blair
supporter. . Blair does not deserve to be an EU President - ever. Angela
Merkel's idea seems more appropriate. Steve Kelsey . If there had even been a
twitch of a rumour that Tony Blair was being considered, I would have joined
Declan Ganley (yes, just that) in voting "No" to it. Stratton Sharpe . The EU
has many enemies, doubters and detractors. It is about to appoint a new
president who could, if trustworthy, build confidence. The worst person it could
choose would be a scoundrel of universal renown. Keep Blair out! Nick Canever .
It is vitally important that the first occupant of this post is seen as being a
man or woman of uncontested integrity. Until the independent and public inquiry
on the Iraq war reports, there should be no question of public office of this
sort for Tony Blair, over whom many question marks hang. David Barker . A big No
vote from me. Graham Cook . How anyone can seriously suggest that the the great
liar could be president of the EU is beyond comprehension. John Ashton . No, I
think it would be a total disrespect for integrity and a complete surrender to
the superficial political machinations if we were to forget the Blair of Iraq
and reward him in this way. Europe cannot disgrace itself in this way. Angela
Sands . I can think of no one not currently serving a criminal sentence who is
less worthy of becoming president of the EU than Tony Blair. He continues to be
an embarrassment to the UK and should not be permitted to hold any public
office. Andrew Bryan . As a committed European, I can think of nothing worse for
the EU and the cause of closer involvement than the appointment of Tony Blair as
EU president. What a gift to Ukip. Let him stay with his Middle East sinecure
and on the public-speaking circuit. Anthony Nicholson . I do not want Tony Blair
as president of the EU. Mike Murphy . Tony Blair arguably at least: 1)
Undermined the UN. 2) Put George Bush too high on the British agenda and led the
country down a path it could have avoided. 3) Put his world stage antics above
British interests. I have no ideas for another candidate but it should be
someone who understands the world and wants to really improve it. Paul Parry . I
strongly oppose the suggestion that Blair should become president of the EU. At
least one-third of the world's population consider that he is a man with blood
on his hands and regard him as an enemy and hostile to their interests. His
appointment as president would send out a hostile signal to those who feel
persecuted by the West. David Blunt QC . Are there impediments to Tony Blair's
assuming the presidency of the EU? In a polity where ethics were of any moment,
the answer would, of course, be Yes. There is a very good case for arguing that
Blair is a war criminal, directly responsible for thousands of deaths, including
those of the UK forces. Michael Rosenthal . No. George Blair . There is no way
on God's earth that Blair should be rewarded for his lies that led Britain to
war. David Duncan . My reservations come from unanswered questions about the
Invasion of Iraq. Simon Bridge . Blair does not deserve to be EU president.
Steve Kelsey . Blair's appointment would not only be an affront to the hundreds
of thousands of victims of the Iraq war. It would be an insult to the European
project. Simon Sweeney . This war criminal should be in front of The Hague.
Peter B . The sheer fact that this issue is a matter of discussion is
depressing. Hannah McConnell . I would find it very hard to stomach Tony Blair
as president of Europe - even setting aside my personal views about the man. He
has been the US's poodle, has taken us to war on a flimsy pretext at enormous
cost to the country. Why should the presidency not go to the Dutch PM? Judith
and Hubert Brown . No to Mr Blair. It would be a total disgrace. Bob Wilson .
The thought of that man becoming president makes my stomach heave. H Podd . Not
under any circumstances. John F Mullen . In response to your call for comment I
am struggling to convey my dismay, disillusion and utter contempt for those who
would promote Blair for the EU Presidency. . How dare M Sarkozy and others try
to shove this self-serving war criminal and liar into the face of the British
people, when Blair is a source of shame and revulsion to so many of us. My
personal choice would be Paavo Lipponen but I would accept absolutely anyone
chosen by consensus of our European partners, anyone except Blair. Julie
Harrison . No. life in the UK is crazy and a lot of that is Tony Blair taking us
into an illegal war with the Muslim world. Meant to be Iraq, but it turned out
to be the Muslim world. Anne War . Blair should not be elected over Europe. Chas
. I believe this handsomely paid position should be the result of an election.
Andrew Doughty . It appears to me that Tony Blair, as someone accused of the
crime of waging a war of aggression, should not be standing for this post. Jan
Peter Balkenende, the Dutch premier, seems to be a decent man and there are no
charges against him. Alexandra Hardie

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 18, 2009
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The BNP won't go away if we ignore it

BYLINE: MARTIN IVENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1334 words


How should an open society like ours respond to those who try to whip up hatred
between races or classes? For many, the BBC's invitation to the racialist
British National party leader, Nick Griffin, to join the panel on Question Time
this week stretches tolerance too far. It's a hard call. Peter Hain, the
secretary of state for Wales, last week condemned the BBC for giving the BNP
"the legitimacy it craves", and The Guardian argued that the BNP "rightfully
belongs under a stone".

Whether or not you agree with the left's rallying cry of "no platform for
fascists", you can see the dangers. In a BBC radio report earlier this month,
two leading BNP members were stupidly introduced as ordinary "Mark and Joey" and
were allowed to question the Britishness of a member of the English football
team, Ashley Cole, the child of a white mother and a black father. The two
racists were in fact Mark Collett, the BNP's publicity director, and Joseph
Barber, head of Great White Records, whose output we can presume runs to more
inflammatory material than Mel Brooks's Springtime for Hitler. Hardly a good
omen.

Those with longer memories recall the nadir of the corporation's current affairs
operation when it was privy to an IRA operation to "liberate" a village in
Northern Ireland. Back then, however, the liberal left were all for free speech
when Sinn Fein was banned from the airwaves. No platform for fascists, but yes
to Republican terrorists. Newspapers, the maligned tabloids included, usually
come down hard on political extremists. The Sun and Daily Mirror do their
damnedest to put their readers off the BNP - though I note that a clutch of
Guardian columnists recently allowed their names to be used in publicity
material for a conference organised by the Trotskyite Socialist Workers party.
But let's give the BBC the benefit of the doubt. Griffin was elected by
northwest voters to the European parliament in June and his party polled not far
short of 1m votes. The corporation can't pretend this result didn't happen,
though some politicians would rather indulge in ritual abuse of the BNP or,
equally uselessly, pretend it isn't there. And, despite the exquisitely bad
timing of the MPs' expenses scandal with the economic downturn, Britain is not
Weimar Germany. If the BNP ever constituted a threat to public order the state
has the legal right, the means and the will to suppress it.

The sky won't fall on Thursday. Griffin may be a better speaker than his
bombastic predecessor, John Tyndall, but he lacks the charisma of his European
counterparts.

The Austrian neo-Nazi Jörg Haider really did look the part of the handsome
Hollywood Nazi, radiating a dangerous dynamism. Jean-Marie Le Pen of the French
National Front could draw on his service as a former paratrooper to bolster his
patriotic credentials. The anti-southern, anti-immigrant Northern League in
Italy has support among university academics as well as the middle classes. That
can hardly be said of the BNP. Exposure to the full glare of publicity shows the
shallowness of the party's talent and its bizarre policies.

The BNP truly is an unlovely outfit. Some of its leaders have criminal
convictions, and its constitution states that it is open only to white people.
Last week the sleepy Equality and Human Rights Commission belatedly got a legal
ruling to oblige the party to change its admission rules - why had it not acted
years ago? Griffin will now try to persuade his old guard to swallow the
necessary amendment. If he succeeds, he will be able to present the BNP as a
nationalist party, not a racialist one - though extreme nationalism itself is
one of the bad jokes of history. Blacks and Asians are hardly likely to queue
around the block to join, but the white working class is giving it a hearing.

The paradox of the rising vote for the BNP is that Britain has demonstrably
become a more tolerant society over the past three decades. Polling evidence
shows that the classic racially divisive question of "would you allow your
daughter to marry a black man", gets an affirmative response. We eat chicken
tikka masala; we have gay friends.

Globalisation has made this country a prosperous place despite recent squalls.
Yet a fluctuating 10% to 20% of the white population feels alienated and left
behind. As an authority on extremism, Professor Roger Eatwell of Bath
University, puts it, "the chief characteristic of this group is pessimism about
our political system and the economy".

They are most likely in polls to say they can't see their personal circumstances
improving. Nearly two-thirds (61%) of BNP voters are C2DE males, the lowest paid
and least skilled category of worker. Migrants compete for their jobs and, they
believe, asylum seekers take "their" council housing. They feel their values are
despised: more than 70% of teachers believe it is their duty to warn their
pupils about the dangers of patriotism, equating it with xenophobia.

Conventional politicians have been slow to find a language to address these
people. David Cameron, who needs to woo the political centre for victory,
eschews appeals to the Alf Garnett vote. UKIP is the threat that concerns him.
Griffin targets the collapsing Labour vote, presenting the BNP to workingclass
neighbourhoods as "the Labour party your grandad voted for". Westminster's
softly-softly approach to Islamist extremism has done nobody any good.

New Labour and Tony Blair's pitch was largely to the middle class. A few
isolated politicians understood the threat. Jon Cruddas, the parliamentary
leader of the centre-left group, Compass, and the brave maverick Frank Field
desperately tried to alert the party leadership to the interaction of high
levels of immigration with a shortage of social housing. Working-class areas and
a few over-burdened councils had too bear too great a burden.

At the Home Office, Liam Byrne, now chief secretary to the treasury, tried
belatedly to address concerns about immigration if not Europe.Alan Milburn, the
former secretary of state for health, has proposed a long-term remedy in an
agenda of empowering clients of the welfare state. On its deathbed, the
government has finally got the message.

What now? Searchlight, the magazine which has long monitored the activities of
far-right activists, believes that violently confronting the BNP on the streets
allows Griffin to play the martyr. Door-knocking by trade unions, churches and
others did cut his vote in the Euro election, but the collapse of Labour support
let him in.

The centre right too are beginning to wake up. They have set up their own
campaign, "There is nothing British about the BNP", led by James Bethell, a
liberal Tory, and Tim Montgomerie, who runs the ConservativeHome website.

Their aim is to deny the BNP "ownership" of the army, the church, the Union
Jack, the St George's Cross and other symbols of Britishness. The BNP's "battle
for Britain" campaign in the European elections drew heavily upon wartime
imagery and icons such as the Spitfire, forgetting the brave Polish airmen that
flew them. Bethell and Montgomerie are organising a campaign by prominent
military figures, including the SAS hero Andy McNab, to attack the false
patriotism of the nationalists. This is fruitful territory.

On Question Time and elsewhere I hope essential British decency will also
triumph. Our amused contempt for humourless ideologues is a national tradition -
witness the fictional Private Eye revolutionary Dave Spart, the commie shop
steward Fred Kite as played by Peter Sellers in the film I'm All Right Jack, and
PG Wodehouse's Roderick Spode, the leader of the Black Shorts. (According to
Gussie Fink-Nottle in The Code of the Woosters, "by the time Spode formed his
association, there were no shirts left".) Humour only goes so far, however. The
philosophy of the far right and left, barely concealed by evasive language, is
the worse the better: they thrive on society's ills. That must be exposed.

'A FLUCTUATING 10%-20% OF WHITES FEEL ALIENATED AND LEFT BEHIND'

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 18, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Here's an idea: let the taxman loose on MPs

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1295 words


The monthly meetings at which the leader of the Labour party addresses his
parliamentary colleagues seem never to be as turbulent as the press has
predicted. Even as it became obvious - to the consternation of Labour
backbenchers - that the Iraq war had been based on a dud dossier of so-called
intelligence, Tony Blair would sail through these meetings with his usual
consummate charm.

Many expected that June's meeting, held in the immediate aftermath of Labour's
abysmally low share of the vote in the European elections, might see Gordon
Brown facing such a barrage of criticism from his colleagues that he would have
to resign. Nothing of the sort happened, as became immediately clear when the
beleaguered PM entered the room to hearty (if contrived) applause.

Yet at last Monday's meeting of the parliamentary Labour party, Brown was - as
one experienced attendee described it to me - "faced with a real peasants'
revolt: I've never before witnessed anything like it". Apparently Brown was
visibly surprised by the ferocity of the onslaught from a succession of
colleagues.

What issue was it that prompted such fury, more significant than going to war on
a false prospectus, more galling to those present than their party coming behind
UKIP in a national vote? It was that Brown had, without quibble or question,
agreed that day to pay back £12,000 of expenses, in accordance with the letter
he received from Sir Thomas Legg, the parliamentary expenses auditor.

Here we see the full extent of the inability of so many MPs, even now, to
understand what has happened to their collective reputation, and why. In private
session they felt free to say what they really thought-which was that by writing
out an instant cheque to Legg's team of auditors, Brown had made it almost
impossible for the rest of them to withstand the demands for reimbursement. I
understand the fact that the prime minister enjoys the privilege of two
substantial grace-and-favour homes makes some of his colleagues think he doesn't
appreciate their less exalted domestic circumstances; even so, it is truly
incredible that they thought he should have annihilated what was left of
Labour's chances of winning the next election by trashing Legg only so they
could avoid paying back a thousand pounds here, a thousand there, of taxpayers'
money.

Those who believe that Harriet Harman, the deputy leader of the Labour party, is
positioning herself to win Labour MPs over to the idea that she should succeed
Brown are intrigued-no, make that "unsurprised"-by her warning last week to Legg
that his review of MPs' expenses must be "based on the rules and standards that
obtained at the time... to do anything else would be arbitrary".

This is exactly what furious Labour MPs had wanted to hear from their current
leader. You see, Legg had decided, among other things, that no MP should have
been claiming back more than £20 a week for gardening costs and more than £40 a
week for domestic cleaners. Almost £11,000 of Brown's reimbursement of £12,000
was attributable to his excess over the Legg limit for cleaning expenses; his
wife did tell us he was "messy", after all.

Harman's remarks tallied with the feelings of many MPs who had expected to get a
clean sheet from Legg and were astounded to be asked to pay back sums for
cleaners and gardeners that had been cleared by the House of Commons fees
office. The Tory MP Douglas Hogg - who had already reimbursed, under pressure
from David Cameron, his claimed expense for dredging the family moat-told a
sympathetic House of Commons last week: "Everybody is entitled to regulate their
affairs in accordance with the law, practices and rules that exist at the time.
Any departure from these principles is a denial of natural justice and the
courts are probably going to regard it as unlawful." Harman, across the floor of
the Commons, agreed with Hogg.

It is true that Hogg is a QC. Yet so is Legg, who is also a consultant with
Clifford Chance, one of the world's leading law firms. Anyway, it's not a case
of "may the best QC win". Hogg may well be right on the general point of law -
but he and many of his colleagues fail, unlike Legg, to understand not just the
politics (which they of all people really ought) but also the morality of their
predicament.

Yes, Legg is demanding they pay back sums authorised by the fees office under
the system that pertained at the time. Yes, that stern and upright former marine
is making an arbitrary and retrospective adjustment. The only important point,
however, is that the system itself, and the way it was operated, had been rotten
to the core, corrupting even decentmenand women. Indeed, until recently MPs had
not even been required to show any bills or other proof for gardening and
cleaning bills of less than £250. Amazing, the number of claims that had come in
for just under that amount-and, of course, the cash received was not subject to
tax.

When any official from the fees office had dared to question a claim by an
"honourable member", his resistance might be worn down by months of querulous
harassment from the outraged MP. For example, a claim of £16,500 by Andy
Burnham, the health secretary, to help to buy and decorate a flat, was rejected
three times by the fees office before Burnham successfully appealed to the
office, writing that he would "be in line for a divorce" unless the loot were
handed over without more ado.

Almost none of this had been compatible with the terms of the Commons' Green
Book, in its guidance to MPs who wished to claim under their now notorious
additional costs allowance. It stated: "The [allowance] reimburses members of
parliament for expenses wholly, exclusively and necessarily incurred... for the
purpose of performing their parliamentary duties... You must avoid any
arrangement which may give rise to an accusation that you are... obtaining an
immediate benefit or subsidy from public funds." So when Harman implies Legg is
going beyond "the rules and standards that obtained at the time", we can see
that what he is in fact doing is no more than an attempt to claw back what would
never have been paid out if MPs and the fees office had acted by the spirit and
the letter of their own rulebook.

There were many MPs - and it is sad that they too have been buried under the
public ordure sprayed indiscriminately over parliament as a whole-who did follow
the spirit of the Green Book. They will have been able to understand that no
gardening bills, however genuine, could possibly have been incurred "wholly,
exclusively and necessarily... for the purpose of performing their parliamentary
duties": these MPs, at least, will not have received an unpleasant letter from
Legg.

It is, incidentally, comical that Harman cites the normal operation of the legal
system as a possible objection to some of Legg's letters.

It was Harman who declared of the exorbitant pension of Fred Goodwin, the
disgraced RBS boss: "It might be enforceable in a court of law, this contract,
but it is not enforceable in the court of public opinion, and that's where this
government steps in." If the "court of public opinion" had sat in judgment on
the MPs, it would have made Legg's missives look like love letters by
comparison.

Next month the committee on standards in public life is to publish its
recommendations on how MPs' expenses should in future be regulated. It need make
only one simple suggestion - that MPs, constitutionally sovereign though they
may be, are treated just like the rest of us in self-employment, and take their
chances with HM Revenue & Customs.

Let them try telling that lot that their wives will be furious unless all their
expenses claims are met.

dominic.lawson@sunday-times.co.uk

'THE IMPORTANT POINT IS THAT THE EXPENSES SYSTEM HAD BEEN ROTTEN TO THE CORE'

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 18, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TOUGH QUESTION TIME;
The BNP leader's appearance on the BBC this week is the result of the mainstream
parties' refusal to address immigration, report Daniel Foggo and Kevin Dowling

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo; Kevin Dowling

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1911 words


When Karan Whiley, a 48-year-old mother-of-two and carehomeworker, went to her
polling station last Thursday she was in no doubt about the issue concerning her
most.

"I don't mind having immigrants who are genuine," she said. "We live beside an
Iraqi couple who have been through hell and are here because they were in fear
of their lives.

"But these Poles and Lithuanians are taking English jobs. They should stay in
their own countries and fight for better jobs there."

Like many of her fellow residents in the town of Boston, Whiley's solution to
the influx of foreigners-the town's population has been swollen 25% in recent
years by the arrival of an estimated 15,000 immigrants - is to vote for the
farright British National party. The BNP is particularly strong in this corner
of Lincolnshire. Last year the BNP candidate David Owens won a seat on the
borough council with a tally that easily surpassed the Labour, Conservative,
Liberal Democrat and United Kingdom Independence party votes put together.

Last week Owens almost won a seat on the county council - losing by only 16
votes to a Conservative.

The people of Boston are not alone in their concern about migrants. A YouGov
poll last month showed immigration as the issue of most concern to voters after
the economy.

That is unlikely to change in the near future. Figures to be released this week
by the Office for National Statistics are expected to show that Britain's
population will expand by nearly 2m during the course of the next parliament
alone, almost half because of immigration. It is likely to fuel anxieties about
immigrants undercutting wages and putting extra strain on schools and hospitals.

While the mainstream parties squirm and try to avoid the issue, the BNP has been
quick to capitalise on it. As well as seeing the election of its first two
European MPs in June, the BNP now boasts about 50 local and county level
councillors.

Its profile will be further boosted on Thursday when Nick Griffin, its leader,
who is an MEP, appears on the BBC programme Question Time. Complaints about
Griffin show no sign of abating: on Thursday Alan Johnson, the home secretary,
challenged David Dimbleby, the programme's host, to withdraw the invitation to
the BNP because of its "foul and despicable" character.

That was highlighted last week when the party was ordered to change its
constitution, which bans non-whites from being members. Such prejudice has led
critics to label it neo-Nazi. Griffin reluctantly agreed to consider admitting
non-white members only after facing the threat of legal action by the Equality
and Human Rights Commission.

Why has the BNP been allowed to pander to the worries of the country without
serious competition from the mainstream parties? And why is immigration still
the issue that dare not speak its name in British politics? FRANK FIELD, the
Labour MP for Birkenhead and former welfare minister, is in no doubt about the
causes of the BNP's support.

"A lot of Labour voters are now voting for them and we have allowed it to
happen," he said. "My only surprise is that the BNP vote hasn't been even
higher. For a lot of people they think parliament has turned their ears off,
closed their eyes and sealed their mouths on the big burning issue."

Field is co-chairman of the cross-party group on balanced migration. The group,
jointly led by Nicholas Soames, the Tory MP for Mid Sussex, a former minister
and former shadow defence secretary, believes action is needed to stop the
population spiralling to unmanageable proportions.

That the population is getting bigger, and that it is due to immigration, is
beyond dispute.

In 2007 net immigration reached 237,000, although last year it dropped to an
estimated 150,000 as the effects of the recession put off economic migrants.
According to forecasters, the UK's current population of 61.4m will grow by
10.5m over the next 22 years, and reach nearly 80m by 2056.

"Every million more immigrants means creating a city the size of Birmingham,"
said Field. "If we let immigration rise we will have more people sharing less
public services."

His group had calculated that even by 2013 England and Wales will need an extra
96,000 school places, two-thirds of which will be for children with at least one
parent born outside the UK. The cost to the taxpayer of providing these places
would be £1 billion over five years.

Both Labour and the Conservatives have produced policies to curb immigration.
These apply, of course, only to people from outside the EU as those from most of
the 27 member countries have the automatic right to live and work in the UK.

The Poles and Lithuanians of Boston are here to stay - if they want. Migrants
from EU countries are much more likely to visit the UK on a temporary basis for
work, and then return home.

Analysis of the latest annual figures suggests that non-EU citizens account for
almost 90% of the total of net immigrants, a trend that is expected to continue.

Most come from Africa or Asia, with Somalia, India and Pakistan leading the
countries from which those seeking British residency originate.

The government now operates a points system to regulate the number of migrants
who come to Britain for temporary work and then stay indefinitely.

The Conservatives have promised to put a cap on the number of work permits
issued, but have given no idea of the level they intend to set.

Field said the policies were too little, too late, however. "We are asking for
two locks on population control," he said. "One is to prevent people coming here
when others can do the job. The second is how many of those that we then agree
can become citizens.

"To his great credit Alan Johnson has actually embraced that and it is out to
review, but there's no reason anyone in the country would know because nobody
talks about it."

For years the mainstream parties have shied away from addressing the issue.

"It is as though part of their political brains has been paralysed not to talk
about immigration because it was politically incorrect to do so," said Field.

Speaking out has often meant trouble for any politician brave, or foolish,
enough to do so.

Margaret Hodge, a culture minister and MP for Barking, east London, has twice
suffered condemnation for broaching uncomfortable truths, including the fact
that constituents were voting for the BNP in local elections because nobody else
was listening to their concerns.

This weekend she said there was a need for "an honest discussion" about
migration. "If we don't start tackling perceived unfairnesses we are opening the
gate to people going down the protest route and voting BNP," she said. "They
give a false perspective, that is what is so outrageous. They very often take
something with a kernel of truth and build it into a big lie.

"We should welcome migration.

And if you accept that, then you have to tackle a perceived unfairness in the
distribution of public resources. We need a debate around that."

For Hodge, who has 12 BNP councillors on her local authority, confronting and
even working with the party is an unavoidable reality. "I don't buy the argument
that you don't engage with the BNP," she said.

Although others in the Labour hierarchy may feel differently, attempting to
ignore the far right in order not to dignify it with attention is no longer an
option. Following the BBC's decision to grant Griffin a place on its Question
Time panel, the mainstream parties have had to select the most appropriate
candidates to take him on. The Tories are to field Baroness Warsi, the shadow
cohesion minister, who was born in Yorkshire to Pakistani parents, while the
government has opted for Jack Straw, the justice secretary and MP for
multiethnic Blackburn. Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman
and Bonnie Greer, the black American-born columnist and critic, will also be on
the panel.

The BBC insists it is treating the programme the same as any other. But its
incendiary potential is considerable.

BNP supporters are to be allowed into the audience in order to "ensure a broad
spectrum of views are represented", while far-left groups are threatening to
picket the recording, which is set to take place at the BBC's west London
studios in Wood Lane. The local council has expressed concerns about the
potential for violence.

The BBC is unrepentant about allowing Griffin, who has been convicted of
inciting racial hatred, a platform.

"We are obligated to act impartially towards all political parties registered
with the Electoral Commission," said a spokesman. "What we have to do is take
into account the relative political support." The BBC's hand wasforced by the
BNP's gains in June's European elections when Griffin and Andrew Brons became
the party's first MEPs, winning up to 10% of their regional votes.

WHO votes for such people? According to an unpublished analysis by the data
company Experian, more than half of BNP voters come from the socalled
"industrial heritage" social grouping.

Insular, self-reliant, disillusioned and generally fearful, they are skilled
workers now reduced to working in unfulfilling jobs in service stations and call
centres and forced to compete with immigrant labour. Onetrait is a preference
for holidaying in caravans, partly to avoid mixing with others.

"Places like Portsmouth, Plymouth and Stoke-on-Trent have been badly hit and
what the BNP has to say about immigration has a real resonance with these
groups," said Richard Webber of Experian. In Boston, the level of support for
the BNP means local politicians cannot afford to ignore immigration in the way
national leaders have.

Andrea Jenkyns, the victorious Tory candidate in last Thursday's county council
election, admitted migrant workers were an issue. "There've been problems with
them going to the toilet in public and they've been stealing ducks from the pond
to eat," she said.

Paul Kenny, a Labour prospective parliamentary candidate for the area, said
employers were behaving irresponsibly by encouraging more migrants while the
town's housing stock was under strain. He said: "We should be trying to
discourage people from coming to Boston if there isn't proper housing for them."

For many voters in Boston and other blighted areas, however, such words come too
late. Isabel Tonner, 56, a retired civil servant, voted for the BNP in the last
two elections because, she said, they promised to deal with antisocial behaviour
caused by some immigrants.

"I can't take my dogs out for a walk in the woods near my house any more," she
said. "The Poles and Lithuanians are up there in their cars blatantly taking
drugs and drinking and urinating everywhere."

Then Tonner added the qualification that many who vote for the BNP feel
compelled to voice. "I'm not racist," she insisted. "I love watching Will Smith
on the telly."

Additional reporting: Lois Rogers

IN THIS SECTION

The BNP won't go away if we ignore it

MARTIN IVENS, P21

YouGov poll

The British National party leader Nick Griffin will appear on the BBC's Question
Time programme this week. Which of the following best fits your view?

The BBC was right to invite him, as the BNP has two members of the European
parliament   was wrong, as it should not provide platform for such extreme and
objectionable views 23%

'' A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK PARLIAMENT IS BLIND TO THIS BURNING ISSUE

Don't know 14% 63% The BBC 63% The BBC

You don't have to be a racist to talk about immigration... ... but it helps Who
let him in? It'll be far right on the night STRAW GRIFFIN GREER DIMBLEBYDIMBLEBY

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday

THE MUSLIM BACKLASH

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER

LENGTH: 306 words


RIGHT-wing politician Geert Wilders finally arrived in Britain yesterday to be
greeted by angry protests from radical Muslims.

The Dutch MP overturned a government ban to arrive for a brief visit guarded by
a heavy police presence.

He had been barred in February amid fears he would incite violence by showing
his controversial film linking the Koran to terrorism.

At a packed press conference at Westminster, Mr Wilders, 46, claimed his visit
was a victory for freedom of speech. The leader of the Dutch Freedom Party
defended his criticism of Islam and his call for the Koran to be banned.

He had originally planned to meet the media outside but decided to stay inside
following advice from security officers.

A crowd of around 20 Muslim men chanted 'Wilders go to hell' and 'Sharia for the
UK' . They held

up placards reading 'Sharia for the Netherlands' and 'Islam will be superior'.

Protester Abu Mousa said: 'What he says deserves the death sentence under
Islam.' Sayful Islam, said he wanted to see Mr Wilders 'tried in an Islamic
court' for 'insultingthe Prophet'. He added: 'We need to put this dog on a
leash.'

Mr Wilders said: 'I am very proud that people ñ even if they totally disagree
with me ñ can use their democratic right to protest.' His 17-minute documentary
features verses from the Koran alongside images of the September 11 and July 7
terrorist attacks.

The MP went on: 'I have a problem with the Islamic ideology, the Islamic
culture, because I feel that the more Islam we get in our societies, the less
freedom we get.' Mr Wilders, who is facing trial at home for inciting hatred,
insisted: 'I am not extreme, I am not a racist.'

In February, Mr Wilders, here on the invitation of UKIP peer Lord Pearson, was
sent back at Heathrow. But his visit went ahead after an immigration tribunal
overturned this decision on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday

EUROPE;
MEPs fought;
to keep family on payroll

BYLINE: Jon Swaine and Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; MPs' EXPENSES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 224  words


BRITISH MEPs are paying relatives hundreds of thousands of pounds to work for
them by exploiting an exemption they insisted be included in rules banning the
practice.

Regulations introduced this year prevented newly-elected MEPs from using their
pounds 184,000 staffing allowances to employ family members. However, amid
threats of legal action, a "British clause'' allowed serving MEPs already paying
relatives to continue doing so until 2014.

At least 17 British MEPs - including the Labour, Tory and Ukip leaders in Europe
- were still paying relatives from public funds, The Daily Telegraph has found.

Chris Davies, a Liberal Democrat MEP, said it was impossible to justify. "A
relationship between the MEP and the staff member means we can't know whether
they are suitably qualified or working 100 per cent of the time, as people would
expect,'' he said.

The rules were agreed last year after being proposed by Ingeborg Graessle, a
German MEP. She said a "very serious conflict of interest'' was being allowed
under the previous system. Nearly half of the 72 British MEPs employed a
relative during the previous parliamentary term.

Several British MEPs were known to be furious at the rules. Senior members from
the main parties told officials that a ban on employment of family members could
leave the parliament facing unfair dismissal cases.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

JUST GEERT OUT!;
Fury at visit from anti-Islam Dutch MP

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 163 words


A DUTCH MP who believes Islam is "fascist" sparked furious Muslim protests as he
flew into Britain.

Hardliners demanded "Islamic punishment" for controversial Geert Wilders for his
views.

Police held back a 40-strong crowd as the politician met UK Independence Party
peer Lord Pearson in London yesterday.

Wilders said: "I've a problem with the Islamic ideology, the Islamic culture,
because I feel the more Islam that we get in our societies, the less freedom we
get."

The leader of the Dutch Freedom Party was allowed into Britain after overturning
a Government decision to bar him from the country.

The 46-year-old, who wants the Koran banned, insisted: "I am not extreme, I am
not a racist either."

He has been under 24-hour protection for the past five years after receiving
death threats.

But Abu Muaz, from Islam For UK, said: "If I were to say some of the things he's
said, I would be arrested under the Terrorism Act. But because there is a war on
Muslims, he gets an easy ride."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VISIT: Geert Wilders

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ASYLUM FIASCO;
British jet taking failed migrants home to Iraq is turned away. Now they are
back here for good

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 474  words


BRITAIN'S asylum system descended further into chaos yesterday after a
plane-load of Iraqis was turned away at Baghdad - and sent back to Britain.

The shaming return of the GBP 250,000 taxpayerfunded floght highlighted the
Government's incompetence in tackling illegal immigration.

And it prompted calls for reforms to stop more bogus migrants breaching our
borders.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "People around the
world must be laughing at us. The simple fact is that if we want to stop this
sort of expensive chaos repeating then we have to make it harder for migrants to
enter."

Tory immigration spokesman Damian Green said: "This is pretty incompetent. If
British taxpayers' money is spent on these flights, then the Government should
know in advance that no one will be sent back to Britain. Ministers need to
provide a proper explanation."

The latest fiasco came when a Government-chartered aircraft set off from
Stansted in Essex carrying 40 failed asylum seekers. It landed in the Iraqi
capital on Thursday.

The Baghdad authorities allowed only a few refugees off the plane and then
blocked reentry for the rest.

The remaining Iraqis were sent on a five-and-a-half hour return flight to
Britain where they were locked up at a detention centre at Gatwick yesterday
while Home Office officials tried to sort out the diplomatic wrangle. A source
said if the dispute cannot be resolved, it was likely the bogus migrants will
have to remain in the UK.

A Home Office spokesman said it was working with the Iraqi government to avoid a
repeat of this embarrassing first mass airlift of failed asylum seekers to
Baghdad.

He declined to explain why the Iraqi officials blocked entry but witnesses
claimed it was because UK Border Agency staff had forgotten to make provision to
take the migrants from Baghdad to Basra.

A spokeswoman for the human rights group Refugee and Migrant Justice attacked
the Government's blundering.

She said: "One would have expected with such a high-profile remove, the Home
Office would have sorted this out with the Iraqi authorities. For such a
high-profile group to be returned is unprecedented."

Mark Wallace, of campaign group the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This was a
costly farce that taxpayers can ill afford.

It's ridiculous that the Government can't even deport people successfully.

"Ironically, it seems that the Iraqi immigration service have somewhat stricter
standards than our own failing agencies."

Lin Homer, chief executive o f the UK Border Agency, said: "We are establishing
a new route to southern Iraq and have successfully returned 10 Iraqis to the
Baghdad area.

"This is an important first step for us.

"We are working closely with the Iraq government to iron out the issues which
led to some of the returnees bein g sent back, and expect to carry out another
flight in the future."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

ASYLUM FIASCO;
British jet taking failed migrants home to Iraq is turned away. Now they are
back here for good

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 449  words


BRITAIN'S asylum system descended further into chaos yesterday after a
plane-load of Iraqis was turned away at Baghdad - and sent back to Britain.

The shaming return of the GBP 250,000 taxpayerfunded fl ght highlighted the
Government's incompetence in tackling illegal immigration.

And it prompted calls for reforms to stop more bogus migrants breaching our
borders.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "People around the
world must be laughing at us. The simple fact is that if we want to stop this
sort of expensive chaos repeating then we have to make it harder for migrants to
enter."

Tory immigration spokesman Damian Green said: "This is pretty incompetent.

If British taxpayers' money is spent on these flights, then the Government
should know in advance that no one will be sent back to Britain. Ministers need
to provide a proper explanation."

The latest fiasco came when a Government-chartered aircraft set off from
Stansted in Essex carrying 40 failed asylum seekers. It landed in the Iraqi
capital on Thursday.

The Baghdad authorities allowed only a few refugees off the plane and then
blocked re-entry for the rest.

The remaining Iraqis were sent on a five-and-a-half hour return flight to
Britain where they were locked up at a detention centre at Gatwick yesterday
while Home Office officials tried to sort out the diplomatic wrangle. A source
said it is likely the bogus migrants will have to remain in the UK.

A Home Office spokesman said it was working with the Iraqi government to avoid a
repeat of this embarrassing first mass airlift of failed asylum seekers to
Baghdad.

He declined to explain why the Iraqis blocked entry but witnesses claimed it was
because UK Border Agency staff had forgotten to make provision to take the
migrants from Baghdad to Basra.

A spokeswoman for human rights group Refugee and Migrant Justice attacked the
Government's blundering. She said: "One would have expected with such a
high-profile remove, the Home Office would have sorted this out with the Iraqi
authorities. For such a highprofile group to be returned is unprecedented."

Mark Wallace, of campaign group the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's ridiculous
that the Government can't even deport people successfully.

"Ironically, it seems that the Iraqi immigration service have somewhat stricter
standards than our own failing agencies."

Lin Homer, chief executive of the UK Border Agency, said: "We are establishing a
new route to southern Iraq and have successfully returned 10 Iraqis to the
Baghdad area.

"We are working with the Iraq government to iron out the issues which led to
some of the returnees being sent back, and expect to carry out another flight in
the future."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TORY MP DAMIAN GREEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Dutch MP greeted by hate mob

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 212  words


ANGRY Muslims held a noisy rally in London yesterday as outspoken Dutch
politician Geert Wilders made his controversial visit to Britain.

Around 40 protesters chanted "Muslims rise up", "Shariah for the UK" and
"Wilders burn in hell" when the Freedom Party leader arrived at Westminster.

Demonstrators also held up posters reading "Geert Wilders deserves Islamic
punishment" and "Islam will dominate the world". Amid chaotic scenes, a news
conference outside the House of Lords was moved to a nearby office on police
advice after a protester threw an egg.

Mr Wilders - a vociferous critic of Islam who wants the Koran and the burkha
banned in the Netherlands - was invited to Britain by UK Independence Party peer
Lord Rannoch.

When she was Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith banned the visit over fears that it
could pose a threat to public security.

But her ruling was overturned by the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal this week.

Mr Wilders, 46, said: "I am very happy to be here. I love the UK. Being here
today in the UK is a victory. It is a victory for freedom of speech.

"It is ridiculous that the UK Government ruled that my presence here would in
any way lead to violence."

Lord Rannoch said he hoped the visit would provoke a debate about the position
of Islam in British society.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Muslims protesting in London yesterday at the visit of controversial
Dutch politician Geert Wilders, inset

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

French open new camp for UK-bound illegals

BYLINE: From Nick Fagge in Steenvoorde, France

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 169  words


A PROMISED French crackdown on illegal immigration was exposed as a sham
yesterday after the opening of a new camp for British-bound migrants.

The centre - next to the last motorway service station before Dunkirk and Calais
- is equipped with beds, a kitchen, a lounge area and has washing facilities. It
can support dozens of migrants seeking asylum in the UK. The tent city opened
this week at Steenvoorde, a village near Lille, despite repeated pledges to halt
the tide of illegal immigration.

Last month French Immigration Minister Eric Besson led the destruction of The
Jungle, the migrant shanty town in Calais.

But the new camp has the full backing of the local mayor who is a member of
President Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party.

Tory immigration spokesman Damian Green said: "Clearing The Jungle will have
been a complete waste of time if this sort of thing continues."

And UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "Opening this site just yards from the last
service station before the coast takes French cynicism to the extreme."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday

National: Far-right MP basks in limelight after overturning ban to enter
Britain: Protests follow arrival of Dutch Islamophobe: Ukip peer says event is
free speech 'celebration'

BYLINE: Esther Addley

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 534 words


Amid a storm of publicity and accompanied by predictably vocal protest, Geert
Wilders, the far-right Dutch politician, landed in Britain yesterday, having
overturned a Home Office ban on entering the country imposed eight months ago.

Wilders, who leads his own Freedom party in the Netherlands, was prevented from
entering Britain in February by Jacqui Smith, then home secretary, who argued
his presence was likely to incite racial hatred. Wilders is an outspoken critic
of Islam, having called it "the ideology of a retarded culture" and compared the
Qur'an to Mein Kampf.

Having overturned the ban this week at an immigration tribunal, Wilders claimed
a victory for freedom of speech at a hastily relocated press conference close to
the House of Commons. An original plan to address the media on College Green,
outside parliament, had to be abandoned after a group shouting Islamist slogans
threatened to disrupt the gathering.

"It was of course ridiculous that the UK government thought my presence would in
any way lead to violence," Wilders said. "I am a democratically elected
politician. My main message is that I have a problem with the Islamicisation of
our societies . . . I believe the more Islam we get in our free societies the
less freedom we will get."

He was fighting, he said, for "what Muslims call kaffirs, all those non-Muslims,
all those women, those apostates, those renegades, those homosexuals, (who) will
pay a high price if Islam became more dominant in our society".

Asked about the millions of peaceable Muslims who felt profoundly insulted by
his views, he said: "My aim is not to insult anybody. If somebody does get
insulted in the process, this is not my problem." It was not his wish, he said,
"to extradite Muslims who are adhering to the law. This is not my cup of tea."

The government's attempt to ban Wilders, after lobbying from Lord Ahmed and some
Muslim organisations, was provoked by a film he planned to screen at the House
of Lords that shows the aftermath of Islamist terror atrocities, including 9/11
and the 7/7 bombings, intercut with selective verses from the Qur'an.

The film, called Fitna (Arabic for strife), denounces Islam as a "fascist"
religion and is disturbing and almost laughably crude. Wilders, who was invited
by the Ukip peer Lord Pearson, said he planned to screen the film in the Lords
at a later date.

Pearson said he did not agree with Wilders that the Qur'an should be banned, but
called yesterday's event a "celebration" for free speech. He called on "the 98%
of the Muslim community who are mild, peace-loving people" to "get up off their
bottoms and take on their violent co-religionists who do base their violent
actions on the Qur'an".

Not unhelpfully for Wilders' case, a group of about 20 young men unveiled
placards as he was due to arrive with slogans such as: Islam will dominate the
world: freedom can go to hell.

Mohammed Shafiq of the Ramadhan Foundation said Wilders had a right to be in
Britain, "because we believe in freedom of speech in this country, no matter how
abhorrent someone's views are".

The Home Office said the government was "disappointed" by the overturning of the
ban, adding that the government opposed all extremism.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday

Saturday: Does the panel accept racists?: The BBC says it was obliged to offer
the BNP a seat on Question Time, but the main parties' decision to share the
platform is controversial

BYLINE: Stuart Jeffries

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1790 words


Nick Griffin has already been on Question Time. It happened in May and was,
unless you're a card- carrying BNP member, the very image of hell. The audience
consisted of BNP supporters, the questions all came from BNP supporters, David
Dimbleby was replaced by the BNP's Cornwall organiser and the panel consisted of
BNP electoral candidates. In the unlikely event you want to see the show, you
can find footage on YouTube.

The BNP leader's appearance on the real BBC Question Time on Thursday will be
different. "There'll be an enormous demonstration outside BBC TV centre," says
Weyman Bennett, joint secretary of Unite Against Fascism. "There'll be people
who fought against the Nazis, Jews who survived the Holocaust, Muslims who feel
insulted, LGBTs (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people). Thousands of
others, too, who don't think a fascist with a criminal record should be given a
platform. We've never been this popular." The BBC and the local authority are
now arguing about who will pick up the tab for policing the protest.

This week a court case brought by the Equality and Human Rights Commission
forced Griffin to agree to present a revised constitution to his party, which
would allow non-white people to join. Inside the BBC studio, Griffin will, or so
fellow panellists insist, get an even rougher ride than he had in court. But
won't his appearance alongside Labour justice secretary Jack Straw, Tory
community cohesion and social action spokeswoman Sayeeda Warsi, Lib Dem home
affairs spokesman Chris Huhne and African-American playwright and critic Bonnie
Greer normalise a party historically regarded as beyond the pale? "Not if I've
got anything to do with it," says Huhne, as tigerishly as the MP for Eastleigh
can manage. "There's going to be nothing to stop me interjecting - as I have in
the past on the programme - and David Dimbleby is quite prepared to ask a
difficult follow-up question. So it won't be easy for Griffin."

How do the rest of the panel propose to debate on the show? Warsi and Griffin
have, unexpectedly, one thing in common: neither returns my call. Greer won't
come to the phone when I ring, leaving husband David to tell me: "She's decided
not to talk about it before the broadcast. But it's certainly boiling up." It
certainly is: later in the day, Greer's theatrical PR rings to plug the looming
West End run of Greer's play about racism, Marilyn and Ella, which may be
unwittingly propitious, timing-wise.

Jack Straw emails me his article from the Lancashire Telegraph. "Had we decided
not to take part, the main winners might have been the BNP themselves," he
writes. "I've always believed that the best way to tackle extremism like theirs
is to expose it through argument."

But surely not "always", Mr Straw: Labour, like the Tories and Lib Dems, has
historically refused to share platforms with the likes of Griffin because to
debate with people they believe are racists and fascists would give them
credibility. Not sharing platforms with the BNP has been the historic Labour
line. "It was a prior custom rather than a policy that we wouldn't share
platforms with the BNP," clarifies a Labour spokesman. "That's now changed."
That said, Straw's cabinet colleagues Peter Hain and Alan Johnson say they would
not have appeared with Griffin on Question Time if invited.

How did things come to this pass - that a political pariah gets to share a
platform with representatives from mainstream political parties in front of 3
million British viewers? The BBC line is clear. "Ever since Ukip and the Greens
won representation at a national level, they have appeared from time to time on
Question Time," says Ric Bailey, the BBC's chief political adviser, who was
Question Time's executive editor until 2006. "(Putting) the BNP on to the panel
would be a continuation of the approach which recognises that the level of
electoral support is a relevant factor in making these judgments." Griffin and
Andrew Bron were elected as MEPs in May, giving the BNP national representation
for the first time and requiring - or so runs the argument - the BBC to give
their party airtime. Bailey cites the BBC's commitment to "due impartiality" in
the corporation's editorial guidelines.

In fact, says Bailey, 6% of voters - nearly 1 million Britons - opted for the
BNP in the European elections and the party also has more than 50 local
councillors. "The BBC could not apply different standards to different parties
because of their particular policies. That would be a breach of our charter."
Indeed, Bailey argues that the BNP could have taken the BBC to the high court -
and won - for not allowing them on Question Time.

Hain, the Welsh secretary, argues that the BBC is going too far in "protecting
the right of the minority who have voted BNP: That right is already adequately
upheld in BNP party election broadcasts, and when they are interviewed on
political programmes such as Today or Newsnight." He also suggests the BBC
strongarmed Labour into putting up a spokesman on the show by threatening to
leave an empty seat if they did not. Bailey denies this: "There was no question
of us empty-seating Labour. There was no doubt, because of conversations we had
with the party, that Labour would put somebody up."

I ask Bailey why Bonnie Greer was deemed an appropriate panellist - wouldn't
Liberty director Shami Chakrabarti or Equality and Human Rights Commission head
Trevor Phillips be better equipped to take on Griffin? "The shown is
multi-layered and she brings something to the programme that the politicians
don't," replies Bailey.

The BBC's case for allowing Griffin to appear on Question Time is challenged by
New Statesman political editor, James Macintyre, a former producer on the
programme. "Question Time are being dishonest about having him (Griffin) on.
They've always wanted him on and I went to meetings where I had to argue against
that position. They lost the battle with management then and now, after two
years' lobbying, they have won."

Question Time's editor, Ed Havard, did not respond to requests for an interview
to confirm or deny these charges, but Bailey tells me: "There was no battle with
management. Every year we would ask whether smaller parties such as the BNP or
the Green party had enough popular support to warrant appearing on the show.
Until they won the seats in June we decided they didn't warrant time on the show
according to our guidelines."

Macintyre disagrees: "It's not about the election victories, that's an excuse.
My worry is that the show is going to give the BNP spurious legitimacy."

That theory received support last month when two BNP apparatchiks (one of them
party publicity director Mark Collett) appeared on Radio 1's Newsbeat and,
during a two-minute interview, were able to claim, unchallenged, that black
London-born England footballer Ashley Cole was not "ethnically British". "That
was quite horrific and an embarrassment to the BBC's journalistic standards,"
says Jack Straw's special adviser Mark Davies. Bailey, though, defends the
Newsbeat interview: "There are different styles of interview. If you just put
them up against the wall and get John Humphrys to nut them that's not always
going to get results. Sometimes if you let them follow their own line of
argument they will reveal things that wouldn't otherwise."

Macintyre worries that Question Time is "the wrong format". "It represents the
establishment - in fact it represents it too much. I'm totally in favour of
Griffin going on the Today programme and being grilled on immigration, but
Question Time isn't like that. It allows speakers to pontificate about issues.
They'll be asked about topical issues like MPs' expenses and Griffin will be
able to talk about them as though he's a normal politician. He isn't."

Huhne says that, although he and the other representatives of the mainstream
parties didn't seek a confrontation ("I wouldn't go out of my way to share a
platform, but once the BBC decided they were going to give the BNP a platform,
we had to go fight them,") he will do the dirty job of confronting Griffin's
errors. Why, I ask Huhne, didn't the Lib Dems decide to leave an empty chair on
Question Time - it would have been a principled stand. "They wouldn't have left
it empty. They'd have filled it with somebody - probably you." Sadly, I have
other plans that evening.

So who will be in the audience? A statement on the Unite Against Fascism website
says: "We encourage all anti-fascists in the London area to come to the
demonstration and to apply for tickets."

"You can be sure that the BNP will have been applying for tickets too," says
Huhne, who adds: "The audience is always screened to keep troublemakers out."

Macintyre is less sanguine about the screening process. "It really amounts to a
couple of questions posed by researchers. BNP supporters can easily lie and get
on to the show. It'll be pretty chaotic and it's absolutely inevitable that
Griffin will be cheered by some supporters.

"Six months before a general election - is that the right image for the BBC to
be pushing of this racist party? The BBC has got itself into a terrible mess."

I ask Straw whether the Labour party risks getting into a similar mess by
joining the TV debate. He believes not, and suggests the BNP's recent electoral
success is based on immigration, housing and the economy. "I think (voters)
supported the BNP as a protest vote, perhaps because of anger over MPs'
expenses, or due to concerns about particular issues that they don't feel the
mainstream parties are tackling," he says. "What we need to do is to convince
those who have been attracted to the BNP that supporting them was the wrong
decision." The justice secretary argues that this is what happened in his
Blackburn constituency: Labour won the political argument and so took seats back
from the BNP on the local council.

But Labour's surrender of the no-platform policy makes many queasy, including
Dagenham MP Jon Cruddas - one of few Labour MPs to have directly campaigned
against the BNP. Cruddas agonises over whether Straw has made the right
decision. He worries that the no-platform stance offered diminishing returns
because it was devised when the BNP was not so electorally successful.

"It's a high-wire act," he told a meeting at the Labour conference this month.
"I don't know what the precise solution to this is." But Cruddas says of Straw:
"He knows the BNP from his own back yard. I think he could take it to them."

Straw agrees. On Thursday night, says the justice secretary, he will expose the
BNP for what they really are - "far-right extremists with a racist ideology
which causes immense harm in what is otherwise the most tolerant country in the
world." That, at least, is the idea.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

KORAN SLUR MP SPARKS MOB ANGER;
PROTEST

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 137 words


A DUTCH MP who called Islamic culture "retarded" and compared the Koran to Mein
Kampf sparked angry protests when he visited the Houses of Parliament yesterday.

Police held back a crowd of Muslim demonstrators as leader of the far-right
Freedom Party, Geert Wilders, met Ukip peer Lord Pearson.

The protests meant a planned press conference outside the building had to be
called off.

Wilders was allowed into the country after overturning a Home Office ban.
Speaking from inside Westminster yesterday, he said his visit had been "a
victory for freedom of speech".

The protesters said Mr Wilders, who faces trial at home for inciting hatred, was
an "enemy of Islam" and called for Sharia law in the Netherlands and Britain.

Protester Abu Muaz said: "Because there is a war on terrorism, he gets an easy
ride. He should be punished."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAR RIGHT Geert Wilders

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday

Britain - Far-right Dutch MP arrives in Britain

BYLINE: John Millington

LENGTH: 287 words


EXTREME right-wing Dutch MP Geert Wilders landed in Britain yesterday after the
High Court overturned a government ban on his visit.

Mr Wilders, who is leader of the Freedom Party, was originally barred access to
the country in February over fears his presence would spark inter-racial
violence.

The Dutch MP gained prominence for his 15-minute anti-Islamic film Fitna, which
depicts Islam as synonymous with terrorism.

It is unclear why Mr Wilder is in Britain as he has promised not to show his
film.

Nevertheless, sitting next to UKIP peer Lord Pearson, Mr Wilder declared his
successful arrival a "victory" for freedom of speech.

Commenting on the Mr Wilders's visit, a Home Office spokesman said Mr Wilder
would be under close scrutiny.

"Mr Wilders's statements and behaviour during a visit will inevitably impact on
any future decisions to admit him," he said.

The government is still deciding whether to appeal against the decision by the
Asylum and Immigration Tribunal to allow Mr Wilder to enter Britain.

Muslim groups gave a mixed response to Mr Wilder's visit.

The Muslim Council of Britain was unequivocal, branding Mr Wilders "a relentless
preacher of hate."

Secretary-general Muhammad Abdul Bari said: "At a time of heightened tension,
with the unprecedented rise of the far right, we must all pull together and
focus on points of unity and cohesion.

"Our unhealthy obsession with divisive figures only bolsters their objective to
sow discord on the streets of Britain."

However, Mohammed Shafiq from the Ramadan Foundation said it was right that Mr
Wilders had been allowed into Britain but declared that "his hatred is no
different to the intolerance that the BNP and the far right are preaching."

johnm@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Muslims' anger at Wilders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


A RIGHT-wing Dutch MP who wants the Koran BANNED faced Muslim protests when he
visited Britain yesterday.

Geert Wilders, 46, was allowed in after overturning a Government ban. But cops
had to restrain demonstrators in Westminster as he met UKIP's Lord Pearson - who
called the visit a "victory of freedom of speech".

The head of the Dutch National Party hit out at Islam, saying: "The more Islam
that we get, the less freedom we get."

Wilders, who has 24-hour protection after receiving death threats, added that
Muslim attitudes over gays were "retarded".

Abu Muaz, of Islam For UK, said the MP should be arrested for his remarks. But
he added: "Because there is a war on Muslims, he gets an easy ride."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Protests... Wilders

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

Children should have lessons on the EU, says MEP

BYLINE: Leigh Phillips in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 367  words


MEPs are calling for school pupils to be forced to take European Union lessons
to counter "lies'' about Brussels.

Leaders of the centre-Right EPP grouping in the European Parliament say there
should be compulsory classes for 14-year-olds in all member states.

The calls are being led by Mario David, a Portuguese MEP who was chief of staff
to José Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, when he was the
country's prime minister.

He claimed the controversy surrounding the Lisbon Treaty demonstrated there was
widespread ignorance of the EU's work.

"All the debates about the constitution and then the Lisbon Treaty showed a
great deal of lying, cheating and mistrust about the EU,'' he said.

"In Ireland people were told there was going to be abortion across the EU, that
young men would be conscripted into a European army. This was a bunch of lies.

"Knowing and understanding, from a young age, the principles, the procedures and
the successful history of the European Union, the generations of tomorrow will
be immune to any distortion of the perception of the role of the EU and will
much better embrace the advantages of this unique project of voluntary sharing
of sovereignty.''

He said the curriculum would initially include a series of five half-day
seminars on the history of the union.

It would cover the "founding fathers'', the different treaties, enlargement, EU
functions, the role of the union in the world and "how the EU affects everyday
lives''.

Mr David said he wanted cross-party support for his plans and hoped it would
take less than two years to get EU studies into schools.

He plans to present a report to the European Parliament calling on the
commission to develop a detailed proposal, which would then have to be adopted
by member states.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party (Ukip), said: "I loathe
the idea, but I am sure it will be passed.''

He described the proposal as an extension of a scheme in which British
university professors were funded to carry out projects on European integration
in higher education that "teach EU interpretations of history and economics''.

The EPP grouping is the one from which British Conservatives split earlier this
year.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

National: Far-right Dutch MP to visit UK

BYLINE: Adam Gabbatt and agencies

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 237 words


The far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders is expected to enter the UK today
after winning an appeal against the decision to turn him away in February.

On that occasion, the Freedom party leader was refused entry by the Home Office
after arriving at Heathrow. He had been due to show his film, Fitna, at the
House of Lords.

The Asylum and Immigration Tribunal, an executive agency of the Ministry of
Justice, overturned the ruling on Tuesday in a decision said to have
"disappointed" the Home Office. The home secretary, Alan Johnson, was "not
minded" to refuse Wilders entry to the country, a spokesman said, but the Home
Office warned that the politician's "statements and behaviour" could lead to his
being turned away at a later date.

In February, Wilders, who is accused of Islamophobia, was refused entry after a
letter sent on behalf of Jacqui Smith, who was then home secretary, said his
presence could lead to "inter-faith violence".

Lord Pearson, a Ukip member, had invited Wilders to screen the 17-minute Fitna,
a film that calls the Qur'an "fascist". Wilders, 46, was reported to be planning
to return to London in part to talk to Pearson and to thank his lawyers. He
would not be showing the film, a press officer said.

Wilders, who faces trial in the Netherlands for discrimination and inciting
racial hatred, said he was pleased that the decision had been overturned, saying
it was a victory for freedom of speech.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

Far-right MP basks in limelight after overturning ban to enter Britain

BYLINE: Esther Addleyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 704 words

ABSTRACT

Geert Wilders, Dutch leader of the far right Freedom party flew to Britain today
for lunch and a press conference

FULL TEXT

Amid a storm of publicity and accompanied by predictably vocal protest, Geert
Wilders, the far-right Dutch politician, landed in Britain today , having
overturned a Home Office ban on entering the country imposed eight months ago.

Wilders, who leads his own Freedom party in the Netherlands, was prevented from
entering Britain in February by Jacqui Smith, then home secretary, who argued
his presence was likely to incite racial hatred. Wilders is an outspoken critic
of Islam, having called it "the ideology of a retarded culture" and compared the
Qur'an to Mein Kampf.

Having overturned the ban this week at an immigration tribunal, Wilders claimed
a victory for freedom of speech at a hastily relocated press conference close to
the House of Commons. An original plan to address the media on College Green,
outside parliament, had to be abandoned after a group shouting Islamist slogans
threatened to disrupt the gathering.

"It was of course ridiculous that the UK government thought my presence would in
any way lead to violence," Wilders told a scrum of TV cameras and reporters,
admitted to a building owned by Westminster Abbey only after being searched by
his personal security men. "I am a democratically elected politician. My main
message is that I have a problem with the Islamicisation of our societies ... I
believe the more Islam we get in our free societies the less freedom we will
get."

He was fighting, he said, for "what Muslims call kaffirs, all those non-Muslims,
all those women, those apostates, those renegades, those homosexuals, [who] will
pay a high price if Islam became more dominant in our society".

Asked about the millions of peaceable Muslims who felt profoundly insulted by
his views, he said: "My aim is not to insult anybody. If somebody does get
insulted in the process, this is not my problem." It was not his wish, he said,
"to extradite Muslims who are adhering to the law. This is not my cup of tea."

The government's attempt to ban Wilders, after lobbying from Lord Ahmed and some
Muslim organisations, was provoked by a film he planned to screen at the House
of Lords that shows the aftermath of Islamist terror atrocities, including 9/11
and the 7/7 bombings, intercut with selective verses from the Qur'an.

The film, called Fitna (Arabic for strife), denounces Islam as a "fascist"
religion and is disturbing and almost laughably crude. Wilders, who was invited
by the Ukip peer Lord Pearson, said he planned to screen the film in the Lords
at a later date.

Pearson said he did not agree with Wilders that the Qur'an should be banned, but
called today's event a "celebration" for free speech. He called on "the 98% of
the Muslim community who are mild, peace-loving people" to "get up off their
bottoms and take on their violent co-religionists who do base their violent
actions on the Qur'an".

Not unhelpfully for Wilders' case, a group of about 20 young men unveiled
placards as he was due to arrive with slogans such as: Islam will dominate the
world: freedom can go to hell.

One of them, Abu Muaz, said they represented an organisation called Islam for
UK, which he said was linked to the extremist sect al-Muhajiroun, which is
banned under the Terrorism Act 2003.

But Wilders denied that it had been his intention to provoke either protest or
publicity, even if today's flying visit left time for little more than the press
conference and lunch before he flew back to Amsterdam. "This is not my
responsibility. If I had had my way I would have been allowed to come into the
UK in February. It was the UK government who unfortunately decided in a very
cowardly way to trample on freedom of speech... It was their decision not mine.
So if anyone is responsible for all this publicity it is the UK government and
not Geert Wilders."

Mohammed Shafiq of the Ramadhan Foundation said Wilders had a right to be in
Britain, "because we believe in freedom of speech in this country, no matter how
abhorrent someone's views are".

The Home Office said the government was "disappointed" by the overturning of the
ban, adding that the government opposed all extremism.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Bercow: pay back your expenses now;
Speaker says that he will not be a 'shop steward' for MPs

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 706 words


JOHN BERCOW, the Commons Speaker, has told MPs they must accept it is "payback
time" on their expenses to restore public trust in Parliament and avoid
allegations of a "Westminster whitewash".

In his first interview since becoming Speaker in June, Mr Bercow urged MPs to
accept the verdict of Sir Thomas Legg, the former civil servant auditing their
expenses who has demanded that they repay thousands of pounds in allowances.
"Denial, delay or delusion is not an option," he said.

"Many MPs are upset but the public is extremely angry. We have to recognise and
address that anger," he told Steve Richards, The Independent's chief political
commentator, in an interview for tomorrow's Week in Westminster programme on BBC
Radio 4.

The Speaker's tough message will disappoint MPs who hoped he would challenge Sir
Thomas's decision to impose retrospective limits for cleaning and gardening
costs. He declared that his role was not to be a "shop steward" for MPs but an
"ambassador for Parliament".

Mr Bercow insisted the Legg inquiry was never intended to be a
"receipt-authentication process" and was always going to review the wisdom of
original payments. Although MPs could challenge its initial recommendations, he
believed the vast majority would accept its final ruling in their case.

"In the end, we have to secure closure," he said. "There is no perfection in
this process. There is a trade-off between 'within the rules' on the one hand
and 'well beyond public expectations' on the other. If there is a choice of
headlines between 'payback time' on the one hand and 'Westminster whitewash' on
the other, I would much rather have the former than the latter.

"The public has to see and be satisfied that we have got the message, that there
is public displeasure, that the process has to be changed, and that there must
be consequences for past claims if they can be shown to be demonstrably wrong or
extravagant."

Yesterday, the Speaker said he would repay an "accidental overclaim" of £978.51
after being asked by Sir Thomas to provide mortgage documentation relating to
his second home. He said the discrepancy arose after he switched mortgage
provider for a better deal.

In the BBC interview, Mr Bercow said he hoped Cabinet ministers who sit in the
House of Lords, such as the Business Secretary, Peter Mandelson, and the
Transport Secretary, Lord Adonis, could soon be answering questions in the
Commons, and admitted there was currently a "democratic deficit". As an interim
measure, they may be quizzed by MPs in the Westminster Hall mini-chamber rather
than the Commons chamber.

Mr Bercow, who will be challenged in his Buckingham seat by the UK Independence
Party's Nigel Farage at the general election, said he was happy to be judged on
his track record, his commitment to the constituency and his determination to
restore faith in Parliament.

The tensions caused by the Legg review surfaced yesterday, when the Commons
Leader, Harriet Harman, said it would be "arbitrary" for Sir Thomas to apply
different rules and standards than those which applied at the time MPs' expenses
were claimed. Although Downing Street denied any split, her remarks to MPs
appeared to differ from Gordon Brown's edict to Labour MPs to accept the payback
demands.

Will Kirstie be the lady of the manor?

SHE HAS spent her TV career helping families find their dream home. Now Kirstie
Allsopp could soon be relocating to a new House of her own.

The presenter of Location, Location, Location has emerged as a potential
candidate for a peerage if David Cameron wins the election.

Conservative MPs have put Allsopp,who has advised the party on housing for two
years, in the frame for elevation to the House of Lords. A daughter of Charles
Henry Allsopp, the 6th Baron Hindlip, is entitled to be known as The Honourable
Kirstie Allsopp. Mr Cameron is believed to be preparing to appoint between 20
and 40 peers to the Lords in his first year in office, should he win the general
election.

Allsopp was included by the public affairs company Mandate on a list of 20 names
that may be sent to the Lords by the Tories. Mandate said it spoke to Tory MPs,
advisers and commentators to write the list, which also included the former
Prime Minister Sir John Major.

Nigel Morris

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

Anti-Muslim MP overturns ban on visit to Britain

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 285  words


A FAR-RIGHT Dutch MP, whose anti-Muslim film led to racist violence, could come
to Britain as early as next week after he overturned a Home Office ban on
entering the country.

Geert Wilders, who is accused of "Islamophobia'', was barred in February after
Jacqui Smith, the home secretary at the time, said his presence would threaten
community security. He was turned back at Heathrow Airport after still trying to
gain entry.

He now plans to visit "as soon as possible'' after winning an appeal against the
decision at the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal.

Mr Wilders aims to broadcast his short film Fitna, which describes the Koran as
a "fascist book''. He planned to show it in the House of Lords in February.

The Home Office insisted Mr Wilders would still inflame community tensions if he
came to Britain. It is considering whether to appeal against the ruling.

Mr Wilders was originally invited to screen his film by Lord Pearson, the Ukip
peer. The Dutch MP's lawyer, Tiki Emezie, said he hoped to meet Lord Pearson in
London next week.

Mr Wilders said: "I am very, very happy. It is not just a victory for me. It is
a victory for freedom of speech.

"It was a politically motivated decision not to allow me to enter the UK, to
detain me and send me back. As soon as I can, as soon as possible, I will visit
the UK. I will certainly be invited again by Lord Pearson to show my film and
have the debate. I will proudly accept.''

In January, a Dutch court said the Freedom Party leader should stand trial for
inciting hatred against Muslims by comparing their religion to Nazism.

A Home Office spokesman said: "We are disappointed by the court's decision
today. The Government opposes extremism in all its forms.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

National: Dutch politician wins appeal against British ban

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 301 words


The far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders intends to travel to London next
week after an immigration tribunal ruling overturned a ban on visiting Britain.

The Home Office said it was disappointed after the tribunal rejected its claim
that his presence could "inflame community tensions and lead to inter-faith
violence".

The Freedom party leader immediately announced his intention to meet Ukip's Lord
Pearson of Rannoch to discuss a showing of his anti-Islamic film Fitna later
this month in the House of Lords. Judge CMG Ockelton, who chaired the tribunal,
said that Wilders's opinions were expressed strongly and in a way that was bound
to cause offence, but "substantial evidence of actual harm would be needed
before it would be proper for a government to prevent the expression and
discussion of matters that might form the opinions of legislators, policy makers
and voters".

The ruling said there had been no evidence of public order problems or damage to
community relations as a result of a previous visit by Wilders to Britain.

"It was more important to allow free speech than to take restrictive action
speculatively," said Ockelton.

The judgment goes further, saying that even if there were evidence that Wilders
posed a threat to public order it would still not have been necessary to ban him
because the police would have been able to ensure no disorder took place.
Wilders said the ruling was a victory for freedom of expression. The Home Office
said it would decide whether to appeal in due course.

Wilders, who faces trial in the Netherlands for discrimination and inciting
hatred, was turned back at Heathrow in February when then home secretary, Jacqui
Smith, banned him from entering Britain. He had been coming for a screening in
the Lords of his film which calls the Qur'an a "fascist book".

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

Taxpayers' Alliance? Not in our name

BYLINE: Sunder Katwalaguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 618 words

ABSTRACT

Sunder Katwala: Why, when it claims to represent UK taxpayers, does the alliance
so fear public accountability? Why won't it say who its donors are?

FULL TEXT

Matthew Elliott of the  offers a long personal account of the non-tax paying
non-executive director - who later became his father in law. That crowds out any
opportunity to respond to a rather more important question. The Taxpayers'
Alliance may just be a pressure group, but it aspires to represent all UK
taxpayers and speak in their name. It is very keen on accountability, so why
won't it reveal who its donors are? I am sure there is nothing to hide, so why
refuse reveal all donors over the value of, say, £5,000?

It is good to see Elliott now writes "we are open about being of the
centre-right". The alliance has previously been rather shy about it, so this is
progress. Last year, its campaign manager, Susie Squire, angrily asserted on LBC
Radio that it was "outrageous" to describe the Taxpayers' Alliance as "on the
opposite side of the political spectrum" to Labour, insisting "we are totally
independent" and "don't have a party preference"  by  about the number of
well-known Thatcherites like Sir Alan Walters on its board.

Three months later, the ConservativeHome website, published Matthew Elliott's
presentation  on "the state of the conservative movement in Britain". According
to Elliott's slides, this movement includes the Taxpayers' Alliance and other
officially non-partisan groups like MigrationWatch and the Countryside Alliance,
centre-right charitable thinktanks including the Centre for Social Justice and
Policy Exchange, activist groups like ConservativeHome, and Ukip as well as the
Conservative party. The point of the conservative movement is to form "the
infrastructure outside of the party" that supports conservative values", as
Montgomerie writes.

Of course, the Taxpayers' Alliance is willing to challenge wet and modernising
Tories who do not share their ideological preference for as little tax and state
as possible. That's politics.

Elliott makes inaccurate charges about the Fabian Society. We have never
"employed researchers to smear the TPA's name", nor did the Guardian report
that, as he claims. Fabian research director Tim Horton wrote three paragraphs
in a study of "movement politics" noting the ideological impact of both the TPA
and Eurosceptic pressure groups in reshaping political debates, arguing the left
should learn lessons about the importance of public-facing advocacy.

The Fabian Society carries out high-quality research while being open about our
underlying values and beliefs. Our extensive work on taxation argues that we
need greater transparency about both spending and taxation so that voters can
make informed choices, rather than hoping for Swedish public services on
American tax rates.

Those are public political choices on which taxpayers differ. Exposing waste is
a widely shared idea. But if the Taxpayers' Alliance also sometimes reported on
good public value being delivered, the charge of ideological hostility to every
penny of public spending would be less powerful. They have never supported tax
rises, like the 1p on national insurance for the NHS or the new top rate on top
earners, which more than 70% of taxpayers back, nor for closing tax loopholes.

Taxpayers who think "not in my name" when they see its work might like to visit
the The Other Taxpayers' Alliance at , which campaigns for fairer taxes: "We are
quite happy to be described as left-wing and make no claim to represent all
taxpayers. That's the point", they write.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anti-Islam Dutch politician overturns ban on UK entry

BYLINE: Helen Nugent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 425 words


Geert Wilders, the far-right Dutch politician who was prevented from entering
Britain because he was a threat to "community harmony", has won his appeal
against the ban.

The Freedom Party MP, who is an outspoken critic of Islam, called the ruling by
the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal "a triumph for freedom of speech" and said
that he would visit the UK soon.

Jacqui Smith, then Home Secretary, issued a prohibition order in February after
Mr Wilders was deemed to pose a threat to public order. He was due to show a
short film called Fitna, which criticises the Koran as a "fascist book", at the
House of Lords. The 17-minute film features verses from the Koran with images of
terrorist attacks in New York, London and Madrid, and calls on Muslims to remove
"hatepreaching" verses from the text. Mr Wilders had been invited by the UKIP
peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch.

A Home Office spokesman said that the Government was "disappointed" by the
tribunal's decision and was deliberating whether to appeal. "The Government
opposes extremism in all its forms," the spokesman said.

"The decision to refuse Wilders admission was taken on the basis that his
presence could have inflamed tensions between our communities and have led to
interfaith violence. We still maintain this view."

At the time of the prohibition order, Maxime Verhagen, the Dutch Foreign
Minister, protested against the ban.

He said: "The fact that a Dutch parliamentarian is refused entry to another EU
country is highly regrettable."

In a statement yesterday he said: "I am satisfied that the British judge has
come to the same conclusion, and hope that Mr Wilders will be given access to
the United Kingdom."

Mr Wilders's anti-immigration Party for Freedom, founded in 2006, has nine seats
in the Dutch parliament.

It came second in the June elections to the European Parliament with 17 per cent
of the vote.

In a newspaper interview during the summer, Mr Wilders, who is protected by
armed bodyguards, claimed that Islam is "in opposition to freedom". He added:
"If people are offended, that's not my aim. I don't talk about Muslims but about
Islam.

"Everything I say is against the fascist Islamic ideology."

An admirer of Churchill and Baroness Thatcher, Mr Wilders has said that his
party "would like to stop immigration from Muslim countries and close Islamic
schools".

Mr Wilders now plans to visit London as early as next week, and to show his film
as originally planned. Last night he said the move to ban him was "a political
decision".

Geert Wilders: "I don't talk about Muslims but Islam"

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday

Kinnock replaced;
by junior minister who posed in pants

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 323  words


GLENYS KINNOCK was yesterday removed as Europe Minister after only four months
as Gordon Brown "downgraded'' the post.

Baroness Kinnock was replaced by Chris Bryant, a more junior Foreign Office
minister and an advocate of Britain joining the euro. Lady Kinnock will oversee
Africa.

Downing Street said the move was "housekeeping'' to redistribute ministerial
responsibilities after the departure of Lord Malloch Brown, another Foreign
Office minister, this summer.

Mr Bryant announced his appointment on Twitter, the micro-blogging website,
before No 10 made it public. A former Church of England vicar, he attracted
headlines in 2003 when it emerged he had put pictures of himself in his
underpants on a dating website used by homosexual men.

Lady Kinnock gave up her job as an MEP to join Mr Brown's government in a
reshuffle in June. At the time, Mr Brown called it an "an excellent
appointment''. Yesterday No 10 insisted he had been "very pleased'' with her
performance.

But Mark Francois, the shadow Europe minister, said: "The question Gordon Brown
now needs to answer is why, if Glenys Kinnock was the right woman for such an
important job just four months ago, is she the wrong woman now?''

The move also led to claims that Mr Brown had downgraded European policy. Lady
Kinnock is a minister of state but Mr Bryant, as a parliamentary under-secretary
of state, is a more junior minister.

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, said that Mr Brown had "downgraded'' Europe.

"The fact Bryant keeps his lowly ministerial position, when a vast majority of
the country want a say on their relations with the EU is sadly typical,'' he
said.

Open Europe, an anti-integration campaign group, suggested that the switch could
be linked to the prospect of Tony Blair becoming the first president of the EU.
"After all, with Blair back ruling the country, this time from a flashy office
in Brussels, what need will Labour have for a decent Europe Minister?''

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 540  words


I DON'T know what the Irish made of Bertie Ahern, below, as their Taoiseach
(prime minister) between 1997 and 2008 but as a diplomat I would suggest he
could scarcely be bettered if his latest utterance is anything to go by.

Asked recently to pass his verdict on Milord Mandelson, with whom he had to deal
on a regular basis when the latter was Northern Ireland Secretary, Ahern
eventually replied: "I liked his dog."

FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband's weekend press conference with visiting US
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton proved rather more eventful than Sky TV's Tim
Marshall expected.

The satellite channel's foreign affairs editor found his earpiece was jammed and
could not be removed even with the help of a cameraman and a pair of pliers. A
trip to the nearest casualty department proved necessary.

Marshall took his predicament in good part.

"Have bruised eardrum and ego, " he wrote on his blog. "Colleagues texting to
say their two-year-old children also get things stuck in ear."

My admiration for him grows yet further after he added: "What do you call a man
with jelly in one ear and blancmange in the other?

A trifle deaf." I somehow can't imagine the BBC's terribly important World
Affairs Editor John Simpson doing the same.

NOW that Parliament has finally returned from its summer break, John Bercow has
at most seven months left to make an impression in his new job.

The diminutive House of Commons Speaker replaced the discredited Michael Martin,
perhaps the most high-profile victim so far of the parliamentary expenses
scandal. He did so with virtually no support from former Conservative
colleagues, who regard Bercow as someone imposed by a Labour majority that was
only too aware of the annoyance his appointment would cause them.

Bercow is the first Speaker in the office's 600-year history to appoint a public
relations spokesman, Tim Hames, to burnish his image. This is someone he will
require even more now that convention has been further defied by UK Independence
party leader Nigel Farage's decision to stand against an incumbent Speaker at a
general election, in Bercow's Buckingham constituency.

"Let's just say John faces an uphill struggle, " says a rather gleeful sounding
Tory backbencher. "If UKIP were to win their first Commons seat in this
instance, most of us wouldn't be that upset."

WATCH out for a memorable TV clash tomorrow when ex-Deputy PM John Prescott,
pictured, meets fruity-voiced art critic Brian Sewell as part of his latest BBC2
programme, Prescott: The North-South Divide.

Here's Prescott on Sewell: "He's a southern twit - if ever there was an arrogant
man who makes a living out of insulting everyone, it's him!"

And Sewell on Prescott?

"Typical southerners tend to despise the north as they are inarticulate and
often very difficult to understand."

The two sound like they understand each other very well.

LADY Thatcher is celebrating two notable milestones. She is 84 today and it is
also 50 years ago this month that she was first elected an MP for Finchley in
the 1959 general election. Britain's first woman prime minister once said:
"Being powerful is like being a lady. If you have to tell people you are, you
aren't." Not bad for someone usually accused of having no sense of humour.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday

The truth about the Taxpayers' Alliance

BYLINE: Matthew Elliottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1101 words

ABSTRACT

Matthew Elliott: We are not a hypocritical Tory front group, but a proudly
independent organisation supported by voters from all parties

FULL TEXT

What a weekend! Having thrown plenty of grenades during my five years at the  -
at MPs, quangocrats, bureaucrats and Eurocrats - it was an interesting
experience to be the subject of a four-week Guardian investigation and a . I
wonder what President Obama thought when he read Saturday's Guardian, and saw
that his  was relegated to page three? On the plus side, we were described by
the newspaper as being "arguably the most influential pressure group in the
country", which at least suggests that we are following our principles and
giving good bang for the buck on our relatively modest funding, compared with
other groups.

The Guardian's coverage raises three points. Why do we have a non-executive
director who lives and pays taxes in France? Aren't we simply a front group for
the Conservatives funded by Tory party donors? And, with 32,000 supporters, do
we really represent UK taxpayers?

I'm not sure how big a revelation the first point is - the information is openly
available from our Companies House records - but I can understand why it may
look unusual that we have a French-taxpaying, British citizen as a non-executive
director. The reason is that when we set up the Taxpayers' Alliance almost six
years ago, we were a group of young twentysomething activists who wanted to make
a difference for taxpayers in the UK. Like many young people setting up a new
venture, we had plenty of enthusiasm but felt we needed an older, wiser person
to give us advice and guide us in setting up a solid, stable organisation. For
this reason, we asked Alexander Heath, a retired teacher, who later became my
father-in-law, to become a non-executive director of the TPA.

Like the other non-executive directors, Heath has never given or taken a penny
from the TPA - I am the only director who receives a salary and expenses. But
perhaps I could share with you a few more details about him, to put this story
in context. He moved to France in the 1970s, when he married his French
sweetheart. They brought up their children in France, but he retains his British
citizenship and, when he taught part-time before retiring some years ago, he
paid French taxes. Sometimes marriage takes you away from the country you love,
but I am grateful for Heath's advice when we set up the TPA and am upset that
some readers may have got the impression that the organisation is being run by a
non-dom billionaire living in Monaco, which couldn't be further from the truth.

What are Heath's sinister motives supposed to be? He stands to gain no benefit
whatsoever personally from our work, he is simply a friendly advisor who was
happy to help when the TPA was a fledgling outfit. He has given his time and
advice free of charge as a personal friend - and there is nothing lost to
taxpayers by him doing that.

The more serious point raised by this weekend's article is that we are simply a
front group for the Conservative party. I'd be amused to see David Cameron's
reaction if the Guardian made that allegation at his next monthly press
conference.

Yes, we believe in lower taxes, reformed public services and better value for
taxpayers' money. We are open about being of the centre-right - we believe in
low taxes, public sector reform and personal freedom. But the idea that that
puts us in cahoots with the Tories is laughable. You only have to read  to see
how many grassroots supporters feel that the Tories have strayed from that
agenda. I doubt that  appreciated our criticism of the Conservatives for
matching Labour's spending plans or supporting the new 50p income tax rate. At a
local level, with the Conservatives now in charge of the vast majority of
councils, we regularly criticise their wasteful spending. Readers of the BBC
News website on Sunday will have  of Kent county council for spending £20,000 on
a 10-part soap opera. In fact, with the government announcing a pay freeze for
public sector workers and a  - both policies which we have previously advocated
- I hope we don't now get accused of being too close to the Labour party.

What about the third point: with 32,000 supporters, do we represent UK
taxpayers? First of all, the assertion that we are the plaything of Tory donors
is completely wrong. A number of the "donors" mentioned in the article have not
donated to the TPA at all and, moreover, we receive donations from a number of
people who have made donations to the Labour party. On top of this, the
3,000-plus supporters who have donated to us probably gives us the widest
funding base of any campaign or thinktank in Westminster. Amongst those people,
there are also Lib Dem, Ukip and Green party voters. This is because our agenda
of value for money and cleaning up politics is agreed with by voters across the
political spectrum.

Ask any politician, look at any poll, the TPA's agenda to cut spending to solve
the fiscal crisis and to clean up , is supported by voters of all parties and
none. Of course we want more supporters - don't forget, we are still a
relatively young campaign - but the fact that our supporter base has grown by
60% this year suggests that we are accurately representing the views of
taxpayers. I would love us to gather even more supporters as swiftly as possible
(on which note, you can join for free ).

It is telling that after publishing a pamphlet 18 months ago about how to
"counterbalance" the TPA's growing success at exposing waste, gross
self-interest and inefficiency in the public sector, the , according to the
Guardian article, now employs researchers to try to smear the TPA's name rather
than attempting to put over a positive message for Labour's fourth term. We take
this as a sign that we are hitting the target more than ever.

We are seeing the death throes of a Westminster elite who happily live a life of
luxury at taxpayers' expense, while spending ever-growing amounts of taxpayers'
cash, and they don't like it one bit. I'm proud that the TPA has been
instrumental in bringing down that cosy consensus, and if John Prescott and the
Fabian Society think it is more important to stop us than to make the positive
case for their own position, then they are free to try. As Gandhi said, "First
they ignore you, then they ridicule you, then they fight you, then you win."

Now, I mustn't forget to call France this afternoon ...

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 12, 2009 Monday

The prime minister of little England

BYLINE: Adrian Pabstguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 948 words

ABSTRACT

Adrian Pabst: By indulging hardline Eurosceptics in Brussels and Westminster,
David Cameron makes a mockery of his progressive credentials

FULL TEXT

David Cameron increasingly looks like Britain's prime minister in waiting, but
until now he has not set out a credible and coherent foreign policy vision. Like
his new economic strategy, Cameron's current position on foreign affairs is fast
retreating from his earlier commitment to a radically progressive Conservatism.

Nowhere is this more evident than on Europe. First there is the Conservatives'
in the European parliament with dubious, hardline Eurosceptics who have held ,
an ill-judged association that is damaging Britain's standing and alienating
other centre-right partners.

Then there is the Tories' threat to renegotiate the Lisbon treaty once it is in
force, which is only a matter of time after Ireland's emphatic endorsement last
weekend and Poland's  on Saturday. (The Czech president's  could be agreed at
the EU summit on &nbsp;29-30 October.) A Tory referendum on re-nationalising
powers would turn into a vote about Britain's EU membership, causing
unprecedented economic uncertainty - the last thing needed in the midst of a
stuttering recovery.

Of course Cameron won't repudiate Euroscepticism until the next general election
for fear of losing crucial votes to the UK Independence party. But once in
office, pragmatism will probably trump electoral calculations. The question is
whether Cameron's realism can also prevail over the perennial temptations of
populism and ideological posturing.

Worryingly, he has so far failed to outline a positive and genuinely
transformational, Conservative vision for the EU.

In his , he promised to implement a "progressive agenda" that would make the EU
more accountable and transparent through decentralisation. But Cameron's
proposed repatriation of powers from Brussels to London would concentrate
decision-making at the national level, which is at odds with his own promise to
deliver a radical  to the local level.

Instead of alienating European partners with more Euroscepticism, the Tories
should adopt a positive stance and follow their own imperative of localism by
arguing in favour of a Europe-wide decentralisation to the lowest possible
level, including local government, communities and neighbourhoods.

For example, an incoming Conservative government could reinforce and extend the
principle of mutual recognition of products and services to more areas of
legislation that govern the operation of the European single market. This,
combined with some minimal minimum standards, could limit and roll back
excessive harmonisation, a perverse situation whereby the European commission
can (and still does) legislate on the shape of tomatoes and the size of bananas.

By arguing for a change in EU law that favours mutual recognition rather than
harmonisation, the Tories can help promote greater diversity and fairer
(anti-monopoly) competition while also protecting British (and other EU)
producers and consumers against a competitive race to the bottom.

In addition to the EU's important well-funded regional policy, Cameron could
advocate a new EU local policy that blends shared principles with particular,
locally specific practices. That, rather than simply empowering Westminster and
Whitehall, would be a truly Conservative vision for Europe.

There is also EU support for modernising the UK's chronically underfunded
infrastructure, including a recent  from the European Investment Bank. Or the
potential of a EU-supported industrial policy for reviving Britain's
manufacturing and industrial policy - another urgent task for the next
government.

Moreover, a renewed emphasis on localism would help restore a proper European
tradition. Indeed, the principle of subsidiarity - devolving power to the most
appropriate level - is enshrined in all EU treaties and given more importance in
the Lisbon treaty. By appealing to this European tenet, the Tories can challenge
the attempted construction of a federal super-state with a positive vision that
is in accordance with Europe's founding fathers, not least Winston Churchill.

Retrieving this vision would allow the Tories to repudiate centralised,
Franco-German federalism in favour of something like "subsidiary federalism" - a
legally guaranteed distribution of powers between the EU and national levels,
coupled with a political programme of radical decentralisation to the lowest
possible level. This would enable the EU to concentrate on what it does best
(including cross-border banking regulations and green policies), while devolving
decision-making in other areas to the regional and local level - or, where
absolutely necessary, to national governments.

There are many other economic and political reasons for a new Tory approach to
Europe. Sticking with vulgar Euroscepticism will boost the  for Scottish
independence, and might spell the end of the United Kingdom. Moreover, the
Tories' current EU stance will in time provoke a major rift with continental
European partners, depriving Cameron of a unique opportunity to influence Europe
in cooperation with his natural, centre-right allies who have a majority across
EU institutions and the 27 member states.

Instead of shaping the EU's future under British leadership, Cameron might be
remembered as the first British PM to preside over "little England" - not
exactly a glorious legacy for a one-nation Tory unionist. For this reason alone,
he needs to start developing an alternative Tory vision for Europe.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

My journey into the heart of the white middle class

BYLINE: Yasmin Alibhai-Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1130 words


I give you here my take on the party conferences, views you'll not find
elsewhere because columnists of colour (what's more, Muslim and female in my
case) are not expected to tread into these spheres of high influence.

Political sketchwriters are cheeky white men who believe they're so damn smart;
most print lobby correspondents are also white and largely male, though now some
women have joined the club. Come the autumn jamborees these insiders have a
ball, or three, smirking, puncturing inflated egos with sharp satire, attacking
speeches and policies and making up afterwards with their victims in the bar.
Adversaries and new mates cavort, dine together and sometimes breakfast in bed,
so I am told.

I have only been going to the fests for five years and still sometimes feel I
shouldn't really be there, with the political beasts and the scribes who twin
and swim with them perfectly.

The first years were scary. I had to pretend I was undaunted by the sharks of
power. It gets easier, and this time I almost felt as if I was among friends as
all three parties tried so frightfully hard to bus in a diverse crowd of
delegates and highly visible wannabe candidates to prove politics in Britain is
now really, really modern and progressive. Like the awesome public celebrations
in China, messages and images were slick and gratifying, less so the reality. My
one overwhelming impression was that when politicians spoke they had in their
minds an essentially white, middle-class audience, people like themselves, in
other words.

The Liberal Democrats were in Bournemouth this year and are arguably the least
excluding of the three parties - but then they have to be. Many of their
policies should draw in all those black and Asian Britons who are done with
Labour and can never vote Tory. This party opposed the war in Iraq, has humane
policies on asylum, has never pandered to populism on immigration, is naturally
European and international, fights valiantly against an intrusive state, opposes
punitive anti-terrorism measures, and it has the universally respected economics
guru Vince Cable.

I wrote for the party a pamphlet on a differently imagined, more open British
nation to draw in all who feel alienated. All good but the glaring truth is that
the Lib Dems have only white MPs and is abysmally mono-racial. Does it matter?
Of course it does. A number of constituencies will turn on the votes of the
so-called "ethnic minorities" but local democracy means selections are still
based on familiarity and not difference.

Clegg addressed aspiring black and Asian candidates and is intent, I feel, on
transforming his brood. Some of the most talented men and women I have ever met
were in that room. If they hear the same balmy words year on year and nothing
changes they will jump ship and guess what? The Tories are waiting for them,
with flasks of kindness and blankets of welcome. Too little, Mr Clegg and it may
soon be too late.

Onwards to Labour then, in Brighton where the sun shone brilliantly but could
not burn off the cold fear of potential defeat. As ever the crowds were mixed
and voluble but it was only here that I heard MPs and others excusing BNP voters
and talking of draconian laws that should shame the Left. A group of Muslims
complained to me that young people - students, performers, visitors - from
Pakistan are now denied entry indefinitely. I brought this up with MPs at a
party and was told to grow up and start taking terrorism seriously. So all
Pakistanis are terrorists then? It is not only Anton Du Beke who appears to
think so.

With another group of New Labourites I brought up the campaign backed by
children's author Jacqueline Wilson to stop the cruel detention of asylum
children. Labour of all parties should not be violating their human rights. But
like torture and illegal wars, all that is now part of the party's moral
lexicon. I expressed my disgust and was screamed at by a young adviser: "What
are you playing at? Muslims in Oldham should care about bogus asylum seekers? Do
you want us to win or not?" What a question. Do they think I owe them support
because of my ethnic make up? That policies don't matter as long as they
tolerate and patronise people like me? There were even cretins who tried to
persuade me that Tony Blair, a man with blood on his hand, would make a terrific
President of Europe.

Oh there were just too many quarrels in Brighton. Mercifully Brown's speech did
not mug us with the hammer of Britishness, and I loved the Sarah Brown moment.
We Asians are sentimental and husband-as-god will have touched many. "See?" our
ladies will have said: "How homely she is, so Indian really."

Finally in Manchester - buzzing, bursting with confidence, just like David
Cameron. Oh they think the glittering prize is nearly theirs, though false
modesty veiled the conceit rather well. I spoke (and did in Brighton too) at a
Total Politics fringe meeting on "Trust", with a very lively, warm and
intelligent crowd. Tories are putting on a good show. Rhetoric on immigration is
toned down for now.

Last year in Birmingham the conference centre was almost totally white. This
year I saw countless black and Asian enthusiasts, some naive, others chasing the
coming winners and some true-blue Tories. Streetwise and black, Shaun Bailey was
up there with the toffs, this "urban talisman" as Hugh Muir the black journalist
describes him. My mood soon darkened. The affluent Mr Osborne sings, "We are in
this together" while announcing cuts in public sector spending which will
disproportionately affect black and Asian and other low-paid people.

Boris sucked up to the financial bandits who got us into the crisis and Cameron
blamed the big state, acquitting by omission greedy fat cats. Hateful is the
idea of new schools started up by communities and families. Fanatics,
flat-earthers, fundamentalists can thereby brainwash children and rear them
apart from others. Shockingly many commentators are now swooning groupies of
anything Cameronian. What happened to objectivity?

Other lowlights to report - all three parties were lavishly entertained by the
over-influential Friends of Israel, and too many black and Asian attendees
behaved like old colonial supplicants. Highlights were fringe debates over
Europe, identity and equality where the young of all backgrounds were engaged,
visionary global citizens. Oh and someone pinched my bum hard at a Tory bash -
hope he got some pleasure. And one Labourite warned me I would never get a
peerage. Oh dear, like I have ever asked.

Next year I should go to the Ukip gathering too. On Friday, on BBC Radio 2,
Godfrey Bloom, their Yorkshire MEP, told me his Asian contacts didn't mind him
calling them "Pakis". This "Paki" can't wait to catch up with him.

y.alibhai-brown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday

NOEL EDMONDS DOES HAVE A TV LICENCE

LENGTH: 669 words


Mystery as star insists he is boycotting the licence...yet officials say he HAS
one

BY MILES GOSLETT AND JAMES TAPPER

DEAL Or No Deal host Noel Edmonds - who is famously boycotting his TV licence
fee - is mystified after a senior official told BBC Radio 4 the star does have a
licence.

Mr Edmonds insists he has never had a knock on the door from a TV detector van
and has received no response to a letter he wrote telling the TV Licensing
Authority of his protest. Nor has he suddenly paid the 6142.50 fee.

Yet speaking on Radio 4!s Today programme earlier this month, TVLA spokesman Ian
Fannon said: OENoel Edmonds does have a licence.!

The bizarre contradiction has fuelled theories that the organisation has decided
deliberately not to pursue Mr Edmonds in order to avoid a high-profile row.

The presenter, who enjoyed a 30-year career at the BBC, announced his boycott in
September 2008. He said he was OEincensed! by four TVLA advertisements which
warned viewers: OEYour town, your street, your home - it!s all in the database.!

The adverts went on to say evaders would find it OEimpossible to hide!.

Yesterday, Mr Edmonds said: OEFact: They haven!t found me and nobody!s come
knocking on the door. There are too many organisations that seem to think it!s
OK to badger, hector and threaten people.

OEIf Auntie can confirm she has dropped the aggressive campaign and thrown away
the boxing gloves, I will be delighted and pleased to pay.!

Mr Edmonds lives near Grasse, in the South of France, and stays at a house in
the west of England when recording his Channel 4 show.

His spokesman Mark Borkowski said he was liable to pay the licence at one
property he had in England but did not - risking a 61,000 fine.

Mr Borkowski said: OEThe TVLA want to silence the argument. Noel!s curious to
know why they haven!t confronted him. He is now considering his options. He
wrote to the TVLA about two years ago, telling them he wasn!t going to pay the
fee but they!ve never even responded.! However, a TVLA spokesman told The Mail
on Sunday that its database records show Mr Edmonds!s address had a valid
television licence.

Journalist Charles Moore has also refused to pay the fee, in his case until the
BBC stops employing Jonathan Ross. His stand follows the obscene phone calls
Ross and Russell Brand made to actor Andrew Sachs.

He said: OEI don!t pay the licence fee. I have received a warning letter from
the TVLA about this matter but my position hasn!t changed.! During a debate
between Mr Moore and former BBC Governor Sir Christopher Bland, published in
this month!s Standpoint magazine, Sir Christopher said: OEI shall pay the
licence fee on his [Moore!s] behalf, and I don!t think he can stop me.!

Asked if he had paid his friend!s licence fee, Sir Christopher said: OEI haven!t
paid Charles Moore!s licence fee yet. I might. I!m keeping my powder dry. I
disagree with Charles!s position and don!t want him to become a martyr or go to
prison. If I do pay Charles!s licence fee, I shall do it in a lighthearted way.!
Russian dissident Vladimir Bukovsky has not paid his fee since 2001, claiming
the BBC has a pro-European bias. His group, Vladimir Bukovsky!s TV Licence
Refuseniks, has 1,500 members.

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten, who is involved in Mr Bukovsky!s campaign and who has
withheld his licence fee since August, said: OEIf what Noel Edmonds says is
true, it appears the BBC and the TVLA are trying to close down the debate. This
is backed up by Vladimir Bukovsky not being prosecuted. They wouldn!t want
someone of his intellectual ability in the witness box. Neither would they want
to be seen to be prosecuting a high-profile presenter like Noel Edmonds.!

A TVLA spokesman said: OEOur records show Noel Edmonds! address is correctly
licensed. We are very happy to look into any address he is willing to provide so
we can be absolutely clear on this. We have prosecuted people who claim they are
protesting against the licence fee and would not shy away from doing so. We have
no evidence to suggest Mr Edmonds is breaking the law.!

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 11, 2009

Your letters

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1097 words


Better information made the Irish say yes

In 2008, the Irish electorate understandably rejected a treaty with the EU that
their government made a complete hash of explaining. The lack of information on
a complex treaty coupled with the admissions by senior politicians that they
hadn't actually read Lisbon's terms gave huge traction to a no campaign which
went largely unchallenged. But nearly 47% of the electorate were still in favour
of the treaty's adoption.

Now, following a year's debate, of all EU citizens the Irish probably have the
best understanding of Lisbon and its implications. Explaining a 2-1 referendum
majority away to a single reason such as unemployment was crude analysis in last
week's Observer (" Tory turmoil over EU as Ireland says Yes to treaty" ) . Yes,
rising unemployment sharpened the collective Irish mind, but to put a 20% swing
down to that alone presents an extremely cynical view of Ireland's voters.

A far better informed electorate, which is innately pro-European, and an
effective yes campaign contributed more to Ireland's adoption of Lisbon than its
sickly economy. Members of the UK Independence party who came to Ireland to add
their weight to the no campaign were also great contributors with their patently
false and breath-takingly crude claims. If they are typical of Britain's
Eurosceptics then more fool those in the UK who support them.

Leslie Reed

County Kilkenny

Ireland

Thank goodness for a sensible and right-thinking take on Europe (Rafael Behr,
last week, "Britain must grow up and stop believing Europhobe nonsense"). I
would love to think that there might be someone out there who would at long last
put that case loud and clear to the rest of the British public before the Tories
have more opportunity to peddle their deeply depressing Europhobia.

Rev Robin Whitehead

Boston, Lincolnshire

Don't damn all absent fathers

I read "When daddy is just an optional extra" (Comment, last week) with
happiness because an oft-neglected reality was being addressed and sadness
because it will make no immediate change to my situation. I was in an
unconventional abusive relationship, unconventional because I am a man and the
abuser was my wife. I stayed in the relationship for as long as possible (four
years) so I could be close to my daughter. I am an immigrant. I explained to my
inlaws that the situation was untenable and I had to move out. They are
religious fundamentalists and had been against the marriage from the start so
were delighted with the decision and assured me I could visit my daughter
whenever I wanted.

Two weeks after I moved out, they cut off all contact - that was four months
ago. I have a court date next month, the first step to re-establishing contact
with my daughter. Society is too quick to condemn absent fathers. Maybe it needs
to look a little deeper.

Name and address supplied

Fund the free thinkers

You have done the country a service by publicising the views of GP Mar shall,
Prof David Taylor, and others (Big Issue, last week, "True genius doesn't need
to justify itself"). Recently, your newspaper had articles on the
Stiglitz-Sarkozy report on economics and human well-being. There were hundreds
of these reports around the world. My favourite headline was in Le Monde
("Happiness is the new GDP").

In 1993, some young economists decided to try to run a conference on the
economics of happiness at the London School of Economics. They put out 120
chairs. There were 10 people. Five were the speakers (one later got a Nobel
prize). All the early research grants to do this kind of work also failed.
Today, the ideas are commonplace. If most people like your research, you can be
certain that you have not done anything important. This is why research-funding
bodies make continual mistakes, because they funnel cash towards conventional
thinking. Research money should be given out to those who have produced
extraordinary ideas before. They should not be asked how they will spend it.

Andrew Oswald

professor of economics, University of Warwick

Mental health: good and bad news

The future of the government's psychological therapies programme is not in
danger, contrary to your article, "Cutbacks in therapists treating depression"
(News, last week). With 80 more sites going live by March next year, the
programme is on course to treat 900,000 in the first three years as planned.
Recovery rates for those completing treatment are rising steadily and are in
line with the expectations. And our special hotline for those experiencing
financial stress is still being tested, but is averaging 330 calls per month,
not 25.

Phil Hope

care services minister, Dept of Health,

London SW1

The government's flagship Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT)
scheme was introduced to slash waiting times for crucial therapies and I was
shocked to learn from the Observer that funding for the scheme may be in
jeopardy. Waiting times for talking therapies have long been a scandal to the
NHS, with patients in some areas waiting up to two years for life-changing
support.

For years, people have been telling Mind that talking treatments can make the
difference between remaining unwell and recovery from mental distress. Squeezing
spending on mental health has wide-reaching consequences for individuals, the
economy and society and it is important that during a recession, mental health
budgets are protected. The NHS must answer the needs of patients and the need
for talking therapies isn't going away.

Paul Farmer

chief executive, Mind, London E15

Paxman didn't say it first

The phrase "why is this lying bastard lying to me?" attributed to Jeremy Paxman
("Will TV debates change the face of the election?", News, last week) in fact
belongs to Claud Cockburn, being part of his advice for aspiring journalists
when interviewing politicians.

Cockburn fought for the Republic in the Spanish Civil War in addition to
reporting on the struggle. He then founded the irreverent and iconoclastic
newssheet the Week , a spiritual precursor to Private Eye and, being far less in
thrall to the establishment than Paxman and co, would have been an ideal choice
to grill the three main party leaders.

Dave Young

London N14

Motes and beams, Ms Burchill

Julie Burchill castigates fellow writer Kathryn Flett for adopting the role of
Grumpy Old Woman (Letters, last week). It may well be the case that Ms Burchill
"gets [her] kicks from something other than grumbling for money", but she
certainly gets most of her money from grumbling for kicks. A recent example is
her book-long whinge about, er. . . hypocrisy.

Sean Cordell

Sheffield


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 11, 2009

UKIP chief's evening is heckle-free;
Dashwood

BYLINE: Edited by Jonathan Russell

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 102  words


I WROTE last week about the City of London's battle with Godfrey Bloom, the UKIP
MEP who heckled a Mansion House speech.

He was banned from further Mansion House events and from last week's City of
London's Brussels reception.

Not to worry though - they found a replacement for him. His boss Nigel Farage
went along instead, but only on a good behaviour bond. He tells me he was
stopped on his way into the event and asked if he was going to behave. You'll be
please to hear he did but only by leaving before he had a chance to heckle. "I
couldn't stay, it was just regulators talking to regulators,'' he tells me.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 10, 2009 Saturday

Tebbit boils over

BYLINE: Tim Walker Edited by Richard Eden

SECTION: NEWS; Mandrake; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 219  words


David Cameron paid tribute to Lady Tebbit in his speech at the Conservative
Party conference this week. The Tory leader has failed to win over her husband,
however.

"He cannot bear to utter my name,'' complained Lord Tebbit at a dinner at
Boisdale of Bishopsgate in London, where recipes from his book The Game Cook
were served. "He thinks I am from the nasty old guard who used to win
elections.''

The former chairman said: "If Cameron wins, he's going to be in trouble. He's
very young and he knows nothing about life. He'll find when he gets into
government it will be on a very low poll because the usual core Tory votes have
either gone to Ukip or stayed at home.''

Fry loses Kingdom

While Hugh Laurie has become one of the world's best-paid actors for his role as
a cantankerous doctor in House, Stephen Fry, his former comedy partner, has
proved to be rather less of a turn-on as a solicitor in Kingdom.

"Our masters at ITV have decided that there shan't be a fourth series,'' Fry
told his many followers on Twitter, the online social-networking service,
yesterday. "I am sorry because it was such a pleasure making them in my beloved
Norfolk.''

Let's hope Fry treats the scrapping of the series, which won more than five
million viewers, with equanimity. "I bow to Hugh in almost everything,'' he said
recently

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 10, 2009 Saturday

Front: Politics: Big money alliance at heart of the low tax campaign: Taxpayers
Alliance portrays itself as voice of the people, but where does its £1m funding
come from?

BYLINE: Robert Booth

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1707 words


The slogan on the jaunty shopping bag swinging from Conservative arms at the
party's Manchester conference this week said it all: I Love Low Taxes.

It was a freebie from the Taxpayers' Alliance, the campaign group whose message
of cuts - in tax and spending - coursed through the Tories once more this week,
and will help set the agenda for the general election.

Since it was launched six years ago the alliance has become arguably the most
influential pressure group in the country, yet neither the people who run it, or
the backers who pay for it, have come under a great deal of scrutiny.

Its critics ask whether it really is an alliance of ordinary taxpayers, as the
name is clearly intended to suggest, and how close it is to the Tory party
hierarchy which seems to have adopted some of its radical ideas.

Certainly not all is as it seems. The same group that speaks out against
government waste on Newsnight and in the pages of newspapers also runs a
campaign against radicalising schoolbooks published by the Palestinian Authority
and has formed an alliance with a Slovakian rightwing group

The group's leadership is no less esoteric. Alongside a fund manager, a
petroleum geologist and a former chief economist at Lehman Brothers on the
board, the directors include a retired teacher who lives in France and does not
pay British tax.

But none of that has stopped frontbench Conservatives and busi ness leaders
flocking to the TPA, and at the Tory conference policy after policy seemed to
bear the TPA's stamp.

"The idea of tearing down the walls of big government as Cameron did in his
speech on Thursday is something we have been talking about for years," said its
chief executive, Matthew Elliott, yesterday. "The Tory party has moved onto our
agenda."

George Osborne's public sector pay freeze was recommended by the TPA last month
and Elliott, who describes himself as "a free-market libertarian", said he had
been "banging on about" the idea that no public worker should earn more than the
prime minister without the chancellor's approval long before Osborne announced
it.

The rightwing media have fallen in love too and the TPA claims a higher profile
in print than Friends of the Earth and the Confederation of British Industry.
Framed front pages line Elliott's office near the House of Commons as evidence
of its success at creating the climate of opinion in which radical cuts to tax
and spending can be made.

In the last year the Daily Mail quoted the TPA in 517 articles. The Sun obliged
307 times, once bizarrely on page 3 when a topless Keeley parroted the TPA's
line against energy taxes. The Guardian mentioned the group 29 times.

The TPA's proposals include scrapping the secondary school building programme,
child benefit and Sure Start centres for the youngest children. The range of its
work reflects how influential the group has become in a relatively short space
of time, but also raises questions over how it manages to pay for what has
become a £1m a year operation. The alliance refuses to publish details of its
income or its benefactors.

But a Guardian investigation has established that a large part of its funds come
from wealthy donors, many of whom are prominent supporters of the Conservative
party. Sixty per cent of donations come from individuals or groups giving more
than £5,000. The Midlands Industrial Council, which has donated £1.5m to the
Conservatives since 2003, said it has given around £80,000 on behalf of 32
owners of private companies. Tony Gallagher, owner of Gallagher UK, a property
company that gave the Conservatives £250,000 in 2007, is a member of the MIC, as
is Christopher Kelly who owns the international haulage firm Keltruck, and
Robert Edmiston who owns IM Group, a large car importer.

"The concern for our members is that vast amounts of public money are being
spent and we don't get value for that money," said David Wall, secretary of the
MIC. "Our members' tax money is being wasted . . . (the TPA) start making some
noise and all of a sudden it is on the agenda of the political parties."

A spokesman for Sir Anthony Bamford, the JCB tycoon, whose family and company
have donated more than £1m to the Conservatives, said he has helped fund the
TPA, as has the construction magnate Malcolm McAlpine.

David Alberto, co-owner of serviced office company Avanta, has donated Elliott
and his 14 staff a suite in Westminster worth £100,000 a year because he opposes
the level of tax on businesses. Alberto has an offshore family trust but said
90% of his wealth is in the UK, where he pays tax.

Other businessmen named by the TPA as supporters include spread betting tycoon
Stuart Wheeler who gave £5m to the Conservatives before he endorsed the UK
Independance party; Sir Rocco Forte, the hotelier; and Sir John Craven, chairman
of mining group Lonmin. Labour figures certainly believe that the alliance is
close to the Tories. "This is an arms-length Tory front operation run by big
powerful business interests who want to remove themselves from paying tax by
poisoning the well of public debate around the issue," said Labour MP Jon
Cruddas.

"They are hugely influential," added a senior Labour figure. "It says something
about the state of our party that we are letting them continue unchecked. Many
Labour MPs are very worried that they are likely to grow in stature as the
election approaches."

Elliott flatly denied the TPA was "a Conservative front organisation", and added
that Lord Ashcroft, the party's deputy chairman who is known to bankroll many
Conservative candidates in marginal seats, is not a donor.

They do not appear to need him. Funding has soared from £67,457 in 2005 to more
than £1m and the number of supporters has increased 60% this year as a result of
the combined effect of the recession and the MPs' expenses scandal.

Conservative politicians have also gathered round. Every month the TPA runs an
open meeting for members of right-leaning thinktanks and politicians. In the
last year talks have been given by Eric Pickles, the Conservative party
chairman, Liam Fox, the shadow defence secretary, and former shadow home
secretary David Davis.

They are chaired by Stephan Shakespeare, the owner of ConservativeHome.com, a
political website. Its editor, Tim Montgomerie, has claimed: "The TPA is more
likely to deliver Eurosceptic change than Ukip."

Tim Horton, research director of the left-leaning Fabian Society, who has
investigated the TPA, claimed the group is "fundamental to the Conservatives'
political strategy", which he said was to destroy public confidence in
politicians' ability to deliver public services, thereby paving the way for
cuts.

"There is something deeply dishonest about their campaigns on government waste,"
he said. "Their aim isn't to make public spending work better, but to slash it
dramatically. Yet none of them will campaign on their true vision of society:
fewer public services. At least Thatcher was honest about the deal: less
'public' means you go private."

Elliott insists the TPA has grassroots support. It has a database of 3,000
activists who have given money or time and 32,000 supporters who "tend to be
middle-aged, probably Eurosceptic, and they tend to be right-leaning, but not
party political", according to a source with knowledge of the group.

When TPA began in 2003 there was really no kind of alliance - just Elliott, then
a 25-year-old political researcher for Conservative MEP Timothy Kirkhope. As a
politics student Elliott had been impressed by Republican grassroots campaigns
to cut tax and spending he had seen in America - particularly the work of Grover
Norquist who campaigned against Hillary Clinton's healthcare plans during Bill
Clinton's presidency.

"Up until that point Britain didn't need a taxpayers' group because we had the
Conservatives, but then they stopped talking about it and so I saw a niche," he
said.

His idea was to influence politics "not as an inside job (lobbying politicians)
but to go by public opinion and the press".

That year his wife, Florence Heath, a petroleum geologist, joined as director
with Andrew Allum, a management consultant who is now chairman.

In a strange choice, Heath's father, Alexander, was also appointed despite
living in France and not paying any British tax.

The board now features no one who could be described as just an ordinary
taxpayer. Members include Ruth Lea, the former chief economist at Lehman
Brothers, Mike Denham, a former Treasury economist who worked on tax and
spending under Margaret Thatcher, and Saul Haydon Rowe, partner at financial
firm Devon Capital LLP.

Some of the group's fringe campaigns also seem to dilute the idea that this is
an alliance of ordinary taxpayers. Its campaign against "hate education" in the
Palestinian territories stemmed from Elliott's personal concern about incitement
of hatred towards Jewish people in the Middle East, his pro-Israel stance and
the perception that British taxpayers' money was being misused to subsidise the
publication of incendiary schoolbooks there.

It is also about to launch "Big Brother Watch" led by David Cameron's former
chief of staff, Alex Deane, to "fight injustice and to protect personal
liberties".

Elliott believes the grassroots support of its main cause will grow.

"I want lots more members," he said. "I would like to get to a situation where
we have as many members as the Liberal Democrats.

"Perhaps our time will come next year if there are public sector strikes (over
the proposed Tory cuts). That will be a key recruiter. We contend that wages in
the public sector are higher than for similar jobs in the private sector. On top
of that public sector workers have final salary pensions, so if they strike
there will be frustration among the general public."

Key funder the MIC said the TPA must be equally aggressive in its campaign
against the waste of taxpayers' money, if it is to continue to finance the TPA.

"The last thing we would want is to be accused of funding a political party by
the back door," said David Wall.

Elliott insists the TPA will challenge a Tory government just as vigorously.

"I intend to take on David Cameron on value for money as aggressively as I have
Gordon Brown," he said. "(If there are strikes) we will take on the unions as
well as the government."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             October 9, 2009 Friday

THE RICHARD LITTLEJOHN COLUMN

LENGTH: 1352 words


A IS FOR ASHCROFT, B IS FOR BULLINGDON . . . THE A-Z OF APPROVED BBC SWEARWORDS

FOLLOWING the inquest into the Jonathan Ross and Russell Brand bullying scandal,
BBC entertainment chiefs have issued new taste and decency guidelines, including
a ban on swearing before 10pm.

It comes after a week in which Labour minister Ben Bradshaw, himself a former
BBC correspondent, accused the corporation of being biased in favour of the
Tories.

He said that an interview which the Today Programme's Evan Davis conducted with
George Osborne was 'fawning and feeble'.

This would be the same Evan Davis who, in the course of a single interview,
asked David Cameron four questions about foxhunting in an attempt to portray him
as a 'Tory Toff'. Earlier Andrew Marr had quizzed Cameron about his personal
wealth and Jeremy Paxman sneered at Boris Johnson's Eton and Oxford background.

I don't remember any BBC reporter asking Tony Blair about his privileged
upbringing or questioning Peter Mandelson on where he got the money to buy a
62.4 million home, let alone a 624,000 Patek Philippe wristwatch.

The idea that the BBC is biased in favour of the Tories is risible. What has not
been publicised, until now, is that the corporation's news and current affairs
department has also issued a directive to editors, producers and presenters.

It contains a lexicon of approved swearwords which must be used in all BBC news
bulletins and interviews, at every possible opportunity, and delivered with a
curled lip.

This column has obtained a copy.

TO: ALL PRODUCERS, EDITORS AND PRESENTERS FROM: CONTROLLER, EDITORIAL STANDARDS
BOARD RE: SWEARWORDS

A American, aggressor (see Israel, below), anti-Islamic, Ashcroft (Lord).

B Banker, Bullingdon, baronet, bonuses, BNP.

C Capitalist, Conservative, Christian, chinless, chumps ('bunch of'), Chelsea
tractor.

D Denier (as in 'climate change'), duck house, defeat (in Afghanistan), Daily
Mail.

E Etonian, ex-public schoolboy, europhobe, extremist (see also sceptic, euro).

F Foxhunting, financier, fascist, free market, fee-paying, Far Right. G
Globalisation, genocide (against Palestine, see Israel), greed, gasguzzler.

H Homophobe, homophobia, homophobic, hedge fund manager, hater, hate crime,
heartless (see Tory Cuts).

I Islamophobe, Islamophobia, Islamophobic, Israel, Izza-ra-aylee, investment
banker (but not Labour 'investment'), inheritance tax cut.

J Jewish State (see aggression, etc), judgemental.

K Knights of the shires (see duck house, moat dredging).

L Little Englander (as in anyone who wants a referendum on Europe), Loyalist.

M Merchant banker, multinational, motorist, moat dredging, mansion, Murdoch.

N Nazi (see also Tory and Israel), neo-Nazi, neo-Con, Nasty Party. O Oil
companies, Old Etonian, Oxford, occupation (see Israel). P Profit, privilege,
privatelyeducated, private medicine, polluter, populist, Palin (Sarah, not
Michael).

Q Queue-jumping (see Tory health policy), Queer-basher (see Christian).

R Racist, racism, rich (anyone earning more than 650,000 a year), Right-wing,
reactionary, rapists (all men are), roadblock to peace (see Israel and
Loyalist).

S Savage (see also Tory Cuts), silver spoon, sceptic (as in euro), selfish,
swivel-eyed.

T Tory, Tory Toffs, Tory Cuts, Tory Split, Thatcher, Thatcherite, torture (as in
British troops, CIA), tax cuts for the wealthy, two-tier (see Tory
health/education policies).

U UKIP (see also Nazi, fascist), Unionist, USA.

V Victorian (as in 'values'), Vietnam (see Afghanistan). WWealthy (see 'rich'
above), Waffen SS (see also Tory, UKIP), war crimes (as in American and
Israeli).

X Xenophobe (see Tory, UKIP, Little Englander, etc).

Y Young Conservative. Z Zionist.

BETTER THE POLITICS OF SUNSHINE THAN ENVY

CALL Me Dave dangles the prospect of light at the end of our dark economic
tunnel. It was long-overdue. The party conference season has been routinely
depressing.

It could hardly be otherwise, given the scale of the financial crisis we are
facing. As George Osborne said, to the point of tedium, we are all in this
together and the money will have to be found somewhere. That means that the
better-off are going to have to cough up.

Those who have prospered in recent years will have to dig deep, at least in the
short term.

But just because a small cabal of bonusfuelled bankers got obscenely rich while
bringing the counting house down around our ears, that's no excuse for a return
to the politics of resentment.

Vince Cable kicked off this unpleasant, retrograde trend with his spiteful
'mansion tax' proposal and Labour laid it on with a trowel in Brighton.

The idea that everyone who has made a few bob over the past decade is some kind
of cigar-chomping, cartoon fat-cat, trampling on the workers, is as dangerous as
it is inaccurate.

Most of the people I know who have been successful in life have done so through
their own efforts, not by exploiting anyone else.

They have built their own businesses, in the teeth of bureaucratic harassment,
providing goods and services at prices people have been happy to pay. In the
process, they have created jobs and paid a small fortune in taxes.

But that's only half the story. The money they have spent has kept the economy
going and given work to car salesmen, gardeners, builders, cleaners, waiters,
travel agents, taxi drivers and dozens of others who make their living from
service industries.

I know this isn't a fashionable view, but if you discourage the better-off from
spending, the recession will be longer and deeper and many more jobs will be
lost in the process.

Politically, Osborne's commitment to the 50p tax rate looks astute, but it is
economically illiterate and counter-productive.

If the economy contracts, it doesn't matter if the top rate of income tax goes
up to 90 per cent, the total take will fall -- as we learned to our cost in the
1960s and 1970s.

Soaking the so-called 'rich' will backfire spectacularly. Better to raise VAT
than income tax, which those with good accountants can find a way around.

Simple sales taxes are difficult, and frankly too much bother, to avoid. And
because essentials like food and children's clothes are exempt they have less
impact on the poor.

No one ever emigrated to save a couple of grand on a new Jag, but they will if
the State starts taking almost two-thirds of their income in direct taxes.

We will get out of this hole only if we can grow the economy. Politicians can
only do that by encouraging risk-takers, entrepreneurs and small businessmen,
not demonising them.

Tax revenues depend on recovery. Better the politics of sunshine tomorrow, than
the politics of permanent resentment.

THE timing of Sir Richard Dannatt's appointment as an adviser to the
Conservative defence team couldn't have been much worse.

But have you noticed how whenever Labour seconds outside experts, it's called a
'government of all the talents'?

And when the Tories do the same, it's a 'cynical stunt'?

THE mystery is not why Bono would want to align himself with the Tories, it's
why the Tories would want anything to do with Bono -- an ozone-going 'climate
change' hypocrite and world-class tax avoider.

THE police have been told by elf'n'safety that they shouldn't put themselves in
any danger to protect the public.

Coming on top of the Chief Constable of Leicestershire's statement that it's not
his job to protect vulnerable families from feral yobs, what exactly are the
police for?

Mind how you go.

A COUPLE who stole 650,000 through benefit fraud are being allowed to repay it
at 85p a day for the next 77 years. Sounds a bit like Gordon Brown's plan to pay
off the 61.3 trillion of taxpayers' money he's managed to lose.

A COUPLE of months ago, after a Mayfair jewellery heist, I joked that it was
heartening to see good old British blaggers making a comeback against Eastern
European rivals who I claimed carried out 'most of the robberies in this
country'.

Of course, home-grown villains are responsible for the overwhelming majority of
robberies in Britain.

If I have offended any Balkan gangster, or local blagger come to that, as well
as the vigilant reader who complained, I apologise unreservedly for any
confusion which may have been caused.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday

THE ANDREW ALEXANDER COLUMNN

LENGTH: 821 words


WHY IS CAMERON RUNNING SCARED OF A REFERENDUM?

WHEN you think about it, what is vulgarly called 'Europe' -- meaning the EU --
has been a millstone around the neck of every Tory leader since we first signed
up to the so-called Common Market.

Ted Heath would have avoided his relatively narrow defeat in 1974 but for Harold
Wilson offering a referendum on membership. Eurosceptical Margaret Thatcher was
ousted by the alliance of Euroenthusiasts Geoffrey Howe and Michael Heseltine.

John Major's authority -- and very nearly his party leadership -- was undermined
by his silly battle with the 'bastards' on his own side over the Maastricht
Treaty.

The decision to join the EU's Exchange Rate Mechanism also destroyed the Tory
reputation for economic management.

Now we have the old trouble flaring up yet again. The fact that a majority of
the public, and an even larger majority of the party, want a referendum on the
Lisbon Treaty makes the leadership's resistance and evasion look all the odder.

However, as usual with anything to do with the EU, the tail always wags the dog.
Who, exactly, is David Cameron so frightened of offending?

One obvious answer is Kenneth Clarke. But it is hard to see the Shadow Business
Secretary walking out of a government or a government-in-waiting, especially
when, at 69, this is just about his last chance of office.

Perhaps Cameron fears upsetting that part of the supposed opinionforming elite
that has always been pro-EU. If so, that is a crass political error. To be
attacked for intending to grant the British people a referendum is a vote
winner, not a vote loser.

Very well, then, perhaps Cameron does not want to cause a great row with other
EU governments. Yet he has promised that, come what may, he will be tough with
Brussels and demand the recovery of some of the powers that Britain has lost.

So while he may be prepared to have rows, it seems he isn't prepared to have a
really big one.

You have to wonder about Cameron's experience in serious negotiations. It may be
that his life has been too comfortable.

Every normal home-owner who has had to fight hard for the property he wants,
with limited resources, knows that you get nowhere in negotiations unless you
are prepared to walk away.

A Tory Government, if it wants concessions from the EU, must be prepared to walk
away.

In this context, that means renouncing the whole Lisbon Treaty and its extension
of EU powers, even though Labour has already signed it.

There would be no better way of making the EU ready to accept other, and
overdue, British demands for concessions -- apart, that is, from threatening to
leave the EU altogether.

You can see the convenience of having the Czechs make a last stand, which could
lead to a referendum on a treaty not yet in effect.

If Cameron and his senior colleagues are too frightened of promising a
referendum come what may, you have to doubt his credentials as a tough leader
for a country in a crisis.

But all is not lost for the referendum cause.

It would obviously be rash to set up Boris Johnson as a rival.

There is also the problem of UKIP. Its intervention could cost Cameron a
significant number of seats. It will need to be appeased or sidelined. A firm
referendum promise might do the trick.

Compared to balancing the Budget, this is the easy one.

--

TERRORISM WILL BE THE ONLY 'WINNER'

cTHE spat between General Dannatt and the PM has put the issue of Afghanistan
back in the headlines. Yet we are still no closer to knowing what either the
politicians or the generals mean when they talk about 'winning' in Afghanistan.
When Kabul becomes like Croydon, perhaps?

There is no reason to suppose that an extra 2,000 troops, or 10,000, would deal
with the basic confusion over this whole operation.

Let the political and the military leaders answer a simple question rather than
getting bogged down in numbers or rebukes to our faltering Nato allies. Suppose
that Britain had played no role in the invasions of Afghanistan in 2001 or the
invasion of Iraq in 2003. Would we have grim alarm about terrorists here in
Britain? Only to the extent, I suggest, that we would be worrying about attacks
on transatlantic flights. The fear of terrorism on the streets of Britain would
be minimal or non-existent. We have, in fact, created the threat: we have helped
the terrorists to recruit. And the longer we fight there, the more we swell the
terrorist ranks.

The talk from the top about staying in Afghanistan for years -- five, ten, even
a generation -- is absurd. To say that our aim is to give the country good
representative government when we have accepted the bogus re-election of a
corrupt government in Kabul speaks for itself.

What this government or the next one must ask is whether fighting on without the
prospect of success is any better than admitting defeat. Only a determined
self-delusionist will conclude that prolonging the intervention will reduce, and
not increase, the menace of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRIT A IN'S LAST DUKES;
Once, dozens of them effectively ruled the country and liked to style themselves
as Êprotectors'. But today just 24 remain - and 10 gathered for this unique
photo. So who are they and what's their worth?

BYLINE: Compiled by JULIE CARPENTER and ADRIAN LEE

SECTION: FEATURES; 26

LENGTH: 1509  words


1 JAMES GRAHAM, 8TH DUKE OF MONTROSE (title created 1707) The current holder of
the title, whose family seat is Auchmar near Loch Lomond, is the only Duke to
hold a seat in the House of Lords. The 74-year-old is a senior member of the
Conservative Party who lists speaking Mandarin as an accomplishment.

Wealth: Not known 2 DAVID MANNERS, 11TH DUKE OF RUTLAND (created 1703) The
50-year-old Duke is a strong supporter of the UK Independence Party and has
hosted fund-raising events at his home Belvoir Castle in Leicestershire. The
castle was built by Robert de Todeni, standard bearer for William the Conqueror
at the Battle of Hastings.

Wealth: GBP 135million 3 JOHN SEYMOUR, 19TH DUKE OF SOMERSET (created 1547) The
1st Duke was Edward Seymour, eldest brother of Jane Seymour, wife of Henry VIII.
The 58-year-old current Duke's daughter Henrietta was once tipped as a love
interest of Prince Harry. The family seat is Berry Pomeroy, near Totnes, Devon.

Wealth: Not known but the Duke once claimed that he couldn't afford to fix leaky
pipes from a reservoir he owns 4 RALPH GEORGE ALGERNON PERCY, 12TH DUKE OF
NORTHUMBERLAND (created 1766) The family seat is Alnwick Castle, Northumberland,
known as "the Windsor of the North" and instantly recognisable to millions of
Harry Potter fans as Hogwarts. The 52-year-old Duke also owns Syon House in West
London. His wife is an expert on poisonous plants which, she jokes, is a worry
to the Duke.

Wealth: GBP 250million 5 ANDREW IAN HENRY RUSSELL, 15TH DUKE OF BEDFORD (created
1694) The family seat is Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire (which has both a deer and
safari park) but the 15th Duke was born in Boston, Massachusetts, and educated
at Harrow and Harvard.

Wealth: GBP 480million 6 EDWARD FITZALANHOWARD, 18TH DUKE OF NORFOLK (created
1483) The current Duke, 54, whose family seat is Arundel Castle in West Sussex,
is a distant relative of Elizabeth I. The highest ranking Duke in England, he
has been a leading figure in the Boy Scout movement for much of his life.

Wealth: Not known 7 TORQUHIL IAN CAMPBELL, 13TH DUKE OF ARGYLL (created 1701) At
40, Torquhil (as he is known to his friends) is Britain's youngest Duke and the
captain, rather bizarrely, of Scotland's national elephant polo team. His wife
Eleanor Cadbury, the chocolate heiress, is expecting their third child who will
have the run of impressive family seat Inveraray Castle on Loch Fyne in
Argyllshire.

Wealth: Current Duke's father had an GBP 87million fortune 8 MAURICE FITZGERALD,
9TH DUKE OF LEINSTER (created 1766) The family seat Carlton House in Co Kildare
was lost to the family in the Twenties after the 7th Duke, a gambling addict,
sold it to a moneylender to pay a debt. The 9th Duke inherited the title from
his father in 2004 but Paul Fitzgerald, a Californian builder, claims he is the
rightful heir to the Irish title, first granted by George III.

Wealth: Not known 9 MURRAY BEAUCLERK, 14TH DUKE OF ST ALBANS (created 1684) The
title was bestowed upon the 70-year-old duke's ancestor Charles Beauclerk, the
illegitimate son of King Charles II. The 1st Duke was born following the king's
affair with actress Nell Gwyn.

Wealth: Minimal. There's no family seat and the current Duke reportedly lives in
a "pokey" flat in London 10 ARTHUR VALERIAN WELLESLEY, 8TH DUKE OF WELLINGTON
(created 1814) The title was bestowed on the legendary Iron Duke, hero of the
Napoleonic wars. The current Duke, aged 94, is also a war hero who received the
Military Cross.

His famous ancestor's trusty horse Copenhagen is buried in the grounds of
Stratfield Saye, the family seat in Hampshire.

Wealth: Not known Not pictured JOHN MURRAY, 11TH DUKE OF ATHOLL (created 1703)
The 10th duke died a bachelor in 1996 and left his ancestral home Blair Castle
in Perthshire to a charitable trust. The current Duke, his third cousin, is 80
and lives in South Africa but has pledged to maintain his late relative's
private army, the Atholl Highlanders, the last legal private army in Europe.

Wealth: Not known DAVID ROBERT SOMERSET, 11TH DUKE OF BEAUFORT (created 1682)
The 81-year-old friend of the Duchess of Cornwall was considered the "perfect
Englishman" by Ian Fleming. The James Bond author gave 007 and his Bond girl the
aliases David and Caroline Somerset in his novel From Russia With Love. The Duke
owns Badminton House and runs the Beaufort Hunt.

Wealth: GBP 115million RICHARD WALTER JOHN MONTAGU DOUGLAS SCOTT, 10TH DUKE OF
BUCCLEUCH AND QUEENSBERRY (created 1663) The current Duke, 55, inherited the
title from his father, Europe's largest landowner, two years ago.

He owns 277,000 acres that straddle Scotland and England, and Leonardo Da
Vinci's Madonna Of The Yarnwinder, valued at about GBP 50million.

Wealth: GBP 180million JAMES HAMILTON, 5TH DUKE OF ABERCORN (created 1868) One
of Ireland's biggest landowners, the 74-year-old Duke owns Baron's Court, 5,500
magnificent acres in Co Tyrone.

The area now provides some of the best and most exclusive salmon fishing in all
of Europe. He and his glamorous wife Sasha frequently holiday at their home in
the Caribbean with Prince Philip who is godfather to their eldest son James.

Wealth: GBP 32million PEREGRINE ANDREW MORNY CAVENDISH, 12TH DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE
(created 1694) Known as Stoker to his friends and plain "Duke" to staff,
Peregrine Cavendish is a self-deprecating aristocrat. Since he succeeded to the
dukedom he has said that he found it "the best fun'' redecorating his
magnificent Chatsworth House estate in the Derbyshire Peak District. At 65 he is
also deputy chairman of Sotheby's, the Queen's ever-present representative at
Ascot and his mother "Debo'' Devonshire is the last of the famous Mitford
sisters.

Wealth: GBP 500million JAMES GEORGE ALEXANDER BANNERMAN CARNEGIE, 3RD DUKE OF
FIFE (created 1900) The great grandson of King Edward VII is now 80 years old
and his daughter Lady Alexandra Etherington - who claims to be "fiftysomething"
in line to the throne - is a close friend of Sophie, Countess of Wessex.

Wealth: Not known HUGH DENIS CHARLES FITZROY, 11TH DUKE OF GRAFTON (created
1675) The third Duke of Grafton was one of only a handful of dukes to have
served as prime minister. The ancestral family home is the Palladian mansion of
Wakefield Lodge in Northamptonshire.

Wealth: Estimated to be GBP 100million in 1999 ANGUS ALAN DOUGLASHAMILTON, 15TH
DUKE OF HAMILTON (created 1643) Clarissa Dickson Wright of Two Fat Ladies fame
once ran a restaurant at Lennoxlove House, the Duke's family seat in East
Lothian but she was ignominiously ousted by his wife Kay amid claims that she
was trying to ensnare the 71-year-old Scottish peer.

Wealth: Not known GUY INNES-KER, 10TH DUKE OF ROXBURGHE (created 1707) The
Eton-educated Duke, now 55, inherited the running of the family estate at the
tender age of 19 and is now responsible for 65,000 acres.

The family seat Floors Castle was the setting for the 1984 Tarzan film
Greystoke.

Wealth: GBP 90million FRANCIS EGERTON, 7TH DUKE OF SUTHERLAND (created 1831) The
Duke was once the owner of Britain's most impressive private art collection.

The 69-year-old sold Diana And Actaeon by Titian to the National Galleries of
Scotland for GBP 50million, helping him to increase his already impressive
fortune last year. The family seat is Mertoun House in St Boswells, in the
Scottish borders.

Wealth: GBP 480million GERALD GROSVENOR, 6TH DUKE OF WESTMINSTER (created 1874)
The 59-year-old Duke's fortune of GBP 6.5billion makes him Britain's
third-richest man. In addition to the family seat Eaton Hall in Cheshire, the
Duke, who has been a soldier in the Territorial Army for more than 30 years,
owns vast swathes of land throughout the UK, including some prime real estate in
London's Mayfair.

Wealth: GBP 6.5billion ALEXANDER MONTAGU, 13TH DUKE OF MANCHESTER (created 1719)
The current Duke, 47, lives in California but the former family seat was
Kimbolton Castle, near Huntingdon, which was sold by the 10th duke in the
Fifties and is now a private school. Another former family home in County
Armagh, Northern Ireland, is a crisp factory.

The 12th duke was jailed in the US for fraud, where he also owned an ice hockey
team.

Wealth: Minimal CHARLES GORDON-LENNOX, 10TH DUKE OF RICHMOND, LENNOX AND GORDON
(created 1675) The family seat of the 80-year-old Duke is at Goodwood, near
Chichester, famous for its horse-racing festival. The sport of kings has played
an important role in family history - the 1st duke is said to have been
conceived between races at Newmarket - by Charles II and his French mistress
Louise de Querouaille. The present Duke has adopted daughter Nimmy March, an
actress who has appeared in episodes of Casualty and The Bill.

Wealth: GBP 70million JOHN SPENCER-CHURCHILL, 11TH DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH (created
1702) The 83-year-old Duke allowed Kenneth Branagh to film his production of
Hamlet at his ancestral home Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire, and was given a
cameo role in the production. He's a cousin of the wartime prime minister Sir
Winston and a distant relative of Diana, Princess of Wales.

Wealth: GBP 98million

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The heads of 10 ducal families came together for Tatler magazine at
Wiltons restaurant in London, the largest gathering of dukes since the
Coronation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Comment is free ... In Manchster It seems that the Tory right
has run out of puff

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 338 words


This, one Tory suggests, is a conference of gonzo delegates: everyone knows they
are part of the story. So when journalists searching for trouble lined the walls
of a Eurosceptical Bruges Group fringe on Monday, Tories obliged by being not
very troublesome at all. The great split on Europe was reduced to an unfocused
grumble about modern life: bring back grammar schools, sack PR men and three
cheers for Thatcher, Tebbit and Churchill. None of it will trouble David Cameron
in the slightest.

At this conference all the ingredients for a rebellion are in place, except for
the rebels. Cameron is both commanding and vulnerable. He doesn't - at least
until May 2010 - have many close supporters in parliament. Most Tory
representatives are sniffy about the slick PR that backs the brand. They don't
entirely know what their leader stands for. They wish he'd be more outspoken on
Europe, tax, immigration, crime - on all the things that they think
differentiate their party from Tony Blair. Some of them even fear Cameron is
Blair.

But none of it matters while the Tory right has no leader and no crowd to lead.
It is, for the moment, inert, or has gone off to join Ukip, or is writing online
and in the Daily Telegraph. It was telling that the Bruges Group had to put two
journalists on its panel, while a scattering of MPs sat with the audience. It
was a big audience. But not out to cause trouble, as meetings like this did in
the past.

Some of this is because on Europe Cameron has given the right much of what it
wants; and some of it is because Cameron looks like a winner. But the control is
real.

The striking thing about this conference is the absence of opposition to the
Cameron project. No shadow ministers are staking out the ground for a putsch
once in office (or those that are dare not make it obvious). The fringe agenda
is full of sessions on social policy reform, while there are few on Europe and
almost none on immigration. The Tory right has run out of puff. It is Cameron's
chance. If he blows it, they'll be back.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday

City of London to Farage: 'You can come, but only if you're good'

BYLINE: Edited by Jonathan Russell

SECTION: CITY; City Diary; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 140  words


WILL he or won't he? Over

the weekend I reported that UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom

had been banned from future City of London banquets at Mansion House after his
heckling of FSA boss Lord Turner.

The Lord Mayor's office was not amused, so much so it also banned him from the
annual reception of the City of London's Brussels office tonight (Lord Turner is
speaking there too, you see).

Euro-sceptics shouldn't despair. Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader who is also an MEP,
is due to attend, well, as long as he behaves.

I understand his invitation

was withdrawn yesterday, only to be reinstated on the

condition he promises to be a good boy, which I assume means he only speaks when
spoken to and washes his hands before dinner.

While I have no qualms about his personal hygiene, he is known for his
forthright views - I'm looking forward to this already.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday

The Tory right has run out of puff

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 372 words

ABSTRACT

Julian Glover: Conference season 09: A rump of the Tory party is unconvinced by
the Cameron project, but there are few overt signs of opposition here

FULL TEXT

This, one Tory suggests, is a conference of gonzo delegates: everyone knows they
are part of the story. So when journalists searching for trouble lined the walls
of a eurosceptical  fringe yesterday afternoon, Tories obliged by being not very
troublesome at all. The  was reduced to an unfocussed grumble about modern life:
bring back grammar schools, sack PR men and three cheers for Thatcher, Tebbit
and Churchill. None of it will trouble David Cameron in the slightest.

At this conference all of the ingredients for a rebellion are in place, except
for the rebels. Cameron is both commanding and vulnerable. He doesn't - at least
until May 2010 - have many close supporters in parliament. Most Tory
representatives are sniffy about the slick PR that backs the brand. They don't
entirely know what their leader stands for. They wish he'd be more outspoken on
Europe, on tax, on immigration, crime - on all the things that they think
differentiate their party from Tony Blair. Some of them even fear Cameron is
Blair.

But none of it matters while the Tory right has no leader and no crowd to lead.
It is, for the moment, inert, or has gone off to join Ukip, or is writing online
and in the Daily Telegraph. It was telling that the Bruges Group had to put two
journalists on its panel, while a scattering of MPs sat with the audience in the
hall. It was a big audience. But not out to cause trouble, as meetings like this
did in the past.

Some of this is because on Europe, Cameron has given the right much of what it
wants. Some of it is because he looks like a winner. But the control is real.

The striking thing about this conference is the absence of opposition to the
Cameron project. No shadow ministers are staking out the ground for a putsch
once in office (or at least those that are dare not make it obvious). The fringe
agenda is full of sessions on social policy reform, while there are few on
Europe and almost none on immigration. The Tory right has run out of puff. It is
Cameron's chance. If he blows it, they'll be back.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             October 5, 2009 Monday

IT'S D-DAY ON EUROPE -- YOUR PARTY OR YOUR POLITICS?

BYLINE: BY PETER MCKAY

LENGTH: 1536 words


HAD THE hard-up Irish voted against the Lisbon Treaty, they would have been
asked to reconsider the matter a third time. Or however long it took.

That's the point about the 27-nation European Union. It literally doesn't take
No for an answer. It merely rephrases the question.

The EU's supporters are determined always to increase its powers, and this
positive aim gives them a sense of momentum.

Those who fear and distrust the EU are fragmented by comparison. They range from
those who find it irritating to diehards who'd come out of it altogether.

The Left used to hate the EU, but their soft centre has largely come round to
it. If Labour has an effective lobbying group seeking to repatriate UK powers
handed over to Brussels, I am not aware of it.

The Tories have the Bruges Group, which, no doubt, does its best to keep such
concerns alive, but seems marginal against the moneyed, state-sponsored forces
of EU consolidation.

There's the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), the most committed anti-EU
forum, but single-issue outfits rarely make much headway in our political
system.

Although most polls show a majority distrusting the EU and favouring UK control
of our major institutions, this hasn't blossomed into a vibrant movement which
might frighten the pro-EU movement.

For Labour, the EU is now more or less a closed subject. The Party's former
leader Neil Kinnock -- once a ranting opponent -- became such a fan that he and
most of his family ended up in lucrative employment

with the EU bureaucracy. Labour now supports greater integration -- ie, diluting
our sovereignty further -- despite what most of their voters think. They know
that for most Labour voters anxious about EU powers, the subject is not a deal
breaker. They won't jump ship for the Tories over Europe.

But for David Cameron's Conservatives, Europe is a nightmare. It's the one issue
guaranteed to provoke dissent in the ranks -- more than taxes, crime and social
security reform.

Hence Kenneth Clarke's weekend appeal for harmony following Ireland's 'Yes to
Lisbon' vote. Clarke, the pro-EU Shadow Business Minister, said: 'Most people,
if you say shall we have a debate about the Treaty of Lisbon at our party
conference, will feel an inner shudder.'

CERTAINLY, Clarke must shudder. He thought the Tories under David Cameron had
finessed the question of Europe so cleverly that he -- an out and out Europhile
-- could, at the age of 67, contemplate a return to office.

Now London's Tory mayor, Boris Johnson, is demanding a referendum, whether or
not the Lisbon Treaty is ratified -- pushing the Party back into confronting its
anti-EU wing. Has he done this in consultation with his old school rival
Cameron? It seems unlikely.

While Labour has sidelined its anti-EU supporters, the Tory anti-Brussels crowd
remains vociferous, a latent danger to Cameron. He has made placatory gestures
which have kept them quiet, but if it becomes obvious that Europe is a question
he'd prefer to duck, the Party can expect another uproar, if not a
support-draining schism.

Here's the thing: the forces in favour of widening and deepening the EU are
implacably committed, while the antis seem by comparison-unfocused. While the
public may register opposition to the EU in polls, it isn't something they'll
die in a ditch over.

There are no marches on Westminster, or Brussels, by antis demanding the return
of our sovereignty. For some, the arguments pro and anti Europe shape their
entire political outlook, but for the most it's a bore now.

We're in it and there's little chance of coming out. Most of us would likely
settle for our politicians fighting our corner in Europe, making sure we were
not disadvantagedby traditional enemies such as the French and the Germans.

We've all heard for years that the over-ambitious EU would collapse -- as would
its currency, the euro. But is that any closer to happening? No. Is there the
faintest hope our Government will give us the chance of leaving the EU, if that
is legally possible? No. Is there the prospect in the years ahead, as the
institution matures, that we'll be able to repatriate some of the sovereignty we
gave away? Possibly.

The iron determination of the EU to have us all singing from the same hymn sheet
wasn't necessarily sinister. Part of it had to do with ensuring we traded fairly
with each other. Over time, isn't the EU bound to relax its grip? Maybe.

Whatever, fewer of us get into a lather about the EU now. We've grown weary of
the arguments. Who would consider it so big a subject still that they would
voluntarily put in jeopardy the prospect of the Party they support winning our
General Election?

That's the big question for those assembling at the Tory conference in
Manchester today.

OBAMA'S NOT FOR WILTING!

FANCY Rio winning the 2016 Olympics, and Chicago -- backed by President Barack
Obama in person, along with the First Lady, Michelle -- being knocked out first
in the vote in Copenhagen last week?

Rio is famous for its beaches and funloving people, Chicago for Al Capone and
his gangsters. But the images are out of date.

Rio's gangsterism is far deeper than Chicago's was in the 1920s. In Chicago,
some cops were bribed by Capone and his mob, but in Rio now there are murder
gangs composed of cops.

Not that any of this would have influenced the Olympic committee. Perhaps they
just felt it was time South America got the Games. But it was a blow to Obama,
the first U.S. President to lobby personally for them.

He's taken a few knocks recently, mainly over opposition to his proposed health
system reforms, but he's still got time to become a great President.

The American columnist and radio host Garrison Keillor, talking about the
insults hurled by Republicans at Obama, tells his readers: 'Mr Obama is a
Chicago guy, and he doesn't wilt if some gin-crazed cracker from South Carolina
calls him a liar, so don't trouble your pretty head about civility.' So, no
doubt, he'll get over his Olympics disappointment, too.

SEX AND THE TV CELEBS

THE U.S. chat show host David Letterman informs his viewers: 'I have had sex
with women who work for me on this show.'

He was making this public, he said, because he was being blackmailed by a former
colleague, Robert Halderman, who sought to extort $2 million from him. Letterman
knew that he'd be named when the case came to court. So he pre-empted this by
announcing it on TV.

What would happen if a TV star here was threatened with exposure over an
extra-marital affair? He might apply for an injunction preventing the
newspapers-from reporting his name, if recent cases are any guide. Remember the
'royal' who was blackmailed last year?

More recently, a TV journalist got an injunction shielding his identity and
preventing publication of details about an extramarital affair which resulted in
a child. The fact that he is engaged professionally in exposing information
about his interviewees they might prefer to keep quiet is not considered
relevant.

It's often said that money buys anything in America, even justice. But isn't
that more true of Britain?

STEREOTYPING HATTIE

LABOUR'S Deputy Leader Harriet Harman leaves the scene of a minor motoring
prang, in which she is said to have bumped a parked car while allegedly talking
on her mobile phone, telling passersby: 'I'm Harriet Harman -- you know where
you can get hold of me.' It happened in July, but the police haven't got around
to talking to the busy Ms Harman yet, what with the Labour Party Conference and
so forth. However, if she is charged and prosecuted for the offences she is
alleged to have committed, it's said Harriet could go to prison, or face a fine
of 62,500 as well as points on her licence. Perhaps a feminist case can be made
for HH. Talking on mobile phones and airily dismissing minor bumps in cars is
the kind of behaviour often alleged against women by chauvinist men, or women
who have not seen the light. Is it a plot to hobble Hattie just as her campaign
for women in politics is getting under way? Fetch Leftie QC Michael Mansfield!

ARISE, SIR SIMON COWELL . . .

Has enough been done to honour the showbusiness expert Simon Cowell of The X
Factor, who marked his 50th birthday with a '61million' (nice round sum!) party
at the weekend?

I have a soft spot for baronetcies. Grander than mere knights but less vulgar
than lords. The last one created, I think, was Sir Denis Thatcher; the 2nd
baronet is Sir Mark, his much admired son. Why not Sir Simon Cowell, Bt? It
might encourage him to stop being silly and settle down with Miss Right so that
his honour -- like his millions -- could be passed on.

WE'LL stick 100,000 of the worst street yobs in prison, say the Tories, a cry
not heard from the Conservatives since the heyday of their annual conference's
fabled hang 'em and flog 'em law-and-order mob. It won't happen, of course.
Never believe political promises which come with nice round numbers.

What is it about Shadow Chancellor George Osborne? Where have we seen him
before? Of course! Isn't he a dead ringer for Piers Morgan, the shy,
self-effacing TV personality? Politically, Piers allied himself to Gordon and
Sarah Brown after Tony Blair retired, but I am sure he could be persuaded to
doff his chapeau to the Tories if they get into power.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             October 5, 2009 Monday

CAMERON URGED TO SPEAKOUT ON EUROPE

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 1001 words


TORIES HIT BY REFERENDUM ROW AS 'PRESIDENT BLAIR' GETS SET FOR £3.5MILLION EU
PAY DAY

DAVID Cameron's bid to depict his party as a united governmentinwaiting was
threatened last night by a new row over Europe.

The Tory leader was accused of 'dithering' after he rejected repeated calls for
a commitment to a referendum on the European constitution ñ even if the Lisbon
Treaty creating it is ratified before he wins power.

The row, prompted by Ireland's Yes vote on the EU treaty on Saturday, dogged Mr
Cameron and his team as they planned a charm offensive at their final conference
before next year's general election.

On the eve of the party gathering in Manchester, it also emerged that: --Tony
Blair could rake in more than £3.5million if he is chosen as Europe's first
President; --Radical plans for a crackdown on the workshy have been drawn up by
the Tories, with a promise to slash incapacity benefits if claimants are fit to
work; --A Tory government would give NHS patients the right to choose a
consultant and be given detailed information about their hospital's cleanliness;
--The party's education proposals could give wealthy undergraduates a discount
on their student debt. But it was the fall-out from the Irish vote that
dominated the conference run-up.

London Mayor Boris Johnson called for a referendum to decide whether Britain is
part of the European Union at all because 'the British people deserve a say'. He
then had to issue a statement denying he was deliberately undermining Mr
Cameron.

Mr Cameron is committed only to holding a referendum if the Lisbon Treaty is not
fully in force when he comes to power.

He insists that he is not prepared to speculate about alternative situations
while the Czech Republic and Poland have yet to complete ratification.

In a testy interview with the BBC's Andrew Marr yesterday, Mr Cameron repeatedly
refused to state his policy in the event of ratification by all member states.
He said: 'There were three countries that it hadn't been ratified in ñ Ireland,
the Czech Republic and Poland. There are now two, so I don't see any reason to
change our approach because one has decided to ratify.'

Senior Tory sources indicated that Mr Cameron's silence was designed to gloss
over the fact that he is poised to abandon the referendum if the treaty is
ratified ñ a move guaranteed to enrage the Tory Right. A Shadow Cabinet figure
said: 'David has made clear to us that he does not want to pick a fight with
Brussels in his first year. His foreign policy priority is Afghanistan.'

But Tory MEP Daniel Hannan, a darling of the party grassroots, called for a
nationwide vote. He said: 'Everyone I speak to here is broadly opposed to Europe
and they want a referendum, if not on the Lisbon Treaty then on Europe more
generally.' His colleague in Brussels, Roger Helmer, accused Mr Cameron of
'capricious procrastination' by sticking to a policy that was 'no longer
credible'.

Mr Helmer said: 'None of our opponents is convinced by it, and frankly precious
few of our members and activists either. We have said that we will set out our
policy in our general election manifesto, so why not now? It looks merely like
capricious procrastination to delay.'

Backbencher Richard Shepherd warned that Mr Cameron risked a breach in a 'matter
of the deepest trust with the British people' unless he holds a referendum.

Party chairman Eric Pickles was widely seen to have erred when he suggested it
was 'very unlikely' that the treaty will have been passed by the time of the
general election, now expected in May. The Poles have already indicated that
they will ratify the treaty this month and allies of Czech President Vaclav
Klaus, who has been holding out, admitted they are close to throwing in the
towel.

It would be very difficult for Britain to get out of the treaty once it is
European law. But the think-tank Open Europe has suggested that a Cameron
government could hold a referendum on a proposed package of amendments.

Mr Cameron's policy seemed designed to usher himself through a quiet conference
and keep Europe on the backburner through the early part of his premiership.

But he risked the charge of ducking a confrontation with hardline Eurosceptics
that both Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair made touchstones of their leadership.
His careful formula also failed to silence Tories on either side of the divide.

Lord Brittan, the pro-Brussels former European commissioner and Cabinet
minister, branded the prospect of a referendum if the treaty had been ratified
as 'not just politically unwise but ludicrous and impossible.'

But former Cabinet minister Lord Tebbit called his comments 'absurd, patronising
rubbish' and said the party leadership was treating voters 'like children' by
refusing to discuss what it would do.

He said Shadow Business Secretary Ken Clarke and others who have called for
silence on Europe ñ to avoid a new civil war ñ should 'just shut up'.

The comments encouraged Foreign Secretary David Miliband to accuse Mr Cameron of
'dithering' and warn that Britain would face isolation in Europe under a Tory
government. He said: 'Boris Johnson's comments show that the Tories are split
right to the top.

'David Cameron has got himself in a position where he made promises to
Euro-extremists in his own party and he won't take them on. The isolation of the
Tory party in Europe is a preview of the isolation for Britain if they ever got
into power ñ and that is dangerous for us as a country.'

The UK Independence Party plans to highlight Tory divisions with an advertising
campaign promoting itself as the only party committed to a referendum.

Leader Nigel Farage said: 'It seems to me they don't want to give a referendum,
they haven't got the backbone to do it. There is clearly no principle here as
far as Cameron is concerned.'

His party will fight 500 seats at the General Election, and some forecasters
have suggested they could deprive the Tories of an overall majority if they poll
strongly in marginal seats.

Comment ñ Page 14 Peter McKay ñ Page 17

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             October 5, 2009 Monday

SALMOND DEMANDS A SEAT AT THE TV SHOWDOWN OF PARTY LEADERS

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 207 words


ALEX Salmond yesterday threatened to scupper plans for TV election debates
between party leaders unless he is included.

His Scottish National Party said it would consider court action to block the
transmission in Scotland of debates between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick
Clegg unless its leader was allowed to take part. UK Independence Party leader
Nigel Farage also demanded to be included.

Gordon Brown finally ended weeks of dithering at the weekend by saying he would
join TV debates with his main rivals. Prime Ministers have traditionally refused
to take part in such events, but senior Labour figures believe the party is now
so far behind that Mr Brown has little to lose. ITV, the BBC and Sky News put
forward a joint proposal last week to stage three debates.

But Scottish Finance Minister John Swinney said: 'The SNP is leading the opinion
polls for the Westminster elections and we are the government of Scotland, so I
think the people of Scotland are entitled to hear Alex Salmond.' Mr Farage said:
'We are not on equal footing with Labour and the Tories but neither are the
LibDems. But we have just come second in the European election and are clearly
established as the fourth party so, yes, we would expect to be included.'

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             October 5, 2009 Monday

Reply Letters and emails: No pain, no gain for Cameron on Europe

BYLINE: Michael McGowan

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 298 words


*In Martin Kettle's analysis of the significance of the Irish referendum for
David Cameron (Tories' Eurosceptic toxicity could leave Britain stranded, 2
October), he points out the serious problem of Britain's isolation in the EU.

It is extremely serious as the Conservatives have broken away from the
mainstream centre-right group of Christian Democrats and the group of Labour
MEPs has shrunk to little more than the size of a football team, not to mention
the UK sending Ukip and BNP members to Europe.

Mr Kettle's article refers to "the one-nation optimism of a Chris Patten", and
it is indeed glaringly clear that what the UK needs most today is a
"one-nation", "one-Europe", "one-world" voice at the heart of Europe. It is hard
to think of anyone more suited for the job than Chris Patten, with his
experience as UK government minister, European commissioner and last governor of
Hong Kong.

It is amazing that Tony Blair appears to be the only UK name doing the rounds,
even the favourite for the job. Blair would see the job as a high-profile
grandstanding position on the world stage. His failure to show solidarity with
Europe on Iraq should eliminate him from any serious consideration for president
of Europe. He was out of step with European political and public opinion apart
from his friend and holiday host Mr Berlusconi.

Following the Irish vote on Lisbon and endorsement by Poland and the Czech
Republic, Gordon Brown should show leadership and move quickly with a serious
bid by Britain for the top job of president of Europe with a clear "Yes for
Patten" and "No for Blair".

Chris Patten has to be rated as one of the more heavyweight and internationally
respected UK politicians of recent times and would be a strong voice in Europe.

Michael McGowan

Labour MEP for Leeds 1984-99

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 5, 2009 Monday 10:10 AM GMT

David Cameron skippers Morning Cloud, conducts LSO, etc

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 337 words


Is David Cameron Margaret Thatcher or is he Ted Heath?

This is the only question that really matters about the man who will be our
prime minister this time next year. Unfortunately, the front page of today's
Guardian already has the answer, under the heading "David Cameron retreats on
European referendum."

It says:

"David Cameron is to rule out a referendum on the Lisbon treaty if the measure
is ratified by all 27 members of the EU before next year's general election in
Britain."

"Amid signs the measure will enter EU law by the end of the year - as the Czech
Republic and Poland indicated over the weekend they will fall into line - Tory
sources admitted yesterday that Cameron will not try to unpick the treaty's main
reforms."

In other words, we're stuffed. United States of Europe and President Tony Blair
here we come.

Obviously it would be nice to be able to dismiss this as just a case of the
Left's house journal fomenting trouble. Except that Ben Brogan was predicting
similar things yesterday; and you can even detect hints of it in the
uncharacteristically havering tone of this blog by Dan Hannan.

I'm quite sure Dan will be popping up here soon to explain in lavish and
persuasive detail just why David Cameron's refusal to grant the British people
the referendum on the EU Constitution the majority of them crave is in fact a
masterstroke of realpolitik, and that Dave's intention to repatriate significant
powers on social and employment law will be the "terrors of the earth."

To me though, it sounds like a classic case of Heathite 'managed decline.'

"We've lost the battle to preserve our liberty and our sovereignty," it says.
"You're part of the European Socialist Superstate now, so you might as well
accept that for the rest of your lives 80 per cent of all your new laws will be
made by unaccountable Brussels bureaucrats, your businesses strangled by more
and more red tape, and your freedoms increasingly constrained by Nannying
socialist busy bodies."

Still, great news for UKIP, eh?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             October 5, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Braced for a busy week among Tory grassroots, the YouTube hero who Labour loves
to hate;
The Irish 'yes' vote is irrelevant, says MEP who denounced NHS. Rachel Sylvester
and Alice Thomson report

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester; Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1107 words


He wears red, spotty braces, carries a Union Jack diary and sent his children to
a nursery school called Little England. Daniel Hannan is the Tory Eurosceptic
MEP who Labour loves to hate.

When he declared on American TV over the summer that the NHS was a "60-year
mistake", ministers rushed out to condemn him as unpatriotic. When his attack on
Gordon Brown in the European Parliament as the "devalued Prime Minister of a
devalued Government" became a YouTube phenomenon, Labour claimed that he
revealed the Tories' "swivel-eyed instincts".

David Cameron has tried to distance himself from his MEP, saying that he has
some "quite eccentric views about some things". But he has recently appointed
him as the Conservative spokesman on legal affairs in the European Parliament.
He has also adopted quite a few of his ideas.

In a book Mr Hannan co-authored last year, The Plan, the MEP called for elected
police chiefs, a bonfire of quangos, recall votes for MPs, fewer politicians and
open primaries - all policies that have since been backed by the Conservative
high command.

A darling of the Tory grassroots, Mr Hannan will be all over the fringe in
Manchester this week, campaigning for a tougher line on Europe.

In his view the "yes" vote in Ireland is irrelevant and the Tories should, if
elected, hold a referendum on Britain's position in the EU even if the Lisbon
treaty has been ratified. "There have been huge transfers of power since 1975
when people last voted. In 1975 we were voting on a common market and getting
together to stop wars. No one would claim that the EU is remotely like that
today. It's taken on characteristics and attributes of statehood."

Britain would, he thinks, be better off out of the EU altogether. "I would like
us to have something along the lines of what the Swiss have. We wouldn't have
MEPs or EU passports but we would have trade. People say we are too small to
survive outside - I don't think that's true, we're the fourth military power on
the planet."

His position sounds closer to that of the UK Independence Party than the Tories,
but he is not tempted to defect. "They're a single-issue party that wants
Britain to be independent, but I've got a whole agenda about breaking the
quangos and empowering the citizen."

Although voters do not see Europe as a priority, he insists that they would if
they knew what the EU was responsible for. "Almost all the things that really
annoy people come from Brussels - home information packs, fortnightly bin
collections, metric measures, compulsory car seats, all stem from EU
directives."

The Plan may have become a blueprint for Tory modernisers, but on health Mr
Cameron shows no signs of accepting Mr Hannan's policy. The MEP would scrap the
NHS and introduce personal healthcare accounts, as in Singapore. "With the NHS
you have very little choice as a consumer. If you are lucky and it works out
well, then great, but if it doesn't then you can't go anywhere else. I think we
can do better."

Although his criticism of the British health system provoked a row over the
summer, he is not backing down. "If Labour is so confident of their argument,
why not extend their logic and have housing run as a state monopoly allocated on
the basis of need? Why not have food run by a national food service and
distributed with rationing by queue? The countries that don't have a state
monopoly for health have shorter waiting times and better survival rates than we
have."

Schools should, he insists, be able to select academically. "Children are better
off when they are being taught at the right level". And he thinks there is a
case for decriminalising drugs. "I'm against victimless crimes. I'd start with
cannabis, and if that worked I wouldn't in principle be against decriminalising
heroin."

Welfare should, he says, be handled locally. "If you make your contribution as a
taxpayer locally you can see that it is helping your neighbour. And if you know
that your neighbour is claiming disability allowance while working as an
electrician you will have a different attitude towards them."

Localism is his big idea. Mr Hannan would scrap VAT and introduce a local sales
tax, to make councils selffinancing. "You'd have competing tax jurisdictions
leading to a downward pressure on rates."

He also opposed Labour's economic rescue package. "The fiscal stimulus was a
mistake. The best way of stimulating spending is to take less money from people
in tax." The Government should in his view have let some of the big banks go
down. "I am convinced of the theory of spontaneous order that if the Government
doesn't intervene the institutions concerned will find a solution.

Almost everything they did in response to the financial crisis has made things
worse."

Labour will no doubt seize on his comments. But Mr Hannan is rather bemused by
all the fuss he causes.

"In any other part of the world it's natural and normal to want to live in a
self-governing country. New Zealand has no plans to merge with Australia but
they don't go around saying 'you mad, swivel-eyed Austro-sceptics'.

"This isn't about nostalgia or jingoism or obsessiveness. The real obsessives
are the ones on the other side who just won't take no for an answer."

Daniel Hannan

Age 38 Childhood Born on his parents' poultry farm near Lima, Peru. Regularly
visited the family's cotton farm in Santa Cruz, Bolivia Education Moved to
England and attended Marlborough College, then studied modern history at Oriel
College, Oxford. Founded the Oxford Campaign for an Independent Britain. Speaks
French and Spanish Career His 40-person protest at a meeting of EU ministers won
him widespread media attention. He claimed that it was a success because "a
camera at close range cannot tell the difference between 40 demonstrators and
4,000". Elected an MEP for southeast England in 1999 after a stint as
speechwriter for William Hague. He writes for magazines and newspapers and was a
YouTube sensation in March when he posted a video lambasting Gordon Brown

On the Fringe

Conservatives and the voters 12.30 Times meeting, Midland Hotel, Manchester
(sandwiches provided) Speakers Greg Clark Shadow Secretary for Energy and
Climate Change Andrew Cooper Director of Populus James Harding Editor, The Times
Peter Riddell Assistant Editor (Politics) The Times

In the Hall

10.00 Ready for Change Contributors include Francis Maude and Boris Johnson
11.15 Reforming Politics Accountability and Transparency (Annabel Goldie and
William Hague) 14.00 Britain's Future (Various members of the Shadow Cabinet)
15.00 Reforming Politics Decentralisation and Social Action (Caroline Spelman
and Sayeeda Warsi) 16.00 The NHS (Andrew Lansley)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             October 4, 2009 Sunday

SO, OUR 1000 YEARS OF HISTORY ENDS LIKE THIS

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN

LENGTH: 446 words


THE creation of a European superstate moved a step closer last night, after the
Irish people voted to accept the Lisbon Treaty, paving the way for a powerful
new President of Europe.

In a result greeted with relief in Downing Street and dismay in the Tory Party,
more than two-thirds of the Irish electorate voted Yes in the country!s second
referendum on the treaty.

The ballot followed a frantic campaign by pro-Europeans to reverse Ireland!s
overwhelming No vote last year. Now, only Poland and the Czech Republic of the
EU!s 27 countries have yet to approve it.

Critics say the treaty, which aims to OEstreamline! EU institutions to mimic the
functions of a nation state, represents the biggest threat to British
sovereignty since the invasion of William the Conqueror in 1066. Tony Blair is
strongly tipped to be anointed as the new European President, possibly within
weeks, creating a headache for David Cameron as he heads to Manchester for his
party conference.

The Conservative leader says a Tory Government would hold a British referendum
on the treaty if it had not been fully ratified when the party came to power,
but refuses to be drawn on what its position would be if the treaty was already
in force. Mr Cameron is acutely aware of the party!s past infighting over
Europe, and having a powerful British figure such as Mr Blair in charge of the
EU is likely to make any battle even more bloody.

OEIf the treaty is ratified in all member states, we have repeatedly said we
would not let matters rest there,! Mr Cameron said yesterday. OEBut we have one
policy at a time and we will set out how we would proceed in those circumstances
if, and only if, they happen.!

The decision of the Irish electorate, producing a 67.1 per cent Yes vote, was
welcomed by Gordon Brown. OEThe treaty is good for the UK and good for Europe,!
he said. OEWe can now work together to focus on the issues that matter most to
Europeans - a sustained economic recovery, security, tackling global poverty and
action on climate change.!

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: OEThis represents the
biggest threat to our sovereignty since 1066. With this treaty, we become part
of an EU state and all our laws become subservient to a court in Luxembourg. The
British people must have a referendum on this momentous threat to our future.!

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso hailed the decision as OEa
great day for Ireland and for Europe!. Countering accusations from the No
campaign of unfair EU interference in a national referendum, Mr Barroso
insisted: OEI am pleased that the EC helped in putting impartial and accurate
information at the disposal of the Irish people.!

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                October 4, 2009

INSIDE: Victory for Yes campaign as 64% vote for Lisbon:   41 of 43
constituencies favour treaty   Eurosceptics call for UK referendum

BYLINE: Henry McDonald Ireland Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words


In a dramatic political U-turn, Ireland has voted decisively in favour of the
Lisbon treaty just 17 months after rejecting the European Union's package of
reforms.

Two thirds of the Irish electorate backed the treaty - a result that EU
president Jose Manuel Barroso described as a "great day for Europe and a great
day for Ireland".

By late afternoon it was becoming clear that around 64% of the electorate had
supported the treaty. Overall, the Yes vote was up by around 20% across the
country. In June 2008, only 10 out of Ireland's 43 parliamentary constituencies
voted in favour of Lisbon; in this referendum, 41 constituencies have endorsed
it.

Last night, Irish opponents of Lisbon challenged David Cameron to give the
British people a referendum on the EU's future if the Tories take power next
year. Richard Greene, a leading figure in the anti-Lisbon Coir movement, issued
a direct public appeal to the Conservative leader to hold a referendum on Europe
in the next British parliament.

Speaking at the main Dublin count in the RDS conference centre, Green told the
Observer that the onus was now on Cameron to halt what he and other Irish No
campaigners see as the drive towards an EU superstate.

"The British people were never colo nised, so they will not be bullied. The
first priority of a new British prime minister should be to fulfil the broken
promises of successive British governments and give the British people that
referendum," he said.

Arriving at Dublin Castle, where the overall result was declared, the Ukip MEP
and leading British eurosceptic Nigel Farage described the result as "a victory
for big money, a victory for thuggery and a travesty of democracy."

Farage endorsed Greene's challenge to Cameron and the Tories to hold a
referendum on Britain's future in Europe.

"There is a widespread expectation that a Conservative party that is 20% ahead
in the polls will give us a referendum. It appeared over the last couple of
days, as it became clear that there was going to be a Yes vote in Ireland, that
Mr Cameron and Mr Hague were beginning to weasel out of that. I would say that
is not good enough - because it can't be right just to have the Irish voting on
the future of British democracy as well as their own. So I am going to be
campaigning like hell for there to be a referendum."

Greene was among the first of the Irish No campaigners to concede defeat in the
second referendum. Even by 9.30am yesterday it was becoming clear inside the RDS
centre that the Dublin constituencies - always the key battleground in any Irish
electoral contest - were swinging to the Yes camp.

By midday, Declan Ganley, the multimillionaire businessman and campaigner who
played a key role in securing a No vote in June 2008, was conceding defeat this
time; as the tallies began to show a strong surge towards a Yes vote, the leader
of the Libertas pressure group said: "This is very convincing." But he accused
the pro-European parties of playing on fears about jobs and the recession to
intimidate the Irish electorate to vote Yes.

As votes were counted, it became apparent that even in areas where there had
been a strong No vote last time, or where parties opposed to the Lisbon treaty
had electoral support, the electorate had clearly shifted.

In the Cavan/Monaghan constituency, the stronghold of Sinn Fein TD Caoimhghin
O'Caolain, voters in the border region were backing Lisbon by 61%. Sinn Fein was
the only party in the Dail to call for the treaty's rejection. The result, both
locally and nationally, will be seen as yet another setback for Sinn Fein in the
republic.

The first constituency to declare an official result was Tipperary South, where
the Yes vote was 68.42%. In the first referendum 53.21% of the Tipperary South
electorate had voted No.

All of the six Dublin constituencies were also set to endorse the Lisbon treaty
- including Dublin South West, where in June 2008 a majority rejected it.

The result will also be a boost to Brian Cowen, Ireland's embattled Taoiseach.
Cowen became Irish premier in May 2008, just one month before Ireland decisively
rejected Lisbon in the first ref erendum. Since then his government's popularity
has plunged to a historic low in the opinion polls due to the recession, the
country's banking crisis and rising unemployment. "This is Brian Cowen's first
victory as Taoiseach," one Irish government adviser said today, "This is Brian's
first break since he took up office."

Yesterday afternoon, Cowen paid tribute not only to the two coalition parties
but also Fine Gael and Labour.

The Taoiseach said securing guarantees on Irish neutrality, the retention of an
Irish commissioner in Brussels and no threat to the country's ban on abortion
had been crucial in reversing the vote of June 2008. Fears over Ireland being
pushed into an EU-wide army, the use of European law to overturn the abortion
ban and the loss of Irish influence in Brussels were all explosive issues that
the No camp exploited in the last referendum.

"After last year's vote I was determined to ensure that the people of Ireland
got a response to their concerns. I want to recognise the record of all those
who dealt with those guarantees," he said.

While welcoming the decisive Yes vote yesterday, the Irish Labour Party leader
Eamon Gilmore warned the nation endorsing Lisbon would not save Cowen's
administration. Gilmore said: "During the course of this campaign we found that
the biggest single obstacle to securing a Yes vote was public fury at the Fianna
Fail government that has brought this country to the brink of economic ruin."

Signalling an end to the de facto political ceasefire between the pro-European
parties during the referendum campaign, Gilmore added: "The people want Fianna
Fail out. No government can function with any credibility or authority when it
enjoys so little support among the majority of voters. This is a government that
is out of touch and out of time. What the country now urgently needs is a change
of government, with a new mandate, a change of personnel and fresh ideas."

Race on for euro presidency, 10-11

Tory conference, 22-23

Rafael Behr, 27

Andrew Rawnsley, 29

CONTINUED ON PAGE 11


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 4, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cameron's no chump - it's not in the bag yet

BYLINE: MARTIN IVENS

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1461 words


After an average 15-point lead in the opinion polls over Labour in September,
the Conservative party conference in Manchester should be a launch pad for
government. David Cameron and shadow chancellor George Osborne need to convey a
one-word message to the electorate - "ready".

At this stage in the electoral cycle in 1978, before the Conservatives last
returned to power, Margaret Thatcher's party trailed behind Labour. Tony Blair
in 1996 was streets ahead of the Tories; Cameron's lead today is slenderer and
shallower. What the Iron Lady lacked in popularity she more than made up for in
political definition: the voters knew where she was going and she had made
detailed plans to get there. Can her heirs make the same boast? The conditions
are favourable. Labour's last party conference before the general election
seemed to collapse into a series of media mishaps. The Sun's switch of
allegiance from new Labour to the Tories was but the most celebrated. The BBC's
impertinent questions about the state of Gordon Brown's mental health seemed
vindicated by his foolish on-air outburst at a Sky interviewer. These incidents
could have been copied straight out of the John Major Bumper Book of Political
Disasters.

My colleague Dominic Lawson analyses the importance of The Sun's shift in the
news section. Suffice to say in its aftermath, Mandelson accused the newspaper's
management of being "a bunch of chumps" - in his sanitised account of the
conversation. Those who have crossed swords with the Prince of Darkness might
think that a bit rich coming from the mother of all "chumps" himself, but his
response reflected the hysteria with which the defection was greeted.

"The abiding memory of the conference in voters' minds will be a trade unionist
tearing up a copy of Britain's most popular paper, after a series of speeches
denouncing the tabloid," gloats one in Tory high command. In 1998, The Sun, with
a nod to Monty Python, stuck an upside-down dead parrot on its front page upon
which was imposed the head of William Hague, then the Conservative leader. It
bore the headline "this party is no more, it has ceased to be, it is an an
ex-party". The Tory party conference was shell-shocked but Hague refused to
sulk.

In Brighton, the prime minister rallied his party's core vote at the price of
incoherence. Brown tore up his big, strategic (and reluctantly made) decision of
the summer to campaign on a programme of "compassionate" government cuts. The
prime minister appears to find the c-word offensive too. Instead, he offered a
series of billion-pound bribes to the voters, paid with a post-dated cheque.

Mandelson may have entertained the troops with his vaudeville conference
performance but he, too, was stumped on Newsnight when asked how the health
secretary, Andy Burnham, was going to replace the revenue lost through not
charging for hospital parking. "I have no idea," he replied. Burnham also
announced that the National Health Service should always be the government's
"preferred provider" of healthcare.

Alan Milburn, a radical predecessor in the job, despaired: "If we are going to
drive efficiency, productivity and quality on the scale required, the last thing
you do is renew a monopoly and say your existing provider is your preferred
one." So much for public service reform.

Labour's prospectus for a fourth term sets the bar low for the Conservatives,
but still they should aim high. In preparation for Manchester, Cameron has been
reading Blair's and Thatcher's last conference speeches in opposition. TB's tone
was triumphalist: "Labour's coming home." Today, straitened times argue for
sobriety, while the magnitude of Cameron's electoral task - to win, the Tories
must gain more seats than any party since 1931 - dictates humility too.
Thatcher's assessment of the depth of Britain's woes is a better starting point
than Blair's.

"The root of the matter is this," said the lady. "We have been ruled by men who
live by illusions, the illusion that you can spend money you haven't earned
without eventually going bankrupt or falling into the hands of your creditors;
the illusion that real jobs can be conjured into existence by government decrees
like rabbits out of a hat." That just about sums up Osborne's charge sheet
against Brown.

And what of the prime minister's boast that he has saved Britain? Thatcher had
this to say of Labour's chancellor, Denis Healey, who had been put on probation
by the International Monetary Fund: "Someone ought to tell him that you do not
give the man who sets fire to your house a medal just because he phones for the
fire brigade."

Cameron and Osborne, self-styled "deficit hawks", need a positive thumbs-up from
the voters rather than a victory gained only through weariness with Brown. If
not, they will lack a mandate when the going gets rough. Talk of tougher issues
being matters "for the second term" is presumptuous. If they don't tackle some
from the start, there will be no second term. Look how Blair regrets his arid
first term in government - and he had the luxury of the longest boom in
peacetime history.

There is popular support out there for savings to state expenditure, but it will
be a dismal conference if the agenda is entirely dominated by cuts. The Tories
should make an opportunity out of the fiscal crisis. Real public service reforms
allow frontline services to be maintained despite the squeeze, the so-called
"more for less" agenda. The shadow cabinet has to prove it is fizzing with
policies. "We are not going to play it safe," promises one in the know. I hope
they don't put all their eggs in one basket. The Swedish model of free schools
is attractive, necessary, but not sufficient to fill out a programme.

"There is such a thing as society," said Cameron in part-rebuttal of the
sentiments attributed to Thatcher, "it's just not the same as the state." With
that he launched his agenda to decentralise powers and services from Whitehall.
Sceptics will be watching hard to see whether he keeps a promise more honoured
in the breach than the observance by all politicians.

To prove the Tories have a heart and an optimistic agenda too, the early part of
the conference will have a distinctly unTory emphasis on getting the unemployed
back into work. It is politically sensible and above all morally right to make
good the dependency culture that took root under Thatcher and was neglected by
Blair. The Tories must avoid the accusation of abandoning the weak to the
rubbish dump where social disorder breeds. All credit to their former leader,
Iain Duncan Smith, for keeping the unglamorous subject in the spotlight. If his
reward is a future cabinet post, then he deserves it.

But a party ready for government must be seen to be united. The obvious danger
is Europe. There is a natural eurosceptic majority in the country but the voters
have had a bellyfull of Tory infighting on the issue. Only ex-parties address
their activists as their sole audience.

In dire economic circumstances the Irish have been successfully blackmailed into
passing the Lisbon treaty at the second attempt. A No result would effectively
have killed Lisbon stone dead. A Yes, however, throws the ball back into Cameron
and the shadow foreign secretary, William Hague's court. If the Czech president
Vaclav Klaus throws in the towel and assents to the treaty before our election,
it will be passed.

Until that event, the Tory leadership will play its cards close to its chest,
though sorely provoked by the candidacy prospect of a President Blair. Better to
risk the anger of those voters who have deserted them for UKIP on the right than
alienate the mass of Liberal Democrat and Labour waverers who don't care for the
European Union but do wish to see the Conservative leader talk to concerns more
immediate to them than the arcane clauses of the consti-treaty. That his party
is united and Cameron is seen to lead it is of greater importance than any form
of words.

The dying days of this administration may well see one last wretched round of
manipulation and manoeuvre, of private deals or public pacts or cosy little
understandings - always, of course in the national interest, before the
government are finally dragged, kicking and screaming, to the polls.

Better for Cameron to show his power by playing down Europe during the
conference and sticking to his core themes. It's not a glorious course but even
the Iron Lady knew when to bend not to break.

She gave in to the miners' leader Arthur Scargill's demands first before she
made her preparations and broke him at his second attempt. Cameron is not
measuring the curtains for No 10: he is no chump. But by the end of his speech
on Thursday we must feel that he belongs there.

''It will be a dismal conference if it is dominated by cuts

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 4, 2009
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP's only making plans for Nigel;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 155 words


Do you feel The X Factor has run its course? Fear not, for an alternative source
of entertainment is shaping up for the winter evenings - Strictly UKIP. A
candidate for the leadership of the UK Independence party has called on the
current leader, Nigel Farage, to withdraw his resignation.

Nikki Sinclaire, MEP for the West Midlands, has written an open letter to
Farage. "I cannot see the sense of an internal election, costing more than
£25,000, less than six months prior to a general election," she says. "If you
choose to stay on, I would not put my name forward, and would urge others to do
likewise."

As a 6ft 4in lesbian, Sinclaire would have offered a distinct change of image
for UKIP, seen by some as the provisional wing of the Rotary club. But she said
yesterday: "No other MEP can match Nigel for his media skills. And even the
Labour party aren't so stupid as to ditch Gordon Brown in the run-up to a
general election."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 4, 2009

No more Bloom and bust

BYLINE: Edited by Jonathan Russell

SECTION: CITY; Dashwood; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 200  words


TO MANSION House in the City of London.

Last month UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom was there for a City of London banquet, as was
head of the FSA, Lord "Red'' Adair Turner. Not only were both men there but both
of them spoke, Lord Turner in a carefully prepared speech about the ills of the
City, Mr Bloom in an off-the-cuff heckle about the ills of, well, Lord Turner.

It was the first time in living memory that anyone has heckled a Mansion House
speaker - and perhaps the last. The Lord Mayor's office promptly sent UKIP a
letter, which read: "Mr Bloom will not be receiving any further invitations to
Mansion House events nor will be welcome at the Brussels Annual reception...at
which Lord Turner is the keynote speaker.

"As to future Mansion House events we will be seeking a different MEP from UKIP
as a potential guest.''

Given his track record, Mr Bloom was unlikely to keep quiet about this. "Being
censored by the silent sycophants is hardly a punishment. Lord Adair heads the
failed FSA, and denounces the City. I denounce him.

"The last people to cause a fuss at the Mansion House were the supporters of
John Wilkes in 1769. They ran under a slogan of 'Liberty, Property and
Independence', so do I.''

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 4, 2009

Lisbon Treaty approval could save Ireland Euro 200m a year in debt costs

BYLINE: GRAHAM RUDDICK

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906  words


IRELAND'S overwhelming approval of the Lisbon Treaty could save the country
euro200m ( pounds 183m) a year in debt costs, economists said last night.

The European Union reform plan was backed by 67.1pc of voters in a referendum,
with business leaders heralding the vote as "a vital step forward'' for the
beleaguered economy.

Peter Sutherland, the chairman of BP and former Attorney General of Ireland,
said: "This is an outstanding victory for common sense. It was the result of
dispelling myths, some of which emanated from the UK. This was a great
achievement with a government in some difficulty and a vital step forward for
Ireland.''

The treaty is now likely to be ratified across Europe, with just the Czech
Republic and Poland still to approve it.

The Irish approval is expected to protect tens of billions of dollars invested
into the country by US companies such as Intel, Dell and Microsoft.

Brendan Butler, the director of EU and international affairs at the Irish
Business and Employers Confederation (IBEC), said the large "yes'' vote would
"send a message to American boardrooms''.

Last year, US companies invested almost $150bn ( pounds 94bn) into Ireland, more
than Brazil, Russia, India and China combined.

Intel advertised heavily for a "yes'' vote alongside politicians, warning that
Ireland could be left isolated from a European single market at

a time the economy needs support. Irish voters rejected the Lisbon Treaty in a
first referendum last year over fears for the country's independence.

However, opponents of the treaty criticised the result of the referendum. Nigel
Farage, the UKIP MEP and leading Eurosceptic, described it as "a victory for big
money, a victory for thuggery and a travesty of democracy''.

Ireland's GDP is forecast to fall by 9.8pc this year, according to the OECD, the
largest fall in the industrialised world. The country is borrowing at a rate of
euro25bn a year and has launched a euro54bn "bad bank'' programme to prop up the
banking and property industries.

The deep recession, and the "no'' vote last June, has increased the cost of
Ireland's debt. Two years ago, the country was paying the same as Germany, but a
moving out of debt yield spreads means Ireland is now paying 1.6pc more,
equivalent to euro400m.

Economists had predicted this could increase by at least 50 basis points on new
10-year bonds if Irish voters rejected the Lisbon Treaty, but Mr Butler said a
"yes'' vote could reduce the cost by 50 basis points and means the government
could save up to euro200m.

The Lisbon Treaty includes plans to introduce a new European president, foreign
minister, and accelerate the decision-making process in the 27-bloc group.

However, Patrick Coveney, the chief executive of Irish-listed Greencore, the
chilled

foods group which employs 8,500 people in the UK, said in the short term,
avoiding the harm of rejecting the treaty was more important than the merits of
accepting it.

"The benefits of doing it in the short term won't be all that visible but the
harm of rejecting it would have been immediately visible,'' he added.
"Confidence in Ireland had been hit and this will be seen as getting our act
together in a variety of different ways - politically, socially and
internationally.''

According to Mr Coveney, the treaty should improve the mobility of labour and
selling across Europe.

The proposals also include commitments to expand renewable energy, research and
development and tourism.

IBEC said approving the treaty was a "win-win'' situation for businesses.

Colm Barrington, the chairman of Irish airline Aer Lingus, added: "Last time,
people didn't realise how important it [the vote] was.

"You can't keep saying no and expect to stay part of Europe.''

The approval would allow Ireland to "take one of the uncertainties'' out of the
economy and allow the government to focus on controlling public expenditure, he
added.

The Irish finance minister, Brian Lenihan, called the referendum an "essential
first step towards economic recovery''.

He added: "We are in a very difficult economic position.''

Ireland's economy was nicknamed the "Celtic Tiger'' before the financial crisis
after years of unbroken growth, not suffering a recession since 1983.

However, the over-leveraged commercial and residential property industries
crashed following the onset of the credit crisis, dragging loans underwater and
driving the country's largest banks to seek state support.

As a result of the recession, unemployment has soared to 12.6pc.

Danny McCoy, the IBEC director-general, said: "The vote will lead to an EU that
is better able to face the challenges ahead and reaffirms Ireland's
long-standing, positive and constructive role in Europe. Today's decision is
good for Ireland and good for Europe.

"The strength of the yes vote indicates that the Irish people are prepared to
take the right actions to place Ireland and Europe in a strong position to
create jobs

"The vote is an important step on the road to economic recovery and the
restoration of Ireland's international reputation.''

As well as boosting the Irish economy, foreign exchange analysts believe that
the euro could be boosted by the vote. With one of the major hurdles blocking
the treaty's approval cleared, the future of Europe and the direction of the EU
becomes more attractive to investors.

In the UK, Gordon Brown, the Prime Minister, said Europe "can now work
together'' on the key issues, such as a sustained economic recovery.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 3, 2009 Saturday

DOES HE HAVE IRON IN HIS SOUL?

BYLINE: SATURDAY ESSAY BY MAX HASTINGS

LENGTH: 1873 words


He may soon inherit a nation mired in debt, with a stifling bureaucracy, a
failing education system, a profligate benefits culture and an overblown state.
So is David Cameron ruthless enough to save Britain?

TOMORROW in Manchester, the Conservative Party assembles for its final
conference before the election. This will almost certainly be the last before it
forms Britain's next government, and confronts a challenge at least as great as
that faced by Margaret Thatcher in 1979.

David Cameron must make choices and decisions that will set the nation's course
for a generation. It is no exaggeration to say that on his shoulders rests the
issue of whether Britain again becomes a successful society, or lapses into
stagnation.

He will inherit a nation mired in public debt, burdened with an overblown state
sector it cannot afford, a bureaucracy that cripples efficiency and enterprise,
a failing education system and a profligate benefit culture.

There are real doubts about how Britain will earn its living in the decades
ahead, in competition with the powerhouses of Asia. Under Labour, national
identity has been eroded, social cohesion weakened, selfconfidence battered.

It would be naOEve to suppose that Cameron will unfold his detailed blueprint
for government next week. Many of the things he must do are unpleasant and will
be unpopular. There is an election to win before he starts. He would be foolish
ahead of it to identify the turkeys for plucking.

But a vital part of his task in the coming week is to convince us not that he is
Mr Nice, but that he is capable of being Mr Nasty; that he possesses the brutal
ruthlessness to do what he must on reaching Downing Street.

Once economic recovery looks secure, probably in 2011, taxes must rise to
address the stupendous Brown deficit. If government spending remained at its
current levels, a 20 per cent increase in taxation would be needed. To escape
such an intolerable burden, spending must be slashed.

History will judge Cameron by how ruthlessly he hacks back the bloated public
sector. The pay of six million state employees, which for years has been rising
faster than private sector earnings, must be frozen.

Pensionable ages must be raised for all but the most physically arduous public
sector jobs. Defined-benefit, index-linked pensions must go. Everyone on the
taxpayers' payroll, from the BBC's top brass to postmen, must accept their share
of a squeeze already imposed on almost every private sector company.

SINCE 1997, Gordon Brown has added 600,000 people to the state workforce, many
performing marginal functions. Cameron's target should be to cut such jobs on at
least the same scale. There will be howls of rage, protests, strikes. But the
unions must be faced down, because only thus can Britain achieve long-term
solvency.

Cameron's pledge to ringfence the NHS from cuts should be the first that he
breaks in office. As the IMF warned this week, the fiscal emergency is far too
serious to exclude 1,560,000 NHS employees from its consequences. Labour has
made Britain's doctors among the best-paid in the world, but their party must
stop here.

We must learn to pay for all sort of sugar-icing facilities Gordon Brown used
our money to provide free at point of use.

Bus passes and winter fuel allowances should be meanstested. Homes should be
revalued for council tax, a longoverdue reality check.

VAT must probably rise to 20 per cent and be extended to cover food and
clothing, albeit at a much lower rate.

In education, the Tories must end the sorry charade of exam result inflation. In
schools and universities, academic rigour must replace Labour's meaningless
statistical targets. The Charity Commission's egalitarian Labour boss must be
sacked, and its vicious campaign to punish independent schools halted.

Every modern government, including that of Margaret Thatcher, has failed to halt
the decline in our schools, partly because of the pernicious influence of the
teaching establishment. If Michael Gove, as education secretary, can break the
mould, he deserves to become a national hero.

The Armed Forces need rootand-branch overhaul -- which Shadow Defence Secretary
Liam Fox is too lightweight to undertake.

Harsh choices are needed quickly, involving a rebalancing of resources to create
a worldclass Army, while cancelling the Navy's aircraft carriers and accepting a
minimalist nuclear deterrent after Trident. We need far fewer fast jets and more
helicopters and drones. The Ministry of Defence requires radical reform.

One of the most vital Tory tasks is to undo the consequences of the Human Rights
Act, which has made Britain the global capital of the victim culture. It will be
tough for Cameron to find a formula for setting us free from its clutches.

Many of its poisoned fruits stem from Britain's adherence to the 1950 European
Human Rights Convention, not the EU.

Britain's judges now possess powers that can override those of ministers and of
Parliament, and have shown themselves eager to use them.

If we are to shift Britain from a dependency culture overweighted towards
personal rights to one that emphasises personal responsibilities, the
stranglehold of human rights law must be broken.

Part of the problem in the path of achieving such change is that so much
legislation is mutually entangled. Immigrants, legal and otherwise, can often
invoke human rights to gain access to Britain's benefits system.

Nothing would more swiftly check the immigration tide than calling time on
newcomers' automatic claims to benefit and housing. But the legal obstacles will
be formidable, in ending decades of abuse by both immigrants and British
citizens.

Many of us are nervous of Cameron's green enthusiasm. It chimes with the mood of
the times, especially among the young. But Britain's power supplies will be at
risk by the middle of the next decade, unless tough and unpalatable decisions
are made quickly, to mobilise new sources of energy.

Wind and wave power can contribute something, but much less than their
proponents claim. To keep the lights burning a decade hence, we shall need more
gas, new coal-fired stations -- and nuclear plants.

If Zac Goldsmith, the rich young green fanatic who is likely to become Tory MP
for Richmond, exerts much influence on government policy-making, we should start
buying candles.

We need a lot of nuclear power, fast, and it would be welcome if Cameron
admitted as much.

Ministers should take a chainsaw to the clinging cats-cradle of quangos,
committees, advisory bodies and agencies created by Labour. These inflate the
selfimportance and bank balances of their members and staffs, but contribute
almost nothing to the public interest.

Even though ministers will have only two years' leeway, they must strive to curb
the ballooning costs of the 2012 London Olympics. We are stuck with the event,
but we need an austerity Games to match the threadbare condition of the public
purse.

Much as most of us dislike the Lisbon Treaty, if it is ratified before the
election, I hope Cameron will not precipitate a crisis by trying to unscramble
Britain's part in it. We face so many urgent issues, economic and social, that
it would be a hideous distraction to launch a showdown with Europe.

Cameron has before him the dismaying example of President Obama -- an
extraordinary man who has tried to accomplish too much, too quickly.

Obama possesses a golden tongue but has yet to show that he knows how to
translate dreams into realities. Lack of realism has already weakened his
presidency. Cameron must learn from his example, and set priorities. I will risk
the wrath of some readers by urging that a bust-up with Europe is not one of
them.

Few prospective Tory ministers have ever held office or, for that matter, run
anything in the real world. They will discover how hard it is to get things
done.

An almost impenetrable thorn hedge of laws, precedents and bureaucracies stands
in the path of every government initiative. Far from a minister being
allpowerful, every new incumbent will learn how constrained is their room to
act.

If Cameron's government does what a host of voters wants, it will have to remove
from millions of people the cash, perks and entitlements they take for granted.

Each one, and their representatives, will fight tooth-and-nail in the courts and
perhaps even on the streets to resist change. It will require iron nerve and
commitment for the government to hold its course.

Over decades we have become very soft. We are unaccustomed to harsh choices. We
shall find it hard -- even temporarily -- to forgo the expectation of becoming
better off each year; to break with the pernicious socialist principle that in
our 'caring society' everybody must win and gain prizes.

It is difficult to overstate the leadership that will be needed, to make us
change our ways.

A great uncertainty persists in the minds of many British people about Cameron
and his team: do they have the steel for the job? Are they ready to be disliked,
even hated, as will certainly be the case if they do the right things? Margaret
Thatcher was many things, but she was never nice.

If David Cameron becomes such a prime minister as Britain needs in the desperate
circumstances of 2010, he will have to display a toughness required of few prime
ministers in modern times.

The crises that John Major faced were trifling compared with today's. Tony Blair
inherited in 1997 an economy poised to boom. Gordon Brown never had the appetite
even to ask the right questions, never mind provide answers.

FOR Cameron, to be a good prime minister will not be enough. He needs to be a
great one. We should fervently hope that the Tories secure a strong mandate,
because only thus can they do what is needed.

If it will be disastrous if the election gives the Conservatives only a small
parliamentary majority. Weak governments can only govern weakly, because a
couple of lost byelections can undo them.

That is why it would be so irresponsible for uneasy Tories to cast a protest
vote for UKIP or, worse still, the BNP.

We should forgive Cameron his evasions -- and there will be plenty of them -- in
Manchester next week. He has an election to win.

All that matters is he possesses the courage and unyielding determination to do
what is necessary as prime minister. When friends express doubts to me about the
Tory team, I respond simply: we must believe. They are the only game in town.

The Right-wing snipers who already attack the Tories for alleged weakness seem
foolish. It is absurd to write off what is almost certainly Britain's next
government before it has even taken office.

Cameron possesses the brains, fluency and star quality to become a remarkable
prime minister if he can also find iron in his soul. He can cherish no hopes of
national unity or social harmony, any more than Thatcher could.

What he must do will injure a host of vested interests, who will fight him from
first day to last.

Thatcher's example remains hugely important, not because today's Tories must do
the same things -- Britain and its problems have changed in 30 years -- but
because she proved that the impossible was possible.

Apparently irreversible national decline could be halted. The challenge for
David Cameron is enormous -- but so is his once-inageneration opportunity.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 3, 2009 Saturday

The Tories have a class problem - but it's not the one you think;
The Cameron team has positioned itself with care, but voters have little time
for the political elite, argues;
Charles Moore

BYLINE: Charles Moore

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1089  words


As a veteran of all too many party political conferences, I find that it
sometimes helps to view them from a long way off. So I began the week of
Labour's show at Brighton on the shores of Loch Rannoch, in the Scottish
Highlands.

I was staying with a man who wants to lead a political party. Lord Pearson of
Rannoch is the favourite in the contest for the leadership of the United Kingdom
Independence Party (Ukip), for which nominations close on October 16.

For pudding at dinner, Lord Pearson produced a bottle of Sauternes which I
liked. I wanted to know its name, but the label was concealed by one of those
silvery plastic jackets that keep bottles cold. "Guess,'' said Malcolm Pearson.
"I call it Chateau Sans Point''.

"Pointless, eh?'' said my neighbour, "I know! It must be Chateau Cameron.'' She
was right: there is indeed such a chateau, producing smooth, sweet wine.

In the eyes of the main political parties, Ukip is not "serious''. Its factions
have often torn it apart. It has never had a Member of Parliament (though it has
13 MEPs). Lord Pearson is a brave, eloquent and energetic man with a successful
business career, but he is 67 years old, and has never held elected office. His
opponents for the leadership include a six-foot-seven lesbian and a black boxer.
To the Westminster establishment, the contest must appear laughable.

Personally, though almost as Eurosceptic as it is possible to be, I do not
support Ukip. Political parties are incredibly hard institutions to construct.
For all their atrocious faults, the big, old ones contain the DNA of how to
govern. A new entrant would take decades to acquire this: I don't feel it is
worth the expense of spirit. But Ukip is certainly not peculiarly ridiculous: it
came second in the European elections this year, winning more than 16 per cent
of the vote.

What the main parties find so hard to understand is that, to large numbers of
the public, they seem just as laughable as and a good deal more contemptible
than the "fringe'' ones.

In Brighton this week, the delegates cheered as the union leader Tony Woodley
tore up The Sun on the podium. But if they had their way, all too many Labour,
Tory and Liberal Democrat MPs would prefer to tear up The Daily Telegraph. Its
exposure of their expenses put all the established parties in the same boat,
holed below the waterline.

So when David Cameron speaks to his party conference next week, he will have to
overcome a class difficulty - not so much that he is an Etonian, but that he is
part of our professional, permanent political class.

Mr Cameron has been disciplined and successful in minimising dislike of the
Conservatives. Hugely assisted by Gordon Brown, he has passed the mantle of
weirdness to his opponents. With his pleasant family, his emphasis on fatherhood
as he faced his elder son's disability and death, his politeness, his easy
modernity, he is a figure whom most can admire and few can detest.

But is he, as Lord Pearson objects, pointless all the same? As professional
political types go, he is top-of-the-range, but what use does this country have
any more for professional political types?

The state of national cynicism is sad, but I find it more reassuring than the
fantasies of hope which preceded it. In 1996, Tony Blair addressed his party
conference for the last time before the general election, as Mr Cameron will
next week. He boasted that a nun had given him a red ribbon at a funeral because
she believed he wanted "a better world''. He called for "a thousand days [until
2000AD] to prepare for a thousand years''. It was emetic. Worse, it was
effective. Voters actually wanted this stuff.

Now they don't. "Dream not small dreams'', Mr Brown told his followers this
week, in a single, vain stab at poetry, but small dreams are much better than
nightmares. Political leaders trying to climb up on to the moral high ground
today only come slithering back down again. Mr Cameron knows this perfectly
well. In Manchester, he will be moderate, not messianic.

Indeed, it would not be the end of the world if his speech were dull. This
happened when Margaret Thatcher was in the same position in the autumn of 1978.
Her audience went away underwhelmed. What mattered then, and matters now, was
that voters were making up their minds against a Labour government. No
Opposition leader wants to distract them from that task.

So everything will be done to make the Conservatives look quietly ready for
government. Some detail will be disclosed to show that they grasp the issues and
have plenty of ideas. There will be some toughness and realism about the public
finances to contrast with the fantasies offered in Brighton.

The risk is that the Tories will seem to confuse readiness for government with
being entitled to it. Here the Cameron combination of membership of the
professional political class and five years at Eton could be toxic. He looks
keen and handsome and fresh enough now, but add another chin and a few years'
experience of power, and you could be staring at a complacent, red-faced man who
has seen himself and his pals right, and to hell with the rest of us.

This will seem terribly unfair to the Cameron team, who have worked so
relentlessly and efficiently, but they and their man are cool-headed enough to
be aware of the danger. They must convince people that the leader would look
right in the toga of office, but, at all costs, not make them think he has
already been measured up for it at Welsh and Jefferies.

As happened last year, senior Tories have been told not to drink champagne in
public next week. It will be wise to exercise a similar austerity about the
company they keep. Government approaches, and so the lobby companies and PR
people, always cultivating their connections with the permanent political
elites, are entertaining heavily. Avoid being seen with such people. Go to bed
early, preferably with your spouse, or civil partner.

Ever since David Cameron became leader, the Conservatives have positioned
themselves with meticulous care. They will do so next week. This strategy is
working, but it makes it hard for them to answer Lord Pearson's question. They
would prefer their leader to risk being "pointless'' than to risk defeat at the
ballot box. Better to sacrifice democracy over the Lisbon Treaty, they think,
than have Ken Clarke storming out before polling day. You can see the point of
pointlessness. But you can also see why, for all his many virtues, David Cameron
does not refresh the parts of the electorate which other politicians cannot
reach

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 3, 2009 Saturday

Ireland votes yes to Lisbon treaty

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 785 words

ABSTRACT

Irish perform political U-turn in second referendum on EU reform plan as
opponents call for British vote

FULL TEXT

In a dramatic political U-turn, Ireland has voted decisively in favour of the
Lisbon treaty just 16 months after it first rejected the European Union reform
plan.

With counting continuing this evening it was expected that 64% of those who
voted in Friday's referendum would have backed the treaty.

The outcome was lauded by the Irish taoiseach, Brian Cowen, who said it pointed
the way towards rapid improvement in the European Union's effectiveness and
Ireland's economic recovery.

"Today the Irish people have spoken with a clear and resounding voice. It's a
good day for Ireland and a good day for Europe," Cowen declared.

He said the treaty would deliver "a stronger, fairer and better Europe".

He has thanked EU chiefs for offering Ireland generous assurances, with the EU
president, José Manuel Barroso, describing the result as "a great day for
Europe, a great day for Ireland".

Overall the yes vote was up by around 20% across the Republic. In June 2008 only
10 out of Ireland's 43 parliamentary constituencies voted in favour of Lisbon.
By contrast in this referendum 41 constituencies have voted to endorse Lisbon.

Irish opponents of Lisbon challenged David Cameron to give the British people a
referendum on the EU's future if his party takes power next year.

Richard Green, a leading figure in the anti-Lisbon Coir movement, issued a
direct public appeal to the Conservative leader to hold a referendum on Europe
in the next British parliament.

Speaking at the main Dublin count in the RDS conference centre, Green told the
Observer that the onus was now on Cameron to halt what he and other Irish no
campaigners saw as the drive towards an EU superstate.

"The British people were never colonised so they will not be bullied. The first
priority of a new British prime minister should be to fulfil the broken promises
of successive British governments and give the British people that referendum,"
he said.

Arriving at Dublin Castle where the overall result was declared, the Ukip MEP
and leading Eurosceptic Nigel Farage described the result as "a victory for big
money, a victory for thuggery and a travesty of democracy".

He endorsed Green's challenge to Cameron and the Tories to hold a referendum on
Britain's future in Europe.

"There is a widespread expectation that a Conservative party that is 20% ahead
in the polls will give us a referendum. It appeared over the last couple of days
as it became clear that there was going to be a yes vote in Ireland that Mr
Cameron and Mr [William] Hague [shadow foreign secretary] were beginning to
weasel out of that. I would say that is not good enough because it can't be
right just to have the Irish voting on the future of British democracy as well
as their own. So I am going to be campaigning like hell for there to be a
referendum."

As votes were counted across Ireland from 9am it became apparent that even in
areas where there had been a strong no vote last year or where parties opposed
to the Lisbon treaty had electoral support, the electorate had clearly shifted
towards the yes campaign.

In the Cavan/Monaghan constituency, the stronghold of Sinn Féin's Caoimhghin
O'Caolain, voters in the border region were backing Lisbon by 61%. Sinn Féin was
the only party in the Dáil to call for the treaty's rejection. Both the local
outcome in Cavan/Monaghan and the overall national result will be seen as yet
another setback for Sinn Féin in the Republic.

The first constituency in Ireland to declare an official result was Tipperary
South which voted yes by a margin of 68.42%. In the first referendum, 53.21% of
the electorate voted no.

All of the six Dublin constituencies were set to endorse the treaty, including
Dublin South West where in June 2008 a majority rejected it. Voters in Dublin
South West backed the treaty this time by around 60%.

The result will also be a boost to Brian Cowen, Ireland's embattled taoiseach.
Cowen became Irish leader in May 2008, just one month before the country
rejected Lisbon in the first referendum. Since then his government's popularity
has plunged to an historic low in the opinion polls due to the recession, the
country's banking crisis and rising unemployment.

Both the yes and the no camps agreed that the key factor in turning the Irish
electorate around this time was the parlous state of the economy. The two ruling
parties, Fianna Fail and the Greens, alongside the main opposition parties
warned throughout the campaign that a second no vote would isolate Ireland in
the EU and endanger a European Central Bank-funded rescue plan for the Irish
banking system as well as the overall economy.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 3, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

PIERS MERCHANT;
Tory MP whose career ended when he was caught having an affair with a teenage
Soho nightclub hostess

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1015 words


In his relatively short political career, the one-time Conservative MP Piers
Merchant attracted an inordinate amount of publicity which was exceptionally
damaging to both himself and his party. He was the object of not one but two
tabloid newspaper "stings" in 1997 which pictured him in activities such as an
"open-air sex romp" with a 17-year-old Soho nightclub hostess.

He survived the first expose but had to resign from Parliament when he was
engulfed by the second, in which he was caught red-handed: secretly-filmed
footage showed him in bed with the hostess. The headline "Sleaze Merchant"
proved irresistible to several newspapers. The wider significance of his
extra-marital activities was that, hitting the papers as they did at the time of
the 1997 general election, they added to the tide of sleaze which helped propel
John Major from Downing Street.

Piers Rolf Garfield Merchant had a background in journalism and public
relations. Born in 1951, he attended Nottingham High School and studied law and
politics at Durham University, where he was active in Conservative student
politics. He worked at The Journal in Newcastle, first as a reporter and later
news editor, before switching to PR. He became Tory MP for a Newcastle seat in
1983 but lost it four years later, before returning to the Commons in 1992 as MP
for Beckenham in Kent. An avowed Thatcherite, he made only modest progress at
Westminster, serving as parliamentary private secretary to the social security
secretary Peter Lilley.

He really came to public and political notice, however, when The Sun revealed he
had been kissing and cuddling in a public park with Anna Cox, a teenage Soho
nightclub hostess. A Sun photographer who had been lurking in the undergrowth
had the pictures to prove it. It was claimed that The Sun, which at that point
had moved to support Labour, was eager to damage the Tories through such
stories.

Mustering all his journalistic and PR skills, he decided on outright denial.
"Anna is a dear friend of mine, but there is no question of us having an
affair," he maintained. "I have never made love to her. That may well be me
kissing her in the picture, but I see nothing wrong with that. I am sure my wife
will not be the slightest bit concerned."

With his wife, Helen, loyally standing by him, his assertions convinced the
voters of Beckenham to allow him to hold his seat, in an election which saw so
many of his Tory colleagues losing theirs. But the media had not finished with
him. The Sunday Mirror was on his case, correctly believing that he was indeed
having an affair with Cox, and a "love-nest" used by the pair was fitted with
secret cameras. Six months after the election the paper went to press.
Merchant's first instinct was to deny everything, and indeed, initially to
threaten legal proceedings: but that was before the full extent of the Sunday
Mirror's evidence became apparent.

Merchant would later recall calling his wife from a mobile telephone on a
crowded train to confess that - this time - he had indeed been having an affair.
"She was furious, of course," he said. "She called me a complete idiot and
asked, 'How could you be so stupid?'"

Even after the most conclusive pictures were printed in a six-page spread,
Merchant sought to brazen it out. A statement in the name of himself, his wife
and his mistress rejected "scurrilous allegations," describing Miss Cox as a
family friend. In a bizarre episode the three gathered in the Merchant family
home while it was besieged by the media. At one stage Helen Merchant appeared on
the doorstep with Cox to emphasise the "family friend" characterisation.

Later, clearly agitated by the media attention, Miss Cox was escorted out of the
house by police and paramedics. Under pressure from within the Tory party,
Merchant bowed to the inevitable and quit the Commons, returning to the PR
business.

In later interviews he admitted that, second time round, there was an affair but
insisted that it had not started at the time The Sun ran its story. He conceded,
however, that he had been economical with the truth.

"As the story was breaking I made a statement which was deliberately
misleading," he said. "To counter the allegations, I issued a statement saying
categorically: 'Piers Merchant and Anna Cox are not having an affair.' Strictly
speaking, because of the tense, that was true. We were not having an affair. We
were sitting at home with my wife and family. I admit it was deceptive. I was
trying to be too clever and I regret that."

In 2002 he expanded on this: "The backdrop was a highly charged political one -
the election starting and the whole sleaze background. In terms of the facts,
the basis of the Sun story in March was not correct. The second time around, to
everyone's amusement and surprise, I was having an affair, it was correct."

According to his version, the affair started only after he contacted Cox in an
attempt to discover how he had been "set up", and they began work on a book on
press intrusion. He maintained, in other words, that he had not been having an
affair with the teenager until after The Sun claimed he was.

He also said that "pressure and duplicity" had been used to urge him to stand
down before the election. This was hardly a revelation, since Michael Heseltine
had gone on the BBC's Today programme to urge him "to consider very carefully
the consequences of what has happened."

He later attempted a political comeback, joining the UK Independence Party,
acting for a time as its general secretary and standing unsuccessfully in the
2004 European election. At one point it is said he received a note from the UKIP
personality Robert Kilroy-Silk, who was anxious to keep a discreet distance from
him. "Please do not stand within 10 yards of me," the note specified, "because
I'm sure you'll understand that I do not wish to be photographed alongside you."

He is survived by his wife Helen and two children.

Piers Rolf Garfield Merchant, journalist, PR consultant and politician: born 2
January 1951; married 1977 Helen Burrluck (one son, one daughter); died 21
September 2009.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 3, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Conference success will be as much about keeping clashing tribes apart as
bringing them together;
Manchester strategists will need to keep space between the socially aware
entrepreneurs and the old colonels, writes Alice Thomson

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 815 words


Tory strategists have a clear idea of the party they want on display in
Manchester this week. It's the party of Samantha Cameron dressed in Topshop;
Boris Johnson pulling a pint at the Queen Vic; Shadow Cabinet members in jeans
and T-shirts working on social projects; and the party leader on WebCameron
having breakfast with the Liberal Democrats.

It's definitely not the party of hedge fund managers waving chequebooks; Women's
Institute members jostling to meet William Hague; nor waistcoated Eurosceptics
discussing wicked Brussels, nor red-faced MPs defending subsidised duck houses.

Yet for all the transformation of the party under Mr Cameron, each of these Tory
tribes will be there, whether he likes it or not. The membership of the party is
still overwhelmingly old - and traditional. When the camera pans around the
hall, the fresh-faced social entrepreneurs may have been seated at the front,
but the Rotary Club will still be there at the back. Not that the tribes will
bump into each other much.

Retired colonels who head South Coast Conservative associations probably won't
be invited to the private party of Michael Spencer, the Treasurer, peppered with
City financiers. But equally, not many of these will make it to the Support Our
Armed Forces fringe meeting - at which the colonels will be in the front row.
And not many of either group will be at Conference Pride, where "700 members
will party the night away" in the heart of the "world famous Manchester Gay
Village".

All these tribes, and more, must be kept on board if the Tories are to regain
power. The trick in Manchester will be to keep them as happy - and as far apart
- as possible.

City Slickers Feeling bruised by events of the past year or so, but cheering up
because their six-figure bonuses are almost in the bag for this year Jobs Hedge
funds, private equity. Music A state of the art sound system - which they never
use.

Clubs The Stock Exchange, Soho House. House Five bedrooms in Notting Hill, farm
in Gloucestershire. Clothes Savile Row suits, no ties.

Pin-ups Boris Johnson - he stands up for the City.

Films Can't wait for the remake of Wall Street - "Greed is good".

Most likely to say "Get rid of the 50p tax rate and I might not relocate to
Geneva."

Smart Girls No Shadow minister's office is complete without a privately
educated, well-connected girl named Daisy, Rosie or Poppy who deals politely
with callers Jobs Personal assistant to Shadow ministers. Music Lily Allen (but
not when she's swearing). Clubs Whisky Mist and anywhere else they might meet
Prince Harry.

Houses Flats in Shepherds Bush paid for by parents. Clothes Clingy wrap dresses
and boots. Pin-ups George Osborne, Kate Fall, deputy chief of staff, their
impeccably dressed role model. Films Breakfast at Tiffany's.

Most likely to say "I said, 'you can't go on Newsnight in that tie', and since
then I've been buying all his clothes."

Tory Grandees Once a Tory hallmark, knights of the shires have an ambivalent
place in Cameron's modernised party. Many tainted by expenses scandals Jobs MPs,
Peers. Music Sunday hymns in the family pew.

Clubs White's, Pratt's. Houses Estates with moats and swimming pools, which the
taxpayer will no longer be paying to maintain. Clothes Double-breasted suits,
always with a tie.

Pin-ups Sir George Young, proof that there is room for an older Old Etonian in
Cameron's new Conservatives. Films James Bond. Most likely to say "Why don't my
constituents understand that it was perfectly reasonable to put my tree surgeon
on expenses?" Party Workers They come ready prepared with their shooting sticks
and Thermos flasks and make their own ham sandwiches every day Jobs Retired.

Music Vera Lynn.

Clubs Rotary, Women's Institute.

Houses The Old Rectory. Clothes Tweed, court shoes.

Pin-ups William Hague, such a nice young man. Films Brief Encounter. Most likely
to say "We had one of those modernisers down to talk to our supper club the
other day. Very presentable, but he didn't wear a tie".

Social Entrepreneurs The modern face of compassionate Conservativism: exploring
a new relationship between policy and the charity sector Jobs Anti-bullying
charity founder. Music Speech Debelle. I had her on my iPod before she won the
Mercury.

Clubs Youth Clubs. Houses Flat in Kentish Town, bike to work. Clothes Converse
trainers, can of Diet Coke.

Pin-ups Steve Hilton - so cool he doesn't need a title.

Films The West Wing. Most likely to say "The X Factor is the focus group of
Britain".

Eurosceptics Arriving in Manchester spoiling for a fight about Europe in
aftermath of the Irish vote. William Hague will control them if anyone can Jobs
Think-tank wonks. Music Land of Hope and Glory.

Clubs The Carlton. Houses Flats in Fulham. Clothes Tweed suits and brogues.
Pinups Daniel Hannan MEP.

Films The Longest Day. Most likely to say "We must have a referendum on the
Lisbon treaty, or UKIP will destroy us at the polls".

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 3, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Europe referendum can still create headache for Tories

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 347 words


Europe has done the Conservative Party more harm than good since the late 1980s.
Even now, when the party is united rather than divided, and the vast majority of
Tory MPs and activists are Eurosceptic, Europe is not an election-winning issue.

Hence, the possibility that Tony Blair might become president of the EU is
unlikely to make much difference electorally. The Blair brand is certainly not
what it was. And the indignation that William Hague expresses in his interview
in The Times will no doubt rouse Tory activists.

The Blair candidacy is tied up with the broader question of the Lisbon treaty.
It is all a matter of timing. Even if, as expected, an Irish "yes" vote is
confirmed today, there are still the Czechs. David Cameron has told President
Klaus that if he does not ratify until after the British election next spring, a
newly elected Conservative government will hold an early referendum. That would
not only kill any Blair presidency but would give the Tories a much easier
pro-referendum platform for the election.

But if the Lisbon treaty is quickly ratified by all EU countries, a summit in
four weeks' time will decide not just on a possible Blair presidency but also on
other top jobs. That outcome would create a headache for the Tories. Both the
Lisbon treaty and a President Blair would have been in place for several months
by polling day.

A post-election referendum could easily turn into a ballot on being in or out of
the EU. Hence the leadership's opaque comment about "not letting the matter
rest" could lead to a different referendum about repatriating powers from
Brussels on social and employment issues. The rest of the EU may be in no mood
for such a renegotiation.

But there will be strong pressure from hardline sceptics to reopen the Lisbon
treaty, while the UK Independence Party will cry betrayal. UKIP could win enough
votes to prevent the Tories from winning some seats, especially in the West
Country, and may even help some Liberal Democrat MPs to hold on. No wonder that,
for all his sceptic beliefs, Mr Cameron seldom says much about Europe.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             October 2, 2009 Friday

AFTER A CAMPAIGN OF LIES AND DIRTY TRICKS, THE IRISH ARE TODAY EXPECTED TO VOTE
FOR AN EU SUPERSTATE. HOW GROTESQUE THAT, DENIED A VOTE OF OUR OWN, THEIR
VERDICT WILL DICTATE BRITAIN'S FATE, TOO

BYLINE: SPECIAL DISPATCH FROM STEPHEN GLOVER IN DUBLIN

LENGTH: 1572 words


WHATEVER happens in the Irish referendum on Europe today is bound to affect
Britain's future. It is no exaggeration to say that our country's destiny may
lie in the hands of the Republic of Ireland's three million voters.

If they vote 'Yes' to the Lisbon Treaty, the European Union will make one more
(and possibly decisive) lurch towards integration.

But if they vote 'No', the juggernaut will shudder to a halt, possibly never to
be restarted. An Irish rejection of Lisbon would enable David Cameron to call a
referendum in Britain, should the Tories win the next election, and give the
British people their chance to say 'No'.

The Lisbon Treaty, remember, envisages an unelected European President (the
first one quite possibly being Tony Blair) speaking for us all, a common
European foreign policy, and the giving up of our national veto in some 60 key
areas.

So the stakes are unbelievably high, which is why Brussels has been putting
pressure on the Irish to come up with the 'right' result. In June 2008 they
voted against the Lisbon Treaty, but this was not good enough for Brussels, and
they are being made to vote again.

Last Sunday, Jose Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission, flew
into Dublin. On a previous visit to Ireland earlier this month, he had announced
a 14.8 million euros package to help 2,400 workers recently sacked by the
computer giant Dell. This was intended to validate the claims of the 'Yes'
campaign that the EU will help Ireland's stricken economy and preserve jobs.

Driving into Dublin, you pass thousands of posters festooned around almost every
lamppost. 'Yes For Jobs' is one of the most widespread. At a conservative
estimate, the pro-Lisbon posters outnumber the anti-Lisbon ones by about five to
one.

In fact the 'Yes' campaign -- far better organised than last time -- commands
the support of nearly the entire media, political and business establishments.
Almost every national newspaper is in favour of Lisbon. So are the Government
and the two main opposition parties.

Michael O'Leary, the garrulous chief executive of the budget airline Ryanair,
says his company is spending 500,000 euros promoting a 'Yes' vote. Last week he
flew the European Transport Commissioner on a whistle-stop tour around the
country, urging voters to support Lisbon.

But in 2008, the multi-millionaire airline chief did not approve of the Lisbon
Treaty, describing the EU as 'the evil empire' and its senior bureaucrats as
'gobs****s'.

DURING a debate at the pro-Lisbon Irish Times, Mr O'Leary says he has changed
his tune because the Irish economy is 'bankrupt' and needs EU support. But
according to his critics in the 'No' camp, he is sucking up to Brussels because
he wants to be allowed to buy the Irish airline Aer Lingus, which the European
Commission has so far resisted.

Possibly with a similarly beady eye on its own interests, Intel, the American
chip manufacturer, is spending 200,000 euros on the 'Yes' campaign. Intel is in
the process of appealing against a 61 billion fine imposed by the European
Commission in May for anti-competitive practices.

Brussels-based lobbyists have also joined the 'Yes' campaign, as have European
bureaucrats and Irish Members of the European Parliament, all of them anxious to
defend a system that funds their generous salaries and expenses.

Two Roman Catholic Bishops even appeared to back Lisbon last week when they
reassured Catholics that there was no earthly or divine reason why they could
not vote 'Yes'.

In comparison with this powerful and well-funded machine, the 'No' campaign is a
motley crew. There are leftists who believe the Lisbon Treaty will eat away at
workers' rights; pacifists who think Ireland's neutrality may be compromised;
and conservative Catholics who fear that the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights
incorporated into the treaty will lead to the legalisation of abortion.

Sinn Fein, for years the political voice of the IRA, is also campaigning against
Lisbon. It must be the first time in its history that the party, which has only
limited support in the Republic of Ireland, has found itself on the same side as
the majority of British people.

And then there is Declan Ganley, who runs Libertas, the new Irish political
party which unsuccessfully contested hundreds of seats throughout the EU in
June's European elections. The 41-yearold multi-millionaire businessman is
widely credited with leading the 'No' campaign to victory in June 2008.

Mr Ganley joined this campaign only three weeks ago, having implied as recently
as June that he

would take no part in it. When I meet him for lunch, he says he has 'definitely
not' left his run too late, and seems genuinely confident of another victory.

HE IS a suave, fluent, charming man who speaks with an English accent as a
result of spending much of his childhood in England. This has attracted charges
that he is not fully Irish, and is too close to British Conservatives, and even
UKIP. Mr Ganley says he is not anti-EU, only pro-democracy.

The origins of his considerable fortune are somewhat cloudy, and last year RTE,
the State broadcaster, ran an hour-long investigationon television into his
affairs, which in the view of most observers failed to nail him.

Declan Ganley does not believe voters will be swayed by scare stories that they
must vote 'Yes' in order to preserve their jobs. He claims that 'out there in
traditional Ireland there is a widespread feeling that they should not have been
asked to vote twice'. He is vesting his hopes in a lastminute poster campaign.

Has he left it too late? Can he really prevail against the formidable and well-
organised 'Yes' campaign -- especially as some of his anti-Lisbon allies seem a
bit wild and wacky? He may have been damaged this week by the revelation that
the hedge fund king Crispin Odey has contributed a small amount to his campaign.

Mr Odey is not Irish, and his involvement is controversial.

If Declan Ganley had not pulled it off once before, I would give him zero chance
of doing so now. The polls are more strongly against the Noes than at this stage
of the campaign last year, though last week one rogue poll, carried out by a
little known company called Gael Poll, gave them a lead over the Yeses.
Interestingly, this same little known pollster was the only one correctly to
predict a 'No' victory last year.

To try to get a sense of how voters feel on the ground, I joined a pro-Lisbon
group called Ireland for Europe in Bray, a slightly rundown, English-looking
town about half-an-hour's drive south of Dublin, in County Wicklow.

Ireland for Europe is led by Pat Cox, a jovial lobbyist who runs an operation in
Brussels called the European Movement. He is a former President of the European
Parliament, and is tipped to be Ireland's next European Commissioner in
Brussels.

If this canvassing were any guide, the 'Yes' campaign would win by a massive
majority. Nine out of ten people assure Mr Cox or his volunteers that they will
vote for Lisbon, though possibly some are being polite.

And yet what is arresting, despite the overwhelmingly positive response which
these pro-Lisbon volunteers encounter, is that they are not confident of a 'Yes'
victory. Most of them think the result will be much closer than the polls
suggest.

COULD the 'No' camp led by Declan Ganley still win? I'd say there is an outside
chance. Several anti-Lisbon campaigners claim to me that they are finding even
more support in workingclass districts of Dublin than they did last time. No one
expected a 'No' vote then.

But it is only an outside chance. With far greater resources, the pro-Lisbon
forces have fought a more professional -- and sometimes dirty -- battle. They
have shamelessly used terror tactics, suggesting that people's jobs may be
threatened by a 'No' vote.

Even a dutiful pro-European might be disheartened by what I have seen these past
few days. The Irish have been told to vote again on a treaty that is identical
in every word to the one they have already rejected, though several non-legally
binding 'declarations' -- such as a promise that Ireland will keep her one
European Commissioner -- have been made by Brussels.

As for Britain, her future may be determined by what happens today. Unlike the
Irish, we have not been given the chance to vote on Lisbon, though Tony Blair
promised a referendum on the earlier, almost identical, European Constitution.

Today's vote could well be all that stands between us and final ratification of
the treaty. Tory hopes that President Vaclav Klaus of the Czech Republic will
hold out until June by not signing the treaty -- when David Cameron might be
able to call a referendum -- are probably far-fetched.

Outside the General Post Office in O'Connell Street -- the scene of the worst
fighting in the 1916 Easter Rebellion, which led within five years to Irish
independence from Britain -- there is a small demonstration of Rightwing
Catholics mounted by a group called Coir, which means 'right' in Gaelic.

They don't like the Lisbon Treaty. Two or three pretty girls hold aloft strings
of pink balloons. An elderly lady carries a poster showing a fully-formed baby
in the womb. Others still, diffident and a little forlorn, bear placards which
assert that the European Union does not have a heart.

How bizarre it is, how grotesque and how ironic too, that the future of this
once great imperial power called Britain should depend on the votes of a few
million Irish people such as these.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             October 2, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TEXT MANIACS

SECTION: LW; 45

LENGTH: 725 words


°All the foreigners work a lot harder than you lazy brits; i know who id rather
spend my money on. Site Agent °Iv just been sacked by my polish boss and
replaced by a pole I was da last british worker. Dizzy °Av i just read it rite
now cameron says if all countries vote yes on europe then he'll rethink on avin
our vote. that will b a disgrace. politicians work 4 us, the people and we
demand a vote no matter how other countries vote. cameron if true ur loosin me 2
ukip. legend °Y shud this gov cut 2bil off education wen OUR kids r leaving
school illiterate cos teachers spend 2 much time on foreign kids who can't speak
English. cut our cash 2 the EU n immigration etc plus MP's perks. Anry BRIT
taxpayer ° every credit to the french they "do" know how to treat illegal
migrants not like brown & his morons who treat them to our tax money and
boll***s to our pensioners. paul lancs °Economy in ruins;

Street rats running riot; Crime victims treated like criminals; 3 mill jobless;

benefi ts system feeding half of Europe; no idea of who is in our country;

English people branded racist for being English. Thanks Labour.

'REATTIMESENGLISH DEMOCRAT °If Gordon Brown goes Britain will be a disaster.
Wait n see. PBRAN °Ê Fancy Brown trying to get up and walk away from Sian
Williams. I'd sit and talk to Sian and her fantastic legs ALLDAY7HATAWOMANLEG
MAN.

°Ê Forget the Conservatives & Labour.

They always fail in government.

Vote Lib Democrats instead. SMILER °Majority of Afghan immigrants are
uneducated; non-skilled;

illiterate village peasants. They would fi t in well with the yobs we already
have; but they wouldnt integrate;

prefering to create ghettos and thank Allah for their little piece of
Afghanistan in the UK. Libra °Re: police. I've just driven past 11 coppers; yes
11; pulling vans and trucks in to dip their fuel tanks for red diesel. Why? TAX
TAX TAX. Knock a burglar out like i did and u end up in court. Wot's happened to
our country?

van man daz barnsley °COCKNEY CAT Sad bout mum an daughter an yes police balls
it up.

But us PIGS have our hands tied round OURBALLS#UD5BACOP. /3OSHUTIT
BOY#HEKOUTUTUBE7HATPOLICEREALLY do. Then txt ur anti police crap afta. I pity u.
When u get mugged dnt 4get the fire service iz 999.

°watched nightwatch cumbria police in a transit. not one wearing a seat belt.
one law for them one for us.

Jimy ge ° to angry dad: wife left taking kids but I gave up house for kids to be
back home only for her to move a sweet talker in only days after. now lost it
all; and not what me and kids wanted but no JUSTICE FOR FATHERS 7HY paul ° MY EX
LEFT ME TOOK OUR SON I DON'T GET 2 C HIM.

CSA TAKES MOST OF WHAT IVE GOT WHERE'S THE JUSTICE.WOMEN ALL OVER ANY MEN AGREE?
BIGFOOT ° Cheers Whitto;

nearly slept in again. Same time next year? Billie Joe Armstrong (lead singer of
Green Day) ° WHO'S THE BABE IN THE ORAL B ADVERT? Andrea corr look alike. who is
she? Help. FAWCETT MAJOR ° can any text maniac unstump me?

Rackin my brains on this one Who sang this 70s classic Gimme dat ding?

AYE DEFEND °i disagree when people say computer games affect our kids. if pac
affected us as kids we'd all be runnin around dark rooms munchin magicpills and
listnenin to repetitive elrectronic music. deejay °Danielle will u marry me? ?
haun j.

Xx °Y is it that celebs get off with driving offences bcoz of their fame, even
glorifying it on TV ads.

JAIL POSTMAN PAT. Marten ° How is it that anyone who has "inappropriate" pics of
children is, rightly, prosecuted but the Tate Gallery can display a pic of
Brooke Shields aged 10 naked in a bath in heavy make up and get away with it?
They describe it as challenging. I'd say it was porn. Ferryman ° London
congestion charge's a joke. ye dont know ya in it and if not paid on the day ye
have to pay online. not everyones got a computer boris. JIMMY SNAIL ° Porchia
you are so beautiful in every way love from your loyal fan keep up the good
work. Ps a week of porchia on page 3 please. MAD MARK ° Mobo awards is that
racist against whites if there was a whites awards there'd be an outcry. John
edinburgh °To proud southener: NO sour grapes up here, lots of my friends dont
watch EE anymore. story lines awful all saddos just like u lot down there. get a
life.

TERESA IN PRESTON °A-up; fame of 80's in DS; Nadine Linge combs her mullet.
trying to say mullets are dated hair-dos? Kin ell. MULLET

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ®can you put in a pic of sexy cheryl cole please. Fred from kent

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                                October 2, 2009
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Give us say on Europe or else, Mr Cameron;
Letter of the day

SECTION: LETTERS; 30

LENGTH: 143 words


SO, David Cameron is wavering over a referendum on Europe if the Tories win the
election ("Cameron sparks fear of referendum U-turn", October 1).

Mr Cameron needs to think very carefully, as Labour has not given the British
people what they want and the Tories now have the chance to make that right.

For years I have been a staunch Tory but now I am wavering because UKIP is
promising to try to get us out of Europe and at least give us our referendum.

I and thousands of others are fed up with what is happening to us under this
government. I don't want Europe making our laws and treating us like an
appendage and telling us what to do.

Listen to us, Mr Cameron. We want a referendum and we want the right to decide
whether we want to stay in Europe or not, as quite frankly being in Europe costs
us millions and gives us more problems than benefits.

Lynda Brwn,

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BIG DECISION: David Cameron promised Euro vote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             October 2, 2009 Friday

National: Labour conference: Political briefing: Waving, not drowning?

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 299 words


Not much is left to chance at modern made-for-TV party conferences. So shortly
before the ritual finale in Brighton yesterday Labour officials handed out flags
- contrasting "Labour: fighting for the many, not the few" with "Tories: a
change you can't afford" - for delegates to wave.

Waving, not drowning after all? Activists fired up by a week's collective
optimism, angered by the bullying withdrawal of the Sun's block vote, face
daunting election odds.

Yet the kernel of defiant claims this week that all is not quite lost for Gordon
Brown's battered 12-year government is not complete fantasy. It hangs on two
points visible in the closing speeches made yesterday by David Miliband and
Harriet Harman.

Miliband spoke with more fluent authority than usual. It helps that one issue
this conference has resolved is the leadership controversy: Gordon Brown will
still be prime minister on election day, most probably 6 May.

The foreign secretary voiced scorn for the "bunch of schoolboys" aspiring to
take over. But he also name-checked Labour's record since 1997 - and what it
hopes to do in a fourth term. Miliband's observation that "the word that matters
most in modern politics is 'future'" is critical. Strategy-minded ministers and
officials see the Tory policy cupboard as bare.

Surely the centre left can carve out fresh opportunities for a party which
believes in the active, interventionist state which the times now require?

In her speech Harman insisted that Dan Hannan, the mouthy MEP who rubbished the
NHS, is "not the eccentric fringe, he is the beating heart of the Tory party".

Put another way, Labour is now actively courting its defectors, the
stay-at-homes and those tempted to go Green, Ukip or BNP, with an offer that
builds or protects public services rather than hacks them back.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             October 2, 2009 Friday

Ireland votes. Dave, Tony, Rupert and I try not to interfere

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1495 words

ABSTRACT

Is the paranoid rightwing press right to suspect a sell-out on the Lisbon treaty
from David Cameron? I hope so, writes Michael White

FULL TEXT

I like to think of myself as a bit of a Thatcherite on Europe. Partly because
it's true, but chiefly because it annoys her Europhobic proteges who are, most
of them, too young to remember what a stout European she often was. On the day
it's worth remembering. After all a lot is riding on this for David Cameron's
career. Tony Blair's too.

Margaret and I voted yes to Europe in the Labour-staged referendum of 1975.
Margaret helped negotiate the 1986 Single European Act, which removed so many
national vetoes in pursuit of the valuable concept of a single, open market for
people, capital, goods and ... I always forget the fourth one. I backed her
stance.

But Margaret and I shared doubts about the next big decision we had to take
together: the euro. Along with Gordon Brown - I'm afraid Master Blair was a bit
wobbly, but he doesn't really get economics, does he; just look at his
house-buying record - we didn't think it the right choice for the
outward-looking British economy, though we wished our neighbours well.

Now to this constitution business. French and Dutch voters rejected this deeply
tedious document, which I read on Ken Clarke's behalf. So Brussels scaled down
its pretensions and produced the Lisbon treaty, which enshrines practical
advantages - easier voting majorities, a council president etc.

It should allow an EU of 27 to function a little more effectively in the new
world of major blocs now emerging. That's what the Irish vote should have been
about last time - not about Nato membership or the Republic's right to force
nice Catholic girls to go to England for their abortions.

Egged on by Anglo-Irish millionaire Declan Ganley, whose incoherent views,
political ambitions and likely fate  last year (he got hammered in the 4 June
Euro-elections), Ireland's 3 million voters said no.

This being the wrong answer, Brussels slipped Dublin a few concessions and
invited Brian Cowen's government to try harder. That's what today's vote is
about, a very similar proposition but in a very different setting. Ireland's
economy has been poleaxed by the excesses of the banking community - and no, we
can't blame Brown for it either.

A chastened electorate is thus widely expected to vote yes. In his Daily
Telegraph blog, my old Peruvian sparring partner Dan Hannan MEP is puzzled. ""
he muses. A little prematurely, I feel bound to point out, welcome though this
rare bout of introspection is welcome.

Hardcore British Eurosceptics like Dan (I regard myself as a mildcore one) and
Europhobes are furious. Brussels has , they cry. Foreign interference with the
sacred national sovereignty of the Irish people that the British Tory party
struggled to uphold for centuries (ho ho).

Funnily enough, Sinn Féin/IRA also takes this view, along with assorted leftwing
groups and Declan Ganley who has re-entered the fray at the last minute.

Such talk comes a bit odd from Brits who do not hesitate to interfere with other
people's national sovereignty themselves. Dear old Bill Cash MP and his ilk are
keen travellers whenever an EU referendum is in the air.

And Fleet Street newspapers with falling circulation at home do not hesitate to
expand their production in Dublin as readers of the Daily O'Mail and the Sunday
O'Times will confirm. Being hostile to Europe is as reflex a feature of their
coverage as it is in the O'Sun - though a yes vote may change that. Murdoch
always likes to back the winner.

But there's more to this than Ireland's yes. It's generally assumed that a
positive vote today would encourage the recalcitrant Poles to buckle in return
for an extra sausage. But, , real doubts exist about the Czech Republic, where
hardline president Václav Klaus has had a string of excuses for putting off his
signature.

German pressure on Prague has been deemed bad form since 1945, so the French
will lead the squeeze. My top EU source told me an hour ago that he thinks
Prague will sign - "because the pressure will be huge, but Klaus is very
obstinate and has links with Cameron."

Links with Cameron? Did you know that? Yes,  to Klaus, either urging him not to
sign because Dave will soon be in a position to torpedo the treaty with a UK
referendum - or, more prudently, praising his tough stance.

Which version of this under-reported event is true? As Kettle points out, we
don't know, because Dave's "Dear Vac" letter has not been published in full,
only in selective bits to cynical but credulous news outlets.

The paranoid rightwing press, owned by tax exiles, pornographers and other
riff-raff (yes, Rupert, I mean you), already suspects a sell-out in the making:
that Dave is keen to wriggle out of the commitment he made when running for
leader that he would hold a UK ballot if the Lisbon treaty was not fully
ratified when he became prime minister.

I certainly hope he's trying to wriggle. Cameron has annoyed Angela Merkel and
other powerful European conservative leaders by breaking away from their EPP
grouping in the Strasbourg parliament and expelling veteran Tory MEP Edward
McMillan-Scott for sticking his/their agreed ground.

He's going to need Europe when he becomes prime minister, as it is sensible to
assume he will. It is infantile to pretend otherwise, especially as Europe is
fast becoming economically enfeebled and politically weaker by the day. Think
China, think India, think Brazil.

But Cameron's tactical pandering to his domestic rightwing, to defectors to Ukip
and the BNP, is very short-term and dents his otherwise pragmatic and
intelligent credentials as a One Nation Tory - which I am usually happy to take
more or less on trust. It is the one seriously stupid thing he has done.

In that spirit I will merely note in passing that at a party only last night
someone was remembering what a rough-house merchant Cameron was when employed as
corporate spokesman for Carlton TV. "That man doesn't have a principle in his
body," a very senior TV executive was quoted as observing.

I hope that's not true; it would bode ill for us all. It is, for instance, not
something one could say of Tony Blair, for all his little ways, is it?

Talking of which, Irish voters are being told in today's London O'Times that -
according to its page one headline - "'President Blair' waits on voters of
Ireland" because our ex-PM will be lined up as the first full-time president of
the council within weeks of a yes vote.

I was wrong last year to assert the Blair wouldn't be interested in the job,
which i thought too dull and too restrictive for a man keen to get his own way
and play a lot of tennis. But I am sceptical about the slant on today's Times
report.

Why? Partly because it looks as if it might be designed to push a few Irish
voters into the no camp - why give a well-paid job to a smarmy Brit, they might
ask themselves in the bars of west Cork.

Partly because it is the diametrical opposite of what the Times was telling its
readers only yesterday. "Friends reunited to push Britain to sidelines" was one
prediction made about the revival of the Franco-German axis. "Britain is an
also-ran on the new EU podium" was the headline on the sidebar.

The casualty of this alignment? Tony Blair's chances of being president. "Tony
Blair is a man of the past and the UK is no longer any model," some dozy French
official was quoted as saying.

Felipe González of Spain (who is 67 and left the office of prime minister in
1996) was touted as a better bet. So was the legendary Jean-Claude Juncker of
Luxembourg, 54, who is still prime minister of the Duchy, though it is not
always easy to tell.

Twenty-four hours can be a long time in politics and heaven knows who has been
on the phone. But Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy's doubts have been assuaged and
Blair is now the international star who could "stop the traffic" in Manhattan
when he arrives as Mr Europe.

I know what you're thinking. Tony's been on the phone. Or Peter Mandelson
(dedicatee of Robert Harris's latest historical thriller, Lustrum) has been
texting. But they are right. Blair's appointment would signal that Europe is
serious about pulling its weight again, not lying down and dying quietly.

My doubts remain. Having pumped up Blair's chances in today's paper, the Times
uses its own assessment (today's, not yesterday's) to deliver a magisterial
editorial - "" - to argue that he would be so dynamic that his legitimacy must
be buttressed by a UK referendum on Lisbon.

You don't suppose the paper's sacred independence has been tweaked by
interference from abroad, do you? I have in mind a wizened old
Australio-American tax minimalist, cork dangling from his sun hat, who
occasionally rings from New York.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BORDERING ON THE RIDICULOUS;
French build huge new migrant camp

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 184 words


FRANCE sparked fresh fury over migrants last night by giving the thumbs-up to a
huge new refugee camp.

Illegal immigrants aiming for the UK will be housed in tents after French
officials gave the site the go-ahead.

The camp is next to a busy motorway truck stop used by hundreds of Brit-bound
lorry drivers.

It will be built in the village of Steenvoorde by the last lorry park before the
Channel ports of Dunkirk and Calais.

The camp got the goahead 24 hours after France demanded Britain open its doors
to thousands of illegal immigrants who cross Europe every year hoping for a new
life here.

Steenvoorde has become a magnet for mainly African migrants.

Last night there was outrage because the French have only just demolished the
notorious Jungle camp at Calais.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "Creating a new camp less than a mile from a busy
service station near Calais is crazy.

"What was the point of destroying the Jungle if only to build a new camp down
the road?"

Haulier Rob Hollyman said: "This is absolutely ridiculous. Why on earth are the
French doing this?

"It's like having a bus stop to England."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

French put new migrants camp by a lorry park

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE From Nick Fagge in Steenvoorde, France

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 393  words


FRANCE has given the green light to a new migrant camp next to a busy motorway
truck stop used by undreds of drivers heading for Britain, it emerged yesterday.

Tents will be equipped with beds, showers, cooking facilities and a clothes
store to provide full-time accommodation for illegal migrants.

The camp, which will be situated in a field next to the last lorry park efore
the Channel ports of Dunkirk and Calais, was given the go-ahead at a meeting of
officials on Tuesday night.

The news came just 24 hours after France demanded Britain open its doors to
thousands of illegal immigrants who cross Europe every year hoping for a new
life in the UK.

Steenvoorde, near Lille on the French border with Belgium, has become a magnet
for mainly African migrants - Eritreans, Somalis and Ethiopians - who every
night try to stow away on board trucks parked at the A25 layby. The centre,
which will open on October 15 and has a licence for six months, has the backing
of the gional governor, the Sous Prefet.

Town mayor Jean-Pierre Bataille claims Steenvoorde is now "an important
platform" on the road from third world countries to the UK.

It is feared hundreds will flock to the camp following the closure of the Jungle
shantytown last month. The Terre d'Errance Steenvoorde charity, which will run
the site, says it is will be a "rest and recuperation" camp for migrants "en
route to England".

Last night there was outrage in Britain at the move.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "What was the point of destroying the Jungle if
only to build a new camp down the road?" Haulier Rob Hollyman said: "If they
don't make it through to England they will damage the cargo and if they do the
driver will run the risk of landing a huge fine.

"It's like having a bus stop to England but the buses are trailers that will be
cut open and someone's livelihood ruined."

Yesterday Polish lorry driver Viktor Lechislaw, who was parked at the St Laurent
service station next to Steenvoorde, said: "A friend of mine found 26 migrants
hidden in his lorry when he went to Britain."

French CRS riot police were yesterday patrolling the service station.

The announcement follows admissions from France that it is losing the battle
against a tide of migrants.

Calais Mayor Natacha Bouchard insists the UK signs up to the Schengen Agreement,
an EU ccord that allows free movement between member states.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 120 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Fury over new migrant camp near truck stop

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 294  words


FRANCE yesterday gave the green light to a new migrant camp next to a motorway
truck stop used by hundreds of drivers heading for Britain.

A network of tents will be equipped with beds, showers, cooking facilities and a
clothes store to provide full time accommodation for illegal immigrants on their
way to the UK.

The camp, situated in a field next to the last lorry park before the Channel
ports of Dunkirk and Calais, was given the go-ahead at a meeting of officials on
Tuesday night.

It comes just after France demanded Britain open its doors to the thousands of
illegal immigrants who cross Europe every year hoping for a new life in the UK.

The village of Steenvoorde, near Lille, has become a magnet for Africans who
every night try to stowaway on board one of the many trucks parked at the A25
layby.

The centre, which will open on October 15 and has a licence for six months, has
the full backing of the regional governor, the Sous Prefet.

Town mayor Jean-Pierre Bataille said:

"The Sous Prefet told me 'you can do what you want when you want'."

Workers from the Terre d'Errance Steenvoorde charity, which will run the camp,
say it is intended to act as a "rest and recuperation" camp for migrants "en
route to England."

A spokesman said: "Nobody else wants to help these people, so we will."

But last night there was outrage in Britain at the latest French move.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said:

"Creating a new camp near Calais, is crazy. What was the point of destroyin g
the Jungle if only to build a new camp down the road?

"The French have no intention o f respecting their responsibilities and the EU
just turns a blind eye. We must get back control of our borders."

Haulier Rob Hollyman said: "This is ridiculous. These people will simply stow
away when it's dark."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday

Front: Labour goes to war with News International 'chumps'

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton James Robinson

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words


Relations between Rupert Murdoch's News International and the government
disintegrated yesterday during 24 hours of recriminations over the move by its
flagship paper, the Sun, to switch allegiance to the Conservatives.

Gordon Brown moved quickly to deny any political damage, saying: "It is the
people who decide elections." But on one occasion the prime minister was clearly
tested, tearing at his ear piece when he made an irritated and overly hasty
departure from one TV interview, prompting aides to clarify later it had not
been an angry "walkout". Senior party figures were buoyed by new YouGov polling
that showed support for Labour had gone up. Conducted after Brown's setpiece
speech and before the Sun's pronouncement, the party climbed by six points
within five days, halving the Conservatives' lead, according to the polling.

Throughout the day in Brighton, senior figures made colourful put downs of the
Sun's switch. Tony Woodley, joint leader of the Unite union, was cheered as he
used a speech to the conference hall to rip up a copy of that morning's edition,
while Labour's deputy leader Harriet Harman told the conference hall Labour
would not be "bullied" by the paper.

Lord Mandelson, the business secretary, told News International's chief
executive, Rebekah Brooks, on the phone on Tuesday night: "You will be regarded
as a bunch of chumps, we will not lose sleep over this." Earlier reports said
Mandelson had used an expletive beginning with C, but Brooks is said to have
rung the business secretary to confirm he called her a "chump".

According to sources at News International, Brooks tried repeatedly to make
calls to Brown on Tuesday night to warn of their new editorial line but the
prime minister was tied up at an evening reception. Instead Brooks contacted
Mandelson to tell him about the Sun's front page - headlined "Labour's lost it"
- and the business secretary replied that the party would not be "terribly
surprised".

Labour sources were bullish yesterday afternoon as Downing Street said the
polling showed they were "grinding down" support for the BNP and Ukip votes,
something they regard to be key to standing a chance at the next general
election. Mandelson welcomed it cautiously, saying "one swallow does not a
summer make".

Labour MPs were quick to dissect the likely impact of the Sun's decision on the
polls. Liverpudlian Woodley's ridicule of the paper was a function of its
limited popularity in the north-west after its coverage of the Hillsborough
disaster.

MPs in key marginals report the Mirror to have greater purchase than the Sun.

Ministers believe the timing of the new editorial line is not a positive
endorsement of David Cameron, or it would have been made after the Tory leader's
own speech.

One senior Labour source said: "The Sun is trying to beef up its declining
circulation. It vastly overestimates its influence."

The source also compared George Pascoe-Watson, the paper's political editor, and
Trevor Kavanagh, its associate editor, to old-fashioned union leaders,
criticising them for "strutting around the Labour conference like old union
barons with their block votes of 10m readers".

David Cameron told LBC radio he was "delighted" by the switch. But former deputy
prime minister John Prescott said via Twitter: "It will be the Son, Daughter,
Uncle, Mother and Friend Wot Win it in 2010. Endorsements from ordinary people
NOT media barons."

Seumas Milne, page 34

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 120 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday

International: Irish yes camp fights invasion of British opinion

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Dublin

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 503 words


Ireland's pro-European mainstream fears that it may be sucked back into
Britain's orbit if voters reject Europe's Lisbon treaty for a second time
tomorrow.

As the country prepares for what its former European parliament chief Pat Cox
calls its date with destiny, government, opposition and opinion-formers are
worried by the prospect of Irish dependence on a UK under a Eurosceptic Tory
government in the event of a no vote.

"If there is a change of government and the Tories are elected, my concern is
for a two-speed Europe," said Eamon Gilmore, leader of the opposition Labour
party. "There could then be a mainland Europe and the British Isles, where we
fall under the influence of Britain."

With David Cameron fiercely opposed to the Lisbon treaty, the referendum has at
times resembled a proxy for fights over the EU and Brussels that have little to
do with Ireland's place in Europe. British thinktanks close to the Conservatives
have campaigned for a no vote, while the UK Independence party and its allies in
the European parliament (no Irish MEPs among them) have leafleted all Irish
homes. Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has been campaigning in Ireland.

The Sun, the Sunday Times and the Daily Mail, all fierce EU critics, have Irish
editions comprising one quarter of the daily market and a third of Sunday sales.

"The British press includes the Murdoch press, and the Murdoch press has an
agenda not necessarily related to the welfare of Ireland," Donal Barrington, a
former European court judge, wrote last week. "Irish nationalists have
traditionally looked towards Europe as a counterbalance to British dominance in
Ireland."

Michael Foley, head of journalism at Dublin's Institute of Technology, said:
"The influence of these papers is there, but we don't really know what it is.
But blaming Murdoch is a cop-out. The reason people voted no last year is
because most people were against the Lisbon treaty."

The referendum is the second in 16 months in the only one of 27 states in the EU
to vote directly on the treaty. The Irish rejected the charter in June last
year.

One benefit of 36 years of EU membership has been the boost to Ireland's
self-confidence in relation to Britain - psychologically, culturally,
politically and economically. But that success could be set back. Garret
FitzGerald, former prime minister, is known to be worried about British
influence in the Irish debate and to have raised the issue in London.

"An Irish no can really change things in the UK," said Paul Gillespie, professor
of international relations at University College Dublin. "And then where do the
Irish go? You will have a Europe of differentiated tiers, and Ireland will be
repositioned back in the British slipstream under Tory British nationalism."

The fear of British influence is being used by the yes campaign as an argument
to try to sway Irish voters. The Irish Times, paper of the establishment,
bristled with indignation in an editorial entitled "A malign influence from
Britain".

Timothy Garton Ash, page 31 >=

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
