
                               1 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Quotes of the day

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 91 words


GM is a great company... ignore the doubters because I know this is also a
company with a great future.

Rick Wagoner, chief executive of GM, in an email to staff after being forced to
stand down by Barack Obama

I don't think I will be begging to come back... half the Shadow Cabinet are more
Eurosceptic than the leadership.

Former Conservative party donor Stuart Wheeler on his expulsion after donating
to UKIP

With all the doom and gloom in the world, this is just what we need.

Black Lace singer Dene Michael on the re-release of their 1984 hit 'Agadoo'

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

CAMERON KICKS OUT 65M DONOR OVER BACKING FOR UKIP

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL LEA

LENGTH: 296 words


ONE of the Tories' biggest donors was kicked out of the party by David Cameron
last night after he backed the rival UK Independence Party.

The Tory leader acted within 24 hours of learning that millionaire businessman
Stuart Wheeler gave 6100,000 to the Eurosceptics and said he would vote for them
at upcoming Euro elections.

The speed with which Mr Cameron moved was a clear sign that he is desperate to
crush internal disputes over the toxic Tory issue of Europe.

It came as he was attacked from the pro-European wing of the party over talks
about teaming up in the European Parliament with far-Right Latvian MEPs, who
commemorate members of the Waffen SS.

Mr Cameron is sensitive to any breaches of unity on Europe as they have proved
costly for previous Tory leaders.

He reportedly told 70 Conservative MPs last week that the EU issue did not
matter and also banned two MPs from speaking at a Euro-sceptic fringe meeting at
the party conference in Birmingham last year.

As a result Mr Wheeler, who has given more than 65million to the Conservatives,
said he now doubted Mr Cameron would honour his commitmentto hold a referendum
on the controversial Lisbon Treaty.

Although he will continue to support the Tories in local and general elections,
the spread-betting tycoon said he had become disillusioned with the Tories'
stance on Brussels.

He is believed to have been particularly annoyed by the appointment of
pro-European Kenneth Clarke to the Shadow Cabinet.

A party spokesman last night confirmed he had already been expelled from the
party

An insider said: 'There is no way David can accept a party member who openly
supports a rival party. We're done with our devastating differences over Europe,
shown by the inclusion of Ken Clarke and William Hague in the Shadow Cabinet.'

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

Obituary of Tim Brinton ITN newscaster who presented a famous spoof documentary
and later became a Tory MP

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1126  words


TIM BRINTON, who died on March 22 aged 79, was an avuncular ITN newscaster who
became a robustly right-wing Conservative MP for the first eight years of
Margaret Thatcher's premiership.

Brinton was best known at Westminster for his tough line on immigration and
trades union reform. But his legacy is a spoof science documentary, Alternative
3 (1977), which became a cult classic and still finds a ready market on DVD.

Intended by Anglia Television as an April Fool, the vagaries of television
scheduling prevented Alternative 3 being networked until June. Brinton,
described by The Daily Telegraph's Sean Day-Lewis as "bespectacled and less
chunky'' than in his heyday, fronted with gravitas a "documentary'' revealing
that scientists mysteriously disappearing on Earth had been traced to colonies
on Mars.

They had gone, the scientists explained in a message ahead of its time, because
they feared an impending ice age and the "greenhouse effect''.

Brinton, a professionally-trained actor who had left ITN to go freelance in
1962, became almost as well known playing a newsreader as he had been as the
genuine article. His film credits included Information Received (1961), Allez
France (1964), Bunny Lake is Missing (1965), Man at the Top (1973) and Carry On
Emmanuelle (1978). Among television dramas in which he appeared were Dixon of
Dock Green, Knocker, The Power Game and The Avengers.

Timothy Denis Brinton was born on Christmas Eve 1929, the son of Dr Denis
Brinton, of Hampstead, and was educated at Eton, Geneva University and the
Central School for Speech and Drama. He joined the BBC in 1951 as a radio
announcer, mainly on overseas programmes. From 1957 he was head of English
programmes at Radio Hong Kong.

He switched to ITN's high-profile team of presenters in 1959. His greatest
moment came the following February when he broke into Right of Reply to announce
Princess Margaret's engagement. The most embarrassing concerned a report Brinton
delivered from a Turkish bath. "The logical end to this programme,'' he confided
in the Commons a generation later, "was that I whip off my towel, jump into the
pool and swim across. The director promised me faithfully that he would cut from
camera one to camera two at the appropriate moment. But he was a little late,
and I was there for a second or so in all my splendour.''

In 1971 Brinton took over as anchor of Southern Television's Scene South-East.
But he soon returned to freelancing, the next year fronting a Whitehall
advertisement that triggered a political row. It attempted to explain the Heath
government's Housing Finance Act, but was pulled by the Independent Broadcasting
Authority after Labour complained that it was "prejudicial, inaccurate and
scandalous''.

No one accused Brinton of political bias; he was appearing as a professional.
But he was a committed Tory who had campaigned for the former Home Secretary
Henry Brooke in Hampstead. He was elected to Kent County Council in 1974, and
prior to the 1979 election was selected to fight the Labour-held marginal of
Gravesend; he captured it with the handsome majority of 9,346, and in 1983 was
re-elected for the redrawn constituency of Gravesham.

At Westminster Brinton became a founder-member of the education select
committee, defending independent schools and complaining that children were
swapping school meal vouchers for Mars bars and chips. He was also vice-chairman
of the Conservative backbench media committee.

In December 1979 Brinton criticised the government for bringing in immigration
rules that fell short of promises in the party's manifesto. He went on to rebel
several times against relaxations of the rules, objected to taxpayers' money
being used to educate immigrants' children in their mother tongues, and joined
Tory Action, a group Mrs Thatcher was challenged to condemn as racist. Yet
Brinton was far from racially prejudiced: in 1986 he took up the case of a Sikh
kabbadi player who had been wrongly deported, winning compensation for the man
from the Home Office.

Brinton's views on immigration had Mrs Thatcher's sympathy, as did the pressure
he and others exerted on successive employment secretaries for radical union
reform. In April 1980 he rebelled against James Prior's reluctance to outlaw the
closed shop, and four years later he was one of 40 Tories to vote against the
government after Tom King cut a deal with the TUC to drop a requirement to "opt
in'' to paying the political levy.

As Mrs Thatcher moved to subject the BBC and ITV to market forces, Brinton
suggested opening BBC programmes to sponsorship, but defended the licence fee.
In 1985 he opposed the removal from the Films Bill of a levy on the BBC and ITV
companies for showing feature films, saying they paid less than a fair price.

On broadcasting standards, Brinton parted ways with Mrs Thatcher. While she was
keen to crack down on sex, violence and bad language, Brinton opposed a Bill to
make broadcasting subject to the Obscene Publications Act. When fellow MPs spoke
against cable television, he told them that they were using the same arguments
as when ITV had been founded, and predicted that "the display of porn will be a
temporary phenomenon''.

Brinton left the Commons at the 1987 election. His last task was to investigate
at Mrs Thatcher's request the case of a 10-year-old boy in his constituency who
had waited 13 months for open-heart surgery, after Neil Kinnock embarrassingly
raised the matter during the campaign.

He returned to working as a broadcasting consultant and presentation tutor,
saying when John Major's performances came under scrutiny: "The main thing for
him is to feel comfortable.'' For two years he chaired the Dartford Gravesham
Health Authority. In 2003 he joined UKIP.

Brinton's later years were clouded by dementia. Shortly before his death his
daughter, Sal Brinton, the prospective Liberal Democrat candidate for Watford,
spoke of her "heartbreak'' at watching him suffer.

He spent his final weeks in hospital after going missing on a spontaneous trip
in a taxi. The police were called and a search helicopter dispatched, but he
returned in another cab ordered by a pub manager who suspected that something
was amiss.

Sal Brinton spoke about her father's condition to help other families in similar
circumstances and to highlight the need for more Admiral nurses, who specialise
in dementia care.

Tim Brinton had been a member of the court and council of the University of
London, a governor of Wye College and a council member of St Mary's Hospital
Paddington medical school.

He married first, in 1954, Jane-Mari Coningham, daughter of Air Marshal Sir
Arthur Coningham; they had a son and three daughters. They divorced in 1965, in
which year he married Jeanne Wedge; they had two daughters.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

Paying for Ukip

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 311  words


The expulsion of Stuart Wheeler from the Conservative Party was inevitable from
the moment he decided to write out a large cheque to finance Ukip's campaigning
for the European Parliament elections. The contests on June 4 will be a crucial
staging post for the general election. It is imperative from David Cameron's
point of view that the Tories perform as strongly as possible to provide a
launch pad for the challenge ahead. He knows, as

Mr Wheeler must also know, that the difference between a good Tory result and an
exceptional one is the extent to which Ukip can attract Eurosceptic voters who
would normally support the Conservatives.

Mr Wheeler represents a strand of thinking in the Conservative Party that feels
it has been sidelined in recent years. Yet the party leadership has embraced a
Eurosceptic policy, has consistently opposed the Lisbon Treaty and is more
hostile than ever to the institution's federalist tendencies. Mr Wheeler
evidently thinks this does not go far enough and he is entitled to give his
money to anyone he chooses. However, the Conservative Party is not obliged to
have among its members an individual who is bankrolling political opponents.

David Cameron, therefore, had little option but to take action against Mr
Wheeler, more in sorrow, no doubt, than in anger given his past generosity and
support. To do otherwise would suggest that donors can dictate party policy,
which must be a matter for the shadow cabinet. It also demonstrates how high the
stakes are. We may be 14 months from a general election but it is now that the
decisions are taken - and mistakes made - that can influence its outcome.

However sympathetic Mr Wheeler's erstwhile Tory colleagues are to his views
about Britain's future role in Europe, the party that will eject Labour from
office and form the next government is not Ukip, but the Conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

Tories;
to expel 'disloyal' donor

BYLINE: Rosa Prince Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 227  words


STUART WHEELER, the spread betting tycoon, is to be expelled from the
Conservative Party after he urged supporters to vote for the UK Independence
Party.

A party spokesman last night confirmed the decision, and senior sources
disclosed that the multi-millionaire is to be made an example of, in a move
designed to show that the leadership will not tolerate disunity in the lead-up
to the general election.

It comes after Mr Wheeler, who once gave the Tories  pounds 5 million, announced
that he was donating  pounds 200,000 to Ukip and would be voting for the party
at the European elections in June.

He claimed that David Cameron, the Tory leader, had left too much "wriggle
room'' in his promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, which codified
the rules for running the EU.

Eric Pickles, Conservative Party Chairman, said: "I can confirm that the Board
of the Conservative Party intend to expel Stuart Wheeler due to his support for
another party.  As a precursor he has been formally suspended and has 28 days in
which to appeal.''

Mr Wheeler said that he was disappointed, but that he would vote for the Tories
in the next local elections.  However, he said that he would make no further
donations to the party. He added: "I think more than half the shadow cabinet are
more eurosceptic than the leadership and would favour a tougher line on
Europe.''

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How the EU puts 20% on our food bills

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 25

LENGTH: 356  words


BRITISH families are each paying GBP 400-a-year to finance the European Union's
Common Agricultural Policy, a report will reveal today.

The CAP costs British taxpayers GBP 10.3billion-a-year and researchers claim it
has made food here a fifth more expensive. It also gives our farmers a raw deal
compared to the French, Germans and Italians.

Brussels bureaucrats have bound the agricultural industry in red tape and doled
out millions of pounds in subsidies to wealthy landowners, claims the report
Food For Thought, compiled by the TaxPayers' Alliance.

The group's Matthew Elliott said: "The CAP is a disaster. While taxpayers do
everything they can to balance their household budgets to make ends meet, the
unaccountable bureaucrats in Brussels are wasting billions.

"Not only are people's taxes squandered on red tape and subsidies for the
wealthy but food prices in the shops are higher as a result.

"It is time we took back control of how our agriculture is managed and how our
taxes are spent."

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said the solution was to get out of Europe.

"Every British Prime Minister and opposition leader has promised at every single
election that they will reform the CAP but they have not, " he said. "We will
never reform the CAP because the French won't let it happen. We're paying a
fortune for our food to subsidise rich landowners."

In 1984 Margaret Thatcher won a GBP 3billion-a-year CAP rebate for Britain - but
Tony Blair gave it up in 2005 to salvage his EU Presidency.

Britain gets GBP 3.8billion-a-year from the CAP, compared to France's GBP
8.4billion. Germany gets GBP 5.4billion and Italy GBP 4.6billion. But Britain
has as much farmland as Germany and more than Italy.

Most of the UK's payments to the scheme come through increased food prices, with
GBP 5.3billion handed over this way as a result of the 20 per cent levy on food
bought in this country.

Europe Minister Caroline Flint said last night: "The CAP does not serve the best
interests of farmers or consumers across Europe.

"We will use the opportunity of the EU budget review, starting later in the
year, to argue for the long-term reform that is needed."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

One man talks sense. . . if only we would all listen

SECTION: LETTERS; 26

LENGTH: 108  words


REGARDING J Shields' letter "We need a politician with guts to tackle
immigration" (Letters, March 4), we already have a politician who is not afraid
to speak out.

He is ready, willing and able to tackle this issue. Who is it? Nigel Farage of
UKIP.

Yes, he's an excellent politician, but because we are stuck in the
Labour/Conservative/Lib Dem/SNP mode, we just don't actually listen to the man
who is the only one talking sense on this issue.

We are so quick to dismiss the man and his party. Please, please start looking
beyond Gordon Brown, David Cameron and even Alex Salmond and try actually
listening to what UKIP are saying.

Miss D Gray, Aberdeen

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

Tory expelled for GBP 100k gift to Ukip

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 176  words


MILLIONAIRE Tory donor Stuart Wheeler was last night expelled from the
Conservative Party after giving GBP 100,000 to the rival UK Independence Party.

Mr Wheeler's expulsion was confirmed in a terse, one-line statement by a party
spokesman who said: "Stuart Wheeler has been expelled from the Conservative
Party."

The spread-betting tycoon - one of the Tories' biggest donors - said he had
become disillusioned with Tory leader David Cameron's line on Europe.

But he stressed that while he intended to vote for Ukip - which campaigns for
withdrawal from the EU - in the European parliamentary elections in June, he
would continue to back the Tories in the general and local elections.

Last night Mr Wheeler said he had received no notification from the party.

The Conservative Party said: "The Board intend to expel Stuart Wheeler due to
his support for another party. As a precursor to expulsion he has been formally
suspended and has 28 days in which to appeal."

Ukip leader Nigel Farrage said: "I am thrilled Stuart Wheeler has decided to
support our campaign."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

National: Tories expel leading donor for giving £100,000 to Ukip: Betting tycoon
Wheeler protests at 'silence' on EU: Half of shadow cabinet are Eurosceptics, he
claims

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 571 words


The Conservative party last night expelled one of its highest profile financial
backers, Sir Stuart Wheeler, after the millionaire betting tycoon donated
£100,000 to the UK Independence party.

In a terse one-line statement the party said: "Stuart Wheeler has been expelled
from the Conservative party."

The move came after it emerged yesterday morning that anti-European Wheeler -
whose £5m gift to the Tories in 2001 is thought to be the largest single
donation to a political party - had decided to donate to Ukip on account of its
more stridently Eurosceptic campaign. It wants the UK to pull out of Europe.

In comments last night after being informed by journalists of his expulsion from
the party, Wheeler criticised the Tory high command for making decisions without
"regard to others", and said that "at least half the shadow cabinet are more
Eurosceptic than the leadership".

Wheeler decided to fund Ukip after he came to suspect that the Tory party would
not allow a referendum on the Lisbon treaty should it form the next government.
However, yesterday morning he was still maintaining he would vote Conservative
in the local elections in June, held at the same time as the European elections.

The party decided it was untenable for Wheeler to remain a member while
supporting another party and Cameron is known for swift personnel decisions.

Wheeler's influence over the party has diminished during David Cameron's
leadership. Though his dissatisfaction with Iain Duncan Smith was thought to
have been key in the former leader's downfall Wheeler did not back Cameron for
the leadership and was critical of him during his first months as leader,
calling his green policies "pie in the sky".

Cameron recently ignored Wheeler's warning that he would withdraw party support
if the Tories brought the Europhile Ken Clarke back to the frontbench. Clarke
was made shadow business secretary within days of Wheeler speaking out.

In discussions with friends in the run-up to his decision to switch donations
from the Tories to Ukip, Wheeler said he had been persuaded to try to "work from
within", but that he had concluded it was impossible with the current
leadership.

"I think the leadership very much makes up its mind without regard to others,
other than a few people at the very top," he said.

He has been agitating for a referendum on the Lisbon treaty for some time. In
January he unsuccessfully took the government to court for failing to honour a
manifesto commitment on the European constitution, which Wheeler argued was the
Lisbon treaty in all but name.

Cameron's line on Europe has been stepped up in recent weeks, with the Tory
leader moving further in his commitment to withdraw the party from the centrist
European People's party caucus. The shadow foreign secretary, William Hague,
went to Strasbourg to confirm that the Tories would withdraw from the EPP, which
includes the parties of Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy.

Wheeler regards this policy as a distraction from Cameron having to talk about
Europe, telling a Sunday newspaper, before his ejection from the Tory party:
"The Conservatives - though perhaps more Eurosceptic than Labour - just wish no
one would talk about the EU so they can win the general election in peace.

Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, said he was "thrilled" by Wheeler's support.

A Conservative spokesman said: "Our policies on Europe are robust and we are
committed to a referendum on Lisbon."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 30, 2009 Monday

National: Tory donor gives Ukip £100,000 in protest at 'silence' on Europe

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 275 words


A leading backer of the Conservatives who warned David Cameron against bringing
pro-European Ken Clarke back to the front bench has given £100,000 to the United
Kingdom Independence party in protest against the Tories' position on Europe.

Betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler said he was giving the money to Ukip - which
campaigns for a withdrawal from Europe - in protest at the Conservative party's
reluctance to talk about the EU. He fears Cameron may not honour his commitment
to a referendum on the Lisbon treaty.

Wheeler, who gave the Tories £5m in 2001, said he would vote Ukip in European
elections in June, though he intended to remain a member of the Conservatives.

His donation switch comes despite Cameron's adoption of a very Eurosceptic line
in the last fortnight, moving further along in his commitment to withdraw the
party from the centrist European People's party caucus. The shadow foreign
secretary, William Hague, went to Strasbourg to confirm the Tories would
withdraw from the EPP which includes the parties of the German chancellor,
Angela Merkel, and the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy.

In January Wheeler warned that if he would consider withdrawing funding if
Cameron brought Clarke back and allowed the former chancellor to express strong
pro-European views. This weekend Wheeler said: "The European Union is doing so
much damage to our economy and our way of life that I can no longer vote
Conservative at the European elections."

Ukip's leader, Nigel Farrage, said he was "thrilled" by Wheeler's support.

A Conservative spokesman said: "Our policies on Europe are robust and we are
committed to a referendum on the Lisbon treaty."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Conservative Party kicks out its biggest donor over Europe row

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 523 words


THE SPREAD-BETTING tycoon Stuart Wheeler - once the Conservatives' largest donor
- has been expelled from the party after giving £100,000 to the UK Independence
Party. The businessman said he would vote for the eurosceptic party in June's
European elections and urged other Tories to follow suit.

David Cameron gave the go-ahead last night for Mr Wheeler, who donated £5m to
the Tories in 2001, to be stripped of his membership.

The millionaire has denounced the Tory leader for failing to represent Britain's
interests by stifling internal party debate on the EU. Mr Wheeler believes
Brussels presents a bigger threat to Britain than the recession. Before his
expulsion, he insisted the threat of being kicked out from the Tories did not
"alter his stance at all".

Speaking on BBC1's Politics Show yesterday, the 74-year-old said: "I think it's
very important the Conservatives win the next election but even more important
is getting the European Union right. I'm afraid I put that above getting the
Conservatives in."

Mr Cameron will be aware that Mr Wheeler echoes the sentiments of a sizeable
minority of the Conservative faithful. Earlier this month the Tory leader
promised to fulfil a pledge to withdraw his MEPs from the European People's
Party - the alliance of mainstream centre-right parties at Brussels - and set up
a new grouping in Strasbourg after the elections to oppose closer European
union.

Mr Wheeler, a close friend of Michael Howard, vehemently opposes Mr Cameron's
desire to keep the problematic topic of Europe off the party agenda -
particularly the matter of a British referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. Last year
Mr Wheeler unsuccessfully attempted to sue Gordon Brown over his refusal to hold
a referendum. "The Conservatives - though perhaps more eurosceptic than Labour -
just wish no one would talk about the EU so that they can win the general
election in peace," Mr Wheeler said, urging Tory voters to vote UKIP.

Mr Wheeler's expulsion was confirmed in a one-line statement by a party
spokesman who said: "Stuart Wheeler has been expelled from the Conservative
Party." The shadow Foreign Secretary, William Hague, may be embarrassed. He is
understood to have rung Mr Wheeler to reassure him that the return of
pro-European MP Kenneth Clarke to the frontbenches of the party would not signal
a softening of its euroscepticism.

Born out of wedlock and consigned to an orphanage, Mr Wheeler graduated from
Oxford with a degree in law. In 1974 he started the company IG Index with a
£5,000 loan. The company let investors speculate on the price of commodities and
gave rise to the spread betting industry. In 2002, Wheeler sold IG Index shares
worth £7.3m in order to refurbish his home in Kent's Chilham Castle. He later
sold his remaining stake in IG Index for £33m. He lives with his society
photographer wife and three glamorous daughters. One is the supermodel Jacquetta
Wheeler, who has worked with brands such as Burberry and Versace.

The Ukip leader Nigel Farage said he was "thrilled" to have Mr Wheeler's
support: "The decision of who rules Britain is vastly more important than any
traditional tribal loyalty."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

TORY DONOR BOOTED OUT;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 56 words


MILLIONAIRE donor Stuart Wheeler was expelled from the Conservatives last night
after giving pounds 100,000 to the rival UK Independence Party.

The spread betting tycoon, a Euro-sceptic who gave pounds 5million to the Tories
in 2001, said he made the donation to UKip in protest at Tory leader David
Cameron's reluctance to talk about the EU.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Tory donor booted out

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 58 words


THE Tories' biggest donor was expelled from the party last night for giving
£100,000 to rivals UKIP.

Betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler - who once gave the Conservatives £5million - is
backing anti-EU UKIP in June's European Parliament elections.

Mr Wheeler said he was disappointed to be booted out by Tories, but would still
vote for them in UK elections..

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Donor is dumped

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words


THE Tories' biggest donor was expelled from the party last night for giving a
£100,000 donation to rivals Ukip.

Betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler - who once gave the Conservatives £5million -
backed anti-EU Ukip in June's European Parliament elections.

Wheeler said he was disappointed and would not give Tories any more cash, but
would still vote for them in UK elections.

He added: "I think it's very important the Conservatives win the next election
but even more important is getting the European Union right.

"I'm afraid I've put that above getting the Conservatives in." Yes We Cam - Page
12

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

TORIES KICK OUT BIGGEST DON0R;
Anger as he gives £100k to UKIP

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words


THE Tories suspended their biggest donor last night after he gave £100,000 to
the rival UK Independence Party.

Spread betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler, who once gave the Conservatives £5million,
is disillusioned with David Cameron over Europe.

He is backing anti-EU UKIP in June's European Parliament elections. The Tories
at first announced they had expelled the millionaire.

But a later statement said: "The Board of the Conservative Party intend to expel
Stuart Wheeler due to his support for another party. As a precursor to
expulsion, he has been formally suspended and has 28 days in which to appeal."
Tory leader Mr Cameron backed the decision. The tycoon last night said he was
disappointed but would still vote Tory in UK elections.

However, he made it clear there would be no more donations to the party coffers.

He said: "Having been expelled, I would find it difficult to help them
financially." And he claimed his euro-sceptic views are shared by many top
Tories.

He said: "More than half the Shadow Cabinet are more euroscepetic than the
leadership."

g.wilson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Facing expulsion ... tycoon Wheeler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Tory donor who gave £ 100,000 to UKIP is kicked out of party

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 403 words


One of the Tories' biggest donors has been expelled after announcing that he was
giving money to the UK Independence Party before the European elections.

The Conservatives will forfeit at least £50,000 a year as a result of tearing up
the membership card of Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon.

The Tories had been expected to discuss his position this week at a meeting of
the party board, but rushed out a decision after demands for his removal from
the grassroots website Conservative Home.

Mr Wheeler announced that he was giving £100,000 to UKIP because he doubted
whether David Cameron would honour his commitment to hold a referendum on the EU
Lisbon treaty. He said that he would vote for UKIP in the European elections,
but would still support the Tories in the local elections in June and in the
general election, due by May next year.

"I will be very sorry about it but it won't alter my stance. I'm going to vote
and I hope they win the next election.

But even more important to me is getting the EU right. The cost of Britain's EU
membership is of the same order in this country as the amount we are having to
borrow to get out of the financial crisis." Mr Wheeler gave the Tories the
single biggest political donation since the public register was introduced by
handing over £5 million to William Hague, a noted Eurosceptic, for his 2001
election campaign.

He then gave £500,000 under Michael Howard and slightly more than £50,000 a year
since Mr Cameron became leader. This has allowed him to stay in the same hotel
as the leader every year during the Tory conference, he said, another privilege
that he will now lose.

Conservative Home announced at midday yesterday that it thought Mr Wheeler
should be expelled. "If the party leadership turns a blind eye to members openly
advocating support for other parties then unity and discipline will be difficult
to maintain in more difficult political times.

It is also important that Stuart Wheeler isn't seen to get special treatment
because of his status as a Conservative Party (ex-)donor," it said.

The Conservatives face significant problems with members prepared to vote for
UKIP in the European elections because they are unhappy at the party's stance on
Europe. Mr Wheeler said that his concerns had been heightened by Mr Cameron's
recent remarks. "I was told that he had got 70 Conservative MPs together and
told them the EU issue did not matter," he said..

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stuart Wheeler: doubted Tory commitment to an EU referendum
JACK HILL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 2

Tory donor who gave £100,000 to UKIP will be expelled from party

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 406 words


One of the Tories' biggest donors will be expelled this week after announcing
that he was giving money to the UK Independence Party before the European
elections.

The Conservatives will forfeit at least £50,000 a year as a result of tearing up
the membership card of Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting tycoon.

In a statement the party said last night: "Eric Pickles, Conservative Party
chairman, has confirmed that the board of the Conservative Party intend to expel
Stuart Wheeler due to his support for another party.

"As a precursor to expulsion he has been formally suspended and has 28 days in
which to appeal." Mr Wheeler announced that he was giving £100,000 to UKIP
because he doubted whether David Cameron, the party leader, would honour his
commitment to hold a referendum on the EU Lisbon treaty. He said that he would
vote for UKIP in the European elections, but would still support the Tories in
the local elections in June and in the general election, due by May next year.

He said the suspension - which he heard about from journalists - would not alter
his stance. "I'm going to vote and I hope they win the next election.

But even more important to me is getting the EU right. The cost of Britain's EU
membership is of the same order in this country as the amount we are having to
borrow to get out of the financial crisis." Mr Wheeler said that before
announcing his decision to make a donation to UKIP he had been urged by friends
to try to "work from within" to change the party, but had concluded that it was
not possible with the current leadership. "I think the leadership very much
makes up its mind without regard to others, other than a few people at the very
top," he said last night. "I think that more than half the Shadow Cabinet are
more Eurosceptic than the leadership and would favour a tougher line on Europe."

Mr Wheeler gave the Tories the single biggest political donation since the
public register was introduced by handing over £5 million to William Hague, a
noted Eurosceptic, for his 2001 election campaign.

He gave £500,000 under Michael Howard and a little over £50,000 a year under Mr
Cameron. This allowed him to stay in the same hotel as the leader every year
during the Tory conference, he said - a privilege that he will now lose.

The Conservatives face significant problems with members prepared to vote for
UKIP in the European elections because they are unhappy at the party's stance on
Europe.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stuart Wheeler: doubted Tory commitment to an EU referendum
JACK HILL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Tories to expel donor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 59 words


A major donor to the Tory party is to be expelled for giving money to the UK
Independence Party. The Conservatives will forfeit £50,000 a year after they
tear up Stuart Wheeler's membership card. The spreadbetting tycoon said he was
giving £100,000 to UKIP because he doubted David Cameron would honour his
commitment to a referendum on the Lisbon treaty..

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 March 29, 2009
                                 First Edition

Tory backer decamps to give Ukip £100,000;
:: POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 75 words


One of the Conservative Party's biggest financial backers in effect defected to
the UK Independence Party last night, claiming he was fed up with David
Cameron's policy on Europe. Spread-betting millionaire Stuart Wheeler said he
doubted the Tory leader would hold a referendum on the EU's Lisbon Treaty - and
revealed he is giving £100,000 to the Euro-sceptic Ukip. Mr Wheeler told the
News of the World he would vote for Ukip in European polls in June.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 29, 2009

National: Anti-Europe donor drops Tories for Ukip: Stuart Wheeler, who has given
£ 5m to the Conservatives, switches sides

BYLINE: Toby Helm, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 749 words


The Conservatives' biggest donor is to defect to the right-wing UK Independence
party amid a growing rift over Europe.

Stuart Wheeler, a close friend of Michael Howard, who has given the Tories £ 5m,
has been privately complaining for months that he did not believe David Cameron
was firm enough on Europe and was irritated that the party was downplaying the
issue. He had warned the leader he did not approve of the return of pro-European
Kenneth Clarke to the shadow cabinet.

Wheeler will now donate £ 100,000 to Ukip, which wants Britain to withdraw from
the European Union. He told the Sunday Times he was "very disappointed indeed
with David Cameron's stance on the issue", despite the Tory leader's recent
controversial decision that his MEPs are to leave the centre-right alliance the
European People's Party (EPP) and build links with more hardline eurosceptics.

The multi-millionaire argued that "the Conservatives just wish no one would talk
about the EU, so they can win the general election in peace". He added: "Much as
I want the Tories to win the next election, getting Europe right is even more
important."

Sources close to Cameron said Wheeler's departure was not a surprise and that he
had been increasingly at odds with the party leadership. "He has been making
rumbling noises against David for some time, saying we have not been robust
enough in Europe. Well, we are not going to let anyone dictate our policy on
Europe."

It is understood William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, rang Wheeler in an
attempt to reassure him on the night Clarke was reappointed, but without
success.

Ironically, the defection comes as Cameron is simultaneously under attack from
his pro-European wing for taking too hardline a eurosceptic stance, after it
emerged the Tories had held talks about teaming up in the European parliament
with a nationalist Latvian party, some of whose members attend ceremonies to
commemorate the Waffen SS.

The revelation that Hague recently met an official of the Latvian Fatherland and
Freedom party has dismayed pro-European Conservatives who believe such an
approach will leave the party isolated on the world stage.

In an interview with the Observer , the Tories' Europe spokesman, Mark Francois,
confirmed that Conservative MEPs would leave the EPP after June's European
elections and join other like-minded eurosceptic parties in a new grouping.

However, the search for new partners has run into difficulty after this
weekend's edition of the Economist reported Hague's recent talks with the
Latvians. The magazine notes that the party includes "hardline nationalists who
attend ceremonies to commemorate a Latvian unit of Waffen SS troops".

It argues that, while the Latvians say that their Waffen SS heroes were patriots
fighting against Soviet Russia, not Nazi war criminals, such explanations will
be hard to sell to British voters. "Try explaining that distinction in a British
election campaign," the Economist says.

Ian Taylor, the Tory MP for Esher and Walton and chairman of the Conservative
Group for Europe, refused to discuss the Latvian connection but made clear his
disquiet. "I am disappointed that the decision has been made to leave the EPP.
We need strong alliances in Europe if we are to have influence and we need those
alliances to be with people who reflect well on the Conservative party. This is
particularly so as we will be under close inspection from a whole series of
people watching everything we do."

A leading Tory MEP, who refused to be named, described the decision to quit the
EPP as "crazy", saying that the Conservatives were dabbling on the "wild
fringes" of European politics.

Caroline Flint, Labour's Europe minister, demanded an explanation. "William
Hague needs to come clean on who he has invited to join the Tories' fringe group
in Europe, who has already turned him down and who he will pledge never to work
with," she said.

Francois said that he and Hague had told senior EPP officials two weeks ago that
the Conservatives would be leaving the alliance, probably in July. However, he
declined to give a "running commen tary" on negotiations as to with whom they
would team up. To form a new parliamentary grouping, Cameron needs MEPs from at
least six other member states, which could include Poland and the Czech
Republic.

A Conservative party spokesman refused to confirm or deny that talks had been
held with the Latvians, but said they would not be allying themselves with "any
racist or otherwise extremist" parties.


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 63 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 29, 2009, Sunday

TORY TOFF GIVES £100K TO RIVALS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


A SUPER-RICH Tory donor is to bankroll the UK Independence Party's EU elections
campaign in protest at David Cameron's stance on the euro.

Spread-betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler, 73, who gave £5million to the Tories in
2001, has now handed £100,000 to their anti-EU rivals.

He will still support the Tories in British elections but not in Europe because
he fears they could abandon the pound.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                               22 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 29, 2009
                                   Edition 1

Tory donor defects to UKIP in protest at Europhile Clarke

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jonathan Oliver

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 354 words


THE Tory party's biggest donor is to defect to the UK Independence party in the
first sign of a backlash at the return of Kenneth Clarke.

Stuart Wheeler, who gave £5m to the Conservatives in 2001, has announced he is
donating £100,000 to UKIP, which wants Britain to withdraw from the European
Union. His decision is a blow for the Tory leader, David Cameron, and the shadow
foreign secretary, William Hague, who tried to reassure him Clarke's return to
the frontbench did not signal a softening of the Tory eurosceptic stance.

Hague telephoned the tycoon on the eve of Clarke's appointment as shadow
business secretary in an attempt to assuage him. Wheeler had warned he did not
approve of the pro-European Clarke's return to frontline politics, but Cameron
went ahead with the appointment.

Yesterday the multi-millionaire attacked Cameron's attitude to Europe, and said
the Tories must wake up to voters' concern about EU membership's huge cost, and
excessive Brussels regulations.

"I am very disappointed indeed with David Cameron's stance on this issue. Much
as I want the Tories to win the next election; getting Europe right is even more
important," he said.

He added that Clarke's influence was a "concern", saying: "He has indicated that
he will not contradict current Conservative policy on the EU, but I don'think
he'll be bound by that." Cameron has quelled the party's divisive, long-running
debate over Europe, fearing it will derail his modernisation campaign. Although
Cameron has given a "cast iron guarantee"

that the Conservatives will hold a referendum on the EU treaty if they win the
next election, Wheeler has voiced doubts.

In a Sunday Times article, he writes: "My doubts about his commitment to doing
anything effective were increased this week when I heard he told 70 Conservative
MPs the EU issue didn't matter! This may not be true but it fits in with what
many people believe to be his attitude." The Conservatives "just wish no one
would talk about the EU, so they can win the general election in peace", he
adds.

SUNDAY TIMES ONLINE

To read why Wheeler is taking a stand, go to timesonline.co.uk/politics

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wheeler: rebuked Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 29, 2009
                                   Edition 2

Tory donor defects to UKIP in protest at Ken Clarke's return

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott; Jonathan Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words


THE Tory party's biggest donor is to defect to the UK Independence party in the
first sign of a backlash at the return of Kenneth Clarke.

Stuart Wheeler, who gave £5m to the Conservatives in 2001, has announced he is
donating £100,000 to UKIP, which wants Britain to withdraw from the European
Union. His decision is a blow for the Tory leader, David Cameron, and the shadow
foreign secretary, William Hague, who tried to reassure him Clarke's return to
the frontbench did not signal a softening of the Tory eurosceptic stance.

Hague telephoned the tycoon on the eve of Clarke's appointment as shadow
business secretary in an attempt to assuage him. Wheeler had warned he did not
approve of the pro-European Clarke's return to frontline politics, but Cameron
went ahead with the appointment.

Yesterday the multi-millionaire attacked Cameron's attitude to Europe, and said
the Tories must wake up to voters' concern about EU membership's huge cost, and
excessive Brussels regulations.

"I am very disappointed indeed with David Cameron's stance on this issue. Much
as I want the Tories to win the next election; getting Europe right is even more
important," he said.

He added that Clarke's influence was a "concern", saying: "He has indicated that
he will not contradict current Conservative policy on the EU, but I don'think
he'll be bound by that." Cameron has quelled the party's divisive, long-running
debate over Europe, fearing it will derail his modernisation campaign. Although
Cameron has given a "cast iron guarantee"

that the Conservatives will hold a referendum on the EU treaty if they win the
next election, Wheeler has voiced doubts.

In a Sunday Times article, he writes: "My doubts about his commitment to doing
anything effective were increased this week when I heard he told 70 Conservative
MPs the EU issue didn't matter! This may not be true but it fits in with what
many people believe to be his attitude." The Conservatives "just wish no one
would talk about the EU, so they can win the general election in peace", he
adds.

SUNDAY TIMES ONLINE

To read Wheeler's account of his defection, go to

timesonline.co.uk/politics

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wheeler: rebuked Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday

Tory turmoil as biggest donor defects to UKIP

BYLINE: By Julia Gregory

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 199  words


THE TORY Party's biggest donor has given GBP 100,000 to UKIP after becoming
disillusioned with David Cameron's stance on Europe.

Stuart Wheeler gave GBP 5million to the Conservatives in 2001 but said he was
disappointed with the Conservative leader's views on Europe.

The multimillionaire said that the Conservatives must wake up to voters'
concerns about the huge cost of the European Union and its excessive red tape.

He said the Conservatives merely wish that no one would talk about the EU "so
they can win the general election in peace".

He added: "I am very disappointed indeed with David Cameron's stance on this
issue.

Much as I want the Tories to win the next election, getting Europe right is even
more important."

Although he said he would vote UKIP in the June elections Mr Wheeler has pledged
to remain a member of the Conservative Party.

UKIP's leader Nigel Farrage said he was delighted with the donation and the
support of the spread-betting tycoon in the party's battle to leave Europe.

He said the decision on who rules Britain is far more important than "tribal"
loyalties.

But a Conservative spokesman said that Mr Wheeler's donation to UKIP would have
no impact on Tory policy on Europe.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 29, 2009

I'm backing Ukip says former Tory donor

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458  words


A NEW poll boost for David Cameron was undermined last night when one of the
Tories' major donors gave a six-figure sum to the United Kingdom Independence
Party (Ukip).

Stuart Wheeler, the spread betting tycoon, has written Ukip a cheque for  pounds
100,000 and said he will vote for the party in June's European elections.

Although he has not given much money to the Conservatives in recent years he has
been a leading donor in the past - giving them their biggest single donation of
pounds 5 million in 2000.

Mr Wheeler, a strong Eurosceptic who objected to the return to the Tory front
bench of Kenneth Clarke as shadow business secretary, claimed last night that
Brussels was a bigger threat to Britain than the global economic crisis and
accused Mr Cameron of ignoring European issues.

The news came as an ICM opinion poll for The Sunday Telegraph showed the Tories'
lead over Labour increasing to 13 points.

The result would give the Conservatives a majority of 83 seats in the House of
Commons if it were repeated in a general election.

Recent polls have tended to show the Conservative lead "stuck'' on around 10
points, giving Gordon Brown some hope of making a political recovery despite the
economic crisis.

However, the survey also shows that Mr Cameron is under pressure from Tory
supporters amid signs he is backing away from a flagship pledge to raise the
inheritance tax threshold to  pounds 1 million. Asked if increasing the
threshold to  pounds 1 million should be a "priority'' for whichever party wins
the next election, voters were evenly split with 48 per cent agreeing with the
suggestion and the same percentage disagreeing.

Among Tory voters, however, 59 per cent say the move should be a priority, while
39 per cent disagree.

The poll's headline figures see the Conservatives gaining four percentage points
from the last Sunday Telegraph/ICM poll, published in early February, to 44 per
cent. Labour is up three points to 31 per cent, with the biggest losers being
the Liberal Democrats, whose support has dropped by four points to 18 per cent.

A Conservative Party spokesman attempted to shrug off Mr Wheeler's decision,
claiming: "He has not been a major donor to us for many years.''

Mr Wheeler said he had "doubts about his [Mr Cameron's] commitment to doing
anything effective'' about Europe. The businessman added: "The EU is doing so
much damage to our economy and our way of life that I can no longer vote
Conservative at the European elections.''

However, he added that he would remain a member of the Conservative Party and
would vote for it in the local elections, which are held on the same day as the
European Parliament poll.

Mr Cameron must now decide whether Mr Wheeler should be formally expelled from
the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

CAM MONEY MAN DEFECTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 55 words


DAVID Cameron's top donor has defected to the UK Independence Party.

Spread-betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler, who gave the Tories pounds 5million in
2000, wrote a pounds 100,000 cheque for UKIP.

He said: "The EU is doing so much damage to our economy and our way of life that
I can no longer vote Conservative at the European elections."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday

National: G20: Gordon Brown: Right hook: Million hits for MEP

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 331 words


There was no link yesterday from the official Conservative party website to the
internet sensation of the week: a speech by the 37-year-old Tory MEP Daniel
Hannan denouncing Gordon Brown as a "Brezhnev-era apparatchik".

By yesterday the speech - which Brown had to sit through after his own address
to the European parliament - had passed 1.1m views.

For Hannan, it was a triumph. For David Cameron, a headache - proof that not all
parts of his party have changed.

Opinions vary as to why the speech was a hit. Hannan says it shows how the
internet is changing politics, since it was ignored by the press and TV.

At just over three minutes it was perfect for the web, and its tone caught the
outrage of the right on both sides of the Atlantic, convinced that it must stop
the big spending Brown-Obama juggernaut. Hannan's speech was linked to on the US
Drudge Report website and he was quickly interviewed on Fox News.

He has not arrived out of the blue. Elected to the European parliament a decade
ago, he irritated top Tories from the start by speaking out critically at a
joint meeting of MPs and MEPs - "Who is this Hannan man?" one former cabinet
minister asked angrily afterwards.

At Oxford in the early 1990s his fierce anti-Europeanism was influential. When a
bust of Ted Heath was due to be unveiled at the Oxford Union, Eurosceptics hid
it, and Heath was enraged.

"He's a free market nationalist and issue-for-issue agrees more with Ukip than
Conservative policies," says Mark Littlewood, an Oxford contemporary who, like
Hannan, now blogs for the Telegraph. The MEP was once also a leader writer
there.

Hannan is no typical little Englander. Born in Peru, he is multi-lingual. Some
find his style absurd: for a while he ended speeches in Latin calling for a vote
on the Lisbon treaty: " Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est. "

Others may dislike him quoting Enoch Powell last year - "we were a nation once;
we are not now."

It is certainly a long way from Cameron's compassionate

Conservatism.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

SACKED FOR BEING PROUD OF BRITAIN;
Deva: I have no regrets

BYLINE: by JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 271 words


FURY erupted last night after "Great Brit" postmaster Deva Kumarasiri was
sacked.

Deva, 40, who refused to serve non English speakers, was swamped with fan mail
from people backing his stand.

The Sri Lankan-born dad-of-two, who came to Britain 18 years ago, barred locals
who could not speak English from his post office in Sneinton, Nottingham.

And we presented him with our first ever Great Brit award for his stance.

But he was moved to another post office after local Muslims launched a petition
to drive him out.

Then he was also axed as a Liberal Democrat councillor.

And yesterday he was fired after just four days in his new shop in nearby
Netherfield.

Last night Deva said defiantly:

"It may have cost me my livelihood but I believe what I did was right and I
don't regret it.

"The agency that employed me said I shouldn't turn up for work because I was
being replaced. I had no problems until my bosses learned of the language ban.

"I've a wife and two daughters to support. All I have now to cling onto is the
tremendous support I've received from all over Britain - I must have struck a
chord with the nation.

"I guess people don't like any kind of controversy - no balls!"

Deva, who flies the Union Flag from his home and car, is now planning to buy his
own post office. He said: "At least then I would be in charge and could make my
own rules. And I will still refuse to serve non-English speaking customers."

Derek Clark, UKIP Euro MP for the East Midlands, said last night: "This is
terrible news.

I'm very angry he has been deprived of his living."

Deva's ex bosses at Yorkshirebased Newrose Personnel Ltd declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGRY: Euro MP Clark and Deva with flag, right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 581 words


No thanks, Mr Blair: Filipinos snub ex-PM

* AND SO to the latest twist in Tony Blair's career as a "peacemaker". It is, it
should be said, a rather delightful one. For while most world leaders are only
too pleased to be seen brunching with the former PM, it would appear that others
- in this case legislators in the Philippine province of North Cotabato - prefer
to keep their distance.

Startled by news that Blair had been invited on to a panel of "eminent" persons
mediating between the country's warring factions, the vice- governor of North
Cotabato issued an urgent statement entitled: "Thank You, Mr Tony Blair, But No
Thanks." If charisma is all that is needed to solve the problem, he argues, why
not involve some of the country's most popular actresses?

"Perhaps we should invite Judy Ann Santos and Sharon Cuneta?" adds the
statement. "Maybe they can use their charm and charisma to convince people to
end their terrorist activities."

The proposal, while thought-provoking, has yet to cause visible ripples among
Blair's staff. "I don't know what this is a reference to," a spokesman said. "Mr
Blair doesn't have any involvement."

No Laugharne matter, Irvine

* OH, DEAR. The organisers of this year's Laugharne Weekend appear less than
impressed by Irvine Welsh's last-minute cancellation.

The Scottish novelist, left, had agreed some time ago to address the literary
festival, held every April in Wales - but has been forced to cancel after
double-booking the date.

"Apparently he's in India that weekend," explains a note on the festival
website. "This is really quite annoying. Maybe it's not his fault. Apologies."

Ken does his bit for modern morals

* ONE SUSPECTS that Ken Livingstone could be doing rather more to help out with
government crackdowns on anti-social behaviour. On Wednesday night the former
mayor of London appeared at the trendier-than-thou north London bar the Boogaloo
where, alongside a discerning selection of indie bands, he addressed punters on
the "virtues of modern life". "Who here will admit that they have been to a
strip club?" an enthusiastic Livingstone asked the pint-swilling audience. "And
did anyone want to sleep with the dancer afterwards?" After a moment's pause,
one plucky drinker put up his hand ... only to be rewarded with a free drink.
Tsk.

Alfie Allen becomes a regular catwalk fan

News, now, to strike fear into the heart of any retrosexual male: Alfie Allen,
formerly of Evisu jeans and Foot Locker trainers, claims to have experienced a
high-fashion conversion.

The (newly) dandyish young actor, pictured, has been sitting in the front row at
catwalk shows with increasing regularity - and not only, it would seem, for the
sake of his girlfriend, the actress Jamie Winstone.

"I particularly liked the Westwood shows," Allen says.

"They have a great mood, great clothes and really good music. I'm getting a much
better appreciation of it all. I'm still no expert but it has definitely become
an interest."

How long until his father Keith follows suit?

Next stop for Eustice

* ANOTHER CAREER change for George Eustice, David Cameron's former spokesman,
and more recently the Tories' director of external relations.

He has announced his intention to join Portland PR - the agency set up by
Alastair Campbell's one-time deputy, Tim Allen. The move is the latest in a long
list of career swaps for Eustice. Previous incarnations include Antipodean
backpacker, European election candidate for UKIP and... strawberry farmer.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

TALK ENGLISH POSTMASTER GETS SACKED;
BUT DEVA SAYS HE HAS NO REGRETS

BYLINE: BY ROD CHAYTOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 275 words


THE postmaster sacked after he banned customers who did not speak English
remained defiant yesterday.

Deva Kumarasiri is sure his controversial stand cost him his job. But he said:
"I believe what I did was right. I don't regret it."

Sri Lankan-born Mr Kumarasiri, who came to the UK 18 years ago, introduced the
ban last week because he believes immigrants should learn the language.

Days later he was forced to ask his agency employer to transfer him to another
branch following complaints from some locals and the owner of the shop premises.

He was moved from Sneinton Boulevard Post Office, Nottingham, to a branch a few
miles away in Netherfield.

It is a predominantly white area but Mr Kumarasiri, 40, insisted his ban would
continue.

After four days there he was called on Wednesday night by a boss and fired.

The father-of-two said: "I was told I shouldn't turn up for work because I was
being replaced and they had no other work for me.

They gave no reason but it's clear my stand cost me my job."

His employers, Yorkshire-based Newrose Personnel Ltd, declined to comment
yesterday.

The Royal Mail said: "We can't comment on individuals."

East Midlands Euro MP Derek Clark, of UKIP, said: "This is disgraceful. Any
shopkeeper has the right to refuse to serve anyone he likes. He was simply
trying to help these people fit in."

Mr Kumarasiri, who also lost his job as a Lib Dem councillor over the row, is
"passionate about Britain" and flies the UK flag at his house and on his car.

He said: "I hope to raise enough money to buy my own post office. I'll continue
to refuse to serve non-English speakers."

I hope to buymy own post office and keep up my ban

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: I NEED A POST Fired Deva Kumarasiri defiant yesterday; LANGUAGE BAN
Mirror report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

SACKED: POSTIE WITH 'ENGLISH-ONLY' RULE;
But Deva says: No regrets,I was right

BYLINE: ANDREW PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 340 words


THE postmaster who bravely banned customers who could not speak English was
sacked over his stand yesterday.

Bosses told stunned dad-of-two Deva Kumarasiri his "services were no longer
needed".

But the decision sparked fury among the supporters of Deva, who last night
declared: "I believe what I did was right. I don't regret it." Sri Lankanborn
Deva, 40, introduced his ban at Nottingham's Sneinton Boulevard Post Office last
week because he believes all immigrants to Britain should integrate and take
pride in the country.

He asked his employment agency for a transfer following threats from local
Muslims.

He was moved to the city's predominantly white Netherfield area. He said the
ban, although unlikely to be needed, was still in force. Fours days later he got
the boot.

He said: "The agency gave no reason, but it's safe to say my stand has cost me
my livelihood. I've a wife, two daughters and a mortgage to support.

"Because I've no contract, I was effectively self-employed, so have no rights."
Deva, who came to the UK 18 years ago, added: "Anyone who doesn't make an effort
to learn English doesn't want to integrate.

"If people come to live in this country they should fully embrace British
culture." Deva. who also lost  his job as a Lib Dem councillor over the row, has
had thousands of messages of support to his website, www.
britishnessforever.co.uk

He said: "I must have struck a chord with the nation. The vast, vast majority of
people agree with my stance."

His employers, Bradford-based Newrose Personnel Ltd, declined to comment. So did
Royal Mail.

But Derek Clark, UKIP Euro MP for the East Midlands, said: "It's a disgrace. He
hasn't misbehaved, or been short-changing customers.

"He was simply trying to help these people fit in. I'm very angry for him."

Deva, who flies the Union Flag at his house and drives a British-built Land
Rover, now hopes to buy his own post office. He said: "I would still refuse to
serve non-English speaking customers.

I'm passionate about Britain."

a.parker@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Proud of Britain ... sacked Deva
Sun story . . . last week

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2

SACKED: POSTIE WITH 'ENGLISH-ONLY' RULE;
But Deva says: No regrets,I was right

BYLINE: ANDREW PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 344 words


THE postmaster who bravely banned customers who could not speak English was
sacked over his stand yesterday.

Bosses told stunned dad-of-two Deva Kumarasiri his "services were no longer
needed".

But the decision sparked fury among the supporters of Deva, who last night
declared: "I believe what I did was right. I don't regret it." Sri Lankanborn
Deva, 40, introduced his ban at Nottingham's Sneinton Boulevard Post Office last
week because he believes all immigrants to Britain should integrate and take
pride in the country.

He asked his employment agency for a transfer following threats from local
Muslims. Sun story . .

He was moved to the city's predominantly white Netherfield area. He said the
ban, although unlikely to be needed, was still in force. Four days later he got
the boot.

He said: "The agency gave no reason, but it's safe to say my stand has cost me
my livelihood. I've a wife, two daughters and a mortgage to support.

"Because I've no contract, I was effectively self-employed, so have no rights."
Deva, who came to the UK 18 years ago, added: "Anyone who doesn't make an effort
to learn English doesn't want to integrate.

"If people come to live in this country they should fully embrace British
culture."

Deva. who also lost . last week his job as a Lib Dem councillor over the row,
has had thousands of messages of support to his website,
www.britishnessforever.co.uk He said: "I must have struck a chord with the
nation. The vast, vast majority of people agree with my stance."

His employers, Bradford-based Newrose Personnel Ltd, declined to comment. So did
Royal Mail.

But Derek Clark, UKIP Euro MP for the East Midlands, said: "It's a disgrace. He
hasn't misbehaved, or been short-changing customers.

"He was simply trying to help these people fit in. I'm very angry for him."

Deva, who flies the Union Flag at his house and drives a British-built Land
Rover, now hopes to buy his own post office. He said: "I would still refuse to
serve non-English speaking customers.

I'm passionate about Britain." a.parker@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sun story ... last week
Proud of Britain . . . sacked Deva

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

MEP Nigel is only one standing up to Europe

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 116  words


LETTER-WRITER J Shields (Scottish Daily Express, March 24) asks a number of
questions about our politicians and asks when will they stand up for the UK.

Unfortunately the present bunch we have will not, they have surrendered to
control from Brussels. Only one politician is standing up and answering the
questions raised.

He is Nigel Farage MEP, leader of the UK Independence Party, but as normal the
main media gave big headlines to Gordon Brown and his "being at the heart of the
EU" speech to the EU Parliament - but failed to show Nigel Farage standing up
for Britain.

In the run-up to the EU election on June 4 we will all see which party is
standing up for the British voters.

Peter Adams, Kirkcaldy

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 26, 2009

Britain is favour of Europe again - at least for a while

LENGTH: 1087 words



HIGHLIGHT: It may even have dawned in Westminster and Whitehall that, in the
post-crisis, post-capitalist era, Europe as a bloc will need to row together -
or sink together


After 36 years of standing on the EU sidelines, Britain this month has finally
reached out for a European role and destination. Between them Gordon Brown and
Lord Turner have opted for more, not less Europe. The Brits, chairing next
week's G20 summit, are back in favour - at least for a while.

Brown's unusually passionate speech in Strasbourg in favour of the EU-27 being
"uniquely placed to lead the world" and of "our home Europe" has drawn
eye-blinking praise for a repenting sinner who used to sit out ecofin meetings
with his headphones on his knees. (Coupled with some scepticism in a half-empty
chamber, it has to be said.)

Turner's 120-page report on financial regulation, including a call for a single
EU regulator to supervise an integrated financial market, initially drew some
criticism as a "cut-and-paste" reprise of the earlier De Larosière commission
findings - co-drafted by Callum McCarthy, Turner's predecessor at the FSA.

But, at another of those high-level Brussels conferences, organised this time by
the IMF, Belgian central bank BNB and the Bruegel thinktank, it won substantial
support from an array of regulators, central bankers, policy wonks and senior
international officials.

After more than four years here listening to venomous private comments about
"you arrogant, selfish Brits" and increasing public criticism of the
"Anglo-Saxon model which got us into this toxic mess" from other Europeans it
would be too easy to get carried away. But there is compelling evidence that a
European dimension has been added to UK thinking as the inadequacy of national
responses to the crisis is heightened on a daily basis.

It may even have dawned in Westminster and Whitehall that, in the post-crisis,
post-capitalist era, Europe as a bloc will need to row together - or sink
together - as a recovering US fights to retain its global leadership and China,
India and other emerging economies assert their right to reshaping the old world
order and their technological prowess.

Certainly, senior EU officials helping to prepare the G20 summit are keenly
aware of this as they proclaim the European initiative, first launched by Brown
and France's Sarkozy last autumn, in defining and progressing the five-point
Excel Centre agenda: boosting global demand; free trade/anti-protectionism;
reforming financial systems/strict regulation of all market players; reforming
international institutions such as IMF, World Bank and Financial Stability Forum
(to be renamed); and, last but not least, sustainable "green" growth and fiscal
sustainability.

'Immensely cumbersome'

But are the Brits really prepared for the huge transfer of sovereignty that's
implied by this shift? And that's even before we debate entry to the euro! Nigel
(Lord) Wicks, ex-treasury permanent secretary and Euroclear chairman, told the
conference at the BNB this week that we could soon be talking about a G4 - the
US, Japan, China and Europe - as the forum for international financial and
economic co-operation.

He sees pivotal roles being played in such a body by the presidents of the
European Central Bank, Ecofin, Eurogroup and EC and, maybe, finance ministers
from the largest member states. There's also, in UKIP's and the Tories' worst
nightmare scenarios, a growing consensus around the De Larosière/Turner ideas of
a European Systemic Risk Council and a European System of Financial Supervisors
or single regulator though details of how these "macro-prudential" bodies would
work with national supervisors or indeed the IMF is far from clear.

Wicks certainly warned that, while the goals are admirable, the proposed
machinery is "immensely cumbersome." He reckons some of the proposed bodies
would have as many as 50 members - a recipe for "tortuous decision-making,
subject to opaque compromises and turf battles." But, in the words of Marek
Belka, who heads the IMF's European department, "it is essential that an
EU-level prudential agency be given adequate resources, independence and binding
powers over national supervisors."

In plain talk: bodies dominated by the ECB and commission will hold sway over
the City and its cross-border banks, not Mervyn King and Lord Turner. There's
more: the EU-27 is, as part of the run-up to the G20, discussing replacing
national quotas - and votes - within the IMF et al with a pan-European one. And
that, says Wicks, means fewer executive directors and fewer ministers speaking
up for Europe. The die is not yet cast on that one, says a senior EU official
while admitting that Europe is heavily over-represented and China etc will get
their crack of the whip.

'Sweet decadence'

There is, however, a downside to all this and not just removing the last few
whiffs of the chimera of British national sovereignty. The UK may indeed be
moving closer to Europe but it's an EU economy and society that's losing its way
- and clout - to others who could emerge from the crisis earlier and stronger.

That's not the view held on the top (13th) floor of the Berlaymont, the
commission's HQ, but of Felipe González, four-times Spain's socialist premier
who now chairs a "reflection group" on Europe's future. He sees the
technological divide with the US and China, India and the rest widening rather
than narrowing and the bloc mired in a "sweet decadence" of "irrelevance for its
citizens and the rest of the world" and "corporate rigidity." Faced with a
demographic time-bomb he is calling for a new "social pact for the 21st
century".

I heard similar views this week from Mario Monti, ex-EU competition
commissioner, member of González's group and proponent of a reformed capitalism
without the glaring inequalities of the past. They are, like Brown, social
democrats searching for a new order that tames the excesses of Anglo-Saxon -
"market forces work best untrammelled" - without lurching into Stalinist
autarky.

Finally, waiting in the wings, is David Cameron and his eurotoxic colleagues who
will, no doubt, be attending EU and other summits in little more than a year
from now. The Conservatives' sole policy on Europe so far is to pull their band
of MEPs, likely to be swollen to around 50 this June, out of the main
centre-right grouping, the EPP. Most of their continental colleagues think it's
a recipe for diminished influence and power; some Tories here think it will
tactically improve their bargaining position. Either way, unless he's
dissembling his real views, Cameron could swiftly unravel the Brown/Turner
process of integration and retreat to Thatcher's "No, No, No" of two decades
ago.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               35 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Brown running on empty

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 169  words


IT was siesta time in the European Parliament yesterday as Gordon Brown
delivered his thoughts on Europe, the world. . . and everything.

One delegate appeared to be dozing as Mr Brown's five-day world tour got off to
a humiliating start.

And in one section of the debating chamber there were large numbers of empty
seats.

"Virtually nobody seems to have turned up to listen to you, " jibed Ukip's Nigel
Farage. Mr Brown was forced to endure a dressing-down over his "British jobs for
British workers" vow.

He told the delegates that it was vital countries did not close their borders to
trade.

Downing Street had hoped the occasion would be a repeat of his well-received
speech in Washington three weeks ago.

But as soon as he sat down French MEP Joseph Daul accused him of hypocrisy for
attacking protectionism while he was preaching nationalism at home.

Mr Daul said: "This is like sticking your fingers into an engine that you do not
understand."

Mr Brown's odyssey will take in New York, Brasilia, Sao Paulo and Santiago.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

THE SPEND;
KING WARNS AGAINST PUMPING MORE CASH INTO ECONOMY

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS IN STRASBOURG AND BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1113 words


THE Bank of England Governor was at odds with Gordon Brown over plans to pump
billions of pounds more into the economy yesterday.

Mervyn King warned ministers to be cautious about further spending because the
national debt was already high.

His words appeared to contradict the Prime Minister, who was at the same time
telling EU leaders to fight the slump with the biggest cash injection ever.

Appearing in Parliament, Mr King said: "Given how big Britain's deficits are, I
think it would be sensible to be cautious about going further in using measures
to expand the size of those deficits.

"The position of the UK is not one which says 'Let's just go on another
significant round of fiscal expansion'." Hundreds of miles away in Strasbourg,
Mr Brown told the EU it was uniquely placed to lead the world out of recession.

In a speech to the European Parliament, he said: "We can together deliver the
biggest fiscal stimulus the world has seen."

A split between Mr Brown and Chancellor Alistair Darling was also rumoured to be
emerging yesterday over a spending boost in next month's Budget.

The PM is said to want a huge spending package while Mr Darling is cautious
about running up debt.

No10 insiders dismissed talk of a rift between the Chancellor and the PM.

But they did little to hide the anger at the Governor's remarks and they made
clear it was little of his business.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "Any further announcement would be for the
Chancellor to make in the Budget."

The spokesman pointed to an article in the International Herald Tribune by
Barack Obama on next week's G20 summit in London, in which the US President
wrote: "Our efforts must begin with swift action to stimulate growth."

Mr Brown's speech came at the start of a global diplomatic offensive to drum up
support ahead of the gathering of world leaders. The PM urged Euro MPs to step
up to the plate and seize the chance.

He said: "Truly the most immediate gift our European and American co-operation
could give is that as a result of the G20 there will be more jobs, more
businesses, more trade as together we meet and master the greatest challenges of
our time."

Mr Brown believes the G20 summit in London can trigger a second wave of action
and stressed that will be "twice as effective if it is adopted by all
countries".

But he also delivered a coded rebuke to the French over efforts to protect their
own workers, warning attempts to "pull up the drawbridge" could end in disaster.

He also angered anti-EU campaigners with the most pro-European speech of his
life, saying he was "proud to be European".

Mr Brown received a standing ovation from the majority of MEPs. But members of
the UK Independence Party waved Union flags and shouted "shame".

THE GREAT INFLATION DIVIDE

0% Rate for fixing pay & pensions at 50yrlow

3.2% But we're all paying more for food & fuel

UP to seven million people face a salary squeeze this year after the main
measure of inflation hit zero per cent - while the cost of living leapt to 3.2
per cent.

The Retail Price Index, which eight out of 10 employers use as a benchmark to
work out wage rises, hit zero for the first time in 49 years.

But an alternative measure - the Consumer Price Index, which measures the price
of groceries in a basket of goods - rose to 3.2 per cent and rocked experts who
expected the cost of living to tumble.

That means pensioners on fixed incomes and workers who will get no wage increase
will lose out in an inflation divide as the cost of living remains stubbornly
high.

With about 2.5 million public sector staff from nurses and midwives to junior
civil servants and prison officers facing wages freezes, unions called on the
Government to bail them out.

Dave Prentis, general secretary of the public sector union Unison, said: "The
human cost of the recession must be spread evenly. The Government has bailed out
the bankers who got us into this mess. They must also make sure working people
are given a helping hand as the worst effects of the recession hit home."

John Philpott, chief economist at the Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development, added: "Almost four million workers in the private sector are
looking at a wage freeze. This will be a spring and summer of pay depression as
rises give way to widespread freezes or pay cuts."

Calling it an "exceptional experience" he added: "When the UK last entered an
annual pay round with zero RPI, Elvis was still in his pomp, Cliff Richard was
hip and The Beatles were unknown." Yesterday's figures from the Office for
National Statistics showed that RPI fell from 0.1 per cent in January to zero
last month mainly due to falling mortgage costs.

With RPI at its lowest since 1960, it has brought the spectre of deflation out
of the shadows. Experts from the Institute for Public Policy Research said
inflation will freefall to minus 3 per cent by September.

That will lead to "stagflation" - a stagnant economy where buyers hang on to
cash as they wait for prices to fall further.

With less money being spent, businesses will struggle to stay alive and the
vicious circle continues. Tony Dolphin, senior economist at the IPPR said: "The
main factor dragging it down is lower mortgage interest payments which fell by
39.9 per cent over the year to February."

The Mirror's own Cost of Living Index revealed on Monday that monthly grocery
bills were up by two per cent due to the high cost of imported fruit and veg
with the pound falling against the euro.

We predicted the leap as our guide, compiled with The Grocer magazine revealed
staples from rice and pasta to cheese and tomatoes all rocketed in price.

With CPI up, Bank of England Governor Mervyn King will write a letter to the
Chancellor explaining why it has gone above the two per cent target.

While the inflation figures are bad news for pensioners, who bear the brunt of
high food and fuel prices, the Government said state pensions will rise by the
RPI figure or 2.5 per cent - whichever is greater. But OAPs will still feel the
pinch as the cost of living at 3.2 per cent is still greater than any rise in
payments.

WINNERS & LOSERS

THE fall in inflation is good for some. The elderly will see state pensions
increase at the start of next month in line with where RPI stood the previous
September - five per cent.

People who have bought gilts will also prosper as they pay a fixed rate of
interest, worth more when the RPI is dropping. But deflation is bad for around
180,000 people with annuities linked to the RPI.

Providers, including Prudential, will cut income with deflation. Savers with
rates linked to RPI also miss out.

The position of the UK is not one which says 'Let's do another round of fiscal
expansion'

MERVYN KING WARNS MPS

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAUTION Bank boss King in London; VOW Brown in Strasbourg yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 1 Star Edition

THE SPEND;
KING WARNS AGAINST PUMPING MORE CASH INTO ECONOMY

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS IN STRASBOURG AND BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 472 words


THE Bank of England Governor was at odds with Gordon Brown over plans to pump
billions of pounds more into the economy yesterday.

Mervyn King warned ministers to be cautious about further spending because the
national debt is already so high.

His words appeared to contradict the Prime Minister, who was at the same time
telling EU leaders to fight the slump with the biggest cash injection ever.

Appearing before a Commons committee, Mr King said: "Given how big Britain's
deficits are, I think it would be sensible to be cautious about going further in
using measures to expand those deficits.

"The position of the UK is not one which says 'Let's just go on another
significant round of fiscal expansion'." Hundreds of miles away in Strasbourg,
Mr Brown told the EU it was uniquely placed to lead the world out of recession.

In a speech to the European Parliament, he said:"We can together deliver the
biggest fiscal stimulus the world has seen."

A split between Mr Brown and Chancellor Alistair Darling was also rumoured to be
emerging yesterday over a spending boost in next month's Budget.

The PM is said to want a huge spending package while Mr Darling is cautious
about running up more debt.

No10 insiders dismissed talk of a rift between the Chancellor and the PM.

But they did little to hide their anger at Mr King's remarks and made clear it
was little of his business.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "Any further announcement would be for the
Chancellor to make in the Budget."

The spokesman pointed to an article in the International Herald Tribune by
Barack Obama on next week's G20 summit in London, in which the US President
wrote: "Our efforts must begin with swift action to stimulate growth." Mr
Brown's speech came at the start of a global diplomatic offensive to drum up
support ahead of the gathering of world leaders. The PM urged EuroMPs to step up
to the plate and seize the chance. He said: "Truly the most immediate gift our
European and American co-operation could give is that as a result of the G20
there will be more jobs, more businesses, more trade as together we meet and
master the greatest challenges of our time."

Mr Brown believes the G20 summit in London can trigger a second wave of action
and stressed that will be "twice as effective if it is adopted by all
countries".

But he also delivered a coded rebuke to the French over efforts to protect their
own workers, warning attempts to "pull up the drawbridge" could end in disaster.

He also angered anti-EU campaigners with the most pro-European speech of his
life, saying he was "proud to be European".

Mr Brown received a standing ovation from the majority of MEPs. But members of
the UK Independence Party waved Union flags and shouted "shame".

The position of the UK is not one which says 'Let's do another round of fiscal
expansion' MERVYN KING YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAUTION Bank boss King in London; VOW Brown in Strasbourg yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Letters - What's wrong with the left?

LENGTH: 118 words


The announcement that a left alliance is to fight the Euro-elections under the
banner No2EU is depressing.

If this group wins, it's apparently not going to take its seats.

Why not take the chance to seek alliances with other European progressives who
are fundamentally critical of the EU and its policies?

Why are leftists fighting on ground set by the BNP and UKIP by pandering to the
growing populist nationalism in our country?

I could support a slate for a socialist Europe, for a progressive, democratic
Europe, but to relaunch the 1975 No referendum campaign is offering nothing to
the left in this country which is crying out for a real international
alternative to vote for.

MICHAEL HINDLEY, Great Harwood.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 612 words


Nul points! Copyright battle with a twist

Sandie Shaw versus the EU: could one ask for a more fantastic feud? Yet it seems
that this one is a reality, after the right-on Sixties singer - lately a
campaigner for musicians' copyrights - found her attempts to lobby the European
Parliament thwarted by Brussels bureaucracy.

"I've never dealt with it before and it isn't easy," she tells me. "I'm
surprised at the lack of accountability. If they were to run a fan club in such
a way they would be out of a job."

Faced with a string of brush-offs from Britain's MEPs, Shaw has turned to her
website, taking the unusual step of rating members' performances. While the
Greens' Caroline Lucas gets "First Prize for Best Response" and the Tories'
Daniel Hannan a "gold star" for efficiency, the independent candidate Ashley
Mote - who left UKIP after his conviction for benefit fraud - is granted a
measly nul points.

"Perhaps [he] is so inundated with fan mail that he finds it difficult to keep
up," Shaw speculates.

A charming lookalike

PANDORA wouldn't be the first to remark on Danny Boyle's eerie similarity to
Morrissey. Apparently, the Slumdog Millionaire director gets mistaken for the
singer all the time.

"People have often thought that I'm actually him," he tells me. "It doesn't tend
to happen so much these days but it used to be all the time. To be honest, I'm
very flattered by it."

Naturally. Who wouldn't want to resemble a preternaturally irritable Mancunian
crooner?

A dinner date with the Duchess

Following last week's reports that Kate Moss had auctioned off a kiss for the
not-to-be-sneezed-at sum of £5,000 (all in the name of charity, apparently),
further news of celebrity love-for-money.

Sarah, the Duchess of York, offered bidders a dinner date as part of last
night's Lighthouse gala auction at Christie's in St James. All funds raised will
go straight to the HIV/Aids charity, the Terrence Higgins Trust.

While the word is still out on whether Fergie managed to trump Moss in the
profitable pulling power stakes, early predictions were of a close-run contest.
I'm told that the minimum expected bid for the Duchess's lot fell somewhere in
the vicinity of £3,000.

Detention time for Norris and Hughes

OH, TO have been a fly on the classroom wall at the Harris Academy this weekend.
The school in Peckham, south-east London, played host to a round of the Jack
Petchey Speak Out Challenge - a public-speaking competition for year 10
students.

Among the distinguished figures invited to judge were two former mayoral
candidates, the Tories' Steven Norris and the Liberal Democrats' Simon Hughes.
After the pupils had done their bit, Norris, pictured, and Hughes were invited
to deliberate in the privacy of a nearby classroom. Once they had come to their
conclusion, however, I'm told they were unable to find their way out.

"They were given security passes to get around the building," explains one
Harris teacher. "Unfortunately, their passes had expired, so they were stuck in
there, hammering on the door. No one else could get to them because they didn't
have the correct pass. In the end, we had to call the premises officer to rescue
them."

Old rivals reunited

ALASTAIR CAMPBELL'S guest editorship of the New Statesman has certainly livened
things up. Included was a piece by James Macintyre, branding David Cameron a
"hollow-gram". Not surprisingly, it hasn't been met with universal agreement,
with the Spectator's Fraser Nelson quickly penning a fierce rebuttal. Since
then, the pair have been locked in a ferocious blogosphere battle. Now the
Fabian Society's Sunder Katwala is arranging a public debate for them to have it
out in person.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday

VOTERS WILL DESERT TORIES IF WE BACK 45P TAX, TEBBIT WARNS CAMERON

LENGTH: 533 words


SIMON WALTERS

DAVID CAMERON'S decision to back Gordon Brown's plan to make the well-off pay
more income tax could cost the Tories many votes at the next Election, Norman
Tebbit warned last night.

The ex-Cabinet Minister led a Tory backlash against party leader Mr Cameron's
clear signal that he is unlikely to reverse Labour's proposal to raise the top
rate of tax to 45p in the pound on earnings over £150,000 a year.

'The Tories have to ask themselves this question: who is going to be enthused to
vote for them by promises of higher taxation?' Lord Tebbit told The Mail on
Sunday. He said cutting public spending was a far better way to mend the economy
than putting taxes up.

The Cameron-Brown pact on tax would drive Labour supporters to vote for the BNP
and could lead some Tories to vote for the anti-EU UKIP party ñ though Lord
Tebbit stressed he would not do so himself.

'Like any family that gets into debt, the only way to put things right is to get
a firm grip on expenditure,' he said. 'The Conservatives and Labour seem to be
saying that the easier option for them both is to put up taxes rather than risk
upsetting some of the public-sector clients who live on the taxpayers' back.'

Shadow Chancellor George Osborne confirmed that the Tories would probably stick
with Labour's plan to raise the top rate of tax from 40p to 45p for salaries
over £150,000.

'I have never ruled out tax rises since the day I took on this job,' Mr Osborne
said. 'That looks like a pretty sensible thing for me to have done.

'If you look at the proposal to increase the top rate for people earning over
£150,000 to 45p, that is going to be difficult to avoid ñ I think it is just a
statement of the truth.'

He said the Tories' previous pledge to offer a combination of lower taxes and
lower publicspending cuts had been overtaken by the recession. 'There is no
growth and we have a contracting economy,' he added. Lord Tebbit's criticism was
echoed by Tim Montgomery, who runs the influential Tory grass-roots website
ConservativeHome.

Amid reports that Tory Rightwingers may demand that Mr Osborne is sacked, Mr
Montgomery said: 'It is very disappointing to hear him close to surrender on the
45p tax band at the same time as being so cautious on public spending.

'We are told by the Tory leadership that it's too early to say what a
Conservative government will do on public spending but it's not ñ apparently ñ
too early to say we'll accept increases in taxation.

'That inconsistency betrays the party leadership's instinct to keep both public
spending and taxes at Labour's relatively high levels.

'We have consistently given George Osborne the benefit of the doubt but today is
worrying. He needs to get a grip of the debt crisis ñ but he must realise that
it is fundamentally a crisis of excessive and wasteful public spending.'

However, Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne received the key support of leading
Right-winger John Redwood, known as a powerful advocate of tax cuts.

Mr Redwood claimed the 45p tax rate was a 'cynical ploy' by Labour. 'They want
to portray us as tax cutters and people who look after the rich and David and
George are right not to fall for such stupid political games,' he told The Mail
on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 22, 2009
                                   Edition 1

MEP awaits fraud decision;
NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 74 words


A British MEP, Tom Wise, will hear this week whether he will face fraud charges.

Wise, who formerly represented the UK Independence party and now sits in the
European parliament as an independent, is to answer bail on Friday.

He was arrested in June after The Sunday Times revealed that he had allegedly
siphoned off nearly £40,000 of taxpayers' money by claiming it was being paid to
a researcher.

He is unlikely to stand for re-election in June..

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 22, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Postman Patriot forced out of job

BYLINE: By David Jarvis

SECTION: NEWS; 9

LENGTH: 654  words


THE patriotic Asian postmaster who banned non-English-speaking customers from
his post office was forced out of his job yesterday.

Sri Lankan-born Deva Kumarasiri was transferred to a new job at another sub-post
office in a predominantly white area after arriving at work to find himself
locked out.

The move follows widespread complaints about his controversial ban from local
Muslims, customers and the owner of the shop where the sub-post office
concession is based.

Mr Kumarasiri, who moved to Britain 18 years ago, introduced the ban because he
believes all immigrants in Britain should learn to speak English and take pride
in their new homeland.

His stand triggered applause as well as anger, with many locals in Nottingham
supporting his view. He said yesterday: "The owner of the shop in Sneinton
Boulevard is very, very angry and the local Muslims began a petition to get rid
of me.

"Due to that, my head office has transferred me to another post office.

"But I'm not backing down. It's only a few people who have forced me out. It is
the owner of the shop and the Muslim community.

"It is not the people out there.

They support me."

Mr Kumarasiri added: "I had more than 300 customers at Sneinton Boulevard and
got on great with everyone.

"Most of the Muslims living locally were lovely people but a few radicalised
individuals went round forcing people to sign a petition to get me out.

"I know this because a friend of mine went in the mosque for me and found out
what was going on."

A Post Office spokesman stressed yesterday that it has not been responsible for
Mr Kumarasiri's removal because he is employed by a company called Newrose
Personnel, which is contracted by the Post Office to run sub-post offices.

The branch where Mr Kumarasiri worked is inside a shop run by Rizwan Raja, who
said yesterday that he had demanded that Newrose Personnel transfer Mr
Kumarasiri.

Newrose Personnel was unavailable for comment but Mr Raja said: "I told the
agency I do not want him working here. We have been trying to build up the
business.

"It does not matter about race or language. If we can help people, we will."

Yesterday Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It is a
shame when someone like this takes a stand and pays such a heavy price,
particularly when he is the face of the multi-cultural Britain we all embrace."

Conservative MP Ann Widdicombe added: "I cannot condone this man's actions but
his sentiments will be widely understood by many."

Married Mr Kumarasiri has taught his children aged eight and 10 all the words of
the national anthem and insists he is speaking for the majority and has been
forced out by a minority.

He said will continue his ban at his new branch in the Netherfield area of
Nottingham, though it is likely to have little impact in the predominantly white
area.

He said he has been inundated with cards and messages of support and hopes to
return to the post office where he has worked for eight months because he is
fond of his regular customers.

Mr Kumarasiri added: "I don't expect everyone to agree with me. It was
inevitable that those who don't want to be fully integrated into this country
would do something like this. For me, it proves that there are elements out
there who have no intention of ever being integrated."

"We have to show the radicals that this is our country and our way of life.

"I want the whole country to follow my example."

Mr Kumarasiri has also been thrown out of the Liberal Democrat party, which he
represented as a councillor in his local Gedling borough.

Local Liberal Democrat leader Tony Gillam said Mr Kumarasiri's opinions meant he
could no longer be a member of the party.

He said: "Deva is not a Liberal Democrat councillor.

"The views expressed go well beyond what we can accommodate."

Mr Gillam added that it had not been necessary to officially expel Mr Kumarasiri
from the party, claiming that he had not paid any subscriptions for 18 months.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAKING A STAND: Deva Kumarasiri outside his old post office

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 18, 2009

It's the Grumpy Old Men party

LENGTH: 1153 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael White: When it comes to cracking the duopoly of British
politics, I'm afraid the BNP has a better chance than the Jury Team


So Sir Paul Judge and other high-minded citizens are keen to see a new party,
untainted by past failure, break into Westminster politics and shake things up a
bit. Admirable, but may I draw attention to the party most likely to do so at
present. It isn't theirs, and they may not like it.

I had an email from Judge the other day, inviting me for a coffee or drink so
that he could explain why I was wrong to dismiss the prospect of success for his
new political project, the Jury Team. It is planning to field candidates across
the country in the European elections on 4 June, though not to fight local
elections - which are confined to England this year and relatively few in
number. But watch out next year, Gordon Brown! The Jury Team is coming!

It was a friendly email, but I rebuffed it. Why? As I explained, the former
chief executive of the Conservative party during the Major era is unlikely to
change my mind. And I am certainly unlikely to change his because he's obviously
thought about the need for a new political force of independent, patriotic
people who will put the national interest before selfish, partisan concerns.

Let's meet after those 4 June elections so we can discuss the first public
evidence that either he's right or I'm right, I suggested. Gent that he seems to
be, Judge agreed, though I read in the Guardian Diary that he omitted to notify
Peter Luff, the Tory MP for Worcester, of his plans, despite being president of
Luff's local Tory association. Not very New Politics, I'd say.

Never mind. Sir Paul has received some encouragement from the columnar classes -
folk like Andreas Whittam Smith - the chief founder of the Independent.
Parliament is not working properly ( I agree) and is "incapable of reforming
itself" asserts AWS. The old vested interests must be swept away.

How can this be done? Via the instant communication joys of digital technology,
explain Sir Paul and Sir Andreas. Using its website they are setting up a
"nationally coordinated process to select candidates using mobile phone
technology." (Duh?) "Countless talented people" are willing to put themselves up
if they thought they might win. "One mobile, one vote" declares ex-MP Martin
Bell, whose successful stand as an independent against Neil Hamilton in Tatton
was one of the highlights of the 1997 campaign.

Bell, a distinguished former BBC correspondent whom I have known for many years,
is another good chap. I do not mind that he called me a "Jurassic defender of
the status quo" on Cif the other day. He misunderstands my critique of the Jury
Team project, but never mind. Martin is a trained journalist, keen to bend other
people's views into the reassuring template of his own opinions, careless of
what they actually say.

My complaint is not that many of the Judge-and-Jury Team's criticisms are
invalid. Far from it: many are very familiar and truer than I would wish. It's
the prognosis, not the diagnosis, that troubles me. If, for example, reform of
party funding was easy - as Sir Paul seems to think - it would have been
achieved by now. All party leaders hate the pain and embarrassment it routinely
causes.

Yesterday a smart 250-page paperback landed on my desk and only served to deepen
my gloom. Modestly entitled The End of the Party, it set out what's wrong with
British politics - from alienation to falling turnout and funding problems. It
is thus not encouraging to see my old friend, Peter Oborne of the Daily Mail,
getting five indexed references. Peter has the quaint notion that we are
witnessing what one of his books calls "The Triumph of the Political Class",
whereas we are actually seeing it run ragged by the media and a disengaged (not
the same as alienated) electorate. In his haste ex-stockbroker Pete forgot to
write a book about the triumph of the banking classes, the ones who got away
with the loot. Never mind: the point serves to reinforce my suspicion that the
Jury Team is a Grumpy Old Men party (mostly grumpy old Tory men, I suspect -
though not you, Martin dear).

Peter's idea is dripping wet behind both ears. Well within living memory, the
SDP tried to "break the mould" of two-party politics by enlisting decent,
high-minded and disinterested people. If it couldn't crack the Thatcher-Michael
Foot duopoly in the dire year that was 1983 we can all assume it's difficult.
Plenty of others have tried, from Arthur Scargill and the charismatic Tommy
Sheridan in Scotland on the left, to assorted "British Democrat" parties on the
right. Plus Ukip and the BNP.

At least the SDP grasped that if you want to break moulds you have to embrace
proportional representation for Westminster elections. The Jury Team fails to
address it - to the astonishment of some Tory MPs to whom I've talked. Myself, I
think that the capacity for effective decision-taking is more important than
meticulous fairness in electing a government and that PR generally delivers weak
government (witness Israel and Italy). But the fact is that Britain has let PR
into some of its elections, all for tactical and sensible reasons like ensuring
that rural Welsh people and Irish Catholics have a say in divided communities.
The European elections are also PR elections, run on what is called a " closed
party list" system that I - and many others - denounced at the time because it
gives too much power to party machines, too little to voters.

Here's where I deliver on the promise at the start of this article. As everyone
knows PR allows small parties like the Greens to get seats in Strasbourg,
Cardiff Bay or Holyrood (being Green in Belfast means something else), along
with the Lib Dems. But, as we saw in 2004, it also let in a chunk of Ukip MEPs.
If Ukip, sullied by its experience of office, is fading as a party of protest,
who will take its place among angry or frightened voters who want to stage a
protest against the established parties?

Not a bunch of well-scrubbed and high-minded middle class militants with a
smattering of knighthoods, I suspect. No, politicians I talk to lower their
voices and say it's the BNP that the system should be worrying about on 4 June,
not Judge. "Will Nick Griffin [the BNP leader] really win a seat?" I ask. One
seat? Tapping into understandable voter resentment in these frightening times,
they could win four or five, comes the reply from more alarmed MPs.

With such success the BNP will get access to EU funds - perhaps £250,000 a year
on some estimates - to spend on publicity and campaigning. When Jean-Marie Le
Pen, the leader of the French National Front, made a similar breakthrough, he
made the run-off for president thanks to a feeble incumbent and self-indulgent
splits on the left. The lefties ended up having to vote for Jacques Chirac and
hated it.

Perhaps a BNP success would provide the shot in the arm that the mainstream
political system needs to reform itself. Either way, it would make Judge's
drawing room maneouvres look a bit marginal.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               44 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 17, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Booze move is sunk

BYLINE: by EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 117 words


DAILY Star readers last night raised a glass to news that bringing in a minimum
price for alcohol could be illegal.

It comes after the Chief Medical Officer called for a minimum limit of 50p per
unit of alcohol to tackle binge drinking.

Critics have slammed the proposals because they would send drink prices soaring,
penalising sensible drinkers.

But the United Kingdom Independence Party says adopting a proposed minimum price
would be illegal under European law.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "This would be an unlawful restriction on trade.

It's simply not in the power of the UK Government to do such a thing."

PM Gordon Brown has already spoken out against the idea of increasing the price
of alcohol.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHEERS: A drinker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 17, 2009 Tuesday

Feature - An alternative to the bosses' crisis

LENGTH: 336 words


"A massive campaign for the People's Charter and the right to decent work is
crucial in the battle of ideas against big-business capitalism," Communist Party
of Britain chairwoman Anita Halpin told the party's executive committee at the
weekend.

"Here is the alternative to the bosses' crisis and mass unemployment as the
bankers queue up for £1,200 billion of public funds without fear of prosecution
for benefit fraud."

Ms Halpin also welcomed the prospect of a "No to EU - Yes to Democracy"
electoral platform in the European elections set for June 4.

"A trade union and left-led broad alliance against EU neoliberal, pro-monopoly
policies will provide a clear working-class alternative to the BNP fascists,
UKIP and the pro-EU parties," she insisted.

Echoing TUC criticism of Gordon Brown's slogan "British jobs for British
workers" which, Ms Halpin pointed out, "has come back to haunt him," she
welcomed trade union efforts to prevent the recent wave of strikes at power
stations being hijacked by the extreme right.

A member of the TUC general council herself, Ms Halpin also condemned EU court
rulings and directives together with new Labour policies for further eroding
workers' rights and promoting privatisation of Royal Mail.

The CPB executive unanimously endorsed full participation in the Euro election
platform and decided to launch a £15,000 appeal towards campaign costs.

It also expressed its solidarity with students occupying colleges in Britain
against their collaboration with the Israeli war machine.

And, reporting from the Women's TUC conference, Ms Halpin paid tribute to the
role of Women Against Pit Closures in the great miners' strike of 1984-5 and, as
the present government continues to dilute its Single Equalities Bill,
emphasised the importance of fighting for the Charter for Women.

The CPB executive committee urged mass support for the TUC-backed March 28
demonstration in London against the G20 summit and for the Stop the War
Coalition's "alternative summit" in central London on April 1.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 12, 2009

David Cameron and the EU - when in a hole, stop digging

LENGTH: 726 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael White is always telling people the Tory leader is not stupid
- so why is Cameron cutting himself off from respectable EU allies?


I'm always telling audiences that David Cameron is a bright young man with
prospects, who never says anything stupid. So naturally I'm puzzled this morning
about William Hague's trip to Brussels.

I had assumed that Cameron's threat to take the Tories out of the European
People's party (EPP) at the Strasbourg parliament was just a bit of red meat
thrown to his party's intransigent core vote - to keep the troops happy while he
set about making them electable.

Yet, as Ian Traynor reports today, last night party officials announced that the
shadow foreign secretary had been sent to the capital of what Mrs T used to call
"the Belgian empire" to inform EPP chiefs that, yes, Dave, intends to set up his
own Euro-partyette, just like he said.

Hague, cleverer than Cameron but not so emotionally intelligent, was always a
conviction Eurosceptic. Fat lot of good it did him with his daft "save the
pound" campaign in 2001. Little did he - or anyone else - know the pound was
being quietly rogered behind the White Cliffs of Dover, in the City, not in
Brussels.

Yet the word was that when Hague was dispatched around EU capitals to drum up
support for a less federalist conservative grouping he didn't get much support -
except from fringe headbangers and the Czechs ("a faraway country") - and was
looking for a way out. That's what pro-EU Tory MPs assured me.

It's true that Cameron is a "Thatcher's child" Tory who believes the
hair-raising narrative of the later Maggie years whereby she was cheated into
signing the Single European Act of 1986 that created the single market. She was
doubtless also told the Channel tunnel would link up with Washington, not
Calais, I expect.

But rhetoric designed to buy time while Dave negotiates the centre ground is one
thing. Actually cutting oneself off from the largest Strasbourg group - 37% of
MEPs belong to the EPP, including the parties of Merkel, Sarkozy and Berlusconi
- strikes me as, well, seriously stupid.

It's not that I admire the EPP or its works. It's not that I think the EU has
had a very good recession so far; too smug about it being an Anglo-Saxon banking
crisis, still too cautious about digging the eurozone's way out of trouble. It's
not that I'd have voted yes to Billy Hague's nightmare: the euro. Not for us
anyway.

It's just a matter of practical politics, just like my boring warning earlier
this week that Sir Paul Judge is wasting his time and money promoting the Jury
Team as the new Tooth Fairy political party. Worse, he's wasting other people's
time and idealism.

What's more, Declan Ganley, the man who blocked Ireland's adhesion to the Lisbon
treaty, has since set up another new party designed to save us from ourselves.
When I heard Ganley's delightfully muddled blarney in London last year I decided
that's what he'd do next, silly chap.

It won't be easy for Libertas either, not least because - as the Guardian's
diarist, Hugh Muir, was quick to point out - the name Libertas was registered
with the Electoral Commission last year by friends of Ukip whose loathing of all
things European except the salaries and expenses is more coherent than Ganley's:
he keeps saying he's pro-European, but, Judge-like, wants an EU run by nicer
people than have yet evolved.

Cameron's move would cut an incoming Tory government off from the dominant
political network in Europe at a time - say next June - when he and it will both
need each other to keep digging out of recession without falling into a serious,
avoidable slump.

Posh boy that he is, it will also be socially distressing. Dave will find
himself drinking strong lagers in the corner of the Strasbourg bar with types
whom Etonians would regard as oiks, men with bright red faces, even brighter
than Dave's own, and loud voices.

By comparison with some of them, the chap who carried Hague's bag on the
Eurostar this week, Mark Francois, the Tory MP for Rayleigh, Europe spokesman,
and one of no fewer than 32 members of the shadow cabinet, will sound positively
polished.

We know that Cameron has been preoccupied with private grief lately and it might
be kind to blame the mistake on that. Whatever you may think of Europe, it's the
only Europe we've got - and it isn't all-powerful, it's about to show - yet
again - that it's actually rather too feeble.

Oh dear, Dave, this move isn't clever and it isn't wise. When in hole, stop
digging.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               47 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 11, 2009 Wednesday

DEATH NOTICES ARE SOMEWHAT EXAGGERATED ...

BYLINE: by ANDREW ALEXANDER

LENGTH: 823 words


WE ARE witnessing the death of capitalism, according to various excitable
commentators, some alarmed and some drooling at the prospect. Neither need get
worked up. Capitalism will survive.

And it will do so because it is natural -- not, as some claim, an alien system
imposed on gullible people. If you have doubts, you only need imagine a
shipwreck leaving a sizeable number on a tropical island.

There are basically two choices in the way they organise their new life. In the
first, they trade goods and services. In return for a fish, one survivor may
offer so many coconuts. If you will thatch my hut, says another, I will provide
you with so many cooked meals.

If you want to grow vegetables in my sunny backyard, you must lend me your raft.
Salt might be offered in return for fish hooks. Barter being laborious, they
might well try to devise a currency. Perhaps it would be the simple coconut or
perhaps an IOU for coconuts (a paper currency would be born).

will no doubt seize on our hypothetical little economy, to point out that modern
rules would apply. An exceptional abundance of coconuts would lead to their fall
in trading value.

What the Bank of England's economists would call the broad coconut supply (M4)
would need to be steady to avoid inflation. The difference between trading and
the grand thing we call capitalism is a very narrow one, largely a matter of
communications.

Capitalism developed not just naturally but inevitably in Britain once it was
easy to move money and products around.

A few centuries ago, shifting money -- mostly coin -- involved horse- drawn
vehicles travelling slowly over poor and dangerous roads. The movement of
products was also slow and laborious.

Then we progressed to paper money, cheques and finally the transfer of money in
seconds. Capitalism developed along the way because savers could lend to
borrowers; and groups of savers could led to groups of borrowers -- companies.
The modern world was born.

But our castaways could opt for a different system. They could choose to leave
all economic organisation to an individual leader.

It would of course be a throwback to a Neanderthal system -- the tribe and the
tribal ruler. Ug would be instructed to hunt, Og to gather fruit, Mrs Ug to cook
and so on down the line.

Centralised power was not only economically inefficient, it was also unstable
because the chief's position would be coveted. He would probably be replaced by
Og (or Ug). Instead of our admired system for leadership contests, a blow from a
club would decide the succession.

The primitive urge for the direction and regulation of all economic activity,
what the economists call statism, is of course the basis of socialism. The
system in its highest form flourished in such countries as the Soviet Union and
Communist China.

There, the means of 'production, distribution and exchange' -- I quote from
Labour's stone age Clause Four -- were owned and thus controlled by the
government. Labour finally dropped that in the 1990s.

Do not worry too much about capitalism. It will survive because it is natural.
It will continue, even if they call it something else.

A PROMINENT capitalist, as it happens, is starting a campaign, indeed a new
political party, to tackle the failures of our current democracy. The estimable
Sir Paul Judge was director general of the Tory Party for five years under John
Major.

Watching the candidate selection process at first hand has clearly left its mark
on him. He wants to utilise the internet so that local voters can choose
interesting non-party, independent candidates with appealing agendas.

It is also assumed that since the applicants' ethical credentials would be
scrutinised, this would curb sleaze. But that misses the sad point that becoming
an MP is what actually corrupts many arrivals at Westminster.

The high intentions of the Judge plan are admirable, even if a nonparty party is
rather reminiscent of GK Chesterton's The Anarchist Central Council. But there
is the problem of practicality.

If the 'party' got going, it would produce a stream of local one-issue
candidates. They would campaign against airport runways, perhaps for a local
bypass, maybe against some barbarian plan for wind turbines.

the new party organisers hope for much broader issues being backed, suggesting
the environment, international development or human rights.

But we already have the Greens. International development would have people
muttering 'what about ours'. On the issue of Europe, we already have the UK
Independence Party, UKIP.

As for the human rights issue, a candidate elected on that platform -- not very
likely -- might make a good show in Parliament when the issue arose. But it
could only be just that, a show earning a few lines in the Press.

I love independently minded MPs; the more rebellious the better. But to change
the law or resist a change needs not one voice but hundreds of MPs and must be
well organised too. Yes, alas, a party machine.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 11, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Darling's big bail-out plan - for Europe

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 317  words


ALISTAIR Darling sparked outrage yesterday by calling for British taxpayers to
bail out failing economies in Eastern Europe.

The Chancellor suggested that billions of pounds from Treasury funds should be
poured into supporting recession-hit former Eastern bloc nations.

"This is a time for Europe to build on shared values of co-operation, " he said.

But last night, opponents warned that soaring debt had left the Government
already struggling to help millions facing unemployment and home repossession in
Britain.

The warning came as an opinion poll showed that eight out of 10 voters in
Britain fear taxes will have to rise to pay for the money already poured into
the economy by the Government.

Mr Darling's comments were made at a meeting in Brussels as he pressed other EU
finance ministers to agree extra cash for Eastern Europe.

In a BBC interview, he said: "We must, must, must act together. Our well-being,
our wealth as a country, depends on the health of Europe, it depends on the
health of the emerging countries in South America and India and China and so
on."

And he pointed out that central and eastern European economies were facing a
funding gap of around GBP 70billion, according to the International Monetary
Fund.

But the suggestion that British taxpayers should dig deep to help former
communist states provoked anger among critics of the EU yesterday.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Alistair Darling is
proposing that after we've shelled out the billions to rescue our own banks and
industries, we should now offer a blank cheque to the rest of the world."

And Stephen Booth, of the Eurosceptic think tank Open Europe, said: "While Mr
Darling's desire to bail out struggling member states is noble, taxpayers will
be outraged to hear that the Government is planning to spend even more of their
money at a time when everyone is struggling to cope with the recession."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 11, 2009 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Libertas, Veritas - the name hardly matters. Just
remember, they all hate Brussels

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 705 words


Having engineered the Irish "No" vote against the Lisbon treaty, the businessman
Declan Ganley seeks a wider platform for his anti Brussels initiative. Launching
Libertas as a party in the UK yesterday, he said it will run candidates in the
European Parliament elections on June 4, as well as contesting the ballot in
countries across the EU. He's a big man. These are big plans. But it may not be
that straightforward, for a glance at the Electoral Commission's website will
tell him that the name Libertas UK was registered here last December. The woman
responsible is Bridget Rowe, the former editor of the Sunday Mirror. One of her
mates is Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip. Mr Farage and Mr Ganley do not get
on. You get the drift. If Ganley searches further, he will find that the name
has also been registered in the Czech Republic, this time by Vladimir Zelezny.
He is part of the Independence and Democracy group at the European Parliament,
as is Ukip. Zelezny and Farage are not unfamiliar. Shortly after the launch,
Ganley's party was registered as New Dawn for Europe: Libertas.eu, but it could
all be a bit confusing come the June elections. Maybe they should change it.
Kilroy Silk tried Veritas to no avail. Civitas is gone, snaffled by a thinktank.
Backwards would be Satrebil. Just helping.

Problems aplenty for Heston Blumenthal. Four hundred diners are said to have
fallen ill after eating at his restaurant, The Fat Duck. Zipper problems,
financial worries, hit Gordon Ramsay. Worrall Thompson has restaurants in
administration. Who'd be a celebrity chef? But then they are good but they are
not Lord Tebbit (pictured), who tells us that his latest work, to be published
this summer, is a cookery book listing recipes for game. Delicacies,
hard-boiled. Can't wait.

After a period of lackadaisical inquiry, we hear at last from the Royal British
Legion as to how one of our loyal band of readers acquired a poppy from them by
text, only to receive a call back four months later from a lady who thanked him
for his selflessness and then tried to flog him cheap energy. "The Legion has
not sold or given away any data," a statement tells us. "A telephone fundraiser
or fundraisers, having received positive interest in the Poppy Appeal from
members of the public then raised questions about unrelated services. The Legion
received a handful of complaints about this practice. As soon as the complaints
were received, the matter was looked into and the practice was put to a stop."
We think this means something. There may even be an explanation in there. We are
trying to find out. Stay close.

So Wormwood Scrubs is now listed but there is disappointing news about the
Colony Room Club in Soho's Dean Street, which is officially not part of our
heritage. An application to "list" the club, one time home-from-home to Francis
Bacon, Lucian Freud, George Melly, Jeffrey Bernard and many other creative
types, has been turned down by culture minister Barbara Follett on the advice of
an English Heritage inspector. Despite noting that Muriel Belcher, the original
owner, "deliberately nurtured an ambience suited to artists, Bohemians, gays and
all those on the fringes of 1950s society", the inspector sadly concludes that,
once the pictures and bric-a-brac are taken away, all that was left was "a
sparse room with a functional bar counter". As opposed to a magical underground
grotto. They make up the rules as they go along.

Finally, though we have long learned to cherish the notion of the academic as
media tart - yes, you David Starkey - the vast majority prefer to keep their own
counsel. They worry about being overexposed, trivialised. Some, according to
Sally Feldman, of the University of Westminster and a former editor of Woman's
Hour, can't deal with the adulation. "I once did my usual show of gushing,
telling an especially shy professor how marvellous she had been," she told Times
Higher Education, recalling days at the BBC. "She was so overcome with the
unexpected appreciation that when asked about payment, she pulled out her
chequebook and said: "How much do you charge?" You see, there is Starkey and
then there are others and we must protect them. Academia is another world.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 7, 2009 Saturday

CLEMENT CRABBE

BYLINE: MORE FROM OUR COLUMNIST, THE SCABROUS CLEMENT CRABBE, OF THE ROCKPOOLS
REGISTER, WHO TAKES A WRY, WHIMSICAL LOOK AT A WORLD INCREASINGLY BEYOND PARODY

LENGTH: 1259 words


PROFESSOR Vernon 'Boggy' Bogdanor composed a thoughtful 600 words of rhubarb
this week for Another Newspaper. The article argued for a Lib-Lab pact. Please
contain your mirth. It might be Boggy's only hope of a Life Peerage. He
certainly won't become Baron Boggy if his former pupil David Cameron makes it to
PM.

Boggy, familiar to the British public for his basket weave hairdo, is Oxford's
Professor of Government. This is a grandiose title for what we once called a
political scientist or, to use the technical term, 'psephology nerd with high
opinion of himself'.

Does Oxford University really need to offer 'government studies' to its
undergraduates? Given what that twerp Ed Balls has done to our schools,
universities might do better to concentrate on the three Rs.

Half the leavers this year at Rockpools Comp (head prefect: Neanderthal Norm)
can barely read.

They have had to be given an adolescent edition of Topsy And Tim to get them
interested in the literacy course. In the story, Tim has become a spliff-sucking
biker and Topsy wears slingback shoes, miniskirt and has a bun in the oven. It's
a great improvement on the usual Topsy And Tim stories.

Anyway, back to Boggy's newspaper article about a Lib-Lab pact. Being Boggy, he
filled it with long words -- 'hegemony' twice, 'parthenogenesis', etc.

This slightly threw liberal political hostess Lady Taupe. She read the article
several times, start to finish, while reclining in the hyacinth-scented salon of
her Holland Park mansion (next to Antonia Pinter).

She kept coming across 'hegemony', but was uncertain what it meant. The native
houseboy clearing away the tea tray was unable to help and Lady Taupe's friend
Minty Glynte was little more use. 'Hegemonies, dear? Aren't they a type of
flower? My cousin Margot has a daughter called Hegemony. She goes to Glastonbury
every year.'

DINERS at Chef Heston's Fat Duck restaurant in Bray were not the only ones
feeling a touch green and bilious this week, mind you.

Crabbe twice nearly lost his lunch owing to the Schama bug. This is an illness
which strikes anyone overexposed to publicity for that wobble-headed nanny goat
Simon Schama.

First, there was a trailer for some radio programme Schama had made about
baseball (zzzzzzz). It seemed to consist of the presenter saying 'wa-hey' and
eating a hotdog which, being composed of reconstituted gristle served up via a
plastic tube, was not entirely unlike one of his TV programmes.

Then we were exposed to printed photographs of Schama in a kitchen, making
cheese souffle. He had rolled up his sleeves for the task and this betrayed the
fact that he wears -- ugh -- one of those silly leather bracelets fashionable
among certain types of metropolitan. Grown men in bracelets. Are there four
words that more swiftly encapsulate the demise of Western hegemony?

HAVING heard of the honorary knighthood for Senator Edward Kennedy, Right-wing
polemicist Dr Jonathan Furey decided to end it all. Kennedy! A knight? What for?
Services to the Scotch whisky industry?

Dr Furey, self-proclaimed keeper of the Thatcherite flame, was plunged into such
a black depression by this supine surrender to the Irish republican lobby that
he bashed the number of a Zurich suicide clinic into his electric telephone.

Brrr brrr. Brrr brrr. Then a click and the sound of an answering machine message
which played Chopin's Marche Funebre while the voice of some guttural Switzer
explained which credit cards the clinic accepted. Furey slammed down the
receiver with a Johnsonian 'gadzoocks' and kicked his charwoman. Hard.

The Zurich avenue to self-destruction being blocked, Furey took a deep breath
and has now booked himself into dinner at The Fat Duck restaurant, Bray. A
loaded oyster and a thimble of Heston Blumenthal's snail custard. That should
bring down the shutters once and for all.

PUBLIC relations schemer Becca Burnish has a new wheeze. It's called the
'special envoy gambit' and works two ways. In the first instance, you have a
client (eg a former Prime Minister) who wants to make everyone think he is still
important.

He has therefore appointed various figures to be his 'special envoys' to
troubled regions. This gives the impression that he is active rather than
slobbing around at home, watching the BBC News channel while working his way
through a family-size box of Maltesers.

The gambit also works for the minor figures who are selected as these 'special
envoys'. It makes them sound as though they care. As though they have enough
money to be able to volunteer for something. As though they are intelligent
enough to comprehend a diplomatic problem. Whereas really all they are after is
some cheap publicity.

THERE is surprise and anguish that several of the credit-crunched banks are also
sponsors of big sporting events. Might the two not be connected?

Executives at public companies who sponsor international sporting fixtures
usually do so because they fancy a few free tickets. Being more interested in
themselves, they were never likely to be great at looking after customers'
interests.

Companies that truly want to promote their wares would do better to sponsor
small, local events such as county cricket festivals and pointtopoints. But
national-level, televised sport is a pointless commercial exercise. There is far
too much of it and viewers no longer take in the name of sponsoring firms.
Crabbe is right about this, rest assured.

HAVING heard of the honorary knighthood for Senator Edward Kennedy, Right-wing
polemicist Dr Jonathan Furey decided to end it all. Kennedy! A knight? What for?
Services to the Scotch whisky industry?

Dr Furey, self-proclaimed keeper of the Thatcherite flame, was plunged into such
a black depression by this supine surrender to the Irish republican lobby that
he bashed the number of a Zurich suicide clinic into his electric telephone.

Brrr brrr. Brrr brrr. Then a click and the sound of an answering machine message
which played Chopin's Marche Funebre while the voice of some guttural Switzer
explained which credit cards the clinic accepted. Furey slammed down the
receiver with a Johnsonian 'gadzoocks' and kicked his charwoman. Hard.

The Zurich avenue to self-destruction being blocked, Furey took a deep breath
and has now booked himself into dinner at The Fat Duck restaurant, Bray. A
loaded oyster and a thimble of Heston Blumenthal's snail custard. That should
bring down the shutters once and for all.

AT THE FAT DUCK

Customer: A sick bowl for two, please.

Waiter: By the garden, monsieur? Customer: We'd prefer it near the lavatories,
please. Waiter: D'accord. Chef 'Eston vous souhaite. Vous prenez une
amuse-gueule? Customer: Righto. What is it? Waiter: Canape 'Milk of Magnesia',
monsieur.

Le Menu Crudites (incl. diced carrot) Du poison Pasta best Barff Wellington
Creme fraiche.

Ou peut-etre pas si fraiche Les boissons Chateau Steepe-Markup 1976 (if the grub
hasn't made you heave, the price of this claret will) Andrews Liver Salts

POLITICAL MIX-UP

QUESTIONS were asked this week about the future of UKIP, the Eurosceptic
political party. Can it survive? Or is it about to go down the plughole like an
honest publican's ullage? One reason UKIP may not be doing too well is that its
leader Nigel Farage has been clearly overworking. It's high time he gave up this
alias as 'Dmitry Medvedev, President of Russia'. Come off it, Nigel. We all know

PETER MANDELSON got off lightly with that splurrrt of green gunge in the face
yesterday. It could have been a cup of Heston Blumenthal's nitro green tea and
lime mousse. Now, that really could have been deadly.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 7, 2009

Harman to carry can for Labour defeat in Europe elections

LENGTH: 799 words



HIGHLIGHT: Deputy leader lined up to head campaign that is expected to bring big
losses - damaging her chances of succeeding Gordon Brown


Harriet Harman is being lined up as the Labour fallguy for June's local and
European elections, widely expected to be disastrous for the government, in a
move that could torpedo any hopes she harbours of succeeding Gordon Brown.

She has been placed in charge of the campaign rather than the cabinet's election
co-ordinator, Douglas Alexander, the local government secretary Hazel Blears or
the party's most proven electoral strategist, Peter Mandelson - meaning she is
liable to attract the blame for any losses.

The ballot is a critical test of public opinion on the government's handling of
the recession and potentially Brown's most dangerous moment this year, since a
bad result provides effectively the last chance for rebel MPs to move against
him.

Some supporters have suggested the aftermath could be Harman's moment, but that
would be extremely difficult if she were seen as the Cabinet minister who had
led Labour's troops to defeat.

One minister said Harman, who is party chairman as well as deputy leader,
appeared to have been lined up to "carry the can" for any collapse in June.
Although Labour has already lost so many town hall seats that it would be
difficult to lose significantly more, the battle will be over the share of the
vote, with Labour aides worried about coming third behind the Liberal Democrats.

There are also concerns that the BNP could make gains particularly in the
European elections by exploiting resentment against foreign workers and
presenting itself as the only truly anti-EU party left after the collapse of the
hard rightwing UK Independence Party.

Harman is convening a small group of ministers now meeting regularly to plan the
June campaign including Caroline Flint, the Europe minister, and the local
government minister John Healey. The theme will be a version of Brown's "real
help for real people" slogan highlighting Labour actions at local, national and
European level to ease the pain of the recession: it is likely to include a
strong defence of British EU membership as a buffer against the downturn.

But ministers are already complaining that with the elections less than three
months away they have still not been told what the message and strategy of the
"Vote 2009" campaign is meant to be, while there are differences emerging about
how to confront the BNP.

Flint argues in this month's edition of Progress magazine that Britain must not
"make EU workers into scapegoats" and that the government should highlight jobs
created by EU membership and trade as well as the opportunities created for
Britons overseas. However some MPs want a more traditional campaign emphasising
crackdowns on immigration and foreign workers.

Frank Field, the Labour MP and former minister, said the government must insist
all jobs were advertised first to the British unemployed through local job
centres before foreign workers could be recruited. "Our vote is just very, very
angry about this and our campaign has got to be about geting us to come second
rather than third. I think our vote will haemmorrhage to the BNP and to the
Liberals.

"Harriet is very happily trying to court the parliamentary Labour party vote. It
would be brilliant if she could start to try and court the Labour vote in the
country by doing what Labour voters want, that is ensuring that any skilled
vacancies are advertised in job centres first."

The Tories will focus tightly on the economy and on what they argue are Brown's
failures first to prevent the recession and then to deliver help fast enough.
Conservative MPs have been banned from taking holidays from the spring bank
holiday onwards as the party concentrates on its last "dry run" before next
year's general election, targeting seats in Staffordshire, Lancashire and the
mayoral elections in North Tyneside in the hope of pulling off suprise wins in
areas previously seen as Labour heartlands.

"I think it would be silly for it to be about some obscure European directive:
it's about the kinds of change that we want to bring and we will be looking at
particular aspects where we want to make a difference,"' said Eric Pickles, the
party chairman who will be running the campaign on the ground with David
Cameron's close ally George Osborne in overall charge.

Pickles - credited with the startling Tory byelection victory in Crewe and
Nantwich that helped trigger the last Labour revolt against Gordon Brown - said
he would tackle the BNP through "straightforward activism", arguing that it
thrives in areas neglected by mainstream politicians.

Harman yesterday used a speech to the Scottish Labour party conference to insist
the campaign would concentrate on arguing that Labour delivers the "jobs and
living standards (people) deserve", accusing the SNP of "incompetence and broken
promises" and the Tories of "callous cuts".

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               52 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              March 6, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Establishment man wants to break ranks

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 472 words


Nick Clegg's dilemma is that he is an Establishment politician trying to project
an anti-Establishment image.

Refreshed from his paternity leave, he talks as a committed reformer, of the
public sector as well as the political system.

Yet a background of Westminster, Cambridge and the European Parliament means
that Mr Clegg does not look like an insurgent. And by taking up the opposition
parties' right to hold talks with Whitehall permanent secretaries, he wants his
team to see themselves, and to be seen, as serious about power.

At one level, of course, the Liberal Democrats risk being submerged by the
economic crisis. Little attention is paid to what Mr Clegg and his team say,
apart, of course, from the indefatigable Vince Cable, who has achieved the rare
trick of appearing an almost non-partisan sage. Mr Clegg is sensibly treating Mr
Cable as part of a double act.

But a two-party squeeze has only partly happened. The Lib Dems' poll ratings
fluctuate from month to month and vary between pollsters, partly reflecting
differences in the ways the polls are conducted. But, if anything, the Lib Dems
have crept up to the higher teens as Labour has slipped back and the Tories have
not yet returned to their highs of last summer.

This is part of a wider mood of disillusionment with mainstream politicians
(they are all as bad as each other). That has been reflected in a rise in the
share of other parties to double figures again in recent polls, as well as the
high votes for the British National Party in some local by-elections.

Hence "none of the above" could do well in the June elections, as they often
have in the past (remember the Green boomlet in the 1989 Euro elections and the
UKIP surge in 2004).

But can the Lib Dems benefit? Mr Clegg accepts that extreme, nationalist and
xenophobic parties often do well in times of economic trouble, searching for
scapegoats and playing an anti-Establishment card. He believes that the Lib Dems
can position themselves by showing that they can deliver on the ground in local
councils and by taking on the BNP, as they recently did successfully in a
street-by-street battle in a council by-election in Newcastle upon Tyne.

But, at the centre, Mr Clegg wants to break ranks with the Establishment. The
Lib Dems can only gain from being bold, as they have sought to be on taxes,
welfare and schools. Similarly, now, Mr Clegg has raised the fresh issue of
whether directors of failed banks, including non-executives, should be
disqualified.

It is not just narrow populism for taxpayers to demand that such directors face
some reckoning because of their serious errors. Mr Clegg is correct that
mainstream politicians need to respond to such anger. But, as he has discovered
in his 15 months as leader, heading a third party requires as much patience as
being the father of a newborn baby.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 Scots Edition

LABOUR MP BLAST AT TEEN MOTHERS

BYLINE: BY MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 163 words


A LABOUR MP has launched an astonishing attack on teenage mums.

Former transport minister Tom Harris claimed they were a drain on society and
bringing up a new "underclass".

He said: "I can no longer pretend that the army of teenage mothers living off
the state is anything other than a national catastrophe."

The Glasgow South MP's comments are likely to provoke a backlash in his own
party.

Mr Harris admitted on his blog readers would be "shocked" by his comments. He
claimed teenage girls got pregnant as they had "absolutely no ambition", adding:
"We should not avoid making value judgments about others choices, especially
when those choices lead to the continuation of the underclass."

Green MSP Patrick Harvie last night said: "This loathsome moralising is more
frequently to be heard from UKIP or the hard right.

"Tom's comments confirm his descent into that political territory.

"Not a word about sex education. Not a word about the rights of the women Tom is
so keen to judge."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTSPOKEN Tom Harris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

THE WHIP hears David Campbell Bannerman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 108 words


THE WHIP hears David Campbell Bannerman, deputy leader of UKIP, popped into
popular perfumery chain store Ici Paris in Brussels to buy a birthday gift
recently.

The helpful assistant, noticing his European Parliament pass, told him that all
MEPs and civil servants working for the EU institutions are entitled to a
whopping 27 per cent discount. "EU employees already enjoy diplomatic tax
status. To be offered other massive perks just for flashing a EP pass is quite
extraordinary," says a Londonbased political source. "There are clearly two
worlds in Brussels: That of the ordinary overtaxed Belgian and the privileged
world of EU apparatchiks."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 2

THE WHIP hears David Campbell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 108 words


THE WHIP hears David Campbell Bannerman, deputy leader of UKIP, popped into
popular perfumery chain store Ici Paris in Brussels to buy a birthday gift
recently.

The helpful assistant, noticing his European Parliament pass, told him that all
MEPs and civil servants working for the EU institutions are entitled to a
whopping 27 per cent discount. "EU employees already enjoy diplomatic tax
status. To be offered other massive perks just for flashing a EP pass is quite
extraordinary," says a Londonbased political source. "There are clearly two
worlds in Brussels: That of the ordinary overtaxed Belgian and the privileged
world of EU apparatchiks."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FLOOD OF 5M NEW MIGRANTS ON WAY;
EU bail-out plea is 'blackmail' bid

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 223 words


BRITAIN has been warned it faces a new flood of five million East Europeans
heading here for work as economies collapse across the Continent.

Experts say another wave of desperate workers are looking to escape poverty in
their home countries.

Last night new European Union members begged Western leaders for cash handouts
to keep their countries afloat. They were accused of "blackmail" - with one
politician claimed they were demanding: "Give us your money or we send you our
unemployed."

At an EU summit in Brussels, Hungarian PM Ferenc Gyurcsany called for a GBP
150billion bail-out for Eastern Europe.

He warned: "We should not allow a new 'Iron Curtain' to divide Europe into two
parts.

EU President, Czech PM Mirek Topolanek, vowed to help struggling countries,
pledging: "The EU is not going to leave anyone in the lurch."

But Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said last night: "It's
pure blackmail.

"Either we ship hundreds of billions in money to bail them out or they threaten
to ship millions, tens of millions of their own unemployed to us."

The Daily Star told last month how the number of foreigners working in the UK
had passed five million for the first time.

Meanwhile, PM Gordon Brown restated his claim that by "British jobs for British
workers", he meant that Brits should be trained to compete with foreigners.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAINING: Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Guess where the jobless of Eastern Europe will head;
LEADER

BYLINE: Patrick O'FlynnChief political commentator

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 877  words


AS UNEMPLOYMENT soars even the chronically smug British political class should
by now surely realise its folly in throwing open our jobs market and welfare
state to the citizens of Eastern Europe. But expecting them to admit it is
another thing entirely. For, despite repeated warnings from this newspaper and a
few brave voices within the political establishment, our politicians have laid
the British people open to economic black mail. In Brussels over the weekend the
countries of the old Warsaw Pact delivered their ransom note.

Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany set it out in a "position paper" on
the economic downturn.

"Central Europe's refinancing needs in 2009 could total  300billion, 30 per cent
of the region's GDP, " he said. He called for two-thirds of the cash to come out
of a new fund to be bankrolled by established EU members like Britain.

So far, so resistible one might think: just tell him where to get off. But there
followed a passage guaranteed to make Western European leaders gulp: "A
significant crisis in Eastern Europe would trigger political tensions and
immigration pressures.

"With a Central and Eastern European population of 350 million, a 10 per cent
increase in unemployment would lead to at least five million (newly) jobless
people within the EU, " wrote Gyurcsany. As political threats go it was hardly
subtle.

It was correctly translated by Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence
Party, as follows: "Give us your money or we send you our unemployed." And no
country is more in line to receive another wave of economic migrants from the
East than Britain.

THANKS to the folly of Gordon Brown Britain was the only large EU economy which
declined to impose transitional labour market controls when most Eastern
European economies joined the EU five years ago. Even under the federalist
agenda of Brussels we would have been entitled to limit access to our jobs
market to millions of newcomers for seven years. But Mr Brown said no thank you
- they can work in Britain from day one.

The Government predicted that a maximum of 13,000 people would come from Eastern
Europe, a mere trickle. In fact well over half a million came, possibly twice
that number.

Even in the economic good times that imposed a severe strain on the goodwill of
British workers - depressing their wages and making new positions harder to
find. Despite BBC propaganda to the contrary, there is as yet little firm
evidence of this great inward migration being thrown into reverse. Some Poles,
Czechs and Hungarians may be going but others are replacing them. And if Eastern
Europe does suffer a major slump this year then it stands to reason that a
massive new influx will occur from countries where the average wage is
significantly less than Britain's statutory minimum wage. That is thoroughly bad
news for the 3,000 people who queued up on Saturday to apply for just 150
modestly-paid jobs at Twycross Zoo in Warwickshire.

Last year there were 500 applicants for the seasonal positions. A Twycross
spokesman said: "Never in my wildest dreams did I think we would get this many
people wanting to work." During the boom that ended a year or so ago it is fair
to say that many long-term unemployed preferred to live on benefits rather than
take any of the jobs open to them. The influx of plumbers, builders, waitresses
and cleaners from the East certainly further depressed the wages of their UK
counterparts. But with 600,000 job vacancies in the economy it did not as a rule
rob our workers o f their livelihoods altogether. But now tens o f thousands of
people who are desperate to work are losing their jobs every month and the
number of vacancies is falling through the floor. The new phenomenon of the "zoo
queue" is one manifestation of this. .

W ITH the European parliamentary elections taking place in early June there is
every likelihood that the fury of the British public will see proBrussels
parties such as Labour and the Liberal Democrats hammered, while Euro-sceptic
parties such as the Conservatives and the hardline UKIP make big gains.

Giving Brown and his fellow travellers a bloody nose may briefly cheer up
newlyunemployed workers but it will not alleviate their suffering. On top of the
prospect of massive new immigration from bankrupt Eastern Europe, Labour o f
course continues to scatter around work permits for nonEU citizens like confetti
at a wedding.

Astonishingly, one in seven o f the entire UK workforce is now accounted for by
foreigners.

Workers have rumbled that Brown's "British jobs for British workers" pledge was
the emptiest promise ever made. With protests continuing at large UK
construction projects where foreigners make up the bulk of the workforce, the
likelihood of serious civil disorder breaking out is risin g all the time.

Yet in the insulated world o f the political class - where expense accounts
cushion any economic blow - an open borders approach remains the official
orthodoxy. All three main political parties still enthusiastically support the
notion of Turkey being admitted into the EU. It is difficult to imagine any
single measure that would exacerbate current tensions more than granting
90million Turks the right to live and work in Britain. But that is what our
legislators wish to do.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: How the Daily Express repeatedly sounded the alarm on the
issue of migration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The BNP is mining a rich seam in our former coalfields

BYLINE: Mark Seddon

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 753 words


NEWARK in Nottinghamshire likes to claim that it is the birthplace of British
democracy. It was here that the English Civil War climaxed, and that King
Charles was handed over to the Scottish Army, and to eventual execution.

This small, attractive market town also stood at the edge of a more recent
conflict that began 25 years ago this week. The miners' strike was at its most
bitter in the old Nottinghamshire coalfield, as working and striking miners
turned on each other. And today, Newark find itself at the centre of yet another
conflict, as unemployed construction workers, some draped in the Union Flag,
march to the sound of an altogether different drum

I watched last week as a few hundred wended their way with their home-made
banners to the old market square, protesting that contractors at a local power
station had bought their own workers with them - and that local workers need not
apply. Their progress through the town was marked by cries from shoppers of
"Foreigners out!" The joint leader of the Unite union, Derek Simpson, took to
the podium to reject this call and others like it, but to many of the unemployed
workers gathered before him, he seemed as remote as the Labour Party they have
traditionally voted for in these parts. He was heckled loudly. Many are on the
cusp, if not of actually voting for the British National Party, then believing
that their union is powerless and that the Government is no longer interested in
their plight.

This is fertile territory for the far right. The BNP is on the march too and
aiming to make big gains in the European elections in June. The East Midlands,
which includes the old coalfield, is one of their main target areas. The senior
Labour MEP and veteran anti-fascist campaigner Glyn Ford believes that the BNP
could win up to half a dozen Euro seats and that it is possible that only the
north-east and south-west of England could be without a BNP MEP after election
night. His grim prognosis is echoed by other MPs in the East Midlands, who
believe that the collapse in support for the UK Independence Party will see more
votes heading towards the hard Right.

Back in the 1990s, and for very different reasons, the Green Party finally broke
the mould, winning Euro-seats. And a quarter of a century on it is easy to see
how the BNP is honing its appeal to disillusioned Labour voters. The BNP like to
present itself as something like the old worker friendly Labour Party, and then
it throws in added xenophobia and racism. Their demand for "British jobs for
British workers" is designed to appeal to marching unemployed construction
workers who can't find work at the new Staythorpe Power station near Newark. It
is a potent, if dangerous message, and the Westminster political class suddenly
seems at a loss as to know what to do about it.

To the north of Newark, former mining towns such as Ollerton have never fully
recovered from the jobs haemorrhage of that time. A mining workforce of tens of
thousands has been reduced to a couple of thousand men at Thoresby and Welbeck
collieries, although there are hopes that the mothballed pit at Harworth might
soon be re-opened.

Back in 1984, the bulk of Nottinghamshire's miners refused to go on strike
without a ballot, and the dispute staggered on for a whole year before
collapsing in recrimination. Margaret Thatcher's reward for the working miners
was pit closure after pit closure, and the service jobs that have replaced them
are disappearing as rapidly as they came.

Elsewhere - in the north-east, for instance - jobs are disappearing at four
times the rate they are in London and the South East. Many of these jobs were in
any event non-unionised, and with the sharp decline of the traditional
industries and the tight-knit communities that went with them, old tribal ties
to the Labour Party in particular, were already in decline. Under the twin
phenomena of global recession and New Labour old loyalties are fast
disappearing.

Politics abhors a vacuum. Back in the 1970s, the far-right National Front began
to make inroads in the inner city as unemployment grew under a Labour
Government. Now the BNP tries to portray a more moderate image, and now also the
organisations that help see off the far right back then, are much, much weaker.
Last week, the BNP took a previously safe Labour council seat in Sevenoaks,
Kent. That, and what may be about to happen in June, should be a wake-up call.

Mark Seddon is a former member of Labour's National Executive Committee and a
former editor of 'Tribune'

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Last man standing?;
When Ukip won 2.7 million votes it vowed to become the third force in British
politics. Ben Russell on a party in meltdown

BYLINE: Ben Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 935 words


What a difference five years make. The morning after the previous European
elections, the UK Independence Party (Ukip) was emerging as a significant force,
the third-biggest British political troop in Europe.

The television chatshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk had helped propel the party to
2.7 million votes - 16 per cent of the poll. Twelve European Parliament seats
(and the very mention of the party's name) provoked real fear as well as
loathing among senior figures in the then-embattled Conservative Party, gripped
by the prospect that Ukip could threaten their core vote.

Senior Tories shudder no longer. As Ukip prepares last-ditch defences ahead of
this June's Euro elections, the party has been dogged by scandal and infighting.
Mr Kilroy-Silk has long departed in acrimony and the current leader, Nigel
Farage, has faced bitter recriminations over the party's direction as it enters
polls that will determine whether it continues to exist as a serious political
unit.

The party has garnered only between 1 and 2 per cent of voters' support in
recent polling, although the only poll of Euro election voting intentions did
put its support at 7 per cent. Its party conference in September was
overshadowed by reports of plotting, intrigue and extraordinary internal feuds.
In September, The Independent revealed that the party's press officer, Annabelle
Fuller, had resigned after receiving phone threats. Senior Tories breathed sighs
of relief as they watched the events in Bournemouth unfold.

The Ukip website boasts of the party's antics in the European Parliament last
month, where MEPs sang the national anthem out of tune to disrupt their
colleagues' rendition of the EU "anthem", Beethoven's "Ode to Joy". They have
blamed the part-privatisation of the Royal Mail on EU directives and linked
increases in the rat population to European recycling targets.

Yesterday, the former One Man and His Dog presenter Robin Page announced his
resignation from the party, claiming his former colleagues were "in the process
of imploding". He accused Mr Farage of despotic tendencies and obtaining "almost
complete centralised power of Ukip". (Mr Farage says constitutional changes
passed earlier this year were a "tidying-up operation" and accuses Mr Page of
sour grapes.) Earlier this month, the economist Professor Tim Congdon quit to
rejoin the Conservatives. Mr Farage has also faced attacks from two senior
figures expelled from the party's national executive amid a row over reforms to
its constitution, with his critics taking to the blogosphere to vent their
spleens.

Meanwhile, Ukip's membership has fallen from a peak of 26,000 to about 15,000.
Donations last year reached £200,000, sharply down on the £377,000 raised in
2007, although the party says it has raised hundreds of thousands of pounds this
year in preparation for the June ballots.

Ukip is defending nine of the 12 seats it won in 2004. Mr Kilroy-Silk quit to
form his own Veritas party, Ashley Mote was expelled after being arrested for
benefit fraud, while Tom Wise was suspended after being investigated by EU
anti-fraud watchdogs.

Mr Farage admitted that the June elections represent a crucial test for his
party. But he insisted that Ukip could maintain or even exceed its 2004 high
water mark.

He said his opponents were "middle-aged, elderly men diametrically opposed to
many of the things I stand for". He added: "I think the party has changed. It is
much more diverse in terms of its ethnic mix. It has been seen as a bank of
angry old men from the rugby club. That situation is very different now."

The Ukip peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who caused a storm by inviting the
right-wing Dutch MP Geert Wilders to the House of Lords to screen a
controversial anti-Islam film, insisted that he supported Mr Farage but admitted
the party faced internal challenges to his leadership. "I think most of the real
people in the party have not got time for all this internal sniping and
plotting," he said. "They spent quite a lot of time lining me up as the next
leader. I think they are bonkers."

Ukip will launch its Euro election campaign next month under the slogan "Lend us
your Vote", an attempt to persuade voters to abandon their traditional loyalties
for the day and make the poll a referendum on the EU. Mr Farage takes comfort
from a YouGov poll on European Parliament voting intentions for the Taxpayers'
Alliance earlier this year, which put Ukip on 7 per cent, still far below the 16
per cent high of 2004. But a string of national polls put Ukip support at
between 1 and 2 per cent - which would be enough to make it electorally
significant in a handful of areas. Today Ukip must fight a revitalised Tory
party challenging Labour over the economy, not the demoralised opposition of
five years ago.

Labour MEPs believe Ukip will retain three of their nine seats, while senior
Tories have not yet written the party off, believing that concerns over
immigration and arguments about British jobs could drive some voters into their
arms.

Last year's local elections showed Ukip considerably weaker than four years
previously, when the poll coincided with the Euro elections: the party managed
just 1.9 per cent of the poll in the London Assembly list election, compared
with 8.4 per cent.

But Professor John Curtice, of Strathclyde University, believes it is too soon
to write off Ukip entirely, pointing out that the jobs dispute speaks to the
party's anti-EU agenda. "I am surprised that we are all assuming they will not
do terribly well," he said. "The small parties are still registering in the
polls. European elections are Ukip's forte."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday

Why Ukip has just lost another member;
The grassroots are good;
people, but the party has been stolen from them, argues Robin Page

BYLINE: Robin Page

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 646  words


I have just helped the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip). I have jumped
ship. It is a small party whose main wish at the moment seems to be a desire to
become even smaller; so I did my bit and resigned.

Why now? Surely Ukip was on the verge of a great political breakthrough? After
the 2004 European Elections, Ukip rode the crest of a wave with 12 Members of
the European Parliament (MEPs), 2.7 million votes, 16.8 per cent of the vote and
membership of 26,000. But now, as the next round of Euro elections approaches,
the great breakthrough has turned into break-up.

Ukip's 12 European parliamentarians have, by defection and expulsion, dropped to
nine - and one has even left his constituency to live elsewhere, without telling
his constituents. At the Henley by-election last year, the party finished sixth,
behind both the Greens and the BNP with just 2.4 per cent of the vote.
Membership is down to 14,000 (sorry, make that 13,999) and on the slide. To make
matters worse there are accusations of rigged internal elections, tales of
extravagance and high living in Brussels and an embarrassing stampede to try to
board the European gravy train this June. In short, Ukip is in the process of
imploding.

I have absolutely no personal political ambition whatsoever. For me the summer
was going to involve seeing gorillas in the Congo for Telegraph Weekend and
visiting St Kilda for the first time. I was encouraged to stand as a Ukip
candidate because of my concern about the state of my country and I reluctantly
agreed. Because of a farcical series of accidents, health problems and other
commitments, I had a special dispensation to submit my papers a few days late.
Or at least I thought I had.

When I contacted the officials as arranged they told me I was out of time. So I
phoned Nigel Farage, Ukip's Blair-like, ex-public school leader, who said he was
very sorry and would do his best to sort things out, but "it'll be up to the
Political Committee''. He came back later with bad news. "The Political
Committee won't accept your late documents. I'm really sorry.'' I have since
found out that Mr Farage is Ukip's Political Committee. It runs at his whim with
no obvious agenda or minutes. Piers Merchant, a former Tory MP who is now Ukip's
Returning Officer, informed me that the process was "flawed'' and that there
should be a re-run. But there has been no re-run and Ukip refuses to send me a
copy of the Returning Officer's report, even after a Data Protection Act
request.

It seems that Nigel Farage has managed to obtain almost complete centralised
power of Ukip. Other late nominations were apparently accepted, some people
heading MEP lists have been forced out to be replaced by others, and three
members of Ukip's National Executive Council were expelled for criticising the
leader. Other high-profile Ukip members have also been removed over the years,
so as not to threaten Farage's control or image. The party's own policies - such
as opposition to genetically modified crops - have been reversed without the
membership knowing, including me. Stories from Brussels suggest that Ukip's MEPs
have come to love the high life of gravy and status. The party created to fight
centralised government, sleaze and corruption has become a mirror image of the
body it professes to loathe. The grassroots of Ukip are good people, but their
party has been stolen from them by their executive; and with David Cameron
seemingly afraid to say the word "Europe'', they have nowhere to go - unless
lured by the false smile of the BNP.

Just under 2,000 years ago Tacitus wrote words to the effect: "Britons are very
good at being Roman. They like the baths, the forum and they think they are
becoming Roman whereas in fact these devices enslave them to Rome.'' Replace
Britons with "Ukip MEPs'', and Roman with "European'', and the disintegration of
Ukip is explained.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              March 2, 2009 Monday

G2:'Michael Barrymore's name will for ever be linked to my son's suspicious
death': The G2 interview: Decca Aitkenhead meets Terry Lubbock

BYLINE: Decca Aitkenhead

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2228 words


T erry Lubbock has got the coroner's report out before I've even taken off my
coat. His fingers are trembling as he scoops the document up from neat piles of
papers laid out on the living room carpet, in an ordinary house on an ordinary
estate in an ordinary Essex suburb. Lubbock is smiling - "Here it is!" - and I
have not yet sat down, when he begins to read out what must be extra-ordinary
words for a father to have to share with a stranger about his own son.

The clinical description of the internal injuries found in Stuart Lubbock's body
is graphic, and stomach-turning, and details the probable cause: "the insertion
of some firm object". Lubbock reads with the emphasis of someone so familiar
with the words that he has passed beyond the reach of their shock. "My point,"
he concludes, "is the police knew about those injuries from day one. It should
have been a suspicious death, which should have led to a murder inquiry. Cos
those anal injuries killed Stuart."

The conversation seldom gets less distressingly surreal over the course of the
afternoon we

spend together. Lubbock is a small man of 64, frail but animated, with a high,
reedy voice that

frequently cracks into falsetto as he struggles to articulate the tangle of
legal bureaucracy, medical jargon and unbearable loss that has consumed

the last eight years of his life. Picking it apart is complicated, for he
rattles along in a scattergun of non-sequiturs, darting between detail and
bewilderment. Occasionally his adviser, Harry Cichy, intervenes to clarify a
point when Lubbock loses his thread and pauses to apologise - "Sorry, I'm
mopping about all over the place." Sometimes he steadies himself by reading
aloud from his own handwritten notes.

"This is the cover-up theory," Lubbock reads haltingly from a small ring-bound
notebook. "From day one a crime scene should have started. The first autopsy was
carried out on day one.

Injuries were found. These injuries led to my son's death. There's a killer on
the loose." He breaks off, grinning bashfully. "I don't know whether you're
going to use that line or not. But I believe a cover-up started on that day. Oh
Christ, I've lost my place. Yeah, let me read it all, then you can ask me
questions. Where did I get up to? Right, I'll start again. 'Cover up theory'.
Underlined. 'From day one . . .'"

What emerges with painful clarity by the end is not so much what happened to
Stuart Lubbock, but what happens to someone when they lose a son to such a
devastating mystery. Lubbock has, as he says, "led two completely separate
lives". His first life ended on 31 March 2001, the day Stuart was pulled dead
from Michael Barrymore's swimming pool - and this one, strange and unfamiliar,
won't end until he finds out who killed him.

It began with the collision of two worlds only a few miles apart, but divided by
unimaginable difference. Eight years ago Terry Lubbock was living here in Harlow
with his two sons, in the family home where they had grown up - a modest
working-class household in a drab neighbourhood of modern brick terraces and
flats. He had a job as a courtesy-car driver for a local dealership, and his
sons worked at a nearby bacon-packing factory; at weekends the brothers would go
out drinking with friends in town. Stuart, 31, had moved home six months
earlier, having split up with the mother of his two children, and was known as a
bit of a womaniser. When the pair were out together in Harlow's Millennium
nightclub one Friday night, and became separated, his brother Kevin assumed he
had gone home with a girl.

In fact, Stuart had met Barrymore and his entourage in the nightclub, and been
invited back to the star's mansion for an after-party. Barrymore was one of the
country's most famous TV entertainers - a charismatic, wildly hedonistic, gay
celebrity - and Lubbock doubts his son thought twice before jumping in the taxi
with him. "Stuart was a show-off - that was his weakness. He'd have gone
straight up there to the house just so he could tell everyone about it the next
day."

But just before dawn, Stuart's body was found in Barrymore's pool. When the
ambulance arrived, Barrymore had already fled, and the remaining guests said
Stuart had drowned. Only later that day, when an autopsy found "horrific"
internal anal injuries, did the house became a crime scene. Cocaine and ecstasy
were found in Stuart's

system, as well as alcohol, and the cause of his cardiac arrest was never
conclusively established. Three months later, two of the party, Jonathan Kenney
and Justin Merritt, were arrested on

suspicion of murder, but no charges were

brought. Eighteen months later a coroner recorded an open verdict.

"I trusted the police. I trusted the police right up until the inquest. I wanted
unlawful killing, and I thought that was going to happen. But then after the
verdict, the family liaison officer said to me, 'I bet you're glad that's over,
you can gradually start now to put it behind you.' It was only then that the
penny dropped. And I thought, they've stitched me up. They've stitched Stuart
up. The police have thrown a googlie here."

Since then, Lubbock has been campaigning for a conviction. He has made a DVD,
co-written a book - Not Awight - and tried to mount a private prosecution
against Barrymore. In 2005 he suffered a near fatal stroke, and can no longer
work, but his campaign did not falter. The police investigation was reopened in
2006, and in June

2007 Barrymore, Kenney and Merritt were arrested on suspicion of sexual assault
and murder, but again no charges were brought. Then, last week, a report by the
Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) upheld six of Lubbock's 36
complaints about the Essex police investigation. Most damningly, it found that
two implements photographed by police at the scene - a 12in pool thermometer and
a door handle - were never subsequently found or accounted for. Two senior
officers visited

Lubbock to offer a personal apology.

"The whole thing," Lubbock declares, "has been covered up. We've got to dig a
lot deeper. There's a cover-up triangle and it starts with

Barrymore, and goes to the police and ends up with the IPCC. We've got to dig a
whole lot deeper. Michael Barrymore's name will for ever be linked to my son's
suspicious death."

Lubbock says he had trusted the police all his life - "I always thought, they're
doing their job!" he exclaims. But that trust is just one more of the things he
has lost since his son died, for it appears he can no longer trust almost
anybody. A particular pathologist is dismissed as "very suspect - he was in the
police's pocket", and even though the IPCC rejected his claim of corruption, he
remains convinced that senior police were paid to cover up his son's murder.
"Barrymore has friends in high places," he mutters darkly. Although he admires
the officer who carried out the IPCC investigation, he suspects he was "leaned
on".

"He phoned me in October and said, 'Terry, I've finished my investigation and
passed it to a higher level. Now, what were the higher level doing from October
to yesterday when we got that (IPPC report)? They were bloody well - I tell you
what - that investigation was so damning that they had to water it down."

Even so, he seems happy with the report. Does he consider this a good day?

"Yeah, publicity! The publicity was all I was aiming for."

It is a feature of contemporary campaigns for justice that media publicity and
legal progress risk becoming confused, even conflated. Lubbock has almost
limitless faith in the power of

publicity to effect the sort of breakthrough the police have so far failed to
achieve for him. "I mean," he says, "the media are very helpful, they get people
to come forward. You guys out there, I trust you more than you can trust the
police." While we are talking, other journalists are phoning, and it's easy to
see how they must have come to seem infinitely more responsive than the statu
tory services whose job it actually is to find his son's killer.

He is always wary of being, as he says, "stitched up". But at moments his faith
in the media to deliver justice can be heartbreaking. When I ask if he thinks he
will ever get a conviction, he says, "Until yesterday I'd say it was 60-40
against. After yesterday I'd say it's narrowed to 50-50. And when this goes
out," he adds, nodding towards my notepad, "I reckon it'll narrow even more. And
then we'll be rocking." In recent months, while waiting for the report, he
admits he felt so low that thoughts of suicide crossed his mind. Impotent in the
face of so much official intransigence, for Lubbock the media has become his
only defence against a powerlessness that has threatened to destroy him.

"I think the police were trying to dilute the impact of the report, that's why
they came round to apologise. When they left here they must have been thinking,"
and he rubs his hands, "'Well, that's job done, he took that quite well.' But
Sky News had been down here that day, so they phoned me up and said how did you
get on with the police?" Lubbock hoots with satisfaction. "So unknowingly I
tripped the coppers up. Cos they were going to do a big press conference after
the report came out, and say, 'We've apologised to Mr Lubbock,' smooth it all
over. But I kicked it up the arse! When you turned the telly on, it was all over
the place. 'Police apologise!' And they never had the press conference! We
caught 'em," he chuckles. "We caught 'em good."

Lubbock has also had to negotiate the minefield of homophobia that the case
inevitably invites. He is adamant that his son was not gay, and there is no
evidence that he is mistaken. Only one man ever sold a story to a tabloid saying
Stuart was gay, but Lubbock claims that the man made it up for the money. But
his insistence that Stuart wasn't gay has been interpreted by some as
homophobia; the denial of a father who would rather believe his son was murdered
than accept he had simply liked rough anal sex.

"Stuart wasn't gay, but I've got nothing against gay people!" Lubbock protests,
despairing at the dilemma he finds himself trapped in. "In fact they've helped
us quite a lot - and if Stuart had been gay, I wouldn't have had a problem. I'd
have loved him just the same. He was my son, so that doesn't even raise its
head."

W hether it was a factor in the police's attitude to Stuart's death remains
unanswered; had a young woman been found in a pool at a straight man's party,
perhaps suspicions would have been aroused more quickly. But it certainly seems
to have been a factor for one of the more colourful characters drawn into
Lubbock's life since Stuart died. As the bizarre story of Tony Bennett's role in
the campaign unfolds, you begin to wonder what else can possibly happen to
Lubbock.

Bennett used to be a Ukip activist and candidate until he was temporarily banned
from holding office for publishing a pamphlet branding the Prophet Muhammad a
paedophile. In 2004 he became Robert Kilroy-Silk's researcher, and a year or so
later became interested in the Lubbock case, offering his services to run a
trust and a campaign website. But you have only to read the chapters of Not
Awight c0-written by Bennett to see how he feels about homosexuality - and in
2007 a complaint was made about homophobic material on his website. Essex police
launched an investigation against Bennett for hate crime, Lubbock was

horrified and dispensed with his services, although the police took no further
action.

Cichy is now Lubbock's only adviser. A thoughtful, sensible presence, there is a
touch of the home counties golf club treasurer about him, and it feels a relief
to find him there, for Lubbock is single-handedly trying to battle overwhelming
odds to get justice for his son. Lubbock remains indefatigably chirpy, and the
impression of a sweet-natured and rather vulnerable innocent, struggling to
survive a tragedy, is at times almost unbearable.

Does Lubbock feel the campaign has helped save him? "Oh yeah. Kept me going,
yeah. Harry, what was the phrase I used to use for Barrymore? Teflon Barrymore!
That's it! Write it down cos you might want to use it. They can't touch him!"
Lubbock breaks off, laughing. "You see you've got to have the element of comedy.
I've still got a comedy side, still see the comedy side. Cos I'd be six foot
under otherwise. I mean actually I've got more of a sense of humour now than
what I had before. I think that is a safety mechanism. I think everyone's got a
built-in safety mechanism to stop them going screwy. I think if I'd gone the
other way, I'd have been in the ground."

The next stage, he says, will be legal action against the police for the
failings in its investigation. And how does he feel now about Barrymore?
"Nothing," he says. "Just nothing."

Can he remember how he used to feel about the star, in the days when he was just
another famous face Lubbock would see on television?

"Never ever had any feelings," he shrugs. Then he adds, "I'll tell you
something. When I was in my 20s and working in Old Harlow there was a big posh
restaurant, used to be called Harlow Mill, and we used to go down there every
Christmas for a Christmas dinner. It was a smashing place, really upmarket, and
it had a cabaret. Now do you know who the cabaret was? Barrymore. He'd only just
started out, and he was doing his Basil Fawlty."

Lubbock shakes his head in wonderment, and turns away. "Innit a small world?" *

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 63 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 2, 2009

What the commentators say today...

LENGTH: 468 words



HIGHLIGHT: In association with media analysis firm Editorial Intelligence


In association with media analysis firm Editorial Intelligence

SIR FRED'S PENSION: In the Daily Express, Leo McKinstry thinks it is hard to
imagine a more obscene use of public money than subsidising the lavish early
retirement of a man who has helped to drag Britain to the edge of ruin. Trevor
Kavanagh writes in The Sun that Gordon Brown is quite right to insist that Fred
Goodwin should make amends. But having raised state spending by a stupendous
?200bn a year ? much of it wasted ? will he hand some back in the next budget?
The Daily Mail's Keith Waterhouse believes there is no use Brown whining about
the spectacular pension for Fred the Shred - the horse has bolted. The Daily
Telegraph's Janet Daley believes this has gone way beyond Lord Myners vs Sir
Fred Goodwin. It has even gone beyond government ministers vs private bankers.
This is now an epic battle between Big Government and Big Business. The public
sector loves to talk business, but it hasn't the first clue about how to do it,
says Ross Clark in The Times. That is why the government allowed Sir Fred to get
away with his absurdly generous pension. Do you think that would have happened
had the bank been taken over by a private company?

ECONOMY: The Daily Mail's Peter McKay says nothing the government is doing about
the financial crisis appears to be working, yet the amount of public money
thrown at the problem is beyond our comprehension. The Daily Telegraph's Roger
Bootle believes the key to recovery is sustaining bank lending at a higher level
? and that will take more than just drowning the system in cash. In The FT,
Phillip Blond argues that printing money is, for the Tories, a coherent and
genuine alternative to the governing mantra that only fiscal stimulation can
save the day.

The Independent's Stephen King believes the cost of avoiding a full-scale
depression is state intervention on an unimaginable scale, which will do little
to foster the entrepreneurial spirit of the past. In The Times, Anatole Kaletsky
argues that the good news last week was the British and US governments finally
drawing a line under the collapse of their sickest financial institutions, RBS
and Citibank. The bad news is that this was the fourth "final" resolution and
the previous lines in the sand had been rubbed out within a month.

POLITICS: The Guardian's Jackie Ashley says she has been struck by the number of
people around Westminster who feel that David Cameron has not yet sealed the
deal with the British public. Melissa Benn says Labour needs to remind the
public that the Tories have contributed little to the advancement of state
education or educational equality. In the Daily Telegraph, TV presenter Robin
Page explains why he has quit UKIP. He says the grassroots are good people but
the party has been stolen from them.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               63 of 63 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 1, 2009 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Rescue our dying pubs;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Pat Nurse

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 672  words


TRADITIONAL British community pubs could be lost within a generation if we don't
take rgent action to save them. Things have got so bad that a crisis meeting was
held in London last week where experts met to discuss ways to save a precious
national asset.

Most at risk are our village and small-town pubs that can be traced back to the
days of Chaucer, who told his Canterbury Tales in an English alehouse.

Up until 2007, the decline was slow. In 1871, there was one pub for every 201
people but by 1971 that ratio had shrunk to one pub for 704 people.

In 1986 we had 66,000 pubs but since 2007 the rate of closures has accelerated
faster than a Lamborghini. It's predicted to get much worse as recession bites
but the real tragedy is that if we lose the traditional Dog And Duck, the Tap
And Spile or the King's Head in Anytown we are, at the same time, discarding
part of the heart of our communities.

The pub, over decades, has evolved to become a hub for social interaction and
cohesion. Masses of jobs and community activities originate there. The
traditional pub is a uniquely British creation and cannot be found anywhere
else.

The Institute For Public Policy Research has revealed that people meet in their
local to socialise more than binge drink.

It is there that they are more likely to chat to strangers, meet people from
other cultures, hold community group meetings and even use it as a local post
office but, despite that importance, the Government appears intent on
obliterating it with higher axes, health warnings and by allowing unfair
competition.

Some business experts predict that 75,000 jobs will be lost in the industry when
the Government's two per cent tax escalator goes ahead. That tax will force the
cost of a pint to rise 17 per cent. With a simple pint reaching a record high
price well above GBP 3, why will drinkers go down to the local when they can get
alcohol in supermarkets cheaper than a box of decent teabags?

Nick Hogan, UK Independence Party censing and night-time economy spokesman,
believes the supermarket has a huge role to play in the demise of the pub. He's
calling for the price inequality between pub and supermarket alcohol to be
levelled.

"Supermarkets should not be selling alcohol at such low prices, " he argues.

"They should be paying more tax and the pubs should have tax reduced so they can
compete on equal terms.

"The pub is a regulated environment which does not allow under-age drinking but
youths can more easily access alcohol from supermarkets and this is where binge
drinking begins."

Certainly young people have more chance of lifting a few cans from their
parents' supermarket stock in the fridge than they can get past a responsible
landlord.

Most campaigners fighting to save our pubs agree that overregulation is a huge
problem.

The Government must stop legislating against the pub and enforce laws already in
place to deal with rowdy or drunken behaviour.

Most trouble originates from the night-time city scene rather than traditional
pub premises where, according to research, ent trouble is rare.

The majority of drink-related violence is domestic - a factor that can only get
worse if pubs close and more alcohol is cheaply available at supermarkets to be
consumed at home.

Social clubs, along with local pubs, have been some of the ardest-hit community
facilities in recent years.

Both are the grass roots of our social culture yet they are being systematically
annihilated, with the smoking ban another recent nail in the coffin.

POLITICALLY correct modernists would robably say that the traditional British
local is a flat-cap dinosaur past its sell-by date but they are wrong. Save the
Pub nitiatives have sprung up everywhere.

UKIP, the Tory Party, the Campaign For Real Ale and the British Beer & Pub
Association are taking the lead but ordinary customers must act now, too.

I believe an amendment to the destructive smoking ban, lowering tax on beer and
banning sales of alcohol in supermarkets would be a very good place to start.

If we do nothing, we will all be losers.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
